16-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 hospitalisations inch up in Delhi, Capital adds 425 new infections||Hospitalisations due to the coronavirus disease in the Delhi have increased over the past few weeks, concurrent with the rise in the number of daily infections in the city, with 659 people admitted to facilities in the city as on Tuesday, showed government data.On average, 559 patients a day were being treated in hospitals in March for Covid-19, as compared to 483 in February. However, to be sure, most beds reserved for the treatment of the infection are still vacant. Currently, there are 5,700 beds earmarked for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals across the city. “There are more patients with Covid-19 admitted to the hospital compared to a month ago. The numbers started increasing about two weeks back, but are within control. The main reason for the increase seems to be the laxity among people in following Covid-19 norms — nobody is wearing masks, those who have been vaccinated do not follow protocols as they think they will not get the infection. Weddings have become grounds for spreading the infection — with some cases where many in the wedding party contracted the infection,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine, at Max Healthcare. Dr Tickoo warned that Holi, due to be celebrated on March 29, is a cause of concern, with the risk of the infection spreading rapidly in large gatherings. “However, I think Delhi is unlikely to see a huge surge in cases because a huge proportion of the population has already been exposed to the infection,” he said. Delhi also recorded 425 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, continuing the increasing trend in the number of viral infections after a slight dip over the weekend when fewer tests were conducted. This is the fifth day this month that over 400 cases were reported, according to daily data provided by the Delhi government. With over 70,000 tests conducted, the city’s positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested — at 0.61%. This is the highest positivity rate since the second week of January, two weeks after it dipped consistently below 1% for the first time in Delhi. The positivity rate is indicative of the spread of the infection. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on Monday said authorities were working on keeping the infection in check. One of the measures was to increase the number of tests conducted, which went up to nearly 69,700 tests a day during the last seven days from 64,700 the week before and 59,221 the week before that. However, on Tuesday Delhi saw an increase in the number of the rapid antigen tests – which are cheap and quick but are known to throw up false negative reports for those who might have the infection. On Tuesday, only 56% of the tests were conducted using the more accurate RT-PCR test in comparison to 63.5% tests during the last seven days and 66% the week before that. “Delhi needs to conduct as many tests as they have the capacity for so as to detect as many infections as possible. The RT-PCR test is preferable as it is more sensitive that the rapid antigen tests that miss out on positive cases. The government needs to track and test as many contacts of a positive case to ensure that the disease does not spread,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-hospitalisations-inch-up-in-delhi-capital-adds-425-new-infections-101615919342890.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal orders release of pending funds to 12 state-funded DU colleges||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday ordered the release of pending funds, amounting to ₹28.24 crore, to the 12 state-funded colleges of Delhi University (DU) in order to enable them to pay salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff.The chief minister held a meeting with principals of these 12 colleges on Tuesday to resolve the ongoing tussle between the government and the colleges over funds. The colleges had alleged that the government either delayed the release of funds or gave “insufficient” grants, while the government alleged financial irregularities in these colleges and claimed they had surplus reserves. The issue further escalated last week when the Delhi government’s higher education department asked the governing bodies of these colleges to pass a resolution stating that the pattern of assistance as suggested by the Delhi government, and not that of the University Grants Commission (UGC), will be followed for the release of grant-in-aid from the government.The resolution was also to state that colleges can use “surplus funds” available with them for the purpose of paying salaries. The student society fund was to be excluded from “surplus funds” since a legal case on whether student funds may be used for salary purposes is pending before the court. The GBs of two colleges, out of the 12, on Saturday passed such a resolution.After Tuesday’s meeting, Kejriwal said, “The Delhi government has decided to release ₹28.24 crore, which is the amount that is pending with the Delhi government, to the fully funded Delhi University colleges. The Delhi government will only issue funds in the future based on the directions of the court on whether funds currently available under different heads can be used for salaries or not. We know and understand the plight of staff and teachers, and we do not want their salaries to be stopped till the time the matter is sub judice. We will release the amount so that the colleges do not suffer.”Kejriwal also said the Delhi government will send an invite to DU vice-chancellor (V-C) on behalf of Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia to have a dialogue with him on all pending issues. “Since the past few years, we have tried to initiate talks with DU authorities and the V-C, but there may have been differences, political and otherwise. Today is a new beginning,” he said.Sisodia, who was also present in the meeting, said since these colleges are fully funded by the Delhi government, they will have to follow the government’s pattern of assistance. “There should be 100% transparency in their accounts and budgets which is required to bridge the gap between the Delhi government and DU,” he said. The DU administration on Monday wrote to the Delhi government saying its 12 fully funded colleges are bound to follow the UGC norms in matters of budgeting and expenditure, and the government cannot change the pattern of assistance for releasing funds. DU spokesperson and dean of colleges Balram Pani said, “The university is always ready for a dialogue but we reiterate that the Delhi government cannot change the pattern of assistance in these colleges.”Hem Chand, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, said, “It was a very positive meeting. The government and the DU administration should now discuss and resolve the matter so that our staff do not suffer in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-orders-release-of-pending-funds-to-12-state-funded-du-colleges-101615919283127.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Two suspected hitmen arrested from Jaipur for multiple murders in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said it has arrested two suspected hitmen of Kala-Jathedi-Lawrence Bisnoi gang from Rajasthan’s Jaipur for their alleged involvement in multiple murders in Delhi-NCR in the recent past.A ₹2 lakh reward had been announced for the arrest of one of the hitmen, Priyawart alias Kala,29, for his alleged involvement in two murders committed within a fortnight between February and March in Delhi’s Chhawla and Bawana, the police said.“Priyawart is the right-hand man of wanted (alleged) gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi, who is suspected to have left India,” said deputy commissioner of police (counter-intelligence, special cell) Manishi Chandra. The other arrested man has been identified as Rohit (single name only), 23. Both are residents of Delhi’s Katewada near Bawana.Police said on March 7, the two and their associates in Bawana area had allegedly abducted and murdered a civil defence volunteer, who was in uniform and returning home after duty. They had fired 25 shots at him. A fortnight before that, they had murdered one Naresh in Chhawla. On December 30, 2020, the suspects had shot dead their rival Shahbaz in Narela. A passerby was also hit and killed in the shooting. On October 9, 2020, they allegedly murdered liquor baron Sukhwinder alias Dhola by pumping over 25 bullets in his body in Sonepat, Haryana, the police said. DCP Chandra said the counter-intelligence unit started collecting information about Priyawart and his associates after they were found to be involved in a series of murders in Delhi and Haryana. “Technical and manual surveillance was mounted. The team had to be stationed at various locations in five different states for long durations to locate and track the suspects,” he said.On March 15, the DCP said the team received information that Priyawart and his associate Rohit were staying in a hotel on Park Street in Jaipur. The team reached there, caught the duo and brought them to Delhi. Their interrogation led to the recovery of two firearms from a hideout in Chhawla.Police said Priyawart turned to crime while studying at a government polytechnic in Sonepat by stealing a motorcycle. Once in jail, he allegedly developed contacts with criminals such as Sawran, Pradeep, Pawan Pandit and Sanjay Rathi. After his release on bail, in 2011, Priyawart along with his associates allegedly committed a carjacking and the vehicle was used in the murder of one Pardeep from Haryana, who was a prosecution witness against Priyawart’s mentor Sarwan, the police said.Priyawart stole another car from Kanjhawala and allegedly used that during the murder of one Vijay. In 2012, he allegedly committed another carjacking while attempting the kidnapping of a businessman. The attempt was foiled and Priyawart was later arrested by the Haryana Police.DCP Chandra said Sarwan joined hands with (alleged) gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi and he entrusted Priyawart to lead the gang. “After the escape of Jathedi from Haryana Police custody in January 2020, Priyawart had close ties with him and (alleged) gangsters Kala Rana and Lawrence Bishnoi,” said Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-suspected-hitmen-arrested-from-jaipur-for-multiple-murders-in-delhi-101615919282148.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||In 24 hours: Chartered accountant gunned down in front of wife, another shot outside his house||Two men, one of them a 45-year-old chartered accountant (CA), were shot dead in two separate firing incidents reported between Monday evening and Tuesday morning at two different places under the territorial jurisdiction of north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar police station.While one person was arrested in the first case, the murder of a 32-year-old man in Azadpur village on Monday evening, the police are still working on clues in the CA’s murder, reported on Tuesday morning.There has been a spate of shooting incidents in the city of late. At least four firing incidents were reported between Friday and Sunday from different areas in north-east Delhi. One person was killed, and four others were injured in those shootings. Two back-to-back separate firing incidents took place within an hour at two different places falling under the territorial jurisdiction of the Defence Colony police station last Wednesday. A BSES contractual driver and a policeman were injured in those incidents. The attackers in both the cases were arrested.Recounting the latest incident, police said CA Anil Aggarwal lived with his wife and two children in a rented flat in Majlis Park near Azadpur. The family owns a property on Mahatma Gandhi Road that is less than a kilometre away from their home. A four-storey building is being constructed there and Aggarwal’s murder took place at the under-construction site, the police said.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said on Tuesday, around 10am, Aggarwal and his wife had gone to inspect the construction site. Aggarwal was speaking to a worker on the ground floor, when an unidentified man arrived there on a scooter. “The man was wearing a helmet. He came inside and shot Aggarwal from close range in the presence of his wife and the worker. The bullet hit Aggarwal in the neck and he collapsed. The attacker immediately fled on the scooter,” said the officer, adding that the scooter was later found to be stolen from central Delhi’s Patel Nagar on February 7.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said the police control room was informed about the firing and a team was rushed to the crime scene. The injured man was shifted to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.“We have registered a case of murder and are probing it from all possible angles. Multiple teams are working on the case. All necessary evidence has been collected from the scene of crime, after proper inspection. CCTV footage has been procured and is being analysed. We have some vital clues and various teams are working on them,” said Rangnani.Police officers associated with the case suspect the possibility of a contract killing as the scooter used in the crime was a stolen one. “Personal enmity and financial dispute are also being looked into,” said another police officer, requesting anonymity.Nearly 16 hours before the CA’s murder, a 32-year-old man, identified as Suresh alias Banwari, was shot dead by a group of four persons outside his home in Azadpur village. The crime took place around 6pm Monday and Banwari sustained at least six gunshot wounds. The prime suspect, identified as Rajnish alias Raja, 21, was arrested on Tuesday, the police said.Police said Banwari, who had a criminal background, was standing outside his home when four persons arrived there and opened fire on him. Banwari sustained gunshot wounds to the chest and head. He was rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. A case of murder was registered and the role of Raja emerged during the probe. Raja was caught following searches at his possible hideouts, the police said.DCP Rangnani said during the interrogation, Raja revealed that he and his friends had an enmity with Banwari and they planned his murder as a revenge killing. “Raja also disclosed that in 2016, he was apprehended in another murder case registered at the Burari police station. Our teams are conducting searches to nab the others involved in Banwari’s murder and recover the gun used in the crime,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-24-hours-chartered-accountant-gunned-down-in-front-of-wife-another-shot-outside-his-house-101615919222961.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Four persons booked for beating toll plaza staff||Greater Noida: Police have registered a case against four persons who allegedly vandalised a toll plaza and assaulted a toll collector on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dadri, early Tuesday morning. Toll operator 25-year-old Sahil, who was injured in the incident, said four youths had reached the plaza in a car at 3 am. “They refused to pay the toll and demanded free entry. I did not lift the boom barrier and requested them to pay. They got off the vehicle and started beating me. They also vandalised the toll cabin,” he said.The toll management soon informed the police and a team reached the spot from Dadri police station. However, the suspects had managed to flee. The incident was also captured in CCTV cameras installed at the toll plaza.Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO Dadri police station, said that the suspects’ car had been identified. “We scanned the CCTV camera footage and found the suspects were in a Hyundai Santro car which was registered in Haryana. We have registered a case against them under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of IPC. The police team has launched a search to arrest the suspects,” he said.The Eastern Peripheral Expressway is maintained by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). When contacted, Mudit Grag, NHAI project director, said he was in a meeting and not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-persons-booked-for-beating-toll-plaza-staff-101615918922268.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||20,500 get jabbed in Ambala during mega vaccination drive||During the mega Covid vaccination drive held across Haryana on Monday, the Ambala health department inoculated 20,544 residents across the district, the highest in the state, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said. The Haryana health department had set a target of 10,000 doses to be administered in Ambala.“The drive took place at 156 centres in the district and we achieved the first position in Haryana by a margin of more than 8,000,” Dr Singh said.At many villages, senior citizens who had already been vaccinated, encouraged others to come forward to take the jab and announcements were made at religious places to spread awareness about the drive .  As per the figures shared by the civil surgeon’s office, maximum turnout was recorded at the community health centres in Chourmastpur (4,316), Mullana (3,950) and Shahazadpur (3,476), all in rural belts. Dr Bela Sharma, district immunisation officer, said that mass messaging through announcements and personal checking at all major centres by Dr Singh also helped in mobilisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20500-get-jabbed-in-ambala-during-mega-vaccination-drive-101615918864297.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad told to intensify Covid-19 testing, surveillance||NOIDA: In the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases in states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab, the Uttar Pradesh government has instructed all the districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, to intensify the contact tracing, surveillance and vaccination. In a video conference with all the district magistrates and divisional commissioners of the state on Monday evening, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said that there is a surge in Covid-19 cases again in many states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Delhi, which could be the second or third wave of infection. “Apparently, there is a slight uptick in cases recently in some districts such as GB Nagar and Ghaziabad, which is a sign of caution. Be vigilant as Delhi and adjoining areas are seeing a sudden surge in the number of cases. Though we are giving the fight to the pandemic with vaccination, we are not in a position to lower our guard. It is advisable for the districts concerned to intensify the vaccination of eligible individuals,” Tiwari said. In March so far, as many as 146 new cases were detected in GB Nagar, while 144 new cases reported in Ghaziabad, witnessing a rise of almost 50% over the same period last month, according to the state health bulletin. In GB Nagar, the number of total positive cases was 25,686 on March 16, of which 78 were active and the positivity rate was 0.30%. Similarly, in Ghaziabad, the total positives went to 26,902 (102 active cases) with a positivity rate of 0.37% on March 16. The chief secretary further said that these districts need to intensify their contact tracing and surveillance to check spread of the infection as thousands of people from other states come daily there. “The district health department should take the list of passengers and conduct their proper testing and contact tracing. A thorough surveillance is the need of the hour,” Tiwari said. Tiwari also said that all the districts must ensure 100% vaccination of health-care and front-line workers, who missed the inoculation due to some reasons. “It is mandatory for all the districts to ensure 100% registration of senior citizens and persons over 45 years with co-morbidities. To ensure their inoculation, the vaccination booths must not be far away from their residences,” he said. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that contact tracing and surveillance have been intensified to check further spread of infection. “We’ve also restarted issuing challans against those who are flouting the social distancing and mask norms in the district,” he said. GB Nagar DM Suhas LY said that the health officials have been asked to increase the tracing and testing in the district. “Since vaccination can be the best way to protect us from the infection, the vaccination officials have been asked to increase the inoculation of eligible beneficiaries,” he said. In GB Nagar, the health department has inoculated over 36,277 people in March so far, out of 65,048 beneficiaries belonging to senior citizens and 45-plus with comorbidities, which is 55.76% of the target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-told-to-intensify-covid-19-testing-surveillance-101615918862889.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Sahibabad factory fire: Three workers succumb, toll rises to four||Ghaziabad: Four days after a massive factory fire in Sahibabad severely injured 14 persons, three of them succumbed on Monday at two different hospitals, police said. With this, the death toll in the case rose to four, they said.The incident had taken place in the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area on March 11, and a day later factory owner Kunal Behl had succumbed to injuries. Later, the families of the injured workers had lodged an FIR against Behl at Link Road police station under IPC Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide). “Three persons, including two men and a girl aged 16 years, succumbed to injuries. One of the men and the girl died at a hospital in Delhi on Monday while the other man aged 19 succumbed at a hospital in Vaishali. At least six other persons are still undergoing treatment in Delhi,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). Police identified the two deceased men as Mohit Kumar, 19, and Vishwa Nath, 22, both natives of Sitapur district in UP, while the girl was identified as Twinkle (single name used) who was living at Maharajpur in Sahibabad. “Both were my brothers. Vishwa Nath, who got married about 18 months ago, died yesterday at a hospital in Delhi. Mohit died on Monday night at a hospital in Ghaziabad and he was unmarried. We are now arranging ambulances to take both bodies to our native place. I will return to seek justice for them,” said Rohit Kumar, brother of the two victims and a complainant in the case. In his police complaint, Rohit had alleged that the fire started due to explosion in chemicals used at the factory and implicated the factory owner. “We are investigating the cause of the incident,” the SP said. Chief fire officer Sunil Kumar Singh said that the cause of fire will be part of the investigation. “We came to know that there was an explosion during the mixing of chemicals on the ground floor. This led to a major fire and we had rushed to the spot. Fourteen injured were taken out and sent to hospitals then,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sahibabad-factory-fire-three-workers-succumb-toll-rises-to-four-101615918862101.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Man caught on camera performing bike stunts in Noida||Noida Police booked a Delhi resident on Sunday for allegedly performing stunts with his sports motorcycle on a road in sector 62. The motorcycle was also seized.The police action came after a video of the stunt made its way on to social media and was shared widely.“For professional stunts on a public road, prior permission from the police. This was not taken. Moreover, the video was shot amid traffic in sector 62,” said assistant commissioner of police (zone 1) Rajneesh Verma. Police said the rider, suspect, Gurpreet Singh (in his 20s) from Krishna Nagar, was not wearing any safety gear and endangered not only his life but of others as well this way. Singh, police said, worked at a hosiery factory in sector 64.The video purportedly showed Singh riding a KTM sports motorcycle at high speed and then performing wheelies (balancing the motorcycle on the back wheel) before stopping at a red light. He even turned the bike around and performed the same stunt on the wrong side of the road.“His vehicle was seized under relevant sections of the Motor vehicle act while he was booked under section 151 (disturbance of public peace) of the criminal procedure act,” said the ACP. Police said that it was unclear whether the video was shot by an accomplice of the man or a random bystander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-caught-on-camera-performing-bike-stunts-in-noida-101615918802362.html
16-03-2021||City||Women bikers issued heavy fines for performing stunts in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad Police on Tuesday issued heavy fines on owners of two motorcycles after two videos of people performing unauthorised stunts emerged on social media.In the first video, one woman was seen sitting on the shoulders of the woman rider on a Royal Enfield motorcycle on a road near Govindpuram. The riders were also not wearing a helmet and could not produce a driving licence when police inquired.Police issued a fine of ₹11,000 against the owner.The women were identified as rider Sneha Rajvanshi and Shivangi Dabas, both in their 20s. They had met over social media and had many followers online.Also read: Sahibabad factory fire - Three workers succumb, toll rises to four“We wanted girls to do something unique and hoped to inspire others. Policemen came to my house and asked for the owner of the motorcycle and I said that it was registered in name of my mother. We did not mean to have a negative influence on others,” said Rajvanshi, a resident of Shalimar Garden.Her friend Shivangi Dabas, a resident of Shatabdi Puram, said that they upload different videos over social media and hoped to monetise their content.“We did not perform stunts on the highway. In our videos we have cautioned people from attempting such acts,” she said.In the second case, three women rode a motorcycle without a helmet and performing stunts near Govindpuram. Police were yet to identify the women but managed to track the motorcycle, another Royal Enfield, through its registration number and issued a fine of ₹17,000.“The rider rode dangerously without holding the motorcycle’s handle at one point. This vehicle had a Delhi registration number. The woman riding the motorcycle in the previous case was also seen in the second video,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/women-bikers-issued-heavy-fines-for-performing-stunts-in-ghaziabad-101615918743330.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two women fall prey to snatchers in Chandigarh||Two separate cases of snatching were reported from Sectors 20 and 35, the police said on Tuesday.In the first case, Babita of Himachal Pradesh told the police that three motorcycle-borne men snatched her purse containing an ATM card, Aadhaar card, identity card and ₹500 cash near the dispensary in Sector 20 on Monday. In the second case, one Rekha of Sector 35 told the police that she was walking home from a nearby park when a motorcycle-borne man snatched her carry bag containing her keys and purse, and the photocopy of her Aadhaar card on Monday evening.Two cases of snatching were registered. No arrests have been made so far, but the police are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-women-fall-prey-to-snatchers-in-chandigarh-101615918685878.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Power outage at UP Gate protest site for three days||For almost three days, farmer protesters at UP Gate have been without electricity. The increased load on the street light system, which the protesters had tapped into, caused a malfunction forcing them to now rely on generators to run washing machines, coolers, fans and even charge their phones.The farmers have been camping at the site since November 28 last year against the Centre’s farm laws. Tents had come up with protesters believing that their agitation would be a long drawn out one. The stir completed 100 days last week.“Our major camping area is without any electricity for past three days. The camps supports women, children, men and even a few kitchens. We are using generator sets now, but these can be operated for limited time only,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of UP-Gate farmers’ committee. He said that there were about 1,500 to 2,000 people at the camp. The protest is on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which is managed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The farmers’ equipment increased load on the cables, which have now been damaged. We are in process of repairing and laying new cables. But if the load continues, short circuits will happen again,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI. The UP Gate to Dasna (19.2km of phase 2) and Dasna to Meerut (32km of phase 4) of the DME project is scheduled to get complete by March 31. The farmers are demanding repeal of the three new laws and urging the government for bringing in a new law on minimum support price. The government on the other hand proposed stay on implementation of the three laws for a period of one and half years but the farmers’ unions did not approve the proposal. There has been a deadlock between the two sides and last time they held talks was on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/power-outage-at-up-gate-protest-site-for-three-days-101615918683544.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Agency to be hired soon for new Noida project||The Noida Authority will revise its request of proposal (RFP) to select a consultant to prepare a detailed project report for the “New Noida” Project, which will see the current Noida expanding.“Once revised we will float the RFP to start the process of inviting bids from interested agencies,” said Ritu Maheshewari chief executive officer of the Noida authority. “The consultant will help us understand what kind of development should be carried out in the new areas.”At present, Noida is spread over 20,000 hectares, 16,000 of which is urban,. In this urban area, 47% is for residential development, 13% industrial and rest for other usages that include commercial, institutional, and green purposes. At least 250 hectares is earmarked for industrial use but yet to be acquired from the farmers, the officials said.The new project will add another 20000 hectares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/agency-to-be-hired-soon-for-new-noida-project-101615918682922.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn tells PGIMER to stop paint work on heritage buildings||Raising objections over violation of heritage norms, the Chandigarh urban planning department has shot off a letter to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), asking it to immediately stop the external paint work on heritage buildings on its campus.The urban planning department letter comes in the wake of objections raised by Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee (CHCC) members over the white paint work being undertaken at the institute. In the letter addressed to the PGIMER director, the department pointed out that the campus is enlisted as a Grade-2 heritage precinct falling in the Heritage Zone-8.“The Heritage Grade–2 guidelines, which apply to the PGI campus, permit no external change, and only allow limited internal changes in these precincts and buildings, which do not affect the exterior of the same... Therefore, painting of the external facades is in violation of the heritage guidelines, which have been duly notified by the Government of India,” states the letter.On the instructions of the central government, an expert panel had prepared a report identifying important buildings, precincts and zones of the city to be declared as heritage, which was approved by the ministry of home affairs in December 2011. Subsequently, CHCC was constituted by the administration in April 2012 with the mandate to identify, preserve and conserve the city’s identified heritage.The expert panel had put PGIMER campus, which includes buildings designed by Pierre Jeanneret, in the category of Grade-2 heritage sites, which are of regional or local importance possessing special architectural or aesthetic merit, or cultural or historical significance, though of a lower scale than Grade-1 sites. Heritage Zone-8 extends along Madhya Marg from PGIMER to Sukhna Choe and includes institutional and commercial buildings besides green belts along it.Follow set preservation protocolSeeking directions to be issued to the concerned wing of PGIMER to immediately stop the ongoing external paint work, the letter further states: “These building facades be restored to their original character, for which the UT engineering department has formulated a protocol with the approval of the CHCC.”The engineering department is already undertaking restoration and preservation work of heritage buildings, including Capitol Complex, as per the protocol. The facade of government and private building in Sector 17 is also getting a facelift as per this preservation protocol.“Truthfulness of materials was one of the main tenets of Le Corbusier’s work. Hence, the use of exposed concrete at the Capitol Complex, Sector 17 and buildings in PGIMER,” said a department official requesting anonymity.Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson of PGIMER, said he had no knowledge of the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-tells-pgimer-to-stop-paint-work-on-heritage-buildings-101615918623629.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Man booked for molestation of woman||Greater Noida: A 35-year-old man was booked for allegedly molesting a woman in Dadri on Monday. The victim’s husband filed the complaint. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO Dadri police station, said that a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 354-A (sexual harassment) of IPC. “We have launched a search to arrest the suspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-booked-for-molestation-of-woman-101615918622408.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn gears up to manage patient load amid Covid surge||With Mohali district recording 1,903 Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths due to the virus this month, the administration is making preparations to manage the increased load of patients.Just 16 days into March, the district has seen a spike of 125% in cases and 10% in death toll, when compared to 840 cases and 20 deaths recorded in February. The number of active cases has shot up from 636 on March 1 to 1,442 on March 16 and recovery rate has dropped from 95% to 91.7% in the same period.As Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur — the designated Covid facility during the first surge in September, when more than 6,000 cases surfaced — has ended its contract with the state government, the administration has now made arrangements for 100 beds at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, and 10 beds at the de-addiction centre in Sector 66 for Level-1 (L-1) category patients. Facilities under L-1 category deal with uncomplicated cases. Patients are generally asymptomatic and can roam around in the ward. Cases that require more attention, wherein patients are generally bedridden and are put on drip or need oxygen support, are sent to L-2 category hospitals, whereas critical patients are shifted for specialised treatment to hospitals with L-3 facilities.Additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain said: “We held a meeting with representatives of all the leading hospitals in the district and directed them to ramp up their L-2 and L-3 bed capacity and postpone elective surgeries as far as possible to dedicate requisite resources towards the treatment of Covid patients.”Hospital administrations have also been told to update the health status of critical patients daily so that all available resources may be pooled to contain the case fatality rate, she said. It stands at 1.8%.Jain said district and subdivisional government hospitals and community health centres have been directed to create room for L-2 patients. As far as L-3 facilities are concerned, most private hospitals in Mohali have five to six beds, but all are occupied.The district administration will also rope in medical staff, including doctors and paramedical staff, on contractual terms as per the norms. Last time, 14 such medical professionals joined on contract, which ended in November last year. 100+ cases for seventh dayMeanwhile, the district reported 100+ cases for seventh consecutive day on Tuesday, with 192 people testing positive. The peak was reached on Sunday with 206 cases. Meanwhile, four patients died, taking the toll to 407.Mohali city continued to report bulk of the cases, with 178 on Tuesday. The district’s total stands at 22,218. With 83 patients being discharged, the number of those cured reached 20,368. As many as 27,319 people have been vaccinated so far, including 12,119 senior citizens, 1,904 in the comorbid group, 7,284 healthcare workers and 6,012 frontline workers. The second dose has been administered to 4,579 people. The drive is being carried out at 27 private hospitals and seven government hospitals in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-gears-up-to-manage-patient-load-amid-covid-surge-101615918443537.html
16-03-2021||Other||Five killed after getting trapped in pit in Agra||Five people were killed after getting trapped in a pit that was being dug to build a septic tank in Pratappura village, under Fatehabad police station of Agra district on Tuesday evening. Four of the deceased were from one family and one was a neighbour. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the incident and declared a relief of ₹2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said: “The victims were involved in digging the ground to construct a septic tank when mud collapsed on them while they were in the pit that was full of filthy water too. The water had seeped into the pit from a nearby septic tank. One person died on the spot while the four others were rushed to SN Medical College in Agra but were declared brought dead.” “The deceased were identified as brothers Hari Mohan (17), Anurag (14) and Avinash (16) -- all three sons of Surendra Sharma. Their uncle Sonu Sharma (32) tried to save them but died in the process. Yogesh Baghel (20), living in neighbourhood, too, died after getting caught in the pit when he tried to save the others,” the DM said. “The pit was being dug in the house of Surendra Sharma, who lost his three sons and a brother in the incident,” Singh said. “After instructions from the chief minister, compensation of ₹2 lakh each was declared for the next of kin of each the deceased. The family of Sonu Sharma will receive 5 lakh under the Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojna because the land was in his name,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-killed-after-getting-trapped-in-pit-in-agra-101615918442128.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mystery shrouds youth’s death at hotel in Chandigarh’s Sector 7||A 22-year-old man was found dead in mysterious circumstances in a hotel room in Sector 7, Chandigarh, on Tuesday evening. The body of the man, who belonged to Haripur Hindua village in Mohali’s Dera Bassi, was found hanging from the ceiling. No suicide was recovered. Though police suspect suicide, they have not ruled out foul play and have initiated investigations. Police said the man had checked into the hotel around 3:40pm along with a woman friend, who is from Manimajra.The victim’s sister had received a call from the woman informing her that he had committed suicide. After the family reached the hotel, the room was opened and he was found hanging. Police were immediately informed. Police are questioning the woman to ascertain the facts. The deceased had studied till Class 12, and got married last year. His family is into transport business and owns some tipper trucks. He was taking care of the business. Woman left 90 minutes after reaching hotelWhen police reached the spot, they found things scattered around in the room and the bedsheet was lying on the floor. The body was without any clothes and was hanging with a dupatta, which police said belonged to the woman. The body was removed and shifted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where the postmortem will be conducted on Wednesday. Police said the woman accompanying the victim had left about 90 minutes after check-in. It was after leaving the hotel that she informed his family about the suicide. Police have procured CCTV footage and are scanning it to find some clues. Investigating officials said that so far, no one other that the two was seen entering or leaving the room. “We are looking at all angles and have started investigating the circumstances that led to the youth’s death. Action will be taken based on the statement of the family and postmortem report,” said Gurmukh Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, east).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mystery-shrouds-youth-s-death-at-hotel-in-chandigarh-s-sector-7-101615918322813.html
16-03-2021||Lucknow||Agra builders’ firm booked under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the directors and promoters of an Agra-based builders firm, Kalpturu Buildtech, said officials here on Tuesday. The firm’s directors and promoters, Jai Kishan Rana, Ashok Rana, Manjeet Kumar, Bipin Singh Yadav, Rajkumar Yadav and others associated with the firm had been made accused in the case. The company’s registered office is situated at Friends Tower, Sanjay Palace, Agra, said a senior ED official. The investigation was taken up on the basis of various FIRs registered at different police stations of Agra and Mathura. The cases were registered against the aforementioned individuals for duping gullible investors by luring them to put money in schemes floated by the firm, said an ED official. He said the company was building a residential flat complex in Churmura village of Mathura and floated a scheme for pre-booking of flats, assuring buyers that at the time of booking of flats that if they pay a recurring amount per month for a certain period they would have the option of either taking the possession of the booked flat or taking the invested principle along with the interest amount. Also, the buyer had an option to opt out of the scheme after certain recurring payments. The directors assured the return within a certain period of time, he added. “When the investors demanded returns on their investments, initially the accused asked for some time to arrange the payment or assured the investors that the flats would be ready shortly. After a considerable amount of time and hassle when the investors demanded their returns, the directors of the company refused to pay them back and threatened them of dire consequences,” he said, adding: “It is gathered that the company followed a similar modus operandi in Panipat, Hisar and other districts of Haryana and duped people there.” He said the FIRs reported so far suggested that the investors allegedly duped people of around ₹7.39 crore and this amount could be more as there was no mention of the amount in a few FIRs. “The ED is identifying the movable and immovable properties of the company and related persons. The role of the directors, promoters of the company and other persons will be under scanner and properties earned by them using hard earned money of the public will be attached very soon,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agra-builders-firm-booked-under-pmla-101615918323242.html
16-03-2021||Lucknow||Girdhari Vishwakarma encounter - SC dismisses plea seeking FIR against cops, CBI probe||The Supreme Court has turned down the plea of slain gangster Kanhaiya alias Girdhari Vishwakarma’s brother Sanjay Kumar Vishwakarma seeking an FIR against police officials of Lucknow involved in the encounter of his brother and a CBI probe into the incident. Girdhari Vishwakarma, a key accused the murder case of Mafioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s aide Ajit Singh, was shot dead in an encounter with the Gomti Nagar police, Lucknow, when he allegedly tried to escape during his three-day custody remand on February 14 this year. Ajit Singh was killed in a shootout at Kathauta crossing in Lucknow’s Vibhuti Khand police station limits on January 6.A division bench of Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Krishna Murari passed the order on March 15 which was uploaded on the court’s website on Tuesday.“An FIR has already been registered (in the case),” said the court. “In view of the notification dated March 7, 2021, appointing a retired high court judge as a single member commission of inquiry with headquarters at Lucknow to make enquiry into the unfortunate incident within two months and considering that the Uttar Pradesh State Human Rights Commission has also taken cognizance of the unfortunate incident, we are not inclined to entertain this petition,” the court observed. “It hardly needs mention that these authorities may, if, they deem necessary, take the assistance of the Central Bureau of Investigation or any other investigating agency. The writ petition is, accordingly, dismissed,” the court added. The Lucknow police had arrested Girdhari from New Delhi on January 11 last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/girdhari-vishwakarma-encounter-sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-fir-against-cops-cbi-probe-101615918202287.html
16-03-2021||Lucknow||Voices of dissent surfacing within UP BJP: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president, Akhilesh Yadav, on Tuesday claimed that voices of dissent had started surfacing within the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He also claimed that various senior officials in the administration and police were not attending phone calls from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), despite directives. “When BJP leaders were making claims about their victory in the next state Assembly polls from the dais during the party’s working committee meeting (on Monday in Lucknow), several office-bearers and leaders were raising their voice against the misgovernance under the party’s rule,” Yadav said in a press statement released by the SP here. He, however, did not name any leader. “The BJP might make all-out efforts to hide the reality and spread lies, but it is not going to succeed as voices of dissent and dissatisfaction have started surfacing within the party,” he claimed. The SP president said: “The Samajwadi Party had been saying since the very beginning that anarchy and corruption are rampant in the BJP regime in the state and there appears to be no control of the government or administration over it.” Different district magistrates (DMs), SSPs, SPs and commissioners were not attending phone calls from the CM office despite directives, he said, claiming that there were reports given by government sources to this effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/voices-of-dissent-surfacing-within-up-bjp-akhilesh-101615918023186.html
16-03-2021||Other||Theatre artist Meenu Bhathal releases three books in Ludhiana||Two Punjabi short story collections and a Punjabi novel authored by writer and theatre artist Meenu Bhathal were released during an event organised by theatre group Rangmanch Rangnagri and publisher Chetna Parkashan at Rana Daljit Singh Hall of Punjabi Bhawan on Monday. Writer and poet Surjit Patar was the chief guest.Tarlochan Singh, director of Rangmanch Rangnagri, said that story collections ‘Chibbar’, ‘Bas hun bas’, and the novel ‘Sambhal’ were great contributions to Punjabi literature.The event was presided over by Punjabi Sahitya Akademi president Ravinder Bhattal. Authors Sukhjit, Inderjit Pal Kaur, and Sandeep Kaur Sekhon were also present. Surjit Patar congratulated the author.Sukhjit Singh said that Meenu’s stories did not disturb the concentration of time, place and work. Poet Satish Gulati shared his views on all three books.Sukhwinder Kaur Cheema and Gurcharan Kaur Kochhar discussed the books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/theatre-artist-meenu-bhathal-releases-three-books-in-ludhiana-101615917782784.html
16-03-2021||Other||Panchayat member held for illegal poppy cultivation in Ludhiana||The Crime Investigation Agency-2 have arrested a panchayat member for illegally growing poppy on his fields. The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh of Rurka village, Dehlon. As many as 132 poppy plants, grown on a patch of land behind wheat crop, were recovered from his fields.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the raid was conducted at the panchayat member’s fields following secret information about illegal cultivation of poppy.The accused has been booked under Sections 16, 81 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Dehlon police station. The police are looking into his past criminal record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-member-held-for-illegal-poppy-cultivation-in-ludhiana-101615917362522.html
16-03-2021||Other||Two Ludhiana men held for sexually assaulting minor neighbours||Two cases of sexual assault on minor girls by their neighbours were reported from the labour quarters at Focal Point and Meharban areas.In the first case, a 40-year-old labourer was arrested for raping his six-year-old neighbour after inviting her to play in Neechi Mangli. The accused has been identified as Rohit Singh, who is unmarried and lives alone in a rented room at the labour quarters.The minor girl’s mother told the police that while her daughter was returning from tuition classes on Monday evening, Rohit took her to his room to play with her. Suddenly, people heard the girl’s screams and on rushing to Rohit’s room, caught him raping her. The girl was rescued, but the accused managed to make good his escape. Inspector Davinder Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Focal Point police station, said a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act had been registered against the accused, who was arrested on Tuesday. He will be produced in court on Wednesday.Father of two held for rape bid on 5-year-oldIn a similar case, a 35-year-old man was nabbed for trying to a rape a five-year-old girl in his locality at Ekta Colony.According to the child’s mother, her daughter was taking bath in the common bathroom of the labour quarters, when a local, Pappu Rai, ventured in and tried to rape her. As the girl raised the alarm, people gathered there, prompting Rai to flee. However, he was arrested soon after as the police were informed.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harjeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused was a labourer and father of two children. He has been booked under Sections 376 (rape) and 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the IPC and Section 8 (sexual assault) of the POCSO Act at the Meharban police station. The accused was produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-ludhiana-men-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-neighbours-101615917122681.html
16-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily Covid cases shoot up to 245, six lose battle to virus||Showing no signs of the pandemic slowing down, the district recorded over 200 Covid-19 infections for the second day in a row, with 245 residents testing positive for the virus on Tuesday.On Monday, the week had started with 226 Covid cases, after the district witnessed over 100 cases on 10 days since the advent of March.The virus also claimed six lives on Tuesday, up from Monday’s four, pushing the death toll to 1,060.The deceased include five males and a 52-year-old woman from Kakowal Road. The male deceased were two 67-year-olds from Gill village and Issa Nagri, a 65-year-old from Kod Sahir, a 59-year-old from Sarabha village and a 56-year-old from Aman Nagar near Jalandhar Bypass.The district’s case tally now stands at 29,304, of which 1,060 cases remain active after 26,942 recoveries. Among those found infected on Tuesday are a traveller from Dubai and five teachers – one each from a kindergarten school in Model Town; DAV University, Jalandhar; PCTE, Baddowal; GP School, Chinniwal; and Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Sahibana.Besides three students from GTB Nursing College, Shastri Nagar in Model Gram; and one each from Shri Aurobindo College; GNE College; GSSS, Kohara; and GSSS, Sahibana, were also found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-covid-cases-shoot-up-to-245-six-lose-battle-to-virus-101615916942767.html
16-03-2021||Other||War of words between Stalin, Palaniswami over late J Jayalalithaa’s death||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Thursday took on Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on his home turf in Salem over the mystery surrounding former AIADMK chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s death.Responding to Palaniswami’s charge that Stalin and his father late M Karunanidhi were responsible for Jayalalithaa’s death, the opposition leader said that he was ready to face the Arumugasamy Commission which is investigating Jayalalithaa’s death.“Now that we have mentioned in our manifesto that we will speed up the enquiry into Jayalalithaa’s death, Palaniswami is panicking and blabbering things like we are responsible for her death,” said Stalin, while campaigning for the DMK’s Salem candidate R Rajendran, C Tamilselvan from the reserved constituency of Yercaud, and Dr Tarun from Veerapandi.During his campaign, Stalin has repeatedly mentioned that on assuming charge of Tamil Nadu, the party would conduct a probe into the ‘mystery’ as several questions were raised over Jayalalithaa’s death. The same found a mention in the party manifesto which was recently released for the April 6 elections.The former All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) supremo died after prolonged hospitalization in 2016. “When MG Ramachandran (MGR) died in hospital, the then health minister announced his death but no party leader kept the public informed about Jayalalithaa’s health and death,” said Stalin, holding the AIADMK leadership responsible for her death.In 2017, the ruling AIADMK formed a one-man commission led by retired justice Arumugasamy — as a judicial probe was one of the demands of deputy chief minister OP Paneerselvam to merge his warring faction with that of Palaniswami to provide stability to the fledging AIADMK government.The Arumugasamy Commission has so far been extended nine times after examining more than 100 witnesses. “It was OPS’ demand to probe but he has not appeared before the commission after several summons,” said Stalin. “EPS is blaming us because he wants to cause a distraction. If that’s what they think why hasn’t the commission summoned me? I’m ready to face them,” he said.After the AIADMK released its manifesto, a day after the DMK did, Palaniswami said that it was “Stalin and Karunanidhi who are responsible for Jayalalithaa’s death as they caused her stress by filing corruption cases (disproportionate assets case) against her.”Actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam also stated in its resolutions that “people have a right to know about the truth that happened,” referring to Jayalalithaa’s death and on the murder of her security personnel in April 2017 in her summer retreat bungalow in Kodanad. Haasan also campaigned in Salem on Tuesday.Stalin started his campaign in Salem by going on an unplanned walk in a market in the city centre of Shevapet. He interacted with the trader community such as the Marwadis and the Chettiars. Later, he addressed a public rally from a campaign van on a local ground where at least 5,000 party supporters were gathered.Meanwhile, Palaniswami attacked the DMK- Congress combine at the Aranthangi constituency of Pudukottai where he criticised the manifesto of more than 500-promises saying that a party should only promise which can be implemented. The CM also recalled late Karunanidhi’s promise to provide two-acre land to people, which he said, was never implemented and the same would happen with the DMK manifesto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/war-of-words-between-stalin-palaniswami-over-late-j-jayalalithaa-s-death-101615916282512.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram among 30 most polluted cities in world despite improvements||The Millennium City was among the 30 most polluted cities in the world in 2020, according to a report by a Swiss group that ranked cities based on their air quality measured in terms of the levels of ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) that can enter the organs and cause lasting damage. While Gurugram ranked 24th among the world’s most polluted cities in 2020, it markedly improved from the 7th spot in 2019 and 1st spot in 2018. Officials said that Gurugram’s steady improvement is due to increased monitoring in the city by all stakeholders, although independent experts said that the meteorological conditions and the lockdown played a much bigger role in the ranking. S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “The fact that air quality of Gurugram has been improving over the past two years is visible on the ground. This is due to increased monitoring by stakeholders like Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, who regularly work to ensure that air pollution is kept under control.” As per the latest report, Gurugram recorded an annual average particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration of 75.3 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) in 2020, as against the average PM2.5 concentration of 93.1 µg/m³ in 2019. The report states that PM 2.5 pollutant was chosen for the report because “it is currently understood to be the most harmful to human health due to its prevalence and far-reaching health risks. Exposure to PM2.5 has been linked to negative health effects like cardiovascular disease, respiratory illness, and premature mortality.” In the National Capital Region (NCR), Gurugram fared better than Ghaziabad (2), Noida (6), Greater Noida (7), Delhi (10) and Faridabad (11). The annual average PM2.5 concentrations in NCR cities were recorded at 106.6 µg/m³ in Ghaziabad, 94.3 µg/m³ in Noida, 89.5 µg/m³ in Greater Noida, 84.1 µg/m³ in Delhi and 83.3 µg/m³ in Faridabad. In the state, Faridabad’s air quality ranking dipped to 11 this year from 18 in 2019. Explaining Faridabad’s fall in ranking, Narayanan said, “We admit that Faridabad still needs to work more to improve the air quality, with better monitoring on the ground.” The report also ranked Bandhwari, a village located about 20 kilometres from Gurugram and is also the site of Haryana’s largest landfill at 22, with an annual PM2.5 concentration of 77.6 µg/m³ this year. The ranking of Bandhwari improved by 12 places since 2019.Experts, however, are of the view that the improved air quality is due to meteorological factors and the lockdown to fight Covid-19. Sachin Panwar, an independent air quality consultant in Delhi-NCR said, “The improvement in Gurugram’s air quality can be attributed to meteorological factors and elongated impacts of the lockdown like reduced emissions and traffic movement. There was not much change on the ground by the authorities. Another reason could be a reduction in cracker bursting hotspots in the city.” The report lists transportation, biomass burning for cooking, electricity generation, industry, construction, waste burning, and episodic agricultural burning, as major sources of air pollution in the country. Elaborating on the poor air quality in the country, the report states, “Despite widespread air quality improvements during 2019 and 2020, air pollution in India is still dangerously high. India continues to dominate annual PM2.5 rankings by city – 22 of the top 30 most polluted cities globally are located in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-among-30-most-polluted-cities-in-world-despite-improvements-101615916222640.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||Man ends life due to financial crisis||Facing a financial crisis, a man allegedly ended his life after consuming poison. Police said that the victim, who was working as an executive for an electrical contractor in the city, left behind a suicide note blaming contractors for his death. The man in the suicide note alleged that he had not received his salaries for the past few months despite paying to labourers for the work, police said. The incident took place on March 12 when a traffic policeman posted at Sohna Chowk took the man to the civil hospital after he consumed poison on the road. Police informed the victim’s wife about the incident. When the wife reached hospital, doctors declared him dead, said police. In a statement recorded before police, the victim’s wife said that her husband was not paid by the contractors. “My husband had paid workers from his own pocket and even that amount was not reimbursed by the contractors. He was disturbed due to financial problems. Disappointed with contractors, he consumed poison to commit suicide,” she said. Police recovered a purported suicide note from his pocket where he has alleged harassment by contractors for not paying him. During investigation police found some bank transactions and a contact number of a tea shop at the district court, said police. Subhash Boken, Gurugram police spokesperson, said that when police reached the tea vendor, he told them that the victim often had tea at his shop and shared his financial issues with him. “The tea seller also shared some video clips in which victim had narrated his financial problems and how he was duped by executives of two private companies,” he said. On the basis of the complaint by his wife, a case was registered on Tuesday against four people, including two contractors and two executives of private companies, under section 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Shivaji Nagar police station. “A case has been registered and we are verifying the facts. Further investigation is underway,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-ends-life-due-to-financial-crisis-101615916221860.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||Three booked for assaulting acquaintance, sharing video on social media||Three persons were booked after a video showing them brutally assaulting a 24-year-old man by holding him hostage was shared on social media. The man was held hostage at an apartment in Palam Vihar and the suspects are yet to be arrested, the police said.According to the police, they received a complaint on Monday from one Roshan Kumar, a resident of Palam Vihar, who alleged that his business partner, identified as Sandeep Kumar, refused to share the payment for a project and started assaulting him.Roshan said, “I received a call from Sandeep on March 5 around 11.30am. He shared an address of an EWS apartment in Palam Vihar and asked me to reach there. We completed a project in Badshahpur and Sandeep had received a payment of ₹50,000, but he did not share it and kept on delaying despite repeated requests.” He said that they met four months ago at Sheetla Mata Mandir in Sector 5 and decided to partner up. Sanjay Kumar, the station house officer of Palam Vihar police station, said that Roshan was held hostage when he reached the flat and three people, including a woman, started abusing and assaulting him with sticks and rods. “In the video recovered from social media, the suspects were seen hitting him with beer bottles, sticks and rods. The woman was seen slapping him repeatedly, demanding money,” he said. The police said that two of them assaulted him while another man recorded the act. “The victim is seen pleading and apologising. Suspects were seen showing blood on their hands and recorded the act for sharing it on social media,” said Kumar. The suspects were allegedly demanding money and were alleging that Roshan had cheated Sandeep. The police said they are yet to verify the claims made by the victim and suspects. Roshan filed a written complaint on Monday after he recovered and was discharged from a private hospital. The trio has been booked under sections 323 (assault), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-booked-for-assaulting-acquaintance-sharing-video-on-social-media-101615916163625.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||24x7 vaccination drive against Covid-19 gets muted response in Gurugram||The round-the-clock Covid-19 vaccination drive that started on Monday in six hospitals in the city has witnessed a muted response. Only 24 people got vaccinated on Monday night, health department officials said, adding that they could rethink about the decision. However, the officials said that they will keep working on it for at least one week before taking a final call. The department has designated one government and five private hospitals for night vaccination. According to the officials, only three people got vaccinated at the designated private hospitals while remaining 21 beneficiaries got vaccinated at the government hospital in sector 10. The five private hospitals designated for night vaccination are Artemis, Max Hospital, Medanta, Paras Hospital and Fortis, they said. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that the purpose of the round-the-clock vaccination drive is to ensure that maximum people can take advantage of extended time, but the response on the first day was below expectation. “We will try and reach out to the public in the next one week and also ask the private hospitals to focus on outreach. If the results are not favourable, then we will have to rethink this strategy as large resources are deployed on the night shift,” he said. Yadav, however, expressed satisfaction over the mega vaccination drive, which was held on Monday as the health department managed to vaccinate over 12,000 people in the city. “All stakeholders, including the private sector, will be motivated to expand the outreach in coming days and cover maximum beneficiaries,” he said. A senior doctor at a private hospital said that more time should be given to the round-the-clock initiative as slowly people will come forward and take advantage of this facility. “The 24x7 drive will help those people who are not able to access it during the day. The beneficiaries can also avoid the day crowd. We want to request people to avail this unique opportunity to boost their immunity against this contagious virus and help break the chain of infection,” he said, wishing anonymity. Meanwhile, the additional chief secretary (health), Rajeev Arora, said that given the response to the vaccination outreach, which led to the inoculation of about 150,000 beneficiaries on Monday across the state, the department has decided to observe every Monday as ‘mega vaccination day’. “The department has ensured that the vaccination centres are in close proximity to people’s residences even in the rural areas, and for which the number of vaccination centres has also been enhanced,” said Arora. As per details shared by the health department, on Tuesday, 3,452 beneficiaries over 60 years and 1,052 between the age of 45 and 59 years with comorbidity were vaccinated, besides 504 health-care workers and 933 front-line workers were also vaccinated in 89 sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/24x7-vaccination-drive-against-covid-19-gets-muted-response-in-gurugram-101615916162867.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||Regularising banquet halls on MCG’s agenda||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is likely to take up the matter of regularising banquet halls in the city in its next House meeting, scheduled for Thursday. Of the 76 private banquet halls in the city, only one has been regularised by the civic body so far, according to the agenda for the meeting. In January 2014, the Haryana government approved a policy allowing all municipal corporations across the state to regularise banquet halls. The policy was, however, valid for only 60 days and a solitary banquet hall in Sector 9 was regularised under this policy.Despite seven years elapsing since the policy, as many as 75 banquet halls are yet to be registered under the MCG.Hence, to both increase its revenue as well as regularise banquet halls to ensure they are adhering to fire safety norms, among other safety measures, the MCG wants the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) to once again reinstate its policy, albeit with a few changes.“Regularising banquet halls is of great importance as such structures will be mandated to adhere to a list of guidelines and parameters, including fire safety norms. By standardising banquet halls, MCG can keep a vigil over its functioning and also increase its revenue simultaneously,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG, who floated this agenda on behalf of councillors.In November 2018, a banquet hall in Sector 9 caught fire. Despite the fire being of low intensity, due to narrow entry passage and blocked paths, the fire department took more than 25 minutes to reach inside the premises.“There have been a few instances in the past where the fire department found fire safety violations in banquet halls or fire dousing equipment were found missing. Regularising them, hence, is important as the fire department can regularly check such structures and subsequently, issue or renew fire NOCs based on its findings,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).Azad said that representatives of Haryana Party Lawns’ association had also raised the issue of regularising banquet halls in Gurugram with her two months ago and asked for changes to the existing policy, along the lines of the one adopted in Rajasthan.“The matter of introducing the policy along with few changes was also raised by several councillors during the pre-budget meeting held last week, following which it was unanimously decided to introduce this agenda in the next House meeting. We agreed with most of the suggestions of the association members and will also ask ULB, once the agenda is approved in the House, to incorporate these changes in their existing policy,” said Azad.According to Haryana Party Lawns’ Association president Anil Rao, the charge for regularisation under the Haryana government’s policy in 2014 was a hefty amount, a one-time payment, rather than one that could be renewed on an annual basis.“The biggest problem with the Haryana government’s 2014 policy was that they were asking a one-time payment amounting to around ₹1.5-2.5 crore, depending on the size of the banquet hall, for regularising the structure. Almost all the banquet halls operate on a lease basis in Gurugram. For the original owners, this policy was an expensive and unnecessary expenditure,” said Rao, whose association represents 72 of the 76 banquet halls in Gurugram.Rao said that representatives of the association raised the matter of regularising banquet under similar lines to the one adopted by the Rajasthan government, with members of the Haryana government in Chandigarh and Azad in Gurugram two months ago.“Under the Rajasthan government’s policy, an annual licensing payment of around ₹2 lakh- ₹5 lakh is paid per banquet hall. We made members of the Haryana government, as well as the Gurugram mayor, realise that such monetary value of payment can be made by a banquet hall administration themselves and would also lead to an increase in the local civic body’s revenue,” said Rao.In the MCG’s House meeting scheduled to take place at the John Hall in Civil Lines on Thursday, the MCG’s 2021-22 fiscal budget will be put forward before the House for approval, along with other agendas such as opening the policy of issuing licences to meat shop owners, MCG’s formal takeover of Maruti Vihar and Saraswati Vihar, constructing MCG’s office and allotment of land for constructing a new police station in Rajendra Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/regularising-banquet-halls-on-mcg-s-agenda-101615916161844.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||Schools to train bus staff before next academic session||The regional transport authority has asked the district elementary education officer to direct schools to hold behavioural training sessions for drivers and conductors of their school buses before the next academic session. The communique also directed that background checks of the school transport staff be completed before they are assigned duties.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram, said officials discussed the influence of the workers’ behaviour on children, during a road safety meeting in February. “In many instances, it was noticed that drivers used abusive language and their conduct with their colleagues was rough. A student spends up to two hours on a school bus, to and from home, every day and a positive atmosphere is required. They should not smoke in front of students and should also ensure they do not chew tobacco or spit out of the window while driving,” she said.The city has around 350 schools that use around 1,610 vehicles to transport children.Officials said that as many students have complained of aggressive behaviour by bus staff to their parents, the directions are to ensure that drivers follow traffic rules and behave appropriately when performing their duties.Schools have been asked to get the staff trained in personality development skills, including spoken English and gender sensitisation. A session on ‘good touch bad touch’ is also required to be conducted, according to RTA.Yadav said there are over 1,600 school buses in the city and many schools have not got the police verification of their staff. “If a driver or conductor is found ferrying students without verification, their driving licence will be confiscated and strict action will be taken against the school authorities,” she said.A monthly meeting with school representatives will be held after April once the next academic session starts, said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-to-train-bus-staff-before-next-academic-session-101615916104208.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||Gangster’s properties to be auctioned on Wednesday||The police will auction two properties of a proclaimed offender and wanted man, Sube Singh, on Wednesday morning. Officials familiar with the development said that after failing to attract bidders in the two auctions over the last two years, four people have shown interest in the two plots and the team will start the auction process in Bar Gujjar village and Manesar industrial area at 11am. KK Rao, the police commissioner, said that in January 2019, the district and sessions court had accepted a petition to attach the property of Singh, following which the process was initiated. “Last year, the family had got a stay from the court for both the properties. This was vacated by the court on March 2 this year, after which we again initiated the process,” he said. Rao said that properties of all proclaimed offenders who are on the run can be attached through court and sold. “Before starting the process, 30 days are given by the court to the criminal to surrender in court or forfeit their property. This process is adopted only if the criminal is involved in heinous crimes or there is a danger to the maintenance of peace, and the law and order situation,” he said.Law enforcement agencies come across various issues while forfeiting and auctioning properties belonging to gangsters. First and most important thing is clarity on the title of the property. Unless the title of the property is clear, it cannot be auctioned, officials said.In many cases, relatives of the gangsters move challenge the forfeiture in court. In such cases, the agency has to hold the procedure as matter becomes sub judice, said an official with the Smuggling and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (SAFEMA). Citing an example of Dawood Ibrahim’s aide, late Iqbal Mirchi, whose three properties in Mumbai are worth around ₹500 crore, Rahul D’souza, former additional commissioner of SAFEMA, said, “Mirchi’s kin provided misleading information pertaining to the properties to the court to avoid the forfeiture. Because of this, the procedure got delayed and after agencies brought correct facts before the court and established that the said properties belonged to Mirchi, the procedure could be completed.”In February and March 2019, the police held similar auctions but there were no takers due to fear of being attacked by the Singh. The police said that it is imperative to attach properties of wanted persons as soon as possible as they might sell their properties and disappear from their trail. Singh is wanted in more than a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion in Gurugram and Rewari, where he is suspected to be hiding. The police had announced a reward of ₹4 lakh for Singh’s arrest. He was declared a proclaimed offender in April last year. His wife, who is a sarpanch, is also absconding for the last few months, the police said, adding that they have written to the deputy commissioner to remove her from the sarpanch post. Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said that all procedures, including putting up notices in public places and courts as well as advertising in newspapers, have been followed. “The auction will take place for both the properties and special deployment has been planned. Also, police protection has been provided to the bidders and we will ensure they are not targeted by the family or gang members,” he said. The police said the initiative is to curb the financial muscle of criminals in the district. The financial value of Singh’s plots, a 1.3-acre one in Bar Gujjar and a 0.8-acre one in Manesar, is around ₹6 crore. If these properties remain unsold, the government can choose to rent them to generate revenue and the court will decide the date for the auction and other processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gangsters-properties-to-be-auctioned-on-wednesday-101615916103468.html
16-03-2021||Gurugram||DTCP seeks information on infra requirement for illegal colonies within a week||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday asked residents and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of unauthorised colonies to share information about deficient services and infrastructure within the next seven days.RS Bhath, district town planner, said that the government has sought information about shortcomings in unauthorised colonies so that a comprehensive database can be prepared on the basis of which a report will be prepared. “The government is planning to augment the infrastructure in colonies where a large number of people live but basic amenities are missing. We request the RWAs and developers of such colonies to come forward and share this information on priority,” said Bhath.The department will compile the data, prepare a detailed report and submit it to the government. DTCP officials said that information pertaining to the location of the colony, area, number of plots, size of the plots, community facilities and present infrastructures in the colony, such as roads, water supply, power, sewerage and other infrastructure, needs to be uploaded on the department’s website on priority.Officials said that residents of all unauthorised colonies — where development has taken on a majority of the area — to whom notices have been issued under rules for stopping work, demolition and restoration can submit the details.The department officials said that they only require data about the colonies and not the information of any individual. “Once actual information is available, we will prepare a report about the deficiencies and submit the report to the government for further action,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement.In another development, the DTCP on Tuesday also directed developers of affordable housing projects to share information about flats, allotments of which were cancelled, within the next three days so that fresh draws can be conducted for re-allotment. “If this information is not shared at the earliest, action would be taken,” said a senior DTCP official.Until now, only five of the 30 developers have shared this information despite repeated reminders, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-seeks-information-on-infra-requirement-for-illegal-colonies-within-a-week-101615916102452.html
16-03-2021||Pune||New English School Ramanbaug completes 75 years, yearlong programs planned||The Deccan Education Society’s (DES) New English School Ramanbaug is completing 75 years. In order to celebrate the 75th anniversary, new initiatives have been planned by the DES and its alumni students’ organisation. Some of the things planned yearlong include constructing a separate building for skill development, solar energy project, making compost from garbage and waste products, medicinal plants garden, beautification, and restoration of school premises. DES society’s executive president Dhananjay Kulkarni gave the information in a press conference held at Patrakar Bhavan on Tuesday. On the occasion, school committee president advocate Ashok Palande, school principal Dilip Rawade, alumni students’ organisation president Dr Dilip Deodhar and several others were present. “Our school’s alumni student Dr Pramod Chaudhary has given a donation of ₹51 lakh to the school and from these funds, all the planned new works are going to happen. The work of some of the projects has already started, we are also going to develop a modern computer lab, science laboratory, language laboratory, educational units, production centre, and many other new things. All these works are expected to be completed by the year-end,” said Kulkarni. Rawade said, “We are collecting all the historical incidents and things of the school of the last 75 years and they will be preserved. Also, we are going to make a separate hall to display various historical things related to school as exhibitions. We appeal to all the alumni students to contribute to this initiative and along with that various small and big 75 programs are going to be held this year.” Dr Deodhar said, “We are now organising batch-wise alumni student gatherings and various new development projects for the school. For this, we are raising funds from students and our appeal to all alumni students is to celebrate and participate in this school initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-english-school-ramanbaug-completes-75-years-yearlong-programs-planned-101615915921847.html
16-03-2021||Pune||Two arrested for murder over cricket betting debt||Two men were remanded to police custody on Monday for the murder of a former local politician from Mohan nagar area of Pimpri-Chinchwad after fallout of a gambling debt on March 9, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The deceased man was identified as Vijay Surve (40), a resident of Mohan nagar area of Chinchwad, and was the former local leader of Shiv Sena in Mohan nagar. The former politician is believed to have a history of previous cases against him and operated as a bookie, according to the police. The two arrested were identified as Harshad Ashokkumar Rathod (29), a resident of Nigdi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Mohammad Ikhlaq Mohammad Iqbal Idrisi (33), a native of Delhi who was living in Nigdi area for over a year. Rathod has completed his bachelor’s in Pharmacy and ran a lesioning business when he got into the habit of gambling while Idrisi drives and rents a car he owns. While the first arrest was made by the Pune rural police on March 11, the second arrest was made by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday, according to Prakash. “Earlier, Rathod claimed to have dropped the deceased person at Dange chowk area of Wakad. Rathod owed money to the deceased man to the tune of ₹18-20 lakh in form of gambling debt. Surve kept on asking for the money so Rathod decided to kill him. Idrisi had separately asked for some ₹15,000-20,000 money from Rathod. Rathod asked him to help him with some work in exchange for the money. Idrisi helped him with the murder and then got the money he had asked for, so it was a form of contract killing too,” said Prakash. The police have seized the car, a Hyundai i10, in which the two picked him up and took him to a ground near the Highway Tower building in Kalbhornagar area along Old Pune-Mumbai Highway. The two have been remanded to police custody until March 19 by a local court. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 364 (kidnapping for murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Paud police station of Pune rural police on March 10 and later transferred to Pimpri-Chinchwad police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-murder-over-cricket-betting-debt-101615915863726.html
16-03-2021||Pune||Pune deputy mayor resigns ahead of polls||Pune deputy mayor Saraswati Shendge from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) resigned from her post late evening on Monday. Shendge’s resignation ahead of civic polls early next year has created a buzz in the city’s pollical circles. In December 2020, BJP’s ally the Republican Party of India Athavale RPI (A) demanded to share power in the last year of its rule in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The RPI (A)’s demand came immediately after BJP’s defeat in the graduate and teachers’ constituency legislative council election from the Pune division. The RPI (A) has been BJP’s alliance partner for the lok sabha, state and civic polls. Shendge’s resignation is linked with RPI’s demand for the deputy mayor post. However, leader of the house in the PMC Ganesh Bidkar refused to comment on the RPI demand. “The party has accepted the resignation and we will carry out the procedure to depute a new deputy city mayor soon,” Bidkar said. The BJP came to power in the PMC in 2017 by winning 98 of 162 seats. At present, the BJP has eight assembly seats in the city along with the Pune lok sabha seat. RPI was given the post of deputy mayor in 2017 and held it for two years. In 2019, BJP gave a chance to Saraswati Shendge as deputy mayor of Pune. PMPML director Pawar denies to resign The BJP has asked Shankar Pawar who is currently the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) director to tender his resignation, however he has refused to resign. Pawar said, “The party leaders have asked me to resign but I have denied. Former chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and city president Madhuri Misal appointed me as the PMPML director for two and half years. I just completed one and half years. Of those, one year has gone without doing anything in the PMPML. I have very limited time to do something for the development of PMPML.” Pawar said that party leaders are not bothered about Hemant Rasne who has got the standing committee chairman post thrice, however are asking me to vacate the post. “The party should give an equal opportunity to all elected corporators but it is not happening,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-deputy-mayor-resigns-ahead-of-polls-101615915863166.html
16-03-2021||Pune||Woman escaping quarantine centre gets stuck in window grill, rescued by fire officials||The Pune city fire brigade officials had to rush to a Covid care centre in Erandwane area of the city in the late hours of Monday in order to rescue an 18-year-old woman who tried to flee from the centre. The rescued woman was identified as Deepti Kumari (18) a native of Delhi who is quarantined in Erandwane where Covid-19 patients are kept for treatment. The woman tried to flee from her second-floor isolation room and got stuck in the grill of the window while trying to escape. The fire brigade officials as well as officials of Deccan Gymkhana police station rushed to the spot around 11:30pm on Monday when they received a call from the Covid care center. The fire officials tried to calm the scared woman and used a hydraulic cutter to cut open the metal grill that she was stuck in, according to a statement by the fire brigade. The fire officials handed over the woman’s custody to the officials of the Women’s Welfare Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-escaping-quarantine-centre-gets-stuck-in-window-grill-rescued-by-fire-officials-101615915862575.html
16-03-2021||Pune||Five arrested for trespassing at Gahunje stadium, raising slogans||Five men were arrested and remanded to police custody on Tuesday for raising slogans against England and hoisting saffron flags at Gahunje cricket ground in light of the upcoming India-England match. The five were identified as Harshal Ashok Surve, Pradeep Pandhurang Hande, Vijay Subhash Darvan, Devendra Nandkumar Sawant, and Ashish Chandrashekhar Ashtekar, all residents of Kolhapur. The men are a part of a Kolhapur-based organisation called Shivdurg Sanwardhana, according to the police. “They claim that there is a sword that belonged to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is now in the possession of the English. Their aim is to bring back the sword to India. While we are not sure what official channels they have used, they misused this opportunity of the match to raise their demand,” said police inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of Talegaon Dabhade police station. The sword, known as “Jagdamba talwaar” was allegedly gifted to the then Prince of Wales in the year 1875-76 during his India visit. The security concern has been reported to the higher authorities in the police who will be providing security during the match. However, due to Covid-19 norms, no viewers will be allowed in the stadium. The India-England match is scheduled at Gahunje ground on March 23, March 26, and March 28. The cleaning and electrician staff was in the stadium when the men entered and terrorised them. A case under Sections 143, 452, 506(1), 188 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act; Sections 37(1)(3) with135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and relevant Sections of Maharashtra Covid-19 Rules, 2020 was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-arrested-for-trespassing-at-gahunje-stadium-raising-slogans-101615915861812.html
16-03-2021||Pune||Filmmaker among 8 arrested in cybercrime case allegedly worth ₹216 crore||The Pune police cyber-crime cell on Tuesday arrested eight people who are suspected to have committed fraud worth over ₹216 crore using information of dormant bank accounts of multiple banks. The police have also issued notices to three others whose roles are yet to be verified, according to the cyber cell officials. Two of the eight arrested were identified as Rohan Ravindra Mankani and Sudhil Shantilal Bhatevara alias Jain. Mankani is a filmmaker, an actor, and the son of filmmaker Ravindra Mankani. The police have recovered ₹25 lakh, along with 11 mobile phones, two cars, one two-wheeler and data of dormant bank accounts with collective amount of ₹216,29,34,240.87 was recovered from the two. “These arrests are based on preliminary information and we are looking for who all are involved in it. We are investigating it further and we will get to the root of it,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime and Economic offence wing (EOW) of Pune city police. “We are investigating whether it is a case of hacking or someone from the organisation (banks) has leaked the data. Banks these days also outsource the maintenance of their systems to major IT companies; it could have been leaked by their employees too,” said an official of the cybercrime cell. A case under Sections 419, 420 (cheating), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 43/66 and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station. The eight people were produced in a local court on Tuesday and remanded to police custody until March 20, according to assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar of Pune police cyber-crime cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/filmmaker-among-8-arrested-in-cybercrime-case-allegedly-worth-rs-216-crore-101615915802947.html
16-03-2021||Other||7 yrs on, Haryana health dept takes action against ex-Kaithal CMO||Haryana health department has recommended action against former Kaithal chief medical officer Dr SK Nain over the alleged irregularities by making excess payment to an outsourcing agency in 2013.As per the letter (HT has a copy of which), written by the office of additional chief secretary to health department to director general health department for disciplinary action against the then CMO SK Nain under Section 7 of the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rule, 2016.The action was taken after five years on a report of Dr AS Gupta, who had been appointed as arbitrator in April 2014 after the irregularities in recruitment under the outsourcing policy in 2013, when Nain was CMO of Kaithal district, came to fore.Now the action has been taken after a local activist Jaipal Rasulpur took up the issue and filed a complaint on the CM Window in November last year.Jaipal alleged that the arbitrator held him guilty of causing loss to the government but the department did not take any action for five years, even as the arbitrator, in his report, had categorically written for action against the CMO, until he filed a complaint on CM Window.In his report, the arbitrator stated that Dr Naresh Verma, former CMO of Kaithal, in his statement told that after taking over the charge of medical superintendent of Kaithal district, it came to his notice that an excess payment of ₹10.94 lakh has been made to an outsourcing company by increasing the required manpower from 84 to 113 in 2013.“It is found that the director general health service, Haryana had sanctioned 84 man power but the man power was increased to 113 without sanction of the competent authority. Suring cross examination, it was found that ₹23.60 lakh were paid and there is no record as to why the man power was increased from the required 84,” reads the report.On being contacted, director general health services Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj said that action has been taken as per orders and the officer has been chargesheeted. Dr Kamboj, however, did not comment on why the department took around seven years to take action against the ex-CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-yrs-on-haryana-health-dept-takes-action-against-ex-kaithal-cmo-101615915382934.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, BMC asks teachers to work from home||The education department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday issued an order asking all schools in its jurisdiction to discontinue 50% rotational attendance rule from March 17.It further said that teachers will take their classes in work from home pattern with help of e-learning platforms until further orders, according to news agency ANI.Mumbai today recorded 1,922 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,47,581. Four deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 11,539.The number of tests in Mumbai went up to 35,74,056, with 19,009 samples being examined in the last 24 hours.According to the BMC bulletin, 246 buildings in Mumbai are sealed, whereas 34 areas have been identified as containment zones.Meanwhile, Maharashtra has recorded a spike of 17,864 fresh Covid-19 cases. It has also reported 87 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 52,996.Pune city recorded the highest 1,954 new coronavirus cases followed by 1,951 in Nagpur.Maharashtra has also locked down few districts including Pune, Thane and Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-bmc-asks-teachers-to-work-from-home-101615913786521.html
16-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan wants 50% quota cap to be removed, some other states also agree||The Rajasthan government would ask the Supreme Court to remove the 50 per cent cap on reservation, an official statement issued on Monday said, making it the first state to say so. Many other states are in the favour of removing the cap as well.On March 3, the Supreme Court had sought responses from the state governments on whether they were in favour of extending caste-based reservation beyond the 50 per cent ceiling set by the Supreme Court in a nine-judge bench ruling given in 1992, famously known as the Indra Sawhney case.Although the order was in the case related to 16 per cent reservation to Marathas under the Other Backward Classes category, the top court wanted to know the views of the states as the states have been repeatedly trying to extend reservation beyond 50 per cent and have brought legislations in the state assemblies.“The (Rajasthan) cabinet expressed its opinion that in the Indira Sawhney case of 1992, there is a need to reconsider the 50 per cent limit decision for reservation,” a statement said. Rajasthan is the first state to take a call on the apex court’s order.The statement said that after the 102nd Constitutional Amendment, which gave constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes and mandates to suggest the castes that need to get the reservation, the legislative powers of the states has been curtailed.Also read: BJP corners Gehlot govt on phone tapping; demands resignation, CBI probe“The states can provide reservation under OBC category only if approved by the NCBC,” said a Rajasthan government official, explaining how their legislative powers have been curtailed.Maharashtra government is also in favour of removing the reservation cap. State public works minister Ashok Chavan, who also heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said we welcome the SC order and would demand the removal of the cap.“We had requested that the opinion from the states be sought as their petitions related to the reservation in government jobs and education is pending before courts. We also want that reservation power of the states, taken away by the 102nd amendment to the Constitution by the Central government, is restored,” Chavan said.A Chhattisgarh government official, aware of the discussions on the SC order within the government, said that the state government wants the cap to be removed and reservation to be given on the population ratio of each caste.“That is why the government had announced a 27 per cent reservation for OBC and 10 per cent for the poor families of the upper class. But this decision was challenged in the HC and the court has asked the government to provide quantifiable data. The government has constituted a Commission for Quantifiable Data, which is doing its work,” the official said.Bihar government is yet to file any response on the information sought by the Supreme Court, said state Advocate General Lalit Kishore. “The matter is still under the process of discussion and study,” he added. However, a government official aware of the developments said that the state government is of the view that the cap should be removed and would be filing a detailed response to the SC soon.Former Bihar minister and Janata Dal (United) leader Neeraj Kumar said that the reservation facility should be aimed at improving the socio-economic conditions of the marginalised as per the caste-based census. “I hope that the state government would accommodate views of every section of the society while sending its report,” said Kumar.Punjab government officials said that they are yet to discuss the 50 per cent reservation cap and SC order with chief minister Amarinder Singh to take a call on the issue. The Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments have not discussed the issue as the ruling party leaders are busy with the upcoming state assembly elections, officials in the two states said.Former Rajasthan High Court judge, Pana Chand Jain, said seven states have crossed the 50 per cent cap on reservations and others also want to join the bandwagon for political gains.“The main motive behind the increase in this cap is to get votes and not social justice for which the reservation has been provided in the Constitution,” he said.He said that tampering with the 50 per cent limit would affect the quality of administration across the states.Jaipur based Dalit rights activist Bhanwar Meghwanshi said there is scientific logic behind the 50 per cent cap and it has been dealt with in the Indra Sawhney case. “I don’t agree with the state government’s view,” he said.In the Indra Sawhney case in 1992, the Supreme Court removed the 27 per cent quota for other backward classes (OBC) by excluding the creamy layer and imposed a 50 per cent limit.“The questions which we propose to consider are whether the judgment in case of Indra Sawhney v. Union of India (1992) needs to be referred to a larger bench or require re-look by the larger bench in the light of subsequent constitutional amendments, judgments and changed social dynamics of the society,” the SC said on March 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-wants-50-quota-cap-to-be-removed-some-other-states-also-agree-101615914782665.html
16-03-2021||Other||18,963 vaccinations, 3,574 new Covid-19 cases on Monday||PUNE The district saw 18,963 vaccinations, including first and second doses, as compared to 26,560 vaccinations on Monday. This drop was a result of cancelled sessions and late arrivals at some areas in rural Pune. The district also recorded 3,574 new Covid-19 cases, and 14 deaths due to the infection, on Tuesday, as reported by the state health department. This took the progressive count to 0.445 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.408 million have recovered and 28,817 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. The district death toll stands at 8,207. Pune city reported 1,954 new cases which takes its progressive count to 0.228 million. The death toll stands at 4,636 as 10 new deaths were reported. PCMC reported 880 new cases which takes the progressive count to 0.111 million. One death was reported which took the death toll to 1,346. Pune rural reported 740 new cases which takes the progressive count to 0.105 million and the death toll stands at 2,176 as three more deaths were reported. 18,963 vaccinations On Tuesday only 18,963 vaccinations were registered of which Pune rural reported 2,130 beneficiaries vaccinated, as opposed to the 7,071 registered on Monday. Pune city saw 12,323 beneficiaries vaccinated as opposed to 14,574 on Monday.PCMC reported 4,601 beneficiaries vaccinated as opposed to 4,915 beneficiaries on Monday. Ayush Prasad, Zilla Parishad CEO, said, “We have a two-step distribution system in rural areas. Unlike in Pune city where the hospitals come at one point and take the doses, in rural areas the doses are first sent to the talukas and then to the respective PHCs. On Monday we got the fresh stock late evening, which reached the PHCs in the morning. In some cases the drive started in the afternoon and so people were asked to come post lunch. This might have affected the vaccination numbers.” Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC’s chief health officer said, “We had to ask people to cancel registrations made for Covishield and to create new session sites for Covaxin, which might have affected the vaccination drive.”On Tuesday, of the 18,963 beneficiaries, 17,292 got their first dose and 1,671 got their second dose. Of the first dose beneficiaries, 14,954 were under phase two, senior citizens and those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18963-vaccinations-3-574-new-covid-19-cases-on-monday-101615914721700.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Vij asks AG to audit accounts of Gurugram, Faridabad MCs||Haryana urban local bodies minister Anil Vij on Tuesday admitted in the Vidhan Sabha that he has received numerous complaints regarding the functioning of Gurugram and Faridabad municipal corporations (MCs).Vij said that in view of the gravity of the issue, he has written to Haryana accountant general (AG), requesting to audit past five years’ records and accounts of both the MCs.Vij was responding to a question of MLA Narender Gupta during the Vidhan Sabha session.The minister said that in Faridabad any irregularity related to LEDs and other matters will be investigated by a high-level committee, which will submit a report to them.In response to another question, Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, said that the proposal to upgrade old civil hospital of Gurugram to build a 500-bed hospital and renovate its building is under consideration.He said that the civil hospital building is currently in a dilapidated state. Its construction work will be started on completion of all necessary formalities in this regard.MLAs asked to send estimatesHaryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that the state government has sanctioned ₹239 crore to undertake developmental works as per recommendations of the MLAs.He said that CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced in December 2019 that each MLA can recommend developmental works in their constituency to the tune of ₹5 crore.Chautala said that six MLAs had not submitted estimates of development works for their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-asks-ag-to-audit-accounts-of-gurugram-faridabad-mcs-101615912802573.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab's daily spike of over 1,000 Covid-19 cases continues; 38 deaths in last 24 hours||Punjab on Tuesday reported 1,475 new Covid-19 cases and 38 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin from the state government. With this, Punjab’s Covid-19 tally reached 201,036 and the death toll climbed to 6,137. The state had reported 1,843 new cases on Monday, 1,501 new cases on Sunday and 1,515 cases on Saturday, according to data from the government.Also, the active caseload in the state currently stands at 12,616, an increase of 674 cases from Monday's 11,942. Total recoveries from the coronavirus disease reached 182,283, of which 751 were reported on Tuesday, according to the latest data.Also read | Delhi reports over 400 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload continues to increaseAmong the districts, Hoshiarpur reported the highest daily new infections with 257 cases, followed by Ludhiana with 245 new cases, Patiala with 197 cases and SAS Nagar with 192 cases. In terms of active cases, Jalandhar tops the list with 1,587 cases, while Hoshiarpur has 1,555 cases, SAS Nagar 1,443 cases and Ludhiana with 1,302 cases. Ludhiana also remains the worst-affected district with 29,304 overall identified cases so far in Punjab.The Union ministry of health and family welfare, earlier in the day, said that the state of Punjab alone accounted for 5.34 per cent of the total active cases in India. Also, among the districts, five districts namely, Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Patiala and SBS Nagar contributed the maximum number of active cases in the state.Also read | Mumbai's daily Covid-19 case tally nears 2k-mark, Maharashtra sees 17,864 casesPunjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday said that curfews have been imposed on at least eight districts in the state including Mohali, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, news agency ANI reported. Joining this list, Rupnagar district also imposed a night curfew between 11pm and 5am, ANI reported.As far as vaccinations are concerned, 215,774 essential workers have received the first dose of the vaccine and 72,952 have received the second dose so far, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-daily-spike-of-over-1-000-covid-19-cases-continues-38-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101615912033551.html
16-03-2021||Other||After 44 days, UP’s fresh case count crosses 200 mark||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s daily Covid case count crossed the 200-mark on Monday, after a period of 44 days while Lucknow also saw a spike in fresh cases (44) – the maximum in one day in March. As many as 32 districts reported zero fresh cases in the state.With 228 new cases, the state’s infection tally rose to 6,05,655. Two deaths (one each in Lucknow and Sonebhadra) took UP’s fatality count to 8,750, as per the health department. On January 31, UP had reported 226 cases and since then the daily count remained below 200. On February 1, there were 171 fresh Covid cases. “Cases in some districts are rising, particularly where travellers have returned from other states and have tested positive. We need to ensure similar precautions as we did in March and April 2020, by using masks, hand-washing and maintaining social distance. This will help curb infection spread and break the infection chain,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Tuesday. There were 151 fresh cases in the state on March 15, 178 on March 14, 156 on March 13, 167 on March 12, 146 cases on March 11 and 128 on March 10. During the day, Lucknow reported 44 fresh Covid cases, Kanpur five, Prayagraj five, Ghaziabad 15, Gautam Buddh Nagar 17, Meerut 19, Varanasi 10, Mathura 10, Aligarh 14 and Muzaffarnagar 10, according to the state health department data. There were 1,912 active cases in the state while 5,94,993 patients had recovered till now. UP tested 32948378 Covid samples, including 1,00,329 in the past 24 hours. “Lucknow has reported 82,213 cases, of which 80,740 have recovered and the recovery rate is 98.20%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Fresh cases in Lucknow were reported from Alambagh, Indira Nagar, Talkatora, Vikas Nagar, Hazratganj and Madiyaon. Experts said there was a need to adhere to Covid protocols during all outdoor activities. “Cases are rising and we need to stick to the Covid protocols while stepping out of our homes and also when we return. This is necessary to keep the fresh case count low,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-44-days-up-s-fresh-case-count-crosses-200-mark-101615911961502.html
16-03-2021||Other||UP first state to vaccinate over 3 lakh in one day||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh was the first state in the country to have twice vaccinated over 3 lakh people in one day, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Tuesday. On March 12, 336963 beneficiaries and on March 15 311351 were vaccinated while the total count of vaccine doses in the state crossed over 30 lakh. “But keeping in view the population in the state we wish to take this (one day) figure even further,” said Prasad. “UP is the first state to inoculate over 30 lakh people,” said a press statement from the state government. The UP government has also announced stepping up inoculation by making it mandatory for community health centres (CHCs) to conduct vaccination six days a week. Earlier, CHCs were vaccinating people three days a week on Monday, Thursday and Friday. Vaccination was being done in all the state medical colleges, district hospitals and community health centres of the state from Monday to Saturday, said the press statement. In view of the growing number of coronavirus infections, focus testing is being done across the state. With Holi round the corner, samples of people working in restaurants, stalls and liquor shops etc were being taken, said the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-first-state-to-vaccinate-over-3-lakh-in-one-day-101615911721566.html
16-03-2021||Dehradun||Reviving Chipko: Uttarakhand women hug trees to prevent road construction||Tales of the iconic Chipko movement were revived when women in Uttarakhand’s Jakhani village in Bageshwar on Monday hugged trees in a bid to protect them from felling for the proposed construction of Kamedi Devi-Rangthara-Majgaon-Chaunala road. The women claimed that the forest is dedicated to a Goddess and trees are like children to them. Kamala Mehta, sarpanch of the area, said, “Chaunala village has already a road and as such what is the use of another road and cutting trees for the construction? We won’t let them cut our trees since felling trees will not only destroy the environment but also the natural water resources of our area.” Kamedi Devi-Rangthara-Majgaon-Chaunala, a 2-kilometre-long road was sanctioned in 2009 but due to the protests by villagers from two villages of Seri and Jakhani, the construction could not begin. Later villagers of Majgaon, a village next to Jakhani, approached the High Court for the construction of the proposed road and the HC directed for the construction. Last week, the villagers of Seri village staged a protest and halted the construction, but the local administration had continued the road work with the help of police. Also read: ‘Narendra Modi will be treated like Lord Ram in the future’ - Uttarakhand CMOne of India’s first major environmental movements, the Chipko movement of the 1970s became a rallying point for future non-violent environmental movements in India. The move even attracted international attention. Gaura Devi, from Uttarakhand’s Raini village in Chamoli district, had played a key role in the Chipko movement in March 1974 when contractors engaged by an Allahabad-based sports goods company came to the village to cut the Ash trees. The women of the village hugged trees and contactors had to return without any felling. In a similar way, women of Jakhani village, around 35 km from Bageshwar headquarter gathered in the nearby forest on Monday and hugged the trees of their forest to protest against the proposed felling of the trees. They said that they have dedicated the forest to a Goddess and taken a pledge to save the trees on the line of ‘one woman-one tree’. They maintained that they have taken care of them like their children and it is not possible to allow felling for a road. The villagers stressed that their area is already facing environmental problems. The felling of trees will not only deteriorate the environment but also dry the natural water resources of their area, they added. They shouted slogans against the government and the road project. The villagers warned that if the road is constructed, the administration should change the alignment of the road so that their forest could be protected. Ishwar Joshi, a junior engineer of the public works department (PWD), said, “Our department is constructing a road on the instruction of the district magistrate. Villagers of one village are opposing the felling of trees. We have informed our senior officials about the protest.” Devendra Pandey, a local social activist of the area, said, “Since the villagers have dedicated the forest to their Goddess for the protection of trees, they don’t even collect fodder and firewood from that forest. This is the reason that they staging a protest against the felling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/reviving-chipko-uttarakhand-women-hug-trees-to-prevent-road-construction-101615911362365.html
16-03-2021||Other||Home isolation numbers on the increase in Pune||PUNE With several Covid-19 patients showing mild symptoms or being asymptomatic, there has been a steady increase in home isolations in the city. As per the health department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), 1,425 patients are isolated at home, as against 206 patients who are admitted to hospital, as of March 13.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of PMC’s health department, said that patients that are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms are being advised to home quarantine themselves.“Many patients prefer staying in home isolation until they test negative. The number is steadily increasing of those who are home quarantined. Those with severe symptoms are going to the hospital,” said Dr Bharti.Across Maharashtra, 6,23,121 people are in home quarantine and 6,114 are in institutional quarantine, as per the state health department.Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that it is a good thing as there is no load on medical infrastructure. “This time, the Covid variant is different. The age group of infected patients is from 20 to 40 years. The speed of the infectivity has increased tremendously. I have observed that patients do not follow the strict isolation rules. The death rate has to be reduced, so there has to be strict isolation,” said Dr Bhondwe.“Since patients are home quarantined, there is a possibility that they may leave their house. They should be marked, so that their neighbours are aware that they are positive. This can reduce the spread of Covid,” said Dr Bhondwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/home-isolation-numbers-on-the-increase-in-pune-101615907341111.html
16-03-2021||Other||Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao tests positive for Covid-19||PUNE Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He has been conducting a series of meetings with district and corporation officers in the light of increasing Covid cases in Pune city and the district over the last few days. Last week, a Covid review meeting was held at the divisional commissioner’s office. Important officials and elected representatives, including Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar, were present for this meeting. According to the officials, the staff members in the divisional commissioner office will be tested according to protocol. “As of today, staff members haven’t reported any symptoms. According to the SOPs the steps will be taken,” said Santosh Patil, deputy commissioner at the Pune Divisional Commissionerate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/divisional-commissioner-saurabh-rao-tests-positive-for-covid19-101615906801064.html
16-03-2021||Other||Standing committee sanctions Rs7.50 crore for restarting of Jumbo Covid care centres||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) standing committee has cleared the proposal tabled by municipal commissioner Vikram Kuma, to reopen the Jumbo Covid care centres at Baner and Balewadi.Standing committee chairman, Hemant Rasane said, “The administration will take a final decision to restart the Jumbo Covid-19 hospitals based on the situation. At present, PMC has decided to complete all necessary arrangements and preparedness of infrastructure and extend the contract of agencies for the next three months. We have approved the proposal.”He added, “We have sanctioned Rs7.50 crore for setting up infrastructure such as manpower, hospital staff, machinery, doctor’s accommodation, food supply, and medicines. The patients are increasing so there is no time to carry out a fresh tender process. Therefore, the administration took a decision to extend the contract of the earlier agencies.”Pune city had one Jumbo facility at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP). Besides that, the PMC had set up a dedicated Covid hospital at Balewadi and Baner, both run by the Bhise Multispecialty hospital.The running of the COEP Jumbo facility has been allotted to Medbridge Healthcare.Deepali Designs and Exhibits will provide infrastructure support and food to patients, medical officers and medical staff members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-sanctions-rs7-50-crore-for-restarting-of-jumbo-covid-care-centres-101615906322655.html
16-03-2021||Other||PMPML ridership numbers drop by 50% in face of new restrictions in city||PUNE As the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise in Pune, Pune’s public transport body – the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) - has seen a significant drop in ridership in the last couple of weeks. Schools and colleges are closed till March 31, and students are major commuters on PMPML buses. Passenger footfall has gone down by 50 per cent.“The Pune district administration has extended the restrictions and night curfew till March 31. On the other hand all schools, colleges and private coaching classes are closed, these are our major passengers. As per a request from the civic body we have now also reduced the number of passengers allowed in each bus. Only seated passengers will be allowed. No standing passengers. This all has led to a decrease in ridership and eventually our revenue has also gone down,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director (CMD) of PMPML. All the hotels are also to shut by 10 pm. From October 2020, there was steady rise in the daily number of bus passengers, going up to 0.8 million passengers per day, with a daily income of ₹1.10 crore. Now, daily passenger numbers have gone down to 0.2 million and the income is at Rs60 lakh. “We are trying to provide as many buses on major routes, so that there is no crowding and revenue is generated. Passenger safety is our top priority,” added Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmpml-ridership-numbers-drop-by-50-in-face-of-new-restrictions-in-city-101615905841084.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||CAG detects post-matric scholarship scam in Haryana||Suspected fraudulent payments to the tune of multi-crore were released by manipulating Aadhaar numbers of students under the post-matric scholarship scheme between 2014-19 in Haryana, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG).Not just this, 52% applicants were paid scholarships during 2015-19, while 37% approved cases didn’t get the scholarship.The technical education department didn’t pay ₹18 crore scholarship to 7,757 students though the amount was sanctioned and drawn from the treasury.The objective of the Union government-funded post-matric scholarship scheme is to give financial aid to the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Other Backward Class (OBC) students pursuing post-matric courses through recognised institutions. The students should be residents of Haryana to be eligible for the scheme.The financial irregularities range from “ ₹4.74 crore suspected fraudulent scholarship payments” made to students studying outside Haryana, to fraudulent payment of ₹9.65 crore scholarship as the CAG could not verify the details with supporting records.“The suspected fraudulent payment of ₹19 crore was made by manipulating Aadhaar numbers of students,” says the CAG report (2018-19 fiscal) tabled on the floor of Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday.Inadequate scrutiny of income/caste certificates, etc of students resulted in irregular payment of ₹2 crore scholarship.Funds drawn in anticipation of expenditure were kept in bank accounts and unspent funds were not deposited in government account resulting in loss of interest of ₹6.43 crore to the state exchequer.Rohitash institutesAs per the CAG report, the higher education department paid ₹11 crore scholarship to two colleges (Rohitash Degree College, Ateli, and Rohitash Institute of Management, Ateli) during 2014-18 for 3,598 SC/OBC students of these institutes.The CAG audit obtained registration data of all students admitted to these colleges from the affiliated universities and matched the details of all students shown to have studied in these Institutions with the university registration data.“These institutes had claimed and received payment of scholarship of ₹7.36 crore for 2,490 students who were not registered with the respective universities,” the CAG said.Also, 12 students of general category had claimed scholarship of OBC category and 182 students of general and OBC category had claimed scholarship of SC category resulting in excess claim.The details of 532 students for whom payment of ₹1.70 crore was made to the colleges matched with the university data, but their courses did not match with that of the university records.“Thus, payment of ₹9.65 crore scholarship in respect of 3,216 students was suspected to be fraudulent,” the CAG said.Lack of planningThe CAG pointed out lack of planning, deficiencies in financial management, inadequate scrutiny of applications of students, irregularities in disbursement of scholarship, suspected fraudulent payment, weak monitoring mechanism, etc.The total financial implication of the audit is ₹89 crore, including suspected fraudulent payments.The CAG pointed out that the number of beneficiaries in Haryana was declining in comparison to other states. The audit observed that pendency of cases with the department was one of the reasons for decline in the number of beneficiaries.“The principal secretary (welfare of SC and BC) told the CAG in May 2020 that decline in number of beneficiaries was due to processing of applications through online portal. The reply,” CAG said, “wasn’t convincing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cag-detects-post-matric-scholarship-scam-in-haryana-101615905482036.html
16-03-2021||Other||Pune lags Mumbai, Nagpur in phase 2 of vaccination drive||PUNE Despite reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Pune lags Mumbai and Nagpur in terms of phase-two of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Only 10% of the targeted population under phase two, i.e. those aged 45-59 with comorbidities, and those aged 60+, estimated to be about 13% of the midyear population of 2021, has got their first dose as of March 13. This is about 1.48 lakh people who have got Covisheild, while the rest will now get the Covaxin vaccine. Despite a huge response form senior citizens, the district lags the state capital which has immunised 16% of its target population; and also Nagpur, which has 12% coverage of its target population under phase two.On March 12, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao stated that health experts in the city had been advised to open up vaccination for all above 18, to ensure that the spread is brought under control. He said, “This would be the best solution to stop the spread of the infection, our health experts believe, and so, we will take up this issue with the centre.” Pune has vaccinated 1.48 lakh people from this category, of the estimated 15.2 lakh of the mid- year population estimated as of 2021.As of Saturday, March 13, Pune district has 92,426 health care workers (HCW) who have got their first dose, and 31,283 HCWs who have got their second dose. While 57,605 frontline workers (FLW) have got their first dose and 3,369 FLWs have got their second dose. Of the 1,48,222 beneficiaries under phase two, 19,739 are those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities; while 1,28,483 are those above 60 years of age. Totally 3,32,905 vaccines have been administered in the district.The centre has told the state to ensure maximum vaccination in districts, especially where more cases are coming up. Pune is now also likely to face a vaccine shortage in coming days as the administration has received Covaxin stocks instead of Covishield. To avoid confusion the PMC has now listed hospitals as designated Covishield and Covaxin sites, and has decided to allow only one type of vaccination at one hospital. Three government hospitals have now been reserved as Covishield vaccination sites, while others will provide Covaxin as the first dose henceforth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-lags-mumbai-nagpur-in-phase-2-of-vaccination-drive-101615905240920.html
16-03-2021||Other||As second wave looms for Pune, number of tests being conducted not increasing||PUNE As Pune is on the verge of reporting a possible second wave of Covid-19 infections, with experts suggesting another peak by April, the government has not increased the number of tests being conducted in the district. This is even as the positivity rate is moving up. The number of tests being done in Pune district is lower than Mumbai, even though the number of cases being reported is higher than the state capital. For Pune, the Covid-positive curve began moving upwards since mid-February and is refusing to flatten, despite restrictions in place. In the past five days, Pune district’s daily case load is constantly showing a surge, starting from 2,507 on March 11, to 3,066 on March 14. On March 15, Monday, Pune reported 2,183 cases. Tests were within the range of 15,500.On March 11, the district conducted 15,791 tests, then 15,836 on March 14, and 12,240 on March 15. While Pune conducted 73,894 tests in five days, starting March 11, and reported 13,831 cases, Mumbai had 98,665 tests with 8,541 cases, according to data shared by the state health office. Pune is currently reporting 25% of the new cases in the state and one in every 10 new cases in the country is from Pune.At any given time, every fourth or fifth Covid-19 case in the state is from Pune district. A second wave could see 40% of Covid19 patients turn serious, as seen in September 2020 the peak of Covid-19 in Pune, according to a report submitted by the Tata Consultancy Services and Prayas Health Group. Pune’s positivity rate has now been rising since January. While the positivity rate in September 2020 was 27.7%, it went down to 15.9% in October; 9% in November; 8% in December; 6and .7% in January. However, the positivity rate has been increasing since February, to 10%, and 14.3% between March 1-10. Positivity rate is the number of positives for every 100 tests. As per the WHO for better containment of Covid-19, the positivity rate should be below 5%. In view of the surging tally, the district administration has imposed several restrictions in Pune, including night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, and a 10 pm deadline for malls, hotels, bars and restaurants. “Growing cases is matter of concern for all of us. We appeal to all the citizens and traders to follow Covid-19 norms. Strict action will be taken against those violating guidelines,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. As per PMC, wards which were earlier reporting the highest number of cases, especially those located centrally and are congested, are now reporting a lower number of cases. The administration also believes that “herd immunity” developed during the first wave in these wards is the reason. Most new cases are coming from housing societies. The most affected wards are Hadapsar, Warje-Karvenagar, Wadgaonsheri, Dhankawadi, Sinhgad road and Kothrud. As of Monday, of the more than 22,000 active cases, 14,259 are in home isolation and 7,960 are in hospital. More than half of the active cases isolated in homes are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. However, in the past few days the case fatality rate has been going up in the district Residents are now also responding positively to the vaccination drive. Almost 25,000 beneficiaries have got the vaccine, most of whom are senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-second-wave-looms-for-pune-number-of-tests-being-conducted-not-increasing-101615904701017.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||With prestige at stake in MC polls, BJP, Cong tread cautiously in Himachal||With the municipal corporation elections in Himachal being seen as precursor to the Assembly elections, both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress are treading with caution. A day after the state election commission announced the poll schedule for four municipal corporations – Solan, Palampur, Mandi and Dharamshala, the parties held series of meetings to the rev up their strategy for the elections and are treading cautiously to select candidates. The Congress said it will announce names of candidates in all 64 wards once the state election committee approves the candidates. The party’s state election committee will meet on March 21 to the decide on the names. The Congress has sought feedback from the local units on candidates for the civic body polls while the ruling partyis taking a survey to assess the ability of its candidates to win. “The party has sought reports from observers and its local units by March 19 and candidates will be the declared on March 2,” said Congress’ state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore , while accusing the ruling party of registering bogus voters to improve its prospects in corporation elections. “ The chief minister did nothing to improve the condition of the four towns during his regime and now he is making announcements about adding more facilities to the newly created municipal corporations,” said Rathore, adding that the Congress will come out with a vision document for the corporation. Himachal Pradesh’s BJP chief Suresh Kashyap held a virtual meeting with in-charges of all 64 wards of the four MCs to take stock of poll preparedness. The meeting was also attended by state party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon. “The BJP is setting up committees in every ward to check rebellion. Besides it is also taking a survey to assess the candidates ability to win. The BJP is likely to announce its candidates on March 19,” Kashyap said, appealing all workers to reach out to 100% voters through door-to-door campaigning. He said ward meetings will be held regularly and all committees will be activated to fight these elections on war footing. State co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon said the BJP will fight the poll battle on ground and the main focus will be on door-to-door campaigning. “He also stressed that all frontal organisation should be on the forefront in all wards. The vision document will have details of issues being faced in each of the 64 wards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-prestige-at-stake-in-mc-polls-bjp-cong-tread-cautiously-in-himachal-101615903860911.html
16-03-2021||Other||No last show for single-screen cinemas: Laxminarayan theatre will not reopen||Single-screen theatres in the city were already facing business challenges from TV, multiplexes, and OTT platforms, before the Covid impact. Vijay Talkies on Kelkar road was demolished, and now, the company which owns the Laxminarayan theatre has decided to close it permanently. Also, reconstruction work at Neelayam theatre has begun to reduce seating capacity from 1,200 to 400.“Single-screen owners expect some concessions from the government. The demand is for concession in property tax and electricity bills. There haven’t been releases of new films and hence, all the theatres haven’t been opened,” said Nitin Datar, president, Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India. Laxminarayan theatre which is near Swargate, a prime location in the city, was opened in 1976. Its operators have decided not to open it again. “There is no business viability in single -screen theatres. Through various sources people get to watch films. They have many alternatives such as TV and OTT platforms. In the last few years, people have turned their backs on single-screen cinemas and Covid is the latest blow. Now there is no other alternative, but to close it,” said Dilip Borawake, managing director of Borawake Theatres. Of its six single-screen theatres in Pune and Ahmednagar, the Borawake group has decided to shut four, including Laxminarayan. The state government had allowed cinema halls, theatres, and multiplexes to reopen from November 5, but single-screen owners hadn’t opened as they were only allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. New restrictions are in place in the city, and the hope for permission to operate at 100 per cent capacity has faded. “The current seating capacity of Neelayam is 1,200. We are reducing it to 400. In the current scenario, after business calculations, it is not possible to run a single screen for 1,200 seats. The remaining space will be used for commercial activities,” said Gaurav Shah, owner of Neelayam. Sadanand Mohol owner of Vaibhav theatre in Hadapsar fears that if the situation doesn’t change, single screens will soon become history in Pune. “There are hardly 15-16 single-screen theatres functioning in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Every month electricity bills have to be paid even though the business is not running. Single-screen owners have to invest from their own pockets. Almost all single-screens are over,” Mohol said. “Permission to operate the cinemas with only 50 per cent capacity, the recent imposition of night curfew and no new film releases are some of the reasons operators hadn’t opened yet. We are monitoring the situation and hopefully it will improve,” said Deepak Kudale, former president, Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India. Single-screen cinemas in Pune-There are 15-16 single-screen theatres in Pune, including the suburbs- Vijay talkies building was demolished and owners of the Laxminarayan theatre have decided not to reopen-Seat numbers in Neelayam being reduced Current challenges- No single-screen theatre in Pune has reopened after lockdown- Permission to operate only with 50 per cent- No releases of new films - Financial burden to pay property tax, electricity bills even if theatre has been closed - No permission to operate another business in that space - Losing audiences to TV and OTT platforms||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-last-show-for-single-screen-cinemas-laxminarayan-theatre-will-not-reopen-101615903801491.html
16-03-2021||Other||ED books Agra builders’ firm for duping investors||LUCKNOW The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the directors and promoters of an Agra-based builders firm, Kalpturu Buildtech, said officials here on Tuesday. The firm’s directors and promoters, Jai Kishan Rana, Ashok Rana, Manjeet Kumar, Bipin Singh Yadav, Rajkumar Yadav and others associated with the firm had been accused of duping investors. The company’s registered office is situated at Friends Tower, Sanjay Palace, Agra, said a senior ED official. The investigation was taken up on the basis of various FIRs registered at different police stations of Agra and Mathura. The cases were registered against the aforementioned individuals for duping gullible people by luring them to invest money in schemes floated by the firm, said an ED official. He said the company was building a residential flat complex in Churmura village of Mathura and floated a scheme for pre-booking of flats, assuring buyers that at the time of booking of flats that if they pay a recurring amount per month for a certain period they would have the option of either taking the possession of the booked flat or taking the invested principle along with the interest amount. Also, the buyer had an option to opt out of the scheme after certain recurring payments. The directors assured the return within a certain period of time, he added.“When the investors demanded returns on their investments, initially the accused asked for some time to arrange the payment or assured the investors that the flats would be ready shortly. After a considerable amount of time and hassle when the investors demanded their returns, the directors of the company refused to pay them back and threatened them of dire consequences,” he said, adding: “It is gathered that the company followed a similar modus operandi in Panipat, Hisar and other districts of Haryana and duped people there.”He said the FIRs reported so far suggested that the investors allegedly duped people of around ₹7.39 crore and this amount could be more as there was no mention of the amount in a few FIRs. “The ED is identifying the movable and immovable properties of the company and related persons. The role of the directors, promoters of the company and other persons will be under scanner and properties earned by them using hard earned money of the public will be attached very soon,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-books-agra-builders-firm-for-duping-investors-101615903800868.html
16-03-2021||Other||Pvt doc accused of performing surgery at govt hosp, probe ordered||LUCKNOW A probe has been set up after reports that a private sector doctor allegedly performed a surgery on his patient at the state-run Civil Hospital. “It was shocking information for us, hence we have set up a probe, the report of which will be submitted in two days,” Dr SK Nanda, chief medical superintendent, Civil Hospital on Tuesday. The doctor accused of using the government set-up for private practice had been working at the Civil Hospital as senior resident, while doing MS (orthopaedics). He had resigned in September when asked to do Covid duty. “The charges are of serious nature hence probe is being done. The doctor had left hospital, saying he would not be able to do Covid duty,” said Nanda. It has been alleged that the doctor examines patients at his private clinic located near the Civil hospital and has operated upon some of them at the Civil hospital, which is against the rules as no private sector doctor can utilise government health infrastructure for a patient under his treatment. However, a private sector hospital/doctor can refer a patient to a government hospital. On Monday also, the accused operated a patient, after which a complaint was filed. “Our staff knows that this doctor has resigned. How can he manage the operation theatre and other facilities that are allotted only against a patient and surgeon name,” asked Dr Nanda. The probe committee is looking into the details of the case. Though hospital authorities are yet to decide what charges could be leveled against this doctor, if found guilty, experts said the first onus is on the hospital staff. “It is an administrative lapse. How can an outsider use facilities at any hospital,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, IMA, Lucknow.“There have been examples when private sector doctors have helped operate upon patients at government hospitals, but this is done via official channel and with due permissions,” he said.“We are also ascertaining if he came to consult a doctor in our hospital for his patient under the protocol laid down for patients coming to the OPD. We have qualified and competent doctors and do not need any support from an outsider,” said Dr Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-doc-accused-of-performing-surgery-at-govt-hosp-probe-ordered-101615903500920.html
16-03-2021||Other||Husband, son of Ludhiana councillor booked for trespass, assault in cross FIR||Three days after the police booked a former Congress councillor and his aides for assaulting the husband and son of the ward number 5 councillor, who is also from the Congress, the Basti Jodhewal police lodged a cross FIR on Tuesday.In the fresh case, police have booked Rakesh Kumar Sharma, himself a former councillor from the party and husband of sitting councillor Neelam Sharma; their son, Nitish Kumar Sharma; Rakesh’s brother Gopal Krishan; and his friend, Krishan Lal, besides their eight unidentified accomplices.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Rajinder Sehgal, brother of former councillor Varinder Sehgal.Rajinder alleged that he and Varinder were at their office in Amantran Colony on January 24, when Rakesh and his aides turned up there with an iron rod and sharp-edged weapons, and attacked them. On hearing them call for help, the accused had managed to escape.He claimed that Rakesh had been nursing a grudge against his brother since they both contested the Ludhiana municipal corporation elections in 2012.“A cross FIR under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 451 (house-trespass), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused,” said inspector Goldy Virdi, station house officer (SHO), Basti Jodhewal police station.On March 13, the police had booked Varinder Sehgal, his brother, Pradeep Sehgal, cousin Sunny Sehgal, Chetan Juneja and 20 more unidentified accomplices under the same IPC sections on the complaint of Rakesh Kumar Sharma.Sharma had stated that he was constructing his office in Amantran Colony. The accused, who were into transport business, used to park their buses near his office. Often when passengers stepped out of the buses, they would urinate outside his office, which he had objected to on numerous occasions. On January 24, when he confronted the accused about this, they assaulted him, he had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/husband-son-of-ludhiana-councillor-booked-for-trespass-assault-in-cross-fir-101615901880780.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Budget session: No deaths due to Covid vaccination in Himachal: Saizal||No death has taken place due to coronavirus vaccination in Himachal Pradesh, said health minister Rajeev Saizal during the question hour on Tuesday. He was responding to a query raised by CPI (M) legislator Rakesh Singha. He said the Anganwadi worker who had died 22 days after receiving the dose had not died due to the vaccine. He, however, said the viscera report of the deceased was awaited. Saizal said the success rate of the vaccine was 70%. Transport minister Bikram Singh assured that action will be taken regarding suspension of bus services to Malana, a remote village. He was responding to a question raised by Kullu legislator Sunder Singh Thakur. The minister said that buses will not be plied or stopped on the behest of taxi operators. “The government will investigate the matter raised by Congress members. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) operates 275 routes in the Kullu assembly segment. Apart from it, private operators have been allotted 159 routes. HRTC has restored bus services along 173 routes and 102 routes were still closed. Private operators have restored 152 routes while seven are closed,” he said. In response to Bajnar legislator Surender Shourie, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said a tunnel was proposed to be built under the Jalori Pass in Kullu. The CM said that construction of the Sainz-Aut-Luhri national highway will benefit a very large area. He said ₹ 70.82 crore had been spent on building the 97-km highway, of which a 5-km stretch was a double lane. “A 4.02-km tunnel is proposed to be built under Jalori pass, the process for which has been started,” he said. Responding to a question raised by Congress member Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, the CM said the process of tendering for construction of the Himachal Bhawan to be built in Dwarka in Delhi had not been started yet. “Only land has been purchased for the purpose. The Bhawan will be built at a cost of ₹ 20.9 crore and will have 85 rooms. A part of the building will be used for commercial purposes. The area is close to the airport. Every state has been allotted land near the Statue of Unity in Gujarat,” he said. 
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Fatehpur bypoll: Anticipating rebellion, BJP ropes in its key troubleshooters||Sensing a rebellion brewing in the Fatehpur assembly segment that will be going to bypoll soon, the Himachal Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has deputed its key troubleshooters to quell any dissidence.Industry minister Bikram Thakur, who is considered to be close to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, has been appointed as in-charge while forest minister Rakesh Pathania is the co-in-charge for the Fatehpur bypolls.Former state BJP president chief and chairperson of the state finance commission Satpal Singh Satti will be the coordinator. The byelection to Fatehpur, a Rajput community dominated assembly segment in Kangra district, was necessitated by the death of sitting legislator and former Congress minister Sujan Singh Pathania.BJP state president Suresh Kashyap said these leaders have a vast experience in the field of electoral politics, election management and also played a key role in the Panchayati Raj elections.Fatehpur, which earlier was part of Jawali constituency, has remained a stronghold of the Congress. Late Congress minister Sujan Singh Pathania has won seven terms from this assembly segment, three in a row, including one by-election.BJP is hoping to wrest the seat from the Congress as the Opposition lacks a formidable face from the area. However, hoping to cash on sympathy votes, the Congress is mulling to field Sujan’s son Bhawani Singh Pathania from the assembly segment. Bhawani has served at top positions in a private insurance company and is known for his humility.The Fatehpur block of Congress has already sent a resolution to the party high command supporting his candidature for the by-election.Tightrope walk for BJP However, the BJP is in a tight spot over selecting a candidate as it is apprehensive of a rebellion within the party. At present, former Rajya Sabha MP Kripal Parmar is considered to be a frontrunner in the race for the ticket. However, a rival camp is pushing for Baldev Thakur’s candidature. Notably, Thakur had revolted against the party in the 2017 assembly election, resulting in Parmar’s narrow loss. Thakur had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 election from Fatehpur as a BJP candidate.Recently, posters had come up in Fatehpur area against Parmar labelling him an outsider. Parmar, originally, belongs from Pathankot but has been living in Fatehpur for decades.Amid uncertainty over the BJP’s candidate, another name, Pankaj Sharma, has cropped up. Sharma, a youth wing leader has served in the Indian Air Force. Meanwhile, the forest minister says the ability to win will be the main criteria for selecting a candidate. “The party will soon announce its candidate after mulling over certain key factors. “We have an edge in Fatehpur as 14 panchcyats of my constituency Nurpur have been merged in Fatehpur,” he said, adding that they will ensure that no rebellion takes place and everything is settled amicably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fatehpur-bypoll-anticipating-rebellion-bjp-ropes-in-itsr-key-troubleshooters-101615898941125.html
16-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh announces night curfew in Bhopal & Indore as Covid-19 cases rise||The Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday announced that the state’s two largest cities of Indore and Bhopal will witness a night curfew from March 17, in the wake of rising fresh daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the central state.“Night curfew will be implemented in Bhopal and Indore from March 17, until further order. Markets in eight cities-Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Betul, Khargone to shut at 10pm from March 17. There won’t be curfews in these cities,” news agency ANI quoted a Madhya Pradesh government order, as saying.Night curfew will be implemented in Bhopal & Indore from March 17 until further order. Whereas markets in 8 cities-Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Betul, Khargone to shut at 10 pm, from March 17. There won't be curfew in these cities: Madhya Pradesh GovtThe night curfew will be in effect from 10pm-6am, the order said.Last Saturday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had expressed concern at the rise in Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, particularly in Indore and Bhopal. Also, a day before, speaking to reporters about the pandemic situation in the two cities, Chouhan had said that Bhopal and Indore would ‘most likely be put under night curfew.’ The chief minister had further said, “Look at the rise in infection cases…Tough measures will be taken to flatten the curve.”Also Read | Covid-19 cases are on the rise in MP, Indore and Bhopal areas of concern: Shivraj Singh ChouhanOn Tuesday morning, Chouhan tweeted that he would chair a key meeting later in the day, in which, he said, some more Covid-19 related decisions are likely to be taken. He also urged people to take the situation seriously, wear masks and follow all the norms diligently.प्रदेश में जिस तरह #COVID19 के पॉज़िटिव केस बढ़ रहे हैं, वह हमारे लिए सचेत होने का विषय है। आज मैं इससे संबंधित महत्वपूर्ण बैठक करूंगा जिसमें कुछ और फैसले लिए जाना संभावित है। जनता से यही अपील करता हूँ कि इसे गंभीरता से लें, मास्क लगाएँ और सारे नियमों का पालन करें। pic.twitter.com/O2FGZIXsEdOn Monday, 797 new coronavirus cases were detected in Madhya Pradesh, the state’s highest in a single-day in 2021, taking the infection tally to 269,391, while three related deaths took the death toll to 3,890. Of these, Indore and Bhopal accounted for 259 and 199 cases respectively.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh govt releases fresh guidelines to contain Covid 19 spreadOverall, 62,411 Covid-19 cases have been detected in Indore thus far, while the corresponding figure for Bhopal, the state capital, stands at 45,535. The two cities have also recorded 943 and 622 deaths thus far, respectively.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-announces-night-curfew-in-bhopal-indore-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101615897756464.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports over 400 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload continues to increase||Delhi on Tuesday reported 425 new Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s tally to 644,489, while the total toll climbed to 10,945, with one death reported in the last 24 hours. The capital city has been logging over 400 new cases since March 11, 2021, with a brief respite on Monday, when it reported 368 cases. Delhi reported 407 new cases on Sunday, 419 cases on Saturday, 431 cases on Friday and 409 cases on Thursday.The active caseload has been increasing gradually in the city. It currently stands at 2,488, an increase of 167 cases from the 2,321 reported on Monday, data from the bulletin showed. Also, with 257 patients recovered, total recoveries reached 631,056.Also read | Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane: List of districts with highest active Covid casesThe health ministry has listed Delhi as one among the eight states/Union territories where the number of daily new Covid-19 cases has been showing an upward trend. The other states are Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.Delhi ministry data also showed that 70,049 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, comprising 39,425 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests and 30,624 Rapid antigen tests. This is a slight increase from the over 60,000 tests conducted on Monday. So far, 13,428,414 samples have been tested and the tests per million count climbed to 706,758.The cumulative positivity rate, considering total tests done and the total cases identified, stands at 4.8 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) continued to remain at 1.7 per cent, according to the latest data. The city at present has 576 containment zones and 1,401 patients under home isolation, the bulletin said.Watch | WHO to discuss AstraZeneca safety; fresh curbs in MaharashtraAs of 7am on Tuesday, 800,602 beneficiaries have received the Covid-19 vaccine of whom 673,477 people have received the first dose and 127,125 people have received the second, as per data from the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-over-400-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-continues-to-increase-101615896320490.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi MLA Anil Sharma reluctant to campaign for saffron party in civic polls||At a time when the BJP is using all its might to win the municipal corporation polls in chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s home turf, local legislator and former minister Anil Sharma has refused to campaign for the civic body polls in his hometown Mandi.Sharma, the son of former Union minister Sukhram, had joined the saffron party ahead of the 2017 Assembly elections. His entry came as a shot in the arm for the BJP as his father, Sukhram, is credited with bringing the telecom revolution and wields considerable influence in the state. After winning the polls, Sharma was appointed power minister. However, he was compelled to give up his Cabinet berth after his son Ashray contested elections to the Lok Sabha on a Congress ticket. A visibly disgruntled Anil Sharma said, “Two years have passed since I stepped down as minister. Today, I do not know whether I am part of the party or not. I am never invited to party meetings. My name is not on foundation stones being laid for different projects in Mandi assembly segments.” Jai Ram is ignoring me, says Anil Sharma Sharma says he felt isolated in the party . “This is the first time that I have not been invited to the Shivratri fair. So, despite being in Mandi I was not able to attend the festival. I was harassed and humiliated on public platforms. I don’t know under whose pressure chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is ignoring me.”He also alleged lack of development in Mandi. “People in Mandi had high hopes as our chief minister hails from the district. However, development projects initiated by me or the CM himself have been halted or left incomplete,” said the former minister.”Sharma said that he will soon hold a press meet in his hometown to highlight the bias meted out to Mandi with facts and figures. Sharma said he welcomed the government’s decision to upgrade the Mandi municipal council to a municipal corporation but was against including some rural area within its limits.“The CM had said in a public meeting that if people of rural areas were opposed to including villages within the municipal corporation’s limits, they will be excluded,” said Sharma. “However, the time to do so is over and the government will give a befitting response from the public in the MC elections,” he said.‘The party does not feel I am required’ On his role in the MC polls, Sharma said the government and party do not feel he is required so has not been given any responsibility. “I will not support this party in the elections,” he said.He also hit out at Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh for interfering and altering different development projects executed in Mandi, which he said have become a bane for people. He said he had different plans for Mandi town, but the CM always neglected them.Sharma said the decision to join BJP in the last assembly election was taken by his family and now people will decide the next course of action for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-mla-anil-sharma-refuses-to-campaign-for-saffron-party-in-civic-polls-101615896473182.html
16-03-2021||Other||Bihar mandates Covid-19 negative report for travellers from Maharashtra, Punjab||Bihar’s crisis management group (CMG) on Covid-19, in its emergency meeting on Tuesday, decided to undertake a critical evaluation of the upsurge in coronavirus infections to take a call on the continuance of teaching in schools. The CMG gave a nod to tougher norms for those coming to Bihar from states like Maharashtra and Punjab.After the meeting, principal secretary, education, Sanjay Kumar said that the department had asked for critical evaluation of the prevailing situation and feedbacks from various educational institutions to decide the fate of schools’ operations. Private and government schools have resumed regular classes to teach students with certain restrictions laid down to check the pandemic.Additional chief secretary, home, Chaitanya Prasad said that the CMG has asked for strict adherence to the earlier decision to ban festive gathering to celebrate Holi at public places. “Individuals are, however, allowed to celebrate the festivals at restricted levels,” said Prasad.Earlier on Monday, the CMG, headed by chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, decided that travellers from Maharashtra and Punjab were allowed to come to Bihar only on furnishing the Covid-19 negative reports from authorized pathological centres. “Those found not carrying the reports will have to undergo Covid-19 testing at airports and railway stations from Tuesday. Anyone testing positive for the disease will be sent to isolation centres,” said an officer present in the meeting.Soon after the meeting, the chief secretary wrote to all the district magistrates to reassess the condition of corona care centres in their respective areas and keep them ready with all the required resources. The CMG took stock of the state’s preparedness to deal with any eventuality in view of the second wave of Covid-19 cases in ten states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan.Officials said that the Covid-19 surge in the state was not alarming in Bihar yet. “With 26 new cases of Covid-19 infection detected on Monday, there are a total of 327 active cases in the state. On Sunday, 50 people were found to be positive for the disease and are being treated. The health department had conducted testing of more than 33,000 people across the state for Covid-19 on Monday,” said a senior officer of the health department.As per the government’s data, 13 out of 26 cases of people suffering from Covid-19 were detected in Patna. Two patients were found positive for the infection in Bhojpur and Munger, while one person each was detected positive in the districts like Aurangabad, East Champaran, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Gaya, Madhupura, Madhubani, Samastipur and Supaul during the testing on March 15.Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra on Tuesday raked up the burgeoning fear of the second wave of Covid-19 in Bihar in the legislative council through an adjournment motion. Mishra’s motion was rejected by working chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh. Health minister Mangal Pandey, however, stated that the health department machinery was geared up to meet any eventuality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-mandates-covid-19-negative-report-for-travellers-from-maharashtra-punjab-101615895873539.html
16-03-2021||Bhopal||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, night curfew in Bhopal, Indore from tomorrow||Night curfew will be imposed in Bhopal and Indore districts of Madhya Pradesh from Wednesday night, said an official of the home department on Tuesday. The decision was taken in a review meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Sigh Chouhan on Tuesday to contain the spread of Covid-19 as the positivity rate in the state has risen to 5.4%. As many as 797 positive cases were reported in the state on Monday, the highest in the past two-and-half months. Also Read | Covid-19 cases are on the rise in MP, Indore and Bhopal areas of concern: CMNight curfew has been imposed in Bhopal and Indore, the worst affected districts in MP. In eight other districts -- Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Chhindwara, Burhanpur, Betul, Khargone, and Jabalpur -- the markets will be closed by 10pm, said the official cited above. Indore and Bhopal recorded 259 and 199 positive cases respectively on Monday. The districts administration in Bhopal and Indore put a ban on all political rallies, social and religious congregations. Only 200 people will be allowed to attend weddings in these two districts. Thermal screening and seven-day home quarantine for travellers from Maharashtra will be continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-night-curfew-in-bhopal-indore-from-tomorrow-101615895152588.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Eight injured in IAF bus accident in Mumbai||Eight people were injured when an Indian Air Force (IAF) bus they were travelling on collided with a divider in Mumbai, police said. Sixteen occupants of the bus escaped unhurt. The eight others suffered minor injuries and bruises.Police said the driver lost control of the vehicle after its breaks failed as the bus was carrying families of IAF officers to Thane. Also Read | More than 21,000 killed in road accidents in Gujarat in last 3 yearsThe accident caused a jam for over two hours on the Ghatkopar-Vikhroli highway. “We are clearing the jam...,” said Kishor Shinde, senior inspector (traffic).Pravin Padwal, an additional police commissioner (traffic), said, “There are no major injuries reported. We are investigating the case and what exactly caused the accident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eight-injured-in-iaf-bus-accident-in-mumbai-101615892813325.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Will block Delhi-Noida border, warns Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday warned that farmers protesting against the three contentious central agricultural laws would block the border between Delhi and its satellite town of Noida in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.“Yes, we will block the Delhi-Noida border. The committee is yet to decide the date,” Tikait, the BKU spokesperson said, according to news agency ANI. Tikait and his supporters have been camping at the Delhi-UP Ghazipur border since the early days of the agitation.Yes we will block the border (Delhi-Noida border).The committee is yet to decide the date: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/zePJMQzx7fThe committee, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), is an umbrella body of more than 40 farmers’ unions, which is spearheading the protests against the three laws on the borders of Delhi since November 26 last year.Farmers belonging to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) vacated the Delhi-Noida Chilla border on January 27, after blocking it for 58 days, in the wake of violent clashes between a section of farmers and the Delhi Police in the national capital on Republic Day.A day later, as the police moved in to vacate the Ghazipur border, Tikait broke down. The video of his tears went viral, prompting farmers from nearby states to join the BKU leader at the protest site, thus swelling the numbers which had started to decrease in the wake of Jan. 26 violence. Since then, Tikait has emerged as the face of the movement, addressing 'mahapanchayats' (farmers’ meeting) in various cities across the country. Recently, he also went to poll-bound West Bengal and addressed a mahapanchayat in the assembly constituency of Nandigram, from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee will contest, and urged voters to not vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose government at the Centre passed the legislations last September.The BKU leader has also repeatedly warned that ‘lakhs of tractors will enter Delhi’ and gherao Parliament till a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) is given and the three laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-will-block-delhi-noida-border-warns-rakesh-tikait-101615891916518.html
16-03-2021||Patna||Inter-district dacoit gang busted in Bihar, 10 including kingpin arrested||After simultaneous raids in three districts, Kaimur police in Bihar arrested 10 criminals, including the kingpin, of an inter-district dacoit’s gang.Police also recovered firearms, ammunition, cash and a huge quantity of looted ornaments, utensils, mobile phones and household items from the criminals, said superintendent of police (SP), Rakesh Kumar on Tuesday.The gang had created havoc in the bordering region of Kaimur, Rohtas and Buxar districts through daring dacoity incidents and had become a challenge for the police.On March 11, the SP had formed a police team under district intelligence unit (DIU) in-charge Santosh Kumar Verma to bust the gang and arrest the criminals.After scientific investigation and electronic surveillance, the team on Monday night got the location of five criminals near Daharak village under Ramgarh police station. Police cordoned the area and arrested them with firearms and equipment.On the information provided by the arrested criminals, raids were carried in adjacent Rohtas and Buxar districts and other five members of the gang were arrested. They confessed their involvement in more than 15 cases of dacoity and loot across the three districts.The arrested criminals were identified as kingpin Ashok Musahar, gang members Mangaru Muasahar, Krishna Muasahar, Murari Muasahar Bhoda Muasahar and Bablu Musahar of Chitawan village, Umesh Musahar of Kaithi village in Rohtas district, Ajay Musahar and Dipak Muasahar of Khilafatpur village, Rinku Musahar of Katheja village in Buxar district, police said.Two pistols, a toy pistol, four live cartridges, ₹63,000 cash, 11 mobile phones, 19 pieces of looted gold and silver ornaments and a mini truck full of utensils, clothes and household items were recovered from them.The officers were stunned when the criminals said that burglary and dacoity was their traditional profession and they had no option but to repeat the same after coming out on bail, an officer said.Claiming it to be a big achievement, SP Kumar praised and awarded the members of the police team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/interdistrict-dacoit-gang-busted-in-bihar-10-including-kingpin-arrested-101615891913092.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||AAP to protest against Delhi NCT Bill tomorrow||The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will organise a protest on Wednesday against a Bill introduced by the Union government on Monday in Parliament that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G).“The AAP will organise the protest tomorrow [Wednesday] at 2 pm at Jantar Mantar over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Aam Aadmi Party MPs [members of Parliament], Cabinet ministers in Delhi, and party MLAs [members of legislative assembly] will be present,” said Delhi minister Gopal Rai. “The BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] has been left baffled by the recent loss in the municipal bye-polls to five wards and the AAP’s popularity across states. By bringing this Bill in Parliament, the BJP has made it clear that it wants to rule Delhi through back door by making the L-G more powerful.”Also Read | Kejriwal hits out at Centre over ‘unconstitutional, anti-democracy’ NCT BillRai called the Bill a conspiracy to make an administrative mess in Delhi again. “The BJP will act as an obstructionist in implementation of the policies in this year’s Delhi budget which focuses on patriotism and aims to further improve governance in Delhi.”AAP said in a press statement that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be attending Wednesday’s protest at Jantar Mantar.Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said, “It is difficult to understand why AAP government is protesting against the central government’s move. It is only aimed at strengthening checks and balances in Delhi’s governance. Also, Delhi is not the responsibility of Mr Arvind Kejriwal alone. The central government too has its own share of responsibilities. Whenever AAP government has failed in any aspect of governance – from combating air pollution to ensuring water supply across the city – Kejriwal and AAP leaders have often blamed the central government. With the intervention of the L-G, such blame game will reduce. Also, the crux of the 2018 Supreme Court judgment was to bring more clarity in Delhi’s governance and the central government is trying to ensure that with the new Bill. AAP leaders are deliberately misinterpreting it to mislead people.”Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Bill in the Lower House on Monday, where the government has a comfortable majority. The Bill says the “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly. It makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.“The said Bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” read a statement of objects and reasons, attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.Shortly after the Bill was introduced, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the BJP of seeking to drastically curtail the powers of the elected government.On July 4, 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that the L-G could not interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and must act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-to-protest-against-delhi-nct-bill-tomorrow-101615891853114.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi remains world's most polluted capital for 3rd straight year, says study||New Delhi has remained the world's most polluted capital for third straight year in 2020, according to a study done by IQAir, a Swiss group that measures air quality levels based on the concentration of lung-damaging airborne particles known as PM2.5.The study is based on India's annual average of particulate matter PM2.5, airborne particles with less than 2.5 microns in diameter.The air quality improvements across major cities in 2020 compared to 2019 include Beijing (-11%), Chicago (-13%), Delhi (-15%), London (-16%), Paris (-17%) and Seoul (-16%).“While many cities recorded temporary improvements in air quality due to lockdowns, the health impact of burning fossil fuels remained severe. Unfortunately, Delhi continued to be the most polluted capital city in the world in 2020. To see real, long-term improvements in air quality, governments must prioritize clean energy sources such as wind and solar and promote low cost, carbon neutral and accessible transport. Speeding up the transition to clean energy and clean transport not only saves lives, but also dramatically reduces healthcare-related costs,” said Avinash Chanchal, Climate Campaigner, Greenpeace India, according to IQAir.The study said that last year, Delhi's average annual concentration of PM2.5 in a cubic meter of air was 84.1, which was more than double the level of Beijing, which averaged 37.5 during the year.According to a recent study by Greenpeace Southeast Asia Analysis and IQAir, air pollution caused an estimated 54,000 premature deaths in Delhi in 2020.Last year, Delhi's residents, who breathed some of the cleanest air on record in summer months due to the coronavirus lockdown, battled toxic air in winter, following a sharp increase in farm fire incidents in the neighbouring states of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-remains-world-s-most-polluted-capital-for-3rd-straight-year-says-study-101615890181269.html
16-03-2021||Other||High court orders judicial probe into activist’s alleged custodial torture||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday ordered a judicial probe into the alleged custodial torture of labour activist Shiv Kumar. Additional district and sessions judge (Faridabad) will conduct the probe, said Kumar’s lawyer, Arshdeep Singh Cheema, and additional advocate general, Haryana, Deepak Sabharwal. A detailed high court order was awaited.Also Read | ‘Did not break any law’: Nodeep Kaur after HC grants bailKumar was booked along with Nodeep Kaur for allegedly causing hurt, criminal intimidation, rioting, attempt to murder, assault on a public servant, and attempt of snatching during a farmer protest against three agricultural laws passed in September. The two are out on bail.Kumar was picked up on January 16 and allegedly detained illegally for seven days before he was produced before a magistrate, said a plea of his father, Rajbir Singh, filed in the high court seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into his torture.The high court’s Tuesday order came on the basis of Kumar’s medical report, which said he suffered two fractures on his hand and foot. The report listed seven injuries out of which two were “grievous” caused by a “blunt object”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-orders-judicial-probe-into-activist-s-alleged-custodial-torture-101615891253112.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||9 Akali MLAs booked for trying to confront Haryana CM outside assembly||Nine Shiromani Akali Dal MLAs, including former Punjab ministers Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia, were on Tuesday booked for trying to confront Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha complex on March 10. The Punjab MLAs were demanding that the Haryana government should pass a resolution against the three agricultural laws passed by the BJP-led Centre. Acting on the complaint of a marshal of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha secretariat on March 13, Chandigarh Police registered the case against Dhillon, Majithia, Baldev Singh Khaira, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Narinder Kumar Sharma. “We have registered a case on the complaint against the SAD leaders,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. The case was registered in the Sector 3 police station under Sections 186 (whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341(wrongful restraint) and 511 (attempts to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code.According to the complaint, Khattar was giving a press briefing on the day’s session outside the assembly when the nine SAD MLAs, accompanied by six-seven people with black stripes protested and tried to confront him. The MLAs raised slogans such as “Khattar-Modi kisan virodhi”. The security staff of the Vidhan Sabha and Haryana Police intervened and prevented the situation from worsening. Haryana DGP sets up inquiry to fix accountability Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava has also constituted a team of police officials to fix responsibility for the attempt to attack chief minister ML Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha complex on March 10. The team, comprising inspector general, security, Haryana, Saurabh Singh, Chandigarh superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh and Punjab official GS Chauhan, will look into the sequence of events, fix responsibility and suggest measures to avert such unsavoury episodes in future. Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had registered strong objection with his Punjab counterpart Rana KP Singh after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9-akali-mlas-booked-for-heckling-haryana-cm-in-assembly-101615890172944.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Biker performing stunts on Noida road arrested: Police||The Noida Police has arrested a Delhi-based man who was allegedly performing stunts on his motorcycle on a city road in violation of rules, officials said.His arrest on Monday evening came within hours of a video surfacing on social media which purportedly showed him performing the dangerous stunts on Noida Sector 62 road, they said.“The local Sector 58 Police Station officials took cognizance of the video that had gone viral on social media and arrested Pushpendra Singh, a resident of Krishna Nagar in Delhi,” a police spokesperson said.“His KTM motorcycle on which he was performing the stunts has been impounded,” the spokesperson said.The video showed Singh throwing all cautions to the wind as he rode the motorcycle with a front pivot on the city road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/biker-performing-stunts-on-noida-road-arrested-police-101615889086762.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||AAP to hold protest at Jantar Mantar over NCT bill, says minister||The ruling Aam Aadmi Party will hold a protest on Wednesday against the bill, which gives overarching powers to Delhi’s lieutenant governor in day-to-day functioning, minister and AAP leader Gopal Rai said on Tuesday. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was tabled in the Lok Sabha on Monday, redefines ‘government' as the ‘lieutenant governor' (L-G) for Delhi in certain aspects. It could also effectively limit the powers of the Legislative assembly in relation to administrative functions. The local government will have to consult with the Centre-appointed L-G before taking any executive actions.“The AAP will hold a protest tomorrow at Jantar Mantar over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. All MLAs of the party and cabinet ministers will be present," Rai was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The bill was tabled in the Lower House of Parliament, where the Centre has a comfortable majority, by Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy. “The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” read a statement of objects and reasons, attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the bill on Twitter, stating that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was trying to curtail the powers of the elected government after being rejected by the people of Delhi in the city-state's assembly elections and the MCD by-polls. He also said that the bill was unconstitutional and anti-democratic.After being rejected by ppl of Del (8 seats in Assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected govt thro a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move“The Bill says - 1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean L-G Then what will elected govt do? … 2. All files will go to L-G. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to L-G, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to L-G,” he said in another tweet,” Kejriwal said in another tweet.The Bill says-1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean LGThen what will elected govt do?2. All files will go to LGThis is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG https://t.co/beY4SDOTYIThe move is set to bring back the power tussle between the AAP-led Delhi government and the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-to-hold-protest-at-jantar-mantar-over-nct-bill-says-minister-101615880578912.html
16-03-2021||Other||Amaravati land scam case: Chandrababu Naidu gets CID notice||The Andhra Pradesh police’s Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Tuesday issued a notice to former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu for questioning on March 23 in Vijayawada in connection with an alleged land scam in Amaravati, officials familiar with the matter said. Naidu faces arrest if he does not comply with the notice, they added. The officials said a CID team issued the notice to Naidu at his Hyderabad residence.The CID issued notices to senior TDP leader P Narayana also. Narayana was municipal administration minister in Naidu’s cabinet.This comes four days after the CID on Friday registered a First Information Report (FIR) against Naidu under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 120 B (conspiracy) 166 (public servant disobeying the law), 167 (public servant framing incorrect document), and 217 (public servant disobeying law with intent to save a person from punishment or property from forfeiture). He has also been booked under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act.The FIR was registered on ruling YSR Congress Party lawmaker Alla Ramakrishna Reddy’s complaint. According to the FIR, a copy of which HT has seen, farmers of Reddy’s Mangalagiri constituency in Amaravati told him that influential people in the previous Naidu-led Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government cheated them by taking away their land illegally. Farmers have alleged that some middlemen created insecurities stating the government might take away their assigned land without giving any compensation, it added.The FIR said Reddy verified the orders issued by the then government and found several irregularities in acquiring assigned land, thereby “causing irreparable loss” to the people belonging to Scheduled Castes (ST) and Scheduled Tribes (ST).A deputy police superintendent conducted a preliminary inquiry before the FIR was registered.Also Read | YSRCP sweeps Andhra local body electionsA special investigation team has been probing alleged irregularities in land pooling in Amaravati after Naidu proposed it as the capital of Andhra Pradesh l when the state lost Hyderabad with the creation of Telangana in 2014.TDP’s Andhra Pradesh unit chief K Atchannaidu dismissed the allegations as a political witch-hunt. He wondered how the CID could register the case against Naidu on the basis of a complaint by a ruling party lawmaker. “Ramakrishna Reddy is not an SC or ST. How can the CID file a case against Naidu under the SC/ST law?”Atchannaidu said the lands were acquired for the capital under a pooling scheme after taking the farmers’ consent. He added there have been instances in the past when the government has acquired land for public purposes. “The [YS] Jagan [Mohan Reddy] government, too, acquired assigned lands for the house sites distribution scheme and also for solar power companies. Even during the [chief minister] YS Rajasekhar Reddy regime, the [Andhra Pradesh] Assigned Lands ((Prohibition of Transfers) Act was amended for acquiring lands for public purposes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandrababu-naidu-gets-notice-in-amaravati-land-scam-case-101615881172868.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Negligent death of four infants: Bombay HC quashes doctor’s prosecution||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench has quashed the prosecution of a doctor charged with alleged negligence that led to the death of four infants at a hospital in Maharashtra’s Amravati, accepting his contention that he was neither present when the wrong injections were administered nor had he prescribed them.The infants died in May 2017 after the nursing staff on duty allegedly administered them wrong injections.Bhushan Katta, the doctor, moved the high court against his trial arguing he was a junior resident doctor in 2017 and was not even there at the NICU when the injections were administered.Also Read | Conclude investigations in Pansare, Dabholkar murders: Bombay HC asks CBI, copsA division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote noted the petitioner’s absence would at the most amount to dereliction of duty for which departmental action can be taken. It added there was no material on record to indicate that this case meets the requirement of negligence, as laid down by the Supreme Court.“The material in the charge-sheet is certainly not indicative of the petitioner having prima facie committed an offence... We are, thus, of the view that continuation of the proceedings against the petitioner would clearly be an abuse of the process of law, which would always be unsustainable in law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/negligent-death-of-four-infants-bombay-hc-quashes-doctor-s-prosecution-101615880212985.html
16-03-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: Why street vendors must not become a Covid-19 casualty||Around this time last year, for the first few days, or weeks, of lockdown it was great to have quiet streets. But soon, we were longing for the simple pleasure of a paani puri, some chahal pahal – the colour, sights, sounds and smells that street vendors bring to the cityscape. Hawkers and vendors are an age-old part of cities around the world. They are entrepreneurs and help make urban life richer in many ways. Street vendors provide fresh vegetables, food, and many essential goods and services in our neighbourhoods. You don’t need to go too far, and less travel means less road congestion and pollution. Some important services like cycle repair and mochi (cobbler) are provided mainly by these roadside workers. Street vendors are a “low carbon” supply-chain link – important in this era of climate change! Each individual display rack, cart, cycle or kiosk makes do with very little space, energy, or material resources – it is jugaad and innovation! Often, the same space is used by multiple vendors, exhibiting a resource efficient and adaptable design we should be proud of. For example, street space used by a fresh juice vendor for early morning walkers may be used later by a paani puri vendor for evening fun-seekers. Importantly, street vendors, like autorickshaw drivers help make our streets humane and safe. They are often “eyes on the street”, keeping streets active and reducing crime. They are “first responders” in the case of traffic accidents, coming to the aid of victims. Street vending is an important means of livelihood in cities. Kashinath Nakhate, state secretary, National Hawkers Federation, estimates there are at least 70,000 street vendors in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, though the pandemic has caused considerable changes to the sector. Some street vendors returned to their hometowns. Some people have taken to street vending when they could not continue their regular jobs or occupations. “Municipal authorities, public and philanthropic groups can do a lot to facilitate street vending and help individuals, families, and the city economy recover from the disruptions of the lockdowns,” says Avinash Madhale, programme coordinator, CEE, who recently held a dialogue with vendor groups on this topic. The central government recently introduced SvNidhi loans for street vendors. These can help, though vendors end up losing a few days of livelihood in getting the paper work together. Implementing the Street Vendors Act would help a lot. This Act was passed by the central government in 2014 with the aim of protecting and supporting the livelihoods of street vendors. As per this law, municipal authorities have to conduct regular surveys to enumerate street vendors, and with the help of street vendors’ associations hold elections to choose representatives to the Town Vending Committee (TVC). The TVC and city would then provide vending certificates, ensure serviced and designed vending spaces, especially in natural markets where vendors and customers congregate, charge a vending fee and prepare schemes for welfare and training of street vendors. Unfortunately, the Act has not been implemented in Maharashtra. Ironically, street vendors who are just trying to earn their living are often called “Illegal” or “a nuisance”, while state and city governments have fallen short of the law. Mecanzy Dabre, deputy general secretary, National Hawkers Federation, says, “Implementing the Act would help facilitate as well as regulate street vending. Proper vending zones and street designs would benefit the public. Vendors would not have to face harassment from authorities or pay bribes. Formalising vending fees would give the city a new revenue source for upkeep and regulation of street vending zones.” The TVC and city authorities should involve vendors and resident associations to determine vending zones. “Post pandemic, street design initiatives are even more essential as the importance of daily needs within walkable distance has re-emerged”, advises Prasanna Desai, Architect and Urban Designer. “Accommodating and locating hawkers spaces strategically is very critical. Absolute care is needed to design safe, functional vending spaces providing clear movement space and not forcing pedestrians to walk on the carriage way.”Corporate groups and NGOs could help in several ways: enabling apps and phone connectivity to reach customers; technology support such as cool boxes to keep vegetables and fruits fresh; solar, energy efficient devices for heating and charging needs; business incubation and easy loans to support entrepreneurship and innovation; training on hygiene, safety, and customer service. Considering the enormous contribution of workers like street vendors, construction workers, hamals, waste collectors, and domestic workers to the economy, cities should focus on the Ease of Doing Business in the Informal Sector. Anyone ready to get that score going?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-why-street-vendors-must-not-become-a-covid-19-casualty-101615878831957.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||National Vaccination Day : Youngsters in Delhi-NCR convince elderly to take the jab||After months of research and clinical trial, a Covid-19 vaccine is now available. However, the fear of getting a jab still looms large, given the number of misconceptions surrounding it. And here is where millennials have decided to step in and help alleviate the fear. Today, on National Vaccination Day, we talk to some youngsters in Delhi-NCR who’ve been giving pep talks to their parents and grandparents on why it’s vital to get vaccinated. “As youngsters, we have far greater access and ease in using technology than our parents. It is our duty to use that advantage and talk to them about getting vaccinated. I’ve been sitting with my umiji and talking about how vaccination is a safer way to build protection against a highly contagious and serious disease,” says Atifa Ahangar, a Gurugram resident who is part of the food and hospitality industry. She’s also been helping her parents understand how a vaccine is important to break the chain of being a Covid-19 carrier.Be it sharing online articles on the vaccine or scheduling appointments with healthcare professionals, youngsters are leaving no stone unturned. “It’s normal for our parents to hesitate in getting vaccinated, because the pandemic has taken a toll, mentally, on all of us, with so much uncertainty in the air. However, you just need to have a heart to heart discussion with your parents about how the vaccination is an important step to stop the pandemic and how it will help build immunity against the disease. If you research your options and make an informed, responsible choice, you will be doing a service to yourself and to those around you... I took my mother to our family doctor, so that she could clear all her doubts regarding the vaccination. A consultation with a healthcare professional helped her become more comfortable and confident, with regards to getting the vaccination,” says Sanjay Kataria, a Delhi University student. Youngsters have even made groups on various platforms to have conversations via text messages and video calls, about the vaccine. “I’ve made a WhatsApp group with my grandparents where we share all news and articles related to the vaccines and the pandemic. I think that has helped make each one of us aware about the various ways in which this pandemic is to be tackled. There are many times my grandmother video calls me to ask me about the new Covid-19 strains or the efficacy of different vaccines. We also talk about our fears and hesitation. I think an informed dialogue is always the way forward,” says Sangarika Tripathi, a Delhi-based IT professional who has scheduled an appointment to take her grandparents to get vaccinated. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/national-vaccination-day-youngsters-in-delhi-ncr-convince-elderly-to-take-the-jab-101615875845001.html
16-03-2021||Pune||Fire at Shivaji Market in Pune, 25 shops gutted||At least 25 shops were gutted in a major fire, which broke out in an old fruit and vegetable market in Pune early on Tuesday, PTI reported quoting fire brigade officials. There was no report of any casualty, officials said.The fire broke out around 4am in the Shivaji Market, a popular establishment in the Cantonment area in Pune, a fire official said. "After receiving a call about the fire, we sent nine water tankers there and the blaze was doused in half-an-hour," Pune Municipal Corporation's fire department chief Prashant Ranpise told PTI.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-at-shivaji-market-in-pune-25-shops-gutted-101615874348174.html
16-03-2021||Jaipur||Need to reconsider reservation's 50% limit: Rajasthan||There is a need to reconsider the 50% cap on reservation, said an official statement by the Rajasthan government after a meeting of the cabinet at chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s residence on Monday evening.Last week, the Supreme Court sought states’ opinion whether they were in favour of extending caste-based reservation beyond the 50 per cent ceiling set by it in a nine-judge bench ruling in 1992, famously known as the Indra Sawhney case.“In the meeting, the state cabinet discussed the approach sought by all the states during the hearing of the petition under consideration of a reservation limit of 50% by the Supreme Court and more than 50% reservation under specific circumstances only. The cabinet expressed its opinion that in the Indira Sawhney case of 1992, there is a need to reconsider the 50% limit decision for reservation,” read the statement.The statement added, “Also, after the 102nd Constitutional Amendment, the legislative power of the states has fallen. The cabinet approved the submission of this effect of the state government to the Supreme Court.”Over the years, several states such as Maharashtra Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Chhattisgarh have crossed the 50% reservation mark and are under challenge in the top court.The Indira Sawhney judgment had specifically said 50% shall be the rule and only in "extraordinary situation” can it be relaxed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/need-to-reconsider-reservation-s-50-limit-rajasthan-101615873587291.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Man beats wife with hot spatula over suspicion of affair, arrested: Police||A 30-year-old man in Mumbai was arrested for allegedly torturing his 23-year-old wife by branding her with a hot spatula after he suspected her of having an affair with a man in the neighbourhood, said police.The arrested accused has been identified as Ravishankar Chauhan, a resident of Hari Om Nagar, Powai. Chauhan is employed with a security service firm.Chauhan's wife Puja, a housewife, in her statement to police, has alleged that the man would often come home drunk and abuse her."On March 6 he came home and started arguing with me and raised suspicion on my character. He alleged that I was having an affair with Karan Rajbhar who lives in our neighbourhood. I objected to his false accusations at which point he got angry and went to the kitchen, put a steel spatula on the gas burner, and after it got super hot he used it to hit me," Puja stated in the FIR."The act lasted for over six hours. He branded me with a hot spatula on both my hands, back and also my left cheek," she added.Late in the night, Puja called up his brother who took her, and her three-year-old child to his home in Kalwa.After municipal councillor Vaishali Patil took up the matter with police, an FIR was registered on Friday. Acting on the woman's complaint the Powai police on Monday arrested Chauhan."He has been booked under sections 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506-2 (criminal intimidation), 323 (assault) and 504 (abuse) of Indian Penal Code. He would be produced in court on Tuesday," said an officer from Powai police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-beats-wife-with-hot-spatula-over-suspicion-of-affair-arrested-police-101615865075145.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic on Delhi borders continues to be affected||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed fully or partially for traffic movement on Tuesday as farmers continue their protest against the three farm laws. Vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad through Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was restored a little after Sunday midnight, as the police opened one of the six carriageways that had remained closed for the past 48 days, since violence broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. But the Ghazipur border as such continues to remain closed for motorists coming to Delhi from UP. In their advisory, Delhi Traffic Police have asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi -Noida Chilla border was also open for commute on both carriageways. Also Read | Rajnath Singh urges for dialogue between government, protesting farmersThe traffic police have advised motorists travelling to Delhi from Ghaziabad side to use EDM Mall Kaushambi, Anand Vihar, Kondli, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders as the alternate routes. They can also enter Delhi through Noida. The entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana – passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh – continued to remain closed. The traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-on-delhi-borders-continues-to-be-affected-101615864672204.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||'50 people for weddings, 20 for funerals': BMC revises Covid-19 restrictions||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday released a list of new guidelines curbing social, political and religious gatherings, and capped the limit of people allowed to attend weddings and funerals in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.Several parts of Maharashtra, witnessing a surge in cases, have gone under lockdown to control the disease spread. On Monday, Mumbai added over 1500 Covid-19 cases for the sixth day in a row, taking its tally to 3,43,947. Monday's addition of 1,712 cases was also the third day when the surge was over the 1700-mark, with 1,962 cases being reported on Sunday.Also read | Mumbai: Some domestic passengers use fake Covid-19 reports to flyUnder the new guidelines issued by the BMC, theatres - single screen and multiplex - and hotels will have to operate at 50% capacity. No social, political and religious gatherings will be allowed till further notice.New COVID Guidelines:Cinemas (single screen/multiplex) & hotels to operate at 50% capacityNo social/political/religious gatherings allowed50 people allowed for weddings & 20 for funeralsAll offices, except health & essential, to operate at 50% - work from home advisedThe cap on guests allowed for weddings has been fixed at 50 and at 20 for funerals by the civic body. All offices, except health care and essential services, will have to operate at 50% strength. BMC has also advised work from home.The restrictions are aimed at bringing the disease spread under check by enforcing graded safety protocols, a method that has prevented cluster infections for the country in the last year of the pandemic.Not only Mumbai, Pune and Thane but several cities and towns in Maharashtra, including those in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, have been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. Lockdown or restrictions have been imposed in several cities or districts in the state in a bid to prevent the spread of the virus.Also read: Mumbai civic body files FIR against Bollywood actor for flouting Covid rulesAccording to BMC, as many as 90 per cent of patients in Mumbai, who tested positive for Covid-19 in January and February this year, were residents of high-rise buildings, while the remaining 10 per cent were from slums and chawls. Of the 23,002 people, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the first two months of this year, 90 per cent were residents of buildings and 10 per cent others from slums and chawls, the civic body had said last week in a release.The number of coronavirus containment zones and sealed buildings in the city has increased by 170 per cent and 66.42 per cent, respectively, from the beginning of this month, BMC stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/50-people-for-weddings-20-for-funerals-bmc-revises-covid-19-restrictions-101615859348072.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||‘Will give toolkit suspects 7-day notice before arrest’: Police tells court||The Delhi Police on Monday told a city court that it would give seven days’ prior notice to Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk and climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhuri in case the police believe that their arrest is “unavoidable and imminent” in the toolkit case.Accepting the police submission, the three sought to withdraw their pleas seeking anticipatory bail and additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana, accordingly, disposed of the petitions. The trio, along with climate activist Disha Ravi, has been charged with sedition for creating and sharing a toolkit on social media related to the ongoing farmer’s protest against the three farm bills.While hearing arguments on anticipatory bail pleas of Jacob, Muluk and Chaudhuri, Rana also noted the police submission that technical evidence is being gathered and information has been sought from intermediaries such as Signal and Telegram “whose USP is to be reluctant in sharing the information”.The police told the court that information also has to be sought from Zoom and other social media platforms while also claiming that of the 70-80 participants in the Zoom meeting of the Poetic Justice Foundation held on January 11, allegedly attended by the accused, information has been obtained with respect to just two participants.Appearing for the police, additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court that the investigation is at an initial stage and technical analysis has to be done.The police said Muluk had deleted all images and whatever else was on there on his device and these can’t be retrieved.To this, Rana remarked, “What will you do in custodial interrogation then… You can’t do it to create fear. You have to show me how you would collect evidence during interrogation”.The defence counsels said they would withdraw anticipatory bail pleas provided police agreed to give them advance notice of seven days in case they intend to arrest their clients.Noting their submissions, the court disposed of the pleas by the trio. It directed the police to give seven days’ notice if it gathers enough evidence to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-give-toolkit-suspects-7-day-notice-before-arrest-police-tells-court-101615863863806.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||No end in sight for traffic nightmare at Ashram||The traffic nightmare at Ashram intersection is likely to continue well into May this year, with the Public Works Department (PWD) on Monday saying that diversions on the Mathura Road-Ring Road junction — put in place due to the construction of an underpass — is likely to stay in place for another 45 days at least.The PWD said that barricades from the Ashram junction, which has led to vehicles being diverted towards New Friends Colony on Mathura Road, will be removed only by May. The entire underpass project will be completed by end of June 2021.The delay comes as multiple agencies work out of sync and will mean people coming from Noida and East Delhi via this route – one of the arterial connections – have little option but to spend upwards of 40 minutes (or more during peak hours) till the diversions remain in place in one of the Capital’s busiest and most important intersections.A pile-up of vehicles waiting to turn right also eats into the space for those going straight to Lajpat Nagar. This route is often used by ambulances ferrying passengers to critical care facilities such as AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital.The Delhi traffic police, on the request of the PWD, had introduced a new diversion plan for the intersection from March 3, following which vehicles coming from Noida and Sarai Kale Khan now have to take a compulsory left turn on Mathura Road towards New Friends Colony traffic signal, located 600 metres away from the intersection, and then make a U-turn. Commuters can then take a left turn to go towards Lajpat Nagar on the Ring Road or go straight towards Nizamuddin or Bhogal. Earlier, vehicles could directly make a right turn towards Nizamuddin or go straight on the Ring Road at the Ashram intersection.Commuters complained that because of the main intersection being completely closed, travel time on the stretch has increased by at least 40 minutes.PWD officials, however, said the work on the intersection was “crucial and complex” and required restriction of traffic in order to meet the June deadline for completion of the 750-metre underpass connecting Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and the CSIR Apartments on Mathura Road. The project has already missed one deadline in December last year and is on course to miss its March deadline as well.“We will take at least one-and-a-half months more to finish construction work on the central portion of the underpass, which falls right at the junction on the Ring Road, below the flyover. The nature of work here is complex because there are a number of utilities, such as water pipelines, that need to be shifted, beside deep digging work being carried out. The traffic on this portion has been diverted towards New Friends Colony so that we get more space to finish this segment of work as soon as possible,” a PWD official said.Ashram, which is one of the busiest stretches in the Capital, sees over 350,000 vehicles passing every day during peak rush hours of morning and evening. The traffic situation, which was already chaotic before the new plan was introduced, has now got worse, especially for emergency vehicles moving from nearby hospitals. Currently, vehicular movement is blocked at the intersection, below the Ashram flyover, traffic police officers said.“Because of the ongoing construction work, the traffic movement in Ashram has been hugely impacted. Hence, it is important that work here be completed fast so that commuters get some respite and space can be cleared out before PWD begins work on the extension of the flyover on the Ring Road,” a senior Delhi traffic police official said.PWD officials justified the “complete blockade” as much needed to meet the June deadline. UTTIPEC — the apex body for approving infrastructure projects — had approved the underpass project in January 2016, which was to be completed by March 2018. The project finally got the nod of the expenditure finance committee of the Delhi government in 2018. On December 24, 2019, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal laid the foundation stone with a December 2020 deadline. This was extended to March 2021, and further till June.“Ashram crossing is now a perennial choke point. For the last five-six years, I have been seeing some sort of construction activity here. Passing through this stretch has now become a nightmare. I now have to spend at least 30-40 minutes extra to reach my home from Noida due to the new traffic plan,” Preeti Pandey, a resident of Bhogal, said.Subhash Chand, head of traffic engineering and safety division at the Central Road Research Institute, said traffic jams on the stretch is a result of poor site management by the construction agencies. “Even without closing the entire intersection, you can facilitate smooth traffic flow and also complete your work within the deadline. This can happen with efficient site management, which the PWD is ignoring. You are supposed to ensure that there are ample signage to warn commuters of the diversion. You also need to ease the traffic into the construction site, which is also not happening,” Chand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-end-in-sight-for-traffic-nightmare-at-ashram-101615862933714.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI worsens, remains in poor category today as well||Delhi’s air quality on Tuesday morning deteriorated marginally but remained in the poor category, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 229.The overall AQI of Delhi on Monday was 206, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that air quality is expected to remain in the in the same zone, with only minor fluctuations because of local factors, at least for the next three days. “There are no major changes in sight. After Thursday, we might see a slight improvement in the air quality owing to better ventilation and change in wind direction,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. Also Read | Centre moves to cut powers of Delhi govtAs per the CPCB, pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the five immediate neighbourhoods of Delhi.The air quality was moderate across Noida, Gurugram and Faridabad but poor in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Monday, a government agency data on air pollution in the national capital region said.The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Monday was 224 in Ghaziabad, 208 in Greater Noida, 182 in Noida, 173 in Faridabad and 187 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB’s Sameer app.On Sunday, it was 195 in Ghaziabad, 182 in Greater Noida, 174 in Noida, 180 in Faridabad and 195 in Gurugram. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-worsens-remains-in-poor-category-today-as-well-101615862812527.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||BJP backs move; a ‘black day’ for Delhi, says Cong||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday welcomed the Centre’s move to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act and give overarching powers to the city’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G), even as the Congress termed it as a “black day” for the city.The bill, introduced in Parliament on Monday, said “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly and made it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action, reviving a power tussle over the governance of the Capital between the Centre and the elected AAP government.The Congress, which governed Delhi for 15 years before being defeated by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2013, slammed the BJP for curtailing the powers of an elected government as well as the ruling party in the city for being a “mute spectator” despite the knowledge that the Union Cabinet had, in February, approved a proposal to amend the Act.Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said, “It is black day and a black decision, as it curtails the power of a democratically elected government. This will destroy Delhi’s democratic powers. But the ruling AAP party and a weak CM are equally responsible. The decision was approved by the Cabinet in February. Why didn’t Kejriwal, who is known for sitting on dharnas, protest against it? Why didn’t his ministers or MPs voice their dissatisfaction? All Kejriwal did was tweet.”BJP leaders, however, welcomed the Centre’s decision, and the party’s Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta said most administrative powers in the Capital will continue to rest with the state government.“Even after the amendment Bill, 75% of administrative work and power will rest with Delhi’s government. It will be better that the Arvind Kejriwal government concentrate on good governance and developing Delhi, instead of starting a new power struggle.”Meanwhile, accusing the AAP of misgovernance, BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the Opposition in the Delhi assembly, called the L-G the “ultimate” authority in Delhi.“Public money is being wasted, due to which Delhi is in a mess. No new development work has been initiated by this government. As Delhi continues to be a Union Territory, the L-G has the ultimate power. The Centre has only defined the powers more clearly. As for their charge of losing elections, the BJP won all seats in Delhi for a second term in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Centre has the people’s support,” he said.Former Congress MLA Anil Bhardwaj said, “If the Bill is passed, it will be a black day for Delhi, the murder of democracy, and a clear violation of the basic tenets of the Constitution.”The BJP hit back and said the Congress, when in power in the state and Centre, failed to give Delhi full statehood.Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said, “The Congress should answer why their government didn’t give full statehood to Delhi. Their government was in power [in the Centre] when the GNCTD Act was passed in 1991. The state government was not given all the powers. When the BJP came to power [in Delhi] in 1993, the ultimate authority was the L-G. In fact, at that time, important departments like Delhi Jal Board, DTC, DESU and others were not with the Delhi government. There was cordial coordination between the Centre and the-then CMs (Madan Lal Khurana and Sahib Singh Verma, both of the BJP), who brought these departments under the Delhi government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjpbacks-move-a-black-day-for-delhi-says-cong-101615862170393.html
16-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt issues rules for 15-year-old vehicles||The Madhya Pradesh government has issued a notification regarding old government and private vehicles, according to which vehicles that are over 15 years old will not be registered in the state. This is in tandem with the Centre’s scrappage policy introduced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman according to which cars that are older than 15 years would be required to undergo mandatory emission tests.In its notification, the Madhya Pradesh government has also said that cars older than 15 years will need a ‘fitness certificate’. This will be applicable for both government as well as private vehicles and the policy is expected to be implemented from April.Apart from this, fitness certificates have now been made compulsory for new private vehicles of the state. It is believed that this rule will be implemented from April, along with the Centre's scrappage policy. The state government will also impose a green tax on older vehicles and has sent its report for the same to the Union ministry of transport and highways.Owners of vehicles who choose to scrap vehicles older than 15 years will also be given benefits by the state government—a maximum of 10 per cent discount on purchasing a new car and 1 per cent will be recovered from them in form of green tax. The state government will implement the rules after the Centre’s approval.According to the Centre’s scrappage policy, cars that have aged more than eight years will have to undergo a ‘fitness test’ and if they fail the test, owners will not be allowed to drive them anymore. On the other hand, if the cars pass the test, a green tax would be charged on them to renew the fitness certificate. The fitness certificate will be valid for five years. In addition to this, car owners will be asked to scrap vehicles that are older than 15 years and purchase new ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-issues-rules-for-15-year-old-vehicles-101615861316308.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze case won't be over till Mansukh Hiren's killer is revealed: Fadnavis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday stated that Sachin Vaze's case will not be over until Mansukh Hiren's killer is revealed.Speaking to media persons here, Fadnavis said, "Let me tell you that Sachin Waze's case is not over yet. It won't be until Mansukh Hiren's killer is revealed."Fadnavis had earlier accused the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra for protecting Vaze.Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on March 13 for his alleged role and involvement in the Antilla bomb scare case.Waze, who was leading the investigation of Mansukh Hiren's death in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), was arrested days after being transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre at the Mumbai Police Headquarters.He was summoned to the NIA office on Saturday to record his statement, in connection with the recovery of explosives from a car parked near Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai.Later, he was arrested under section 286, 465, 473, 506(2), 120 B of the Indian Penal Code, and 4(a)(b)(I) of the Explosive Substances Act 1908.A car carrying unassembled explosive materials was found abandoned at Carmichael Road in South Mumbai on February 25, near the house of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-case-won-t-be-over-till-mansukh-hiren-s-killer-is-revealed-fadnavis-101615857361526.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze suspended again, CCTV grab under probe||Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was suspended by Mumbai police on Monday following his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with its probe into the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month, even as his brother Sudharm Vaze filed a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay high court against the arrest, claiming that Vaze was being made a “scapegoat” by “certain political powers”.Vaze, 49, remained the centre of political debate as leaders from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said his arrest would allow further investigation into ruling Shiv Sena leaders. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met on Monday afternoon to deliberate on damage-control measures. According to leaders of the ruling coalition, Pawar and Thackeray discussed a strategy to find a way out of the crisis. Thackeray also met Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole.Vaze, a former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch, was initially the lead investigator after a Scorpio car carrying 20 loose gelatin sticks (unassembled, with no detonator or timer) was found near Antilia on Carmichael Road on February 25, but the case was transferred to the NIA on March 8.Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner S Chaitanya said: “API Sachin Vaze has been placed under suspension by an order of the additional commissioner of police, special branch.”The NIA collected CCTV footage from the Mumbai police control room as well as from several sites in Mumbai and Thane. After a CCTV grab showed a person walking near Ambani’s residence, the NIA is investigating whether that person was Vaze. Two NIA officers also visited Vaze’s house in Saket, Thane on Monday afternoon, to question his family.Sudharm’s petition stated that Vaze cooperated with the NIA gave them all the corroborative pieces of evidence and yet, after several hours of interrogation, he was arrested without being served a copy of the FIR or being informed of the nature of allegations against him.This is the second time that Vaze has faced suspension. In 2004, he was suspended after being arrested for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, an accused in a 2002 bomb blast that took place in Ghatkopar. Vaze eventually left the force in 2007. He was reinstated in 2020 after the suspension order was revoked. His reinstatement has been challenged by Yunus’s mother in the Bombay high court.Vaze is also under the scanner for the mysterious death of 48-year-old Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the Scorpio found outside Ambani’s residence. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5.Vaze was transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre last week, after leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis sought his arrest following the statement of Hiran’s wife Vimla that she suspected Vaze had a hand in the death. Since then, Vaze has also become the subject of a political slugfest between the coalition partners of the MVA government and the opposition BJP.“Sachin Vaze has been suspended once again. But why, how, on what basis and who reappointed him on June 6, 2020? It should be investigated. Persons responsible must be punished,” BJP leader Kirit Somaiya tweeted on Monday.BJP legislator Nitesh Rane on Monday alleged that Yuva Sena leader Varun Sardesai was linked to Vaze in the latter’s alleged extortion racket from bookies during the previous Indian Premier League. Rane demanded that the NIA seek the call detail records of Vaze and Sardesai. Sardesai refuted these claims and said, “The allegations that the BJP legislator made today are baseless and therefore I am going to file a criminal defamation against legislator Nitesh Rane. He should either apologise in 7 days for false allegations or face legal action and prove them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-suspended-again-cctv-grab-under-probe-101615855894179.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Centre moves to cut powers of Delhi govt||The Union government on Monday introduced in Parliament a controversial bill giving overarching powers over the city’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor, prompting fierce protests from the Delhi government and reviving an old power tussle for control of the Capital.Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lower House, where the government has a comfortable majority. The bill said “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly and made it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.“The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” read a statement of objects and reasons, attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.Shortly after the bill was introduced, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of seeking to ically curtail the powers of an elected city government.“After being rejected by people of Delhi (8 seats in assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected government through a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move,” he said.On July 4, 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that the L-G couldn’t interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and must act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia called the bill unconstitutional and undemocratic. “After this bill is implemented, the elected government of Delhi will mean nothing. This is a dangerous amendment,” he told a press conference.Delhi holds a unique position in India’s administrative framework. As a Union territory, it is governed by the 1991 Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act that provides for both an elected assembly and an L-G appointed by the Union home ministry. But unlike full states, many important departments such as land, police and personnel appointments don’t come under the purview of the city government and report directly to the L-G. Political conflict for administrative control of the prestigious national capital is decades old but came to a head in 2015, when the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) swept to power and repeatedly clashed with the BJP over transfer and appointment of top bureaucrats. The former also accused the latter of trying to rule the city by proxy.In July 2018, the top court ruled the L-G was bound to listen to the city’s elected government and couldn’t act independently, prompting the AAP government to claim victory. All decisions by Delhi’s council of ministers must be communicated to the L-G but his concurrence was not required, the five-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra ruled.The amendment introduced on Monday decisively tilts the balance of power in favour of the L-G. It bars the Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made till this act comes into effect will be void, according to the bill. It further says that the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating, its procedure and the conduct of its business which are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Parliament. According to the Centre, the amendments seek to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court.“The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the legislative assembly and a council of ministers for the National Capital Territory of Delhi and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Section 44 of the act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism provided in the act for effective time bound implementation of said section. Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to Lieutenant Governor before issuing order thereon,” the statement of objects and reasons stated.“It further seeks to ensure that the Lieutenant Governor is necessarily granted an opportunity to exercise the power entrusted to him under proviso to clause (4) of article 239AA of the Constitution, in select category of cases and also to make rules in matters which incidentally encroach upon matters falling outside the preview of the legislative assembly,” the statement added.The AAP government opposed these provisions. “The Bill says- 1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean LG Then what will elected govt do? … 2. All files will go to LG. This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG,” Kejriwal said in another tweet. Sisodia said the BJP was trying to dilute elections and electoral mandate by using unconstitutional means to pass undemocratic laws. “This Bill will stall Delhi’s progress by giving undue powers to the L-G. All the decisions taken by the Delhi Government, for the growth of the city, have seen an intrusion by the L-G. Files regarding the progress of Mohalla Clinics, CCTV installations, free electricity, water and schools have collected dust in the L-G’s office, owing to lack of support from his office,” he said.The BJP rejected the charges and welcomed the amendment. “Public money is being wasted due to which Delhi is in a state of mess. No new development works have been initiated by this government. As Delhi continues to be a Union Territory, the L-G has the ultimate power. The Centre has only defined the powers more clearly,” said BJP and leader of Opposition in the Delhi assembly RS Bidhuri.Lawyer Gautam Bhatia argued that the amendment violated the Supreme Court’s 2018 judgment. “Most of the provisions are specifically designed to nix the ongoing enquiry by the Delhi assembly into the 2020 riots...look at the proposed amendment to Section 33, which specifically bars the Delhi assembly from constituting committees to enquire into ‘the day-to-day affairs of the administration’, and makes it applicable with retrospective effect,” he said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-moves-to-cut-powers-of-delhi-govt-101615853974371.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A terrace under the semal||There are many beautiful terraces in Delhi, but this one might be the most beautiful of all—at least at this time of the year. When semal trees are still in bloom, and that their red flowers set alight every surface they fall upon.Kiran Bhushi’s second floor apartment lies right under the branches of a gigantic semal, in south Delhi’s Khel Gaon. And this evening the terrace is covered with semal’s pulpy flowers, dropping one after another.“The other day one fell on my friend’s wrist, and she said it hurts,” mutters Ms Bhushi. Wearing a peach-coloured tussar silk sari, she has just returned from work. A sociology professor, she reigns alone in this house. Almost alone, one must say. For her apartment is unofficially shared by Maharani, a neighbourhood cat who often chooses to lounge for long hours in Ms Bhushi’s apartment. Right now the cat is helping herself to her meal bowl in the terrace corner. It is impossible to read Maharani’s mind, but her behaviour suggests that she doesn’t care much for all the semals scattered about her.Mr Bhushi remarks that Rajrani, her part-time housekeeper, isn’t exactly fond of semal either. Her reasons are more practical, since she is in charge of cleaning the terrace. Besides, the flowers are slippery and you can fall and break a bone, warns Ms Bhushi. And the tree sheds a tad too many leaves.The professor now sits down on one of the three iron chairs arranged around an iron table—all littered with the fallen semals. Maharani too settles nearby. The chairs are green, and remarkably similar to the green metallic chairs of the famous Luxembourg Gardens in Paris, which are actually so iconic that their exact replicas are sold on Amazon. Ms Bhushi has indeed extensively travelled in France, but the fact that her chairs are similar to those of a Paris garden is completely unintentional. “I picked them from a footpath stall in Saket, and painted them pea-green during the lockdown.”As the semals continue to fall about her, one naturally wonders if the terrace will still be beautiful once their season ends.It will then have beauty of another kind, Ms Bhushi says. The terrace will have more colours—the yellow of the sunflowers, the saffron shade of nasturtiums, the pink of the bougainvillaeas and the white of petunias. “Most white flowers come in summer, and bloom at night, and then my terrace will be full of perfumes. I will sit down here in the darkness and watch moths sitting on these flowers… Jasmines will be blooming soon, too. Champas will also come.”And these semals will then not be missed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-terrace-under-the-semal-101615853318556.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Ariz Khan given death in Batla encounter case||A Delhi court on Monday handed the death penalty to alleged Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorist Ariz Khan, accused of killing police officer Mohan Chand Sharma during the Batla House encounter of 2008, and said that his “despicable act has forfeited his right to live”.Additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav concluded “it is a rarest of the rare case where convict deserves maximum sentence provided under the law”.The court said that nature of offence and manner of committing the crime aroused extreme indignation to society. It stressed that the offence was not an ordinary act but a crime against the State, and that Khan, while committing the offence, acted like a dreaded and well-trained terrorist who did not deserve any leniency.“[The] convict on account of his despicable act has forfeited his right to live. After balancing mitigating circumstances against aggravating circumstances, it is concluded that it a rarest of the rare case where convict deserves maximum sentence provided under the law,” the court said in its order“It is the level of magnitude, decree of brutality, attitude and mindset of wrong doer behind the crime along with other factors which makes it a rarest of the rare case. Protection of society and deterring criminal is a vowed object of law and this is required to be achieved by imprisonment of appropriate sentence. The most appropriate sentence for convict like Ariz Khan @ Junaid @ Anna @ Salim will be death penalty.…,” it added.It imposed a fine of ₹11 lakh on Khan, while directing that ₹10 lakh be immediately released to the family of Special Cell officer Sharma, a celebrated officer who succumbed to injuries following the shoot-out on September 19, 2008. It also asked the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to look at granting more compensation to the family.The encounter took place days after serial blasts ripped through the Capital and killed at least 30 people. Acting on anti-terror igence, police stormed into a house in Batla House locality in Jamia Nagar looking for the alleged perpetrators. A bloody gunbattle followed in which two of Sharma’s colleagues were injured and two terrorists killed.But the encounter quickly became politicised with activists and some politicians alleging that the people killed were not terrorists but university students. Police also detained several residents, fuelling local discontent. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said he believed the encounter was fake and in 2012, party leader Salman Khurshid said Congress chief Sonia Gandhi cried after she saw images of the encounter. Teachers and students of Jamia Millia Islamia organised protests and approached the Delhi high court, demanding a judicial probe. The National Human Rights Commission(NHRC) later conducted an inquiry on the direction of the Delhi high court and cleared Delhi Police.The court said that Khan indulged in the “abhorrent and brutal act” of firing on a police party without any provocation, and this showed he was “not only a threat to society but is also an enemy of the State”. It noted that Khan was also involved in blast cases in Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Uttar Pradesh in which hundreds of innocent people were killed and injured, and that this demonstrated he “continues to be a threat to the society and the nation”.On March 8, the court convicted Khan, 35, saying that he and his associates “intentionally” and “knowingly” committed murder of inspector Sharma. It held Khan guilty of murder, attempt to murder, obstructing public servant on duty, causing grievous hurt and non-appearance despite being declared as a proclaimed offender (PO). Khan was pronounced a PO in 2009 and arrested by the police in 2018 after being on the run for nearly a decade.The Batla House shoot-out took place days after five serial blasts in Delhi on September 13, 2008. Inspector Sharma of Special Cell got a tip-off about terrorists involved in the blasts hiding at flat No. 108, L-18, Batla House, Jamia Nagar. When Sharma with his raiding team reached the spot, a shoot-out broke out between the police and the alleged terrorists. Two of them — Mohammad Atif Ameen and Mohammad Sajid — were killed during the encounter, while Sharma was shot on his shoulder and abdomen. He succumbed to his injuries on February 19, 2008. Two of the terror suspects, Ariz Khan and Shahzad Ahmadm, managed to flee the spot . Ahmad was arrested on Jan 1, 2010, and handed a life sentenced in July 2013, Khan was arrested on February 14, 2018.Maya Sharma, wife of MC Sharma, said she wanted to thank the judiciary. “We have got a huge relief after 13 years. Finally, justice has been delivered after our 13 year-long struggle. The court has done justice to us. Until now, we were in a position of wait and watch,” she told PTI.The judge said that there was no evidence on record that Khan during investigation or trial showed any signs of reformation or repentance. “The convict eluded investigating agencies for almost ten years despite coercive process against him...There is no evidence on record that convict during investigation or trial showed any signs of...repentance,” the court said.Advocate MS Khan, Khan’s counsel, said that he would appeal against the judgment in a higher court. He said that it still remains a mystery as to whose bullet hit Sharma, and it is more surprising that on this basis, the court awarded the death sentence. He also contended that the judgment was based on assumptions.The BJP welcomed the verdict. “The people of the country today expect an apology from leaders of Congress and Aam Aadmi Party who all along called Batla House encounter a fake encounter, insulting the martyrdom of policemen killed in the encounter,” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said in a statement.Asked for his reaction on the verdict, Congress’s Digvijaya Singh said, “What do I say on that? Judiciary did its work.”Retired IPS officer, Karnal Singh, who was the JCP, special cell, Delhi Police at the time of the encounter, said the vedict “vindicates the stand of the special cell”. “(This) shows that the crime branch did an excellent job. The special cell also did an outstanding job in investigating the serial blast case and apprehending the IM terrorists. Of course, during the process, we lost our best inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who had done many operations against the terrorists. It was a great loss to the Delhi Police.” On questions raised on the shootout, he said, “It’s unfortunate that we do not have a national consensus on terrorism. People start speaking against the police officers without even verifying the facts...That was unfortunate.”Welcoming the verdict, former IPS officer Prakash Singh said, “I think it’s a matter of satisfaction because there was so much of controversy for political reasons. The lesson...is that people should not jump to conclusions and suspect the police version...It’s a good ending and a right message should go to the people who think that they can fire at policemen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ariz-khan-given-death-in-batla-encounter-case-101615843845460.html
16-03-2021||Other||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrests gangster Ravi Pujari for extorting property consultant||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Monday arrested gangster Ravi Pujari in an extortion case on the basis of a complaint by a property consultant. The case was first registered with Kandivli police station and then transferred to the crime branch. The trial in the case is pending before the special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) court for trial. Pujari’s gang members are already facing trial in the case. As per the prosecution, a Kandivli-based property consultant had approached the police, claiming that he had received threat calls from Pujari for taking up a redevelopment project of a housing society in Dindoshi. The crime branch sought Pujari’s custody for 20 days. Pujari’s lawyer DS Manerkar objected to the plea, claiming that his client cannot be remanded for these many days. The defence also pleaded that the police had already questioned Pujari since February 22 and hence, the officers had enough time to question him. After hearing the arguments, the special court remanded Pujari to police custody till Saturday. Pujari is already under arrest in connection with a 2016 firing case outside Gajalee Hotel in Vile Parle. On Monday, the special Mcoca court remanded him in judicial custody in the firing case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-s-crime-branch-arrests-gangster-ravi-pujari-for-extorting-property-consultant-101615837911449.html
16-03-2021||Other||Bombay HC rejects 13-year-old rape survivor’s plea to terminate advanced pregnancy||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to permit the termination of a 13-year-old rape survivor’s advanced pregnancy after the medical board of Sir JJ Hospital in its report informed that the girl’s life was at equal risk irrespective of terminating the pregnancy or continuing it to term, and hence, the latter was a better option. A division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition of the minor’s father, was informed by his advocate Ashley Cusher that the girl weighed only 38 kilogrammes and was physically incapable of delivering the baby. Cusher further submitted that as the teen would be mentally and physically traumatised if the pregnancy was not terminated, the father’s plea be allowed under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. Based on the father’s plea, the court had asked the JJ hospital medical to examine the child. On Monday, government pleader Poornima Kantharia placed the report of the medical board before the court. The report, based on the opinion of four doctors, was unanimous in its conclusion that allowing the pregnancy to term or terminating it at an advanced stage of 32.4 weeks, had similar risks for the minor. The report stated that as terminating the pregnancy at this stage would require the mother and child to be kept in intensive care till they were fit for discharge, it would be better to continue the pregnancy to term. After perusing the report, the court held that it would go by the observation of the experts, and hence, did not permit the termination of the pregnancy. The bench also said it would like to know about the progress of the pregnancy and the condition of the minor after two weeks. Cusher then requested the court to make a note that in the event of the survivor or her child suffering any fatal consequences at the time of delivery, the DNA sample of the baby be preserved to ensure that the perpetrator of the heinous act could be nailed conclusively. The court, however, said that it would decide on the request in the next hearing after two weeks. The Govandi girl was raped by the family’s acquaintance, who had helped treat the ailment of her sibling. The man, taking advantage of the fact that the girl was alone in her house, raped her on two occasions seven-eight months ago. Though the minor had developed a bump, her mother had brushed it aside thinking it was flatulence. However, late in February, an elder from the locality advised her parents to take her to the hospital, following which the pregnancy came to light. Thereafter, a case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) was registered by Deonar police against the accused and he was arrested. The girl was handed over to the child welfare committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-rejects-13-year-old-rape-survivor-s-plea-to-terminate-advanced-pregnancy-101615837672766.html
16-03-2021||Other||Court orders ₹15 lakh relief to Amritsar man acquitted of terror charges 20 years ago||Amritsar A local court has ordered Amritsar deputy commissioner (DC), Gurpreet Singh Khaira, to release ₹14.85 lakh compensation to Sarabjit Singh Verka, member of Punjab Human Rights Organisation. Punjab Police had framed Verka in two ‘fake’ terror cases — one in 1992 and the another in 1998. He was acquitted in both cases in 2000 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, Verka had approached an Amritsar court seeking compensation for his ‘harassment’ and ‘torture in police custody’.The court of additional civil judge, senior division (ACJSD), Amritsar, in 2013, had “decreed” to the state government to pay ₹10 lakh compensation into the plaintiff’s account in three months. The compensation, however, was not released. Later, the court had attached the cars of the Punjab director general of police (DGP) and DC Amritsar to force the authorities to pay the compensation to Verka. The compensation amount was also enhanced by 6% annual interest to ₹14.85 lakh. On March 1, the court had ordered Amritsar district treasury officer (TO) Manjit Kaur to pay the compensation amount from the DC’s account. The court had also directed the TO to appear in person on March 15 in court, in case she fails to release the amount to the plaintiff. On Monday, the TO recorded her statement before the court putting the onus on the deputy commissioner, and said the amount can’t be released until a treasury bill in this regard is not signed by the DC. ACJSD Baljinder Singh then directed the DC to issue the treasury bill forthwith. Verka’s counsel Lalit Joshi had appeared in the court. Deputy commissioner Khaira said he had not received any such order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-orders-rs-15-lakh-relief-to-amritsar-man-acquitted-of-terror-charges-20-years-ago-101615837671419.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||As cases spike, Punjab govt postpones Class 10, 12 board exams||In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the state education department on Monday decided to postpone the class 10 and 12 board examinations. The exams were supposed to begin on April 9 and March 22, respectively. “Now the class 10 board exams will be held from May 4 and board exams of class 12 will begin on May 24,” said controller examinations, Punjab School Education Board, Janak Raj Mehrok. The exams of class 5 will begin on March 16, while class 8 from March 22, which is as per schedule, he said. Punjab is one of the five states that continues to report a surge in the COVID daily new cases, said the Union health ministry. The timings for class 10 examinations will be from 10 am to 1.15 pm. Class 12 examinations will be conducted from 2pm t0 5.15 pm. These examinations would be conducted at the examination centres set up by the board. The centres would be announced at the time of issuance of roll numbers.For detailed information regarding the datesheet, students can visit the board website pseb.ac.in .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-cases-spike-punjab-govt-postpones-class-10-12-board-exams-101615837496602.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Around 4 lakh people already inoculated in J&K: DG family welfare||Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed around 1.24 lakh coronavirus cases and 1,974 deaths since the first case was detected in March. However, the vaccination drive in the Union territory is on track. Around 77% frontline workers have received vaccine jabs and 20 more centres have been setup across the UT. J&K’s director general family welfare, MCH and immunisation Dr Saleem-ur-Rehman speaks to HT’s Mir Ehsan about the UT’s progress. Excerpts:How many people have been vaccinated in J&K so far? Till March 14, a total 3,63,450 people have received their first dose of vaccination, of which 1,00,591 are healthcare workers. Around 76,964 healthcare workers have received the first dose (77%) and 28,732 have also received the second dose (29%) . Of 2,76,559 frontline workers, 1,98,655 received the first doze (72%) and 22,060 the second dose (8%). Among those aged above 60, as many as 81,064 have received the jab (7%). How is people’s response? Are people reluctant?So far, we have received a good response from people and in the coming days we will step up the drive. We initially started with 5,000 jabs and on Saturday (March 13) we inoculated 43,000 people. The percentage of second doses administered is also increasing. People can either get their second dose after six, eight or 12 weeks. Most people delay the second dose to bolster their immunity. At present, we are receiving an overwhelming response with many people enquiring about the address of vaccination centres. How many centres have been established in J&K for vaccination?We started with 250 vaccination sites that have been increased to 350. At present, we are running 772 sites across the UT. We increased the number of vaccination sites after we started administering the jabs to those above the age of 60. We do not want our senior citizens to face any problem while locating these centres. We have even established centres at far off places in different regions.Notably our wastage is far less than the national average. We have set up two control rooms in Jammu and Srinagar, apart from adverse effects post immunisation control rooms at every place. We have not seen any major adverse affect in J&K due to immunisation.Are people reluctant to get vaccinated?Whenever any new vaccination drive is started anywhere, initially people are always apprehensive. Here also people were afraid but once we launched this program, senior J&K health officers and heads of medical institutions were first to get vaccination. We also launched a social media campaign. Around 4 lakh people have been vaccinated and not a single case of death has been reported. Is there a dearth of vaccines?In the coming days or weeks we will require more vaccines. The government has promised us an adequate stock as the number of people showing up to get vaccinated is increasing by the day. We are prepared to meet any target. We have an adequate supply of vaccines in all districts. The Centre has asked us not to stock any vaccine as an adequate supply will be sent to us.Will increased vaccination bring down the Covid count? Yes, it will help bring down the numbers. In J&K, the disease is well under control but people and officials will have to be vigilant, especially about travellers. We should devise a mechanism that will help us prevent the entry of new strains of virus in the UT. So far, our health system and administration has remained successful in bringing down the numbers from what they were around three to four months ago. Are Covid cases rising in J&K?At present, we do not have any evidence that suggests that cases are rising in the UT. Even hospitals meant for Covid patients have vacant spaces. We are closely monitoring the data and testing travellers to ensure the new strains do not enter our UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/around-4-lakh-people-already-inoculated-in-j-k-dg-family-welfare-101615837374139.html
16-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana Improvement Trust takes possession of school land amid staff resistance||High drama was witnessed at Kitchlu Nagar on Monday as the Ludhiana Improvement Trust took possession of 6,100 yards allotted to Holy Christ School, citing irregularities.The officials stated that the school’s allotment was cancelled as the government had found a number of discrepancies in its functioning, including its failure to pay around ₹80 lakh as dues and the use of a major portion of the site into a residential area. The school’s authorities, however, claimed that the possession was cancelled due to some vested interests. On Monday when the LIT officials reached the spot to take possession of the land, the school’s management and teachers tried to lock themselves up inside the rooms to stop the staff from sealing the campus. A police team from PAU police station, led by station house officer Jaskanwal Singh Sekhon, had to use force to pull the staff members out of the premises before sealing the property. The LIT has given the management 10 days to clear the residential portion of the site to avoid further action.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said, “We had received a complaint earlier about the misuse of the land allotted for running the school. During inspection last year, it was found that the school was not being run at the allotted site. Further, we found that the management had also failed to clear the dues following which the matter was taken up with the government through a resolution approved by the LIT. The government then cancelled the allotment in view of the discrepancies.” Meanwhile, the school management claimed that over 200 students study in the school and by sealing the campus, the LIT was pushing their future into the dark. Allottee Narinder Kumar and principal Rohan Sharma said they had all necessary documents but the LIT had been stopping them from paying the dues. They added that the building plan was also approved by the LIT. Sharma said, “The action was taken due to some vested interests even when a case regarding the same is sub-judice in the court. Over 200 students study in the school and after this action, their future is in the dark.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-improvement-trust-takes-possession-of-school-land-amid-staff-resistance-101615837372962.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains Sangrur admn from electing Lehragaga MC president||The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Sangrur district administration from convening a meeting for the election to the office of president, municipal council, Lehragaga.The high court bench of justice Jaswant Singh and justice Sant Parkash acted on the plea of Surinder Singh and Surinder Kaur, two independent candidates for MC polls, and sought response by March 17. They claimed in the court that they had defeated Congress candidates from their respective wards and results too were announced, but subsequently, the certificates of winners were not handed over to them and after allegedly fudging the poll records, Congress candidates were declared as winners.They have blamed then ex officio returning officer and SDM Jivan Jot Kaur for alleged fabrication of records. The officer waylaid the entire process of fabrication as after declaring the petitioners as winners, she forged and fabricated the form number- 35, the court was told, adding eight independents and seven from the ruling Congress won on the total 15 seats. It is because of this that record was “fudged”, their counsel DS Sobti told court. Voting for the MC took place on February 14 and counting was held on February 17.The plea says an inquiry was conducted by an IAS officer, Sanjay Popli, into the complaint made by the petitioners, who gave a detailed report to chief election commissioner. The report shows that entire process was sabotaged only to “please” the political bosses. The officer not only abused her power but exceeded her jurisdiction in criminal conspiracy with tehsildar and naib tehsildar, it has been alleged, further submitting that the state election commissioner has already written a letter to the government to immediately suspend Kaur as she has been found “guilty” in the report. However, no action has been taken so far. The plea demands direction to declare result as per “actual counting” record and “ignore the forged record” and action against the returning officer. It also says either EVMs be moved out of Punjab or be placed in the security cover of the CISF or CRPF. It was also demanded that election to the post of president not be held on the basis of result declared by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-restrains-sangrur-admn-from-electing-lehragaga-mc-president-101615837251394.html
16-03-2021||Other||Village in Ludhiana declared containment zone as 30 students test positive for Covid||Bhundri village in Ludhiana district was declared a containment zone as 30 students tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Confirming the development, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said this is the first Covid containment zone to set up in the district this year. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said the entry of outsiders will be prohibited in the village. Only essential and medical service providers will be allowed in the area. Besides, the health department will conduct intensive house-to-house checking, contact tracing and sampling in the area. The primary focus would be laid on high-risk population, including the elderly, children and pregnant women, he added.The house-to-house surveillance and contact tracing will continue for 14 days. If not more than one case is found in a week, then the restriction of the containment zone will be lifted, the civil surgeon revealed.4 deaths, 226 new cases in district The district recorded four more Covid-19 deaths even as the single-day infection count breached the 200-mark with 226 new cases in 24 hours, health officials said on Monday. The previous high of over 200 cases was seen in the district on September 20 last year.The deceased include a 73-year-old male from Jagraon, a 66-year-old female from Rangowal village, a 58-year-old female from Basti Jodhewal and a 52-year-old male from Gurpal Nagar.The latest fatalities took the death toll to 1, 054. Earlier on Sunday, the district had recorded 197 new cases. The number of active cases in the district currently is 1, 170.7 teachers, 14 students among infectedAmong the 226 new cases, seven are teachers and 17 students of various schools and colleges in the district. Two of the teachers are from GMT Public School, Jalandhar Bypass, while one each is from Government High School, Shahpur Road, Green Land School, Jalandhar Bypass, Guru Nanak International Public School, Gujjar Khan Campus, DPS School and BCM School, Shastri Nagar. The infected students are from GSS Sahnewal, GHS Khandoor, Baddowal, Lord Mahavir Homeopathic College, Om Public School, Kara Bara Basti, Noorpur Bet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/village-in-ludhiana-declared-containment-zone-as-30-students-test-positive-for-covid-101615837135163.html
16-03-2021||Other||MNS puts up hoardings in Gujarati to woo community in Mumbai||After targeting the Gujarati community in the past few years, the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in a U-turn is now wooing the community members its latest enrolment drive, inaugurated by the party chief on Sunday. The party has put up hoardings in Gujarati in Ghatkopar, extolling the community members to join the MNS party. The campaign is the brainchild of party’s Cine Workers’ Association office bearer Bharat Bhanushali, who has taken the initiative in Ghatkopar’s Pant Nagar area. Defending the move, Ameya Khopkar, the cine association’s head, said it was imperative to attract the Gujarati community members. “Bhanushali is a Gujarati who lives in an area dominated by the community. He has campaigned in Gujarati to attract the community members to our party fold. I don’t think there is anything wrong with this,” said Khopkar. When Khopkar was asked about party members ransacking shops having Gujarati signboards, he said MNS continues to oppose them. “We are firm on having Marathi signboards, but this is about the party’s enrolment drive,” said Khopkar. Thackeray had objected to Gujarati signboards posted outside hotels on highways during his Gudi Padwa speech in 2018. Following this, MNS workers had vandalised signboards of at least six hotels in Vasai, as they were in Gujarati. The incident had sent shockwaves among the community members. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Hemraj Shah, who had launched party’s ‘Mumbai ma jalebi fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda’ campaign to woo Gujarati voters, said that the community members “will not fall prey to MNS”. “On the one hand they hate Gujaratis and spare no opportunity to hurt them, and on the other, indulge in such campaigns. Our community will never support MNS,” said Shah. Currently, Gujaratis play an important role in the politics of Mumbai, and enjoy substantial numbers in areas such as Ghatkopar, Walkeshwar, Borivli, Kandivli, Mulund and Goregaon. They are strong supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and hence, the Congress, Sena and MNS are trying to woo them to their fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mns-puts-up-hoardings-in-gujarati-to-woo-community-in-mumbai-101615837134143.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Thapar University turns out to be Covid hotspot, 38 infected in 3 days||Thapar University, Patiala, has turned out to be new Covid hotspot in Punjab as 38 students have been infected in just three days. The varsity reported 15 fresh cases Monday. The first case on the campus was reported on Friday. The university reopened on February 1.The state health department has declared three more hostels as micro-containment zones and sealed hostels for at least 10 days. Earlier, two of the hostels were declared containment zones. Civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the cases are reported in boys’ hostels only. “We are collecting samples from all hostels and taking all precautionary measures to curtail further spread of the virus. Those who have been tested positive are asymptomatic,” he said. It appears that no social distancing norms and mask wearing guidelines were adhered to in the hostels, which led to outbreak, said the civil surgeon. Over 2,500 students from nine hostels are expected to be covered under sampling process initiated by the health department. Dr Singh said no student has been hospitalized as yet. Registrar Gurbinder Singh said they are cooperating with the health officials and adhering to their protocol. “We have completely cordoned off nine hostels and have moved positive students to a special isolation hostel setup by the varsity. These students are provided special care and meals are provided at their rooms only,” he said. He added that other students have been put under quarantine and are not allowed to leave the hostel premises till further clearance from health department. The registrar said taking serious note of increasing number of cases, they have now implemented online mode of education. “We were expecting to hold examination next month but the final decision will be taken after taking stock of the situation,” he said.ADC tests positivePatiala additional deputy commissioner Preeti Yadav tested positive for the virus. Health officials said she is asymptomatic and has been put under home isolation. The district recorded 106 cases on Monday.Bring corona patient to hospitals: Heath ministerChandigarh: Keeping in view of surging cases of Covid-19 and higher case fatality rate (CFR) in Punjab, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday instructed all the civil surgeons to motivate the severe Covid-19 patients for early treatment at government health facilities. Expressing concern over the symptomatic persons failing to report at healthcare facilities, Sidhu said that as per the death review team of the health department, 77.9% of Covid-19 patients came for treatment in hospitals with severe symptoms at a late stage, a major cause of higher CFR. Sharing the details of positive cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported urban/rural populations, he said 71.4% cases have been confirmed from the urban population and only 28.6% cases have been reported from the rural population, during January to February 2021, but the deaths reported in urban is 45.5% which is much lower than rural where it is 54.5%. Punjab capable to tackle second wave: SoniFaridkot: Medical education and research minister OP Soni on Monday said that Punjab government is fully capable to tackle the second wave of Covid and adequate step has been taken for it. He said around 30,000 Covid samples are tested every day at laboratories in the state. He further said that despite the government appeals people are not taking precautions due to which cases are increasing again.Soni had reached Baba Farid University of Health Science (BFUHS) at Faridkot after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan had raised issues regarding problems faced by patients for prevention and treatment of Covid at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in the assembly during the budget session. Minister held a meeting with the vice-chancellor of BFUHS, Dr Raj Bahadur, and other officials to address the concerns raised by the AAP MLA and other organisations. He was accompanied by the principal secretary of medical education DK Tiwari and Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon.Restriction on eateries in Moga Moga: The Moga administration on Monday put night restrictions on eateries and banquet halls in the wake of urge in Covid cases. As per deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans’ orders, no banquet hall, eatery and restaurant will be allowed to operate after 11pm. “In case of violation, legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and Disaster Management Act will be taken against violators, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thapar-university-turns-out-to-be-covid-hotspot-38-infected-in-3-days-101615837131590.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Primary schools reopen in Kashmir after a year||Primary schools reopened in Kashmir on Monday, a year after being closed due to the pandemic.Students from Nursery to Class 5 started attending schools in a staggered manner in order to adhere to social distancing norms and avoid crowding. The students and teachers wore masks and used hand sanitisers. “My son was delighted to go to school today. See-saws and slides have suddenly came back to life in schools,” said Mohammad Asif, the parent of a Class-4 student in north Kashmir.While many parents have decided to send their wards to school but there is a general anxiety among parents as well as teachers.“My son told me that they were not allowed to eat anything at school. They were not even allowed to talk freely with each other. The teachers often advised students to sanitise their hands,” said Nayeema, the parent of a Class-1 student in Srinagar.Saqib Ahmad, a primary school teacher of a government school in Srinagar, said that they have divided each class in two to teach in shifts during the day .“Our students have missed out in 2019 and 2020. Schools have hardly opened for the past two years- first owing to the situation (following abrogation of article 370) and then due to pandemic in 2020. We will have to innovate ways to resume their education,” he said.The government had deferred the opening of primary classes till March 15 after a number of schools reported positive Covid cases, following opening of schools for students of Classes 9 to 12 classes from March 1 and for students of Class 6 to 8 from March 8. The colleges opened on February 15 across the UT.In March 2020, the government of Jammu and Kashmir had ordered closure of all academic institutions, including schools, colleges and universities, across the Union Territory in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak.Most schools have divided the number of students into two and asked the parents to send their wards on alternate days. Some schools have also decided to teach in two shifts during the day to divide the class strength by half. Some schools have not yet opened primary classes. Rafiq Rather, chairperson of Teachers’ Forum, said government schools should get funds for sanitisers and masks. “Many primary government schools are overcrowded owing to lack of accommodation. The schools should also get funds for sanitisers. There should also be frequent medical checkups,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/primary-schools-reopen-in-kashmir-after-a-year-101615836951291.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||6th finance panel to examine state’s fiscal health, suggest framework for restoration||ChandigarhThe 6th Punjab Finance Commission, which expressed concern over non-release of funds and shortfall in compensatory payments by successive governments to local bodies in Punjab in the past decade, has decided to examine the economic and financial health of the state and provide a broad framework for a medium-term fiscal consolidation programme. The commission, headed by former chief secretary KR Lakhanpal, will look at augmenting the Consolidated Fund of the state, outcomes of 15th Union Finance Commission (UFC) and 6th Punjab Pay Commission (PPC), effect of Covid-19, impacts of urbanisation, growth and structural transformation of Punjab economic on the state finances, according to its interim report on devolution of funds to local bodies in financial year 2021-22. These structural issues will be addressed by the commission in its final report for financial years 2021-22 to 2025-26 in addition to making recommendations on the principles governing devolution of funds panchayats and municipalities, determination of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees to be assigned to or apportioned, grants-in-aid from the Consolidated Fund and measures needed to improve the financial of local bodies. The final report is to be submitted by December 31, 2021. Financial crisis Pointing out the deep financial crisis in the state, the commission said the worsening fiscal position has seriously eroded the government’s capacity to invest in infrastructure, education and skill development and public health and nutrition, which underpin the future growth of the state. The commission said it can provide a broad framework the way forward and it is for the state government to flesh out the details. “Without fully factoring in the outcomes of recommendations of the 15th UFC, 6th PPC and fiscal shocks due to Covid-19 on the state finances addressing certain structural an important bearing on the PRIs (panchayati raj institutions) and ULBs (urban local bodies) evolving into self-governing entities, mere transferring financial resources to them from the state government will of little avail,” according to the report tabled in the state assembly last week. The way forward Lakhanpal said the shrinking size of the pie is the real problem and calls for pressing in hard budget options. “These structural issues needed to be attended to on priority. We are not saying these should be addressed overnight or over five years, but directionally we should move towards resolving them. The doability or political expediency of it is the decision of political executive,” he said. The decision to factor in the impact of Covid-19, pay commission report and the decision of the central government on recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission on the Consolidated Fund of the state was taken in a meeting Lakhanpal and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh three months ago. Another decision in the meeting, according to the interim report, was to amend the terms of reference (ToR) of the committee accordingly. However, a senior official said the terms of reference of a State Finance Commission and the Central Finance Commission are given in the Constitution itself. “Their domain is very well defined and cannot be altered by the state government. If it wants to comment upon the fiscal position of the state, it is not within its purview. This has been communicated to the commission in writing,” said the official. In a meeting on January 11, special secretary, expenditure, Abhinav Trikha, also told the commission that there appears to be no need to amend the existing structural issues, barring a few, are covered by the existing ToR. Structural issues to be addressed in final report -Augmenting the consolidated fund of the state -Outcomes of 15th Central Finance Commission, 6th Pay Commission and effect of Covid-19 on state finances-Impacts of urbanisation, growth and structural transformation of Punjab economy on state finances -Statutory mechanism for implementing its recommendations and compensatory payments to ULBs -Identification of new revenue handles, raising and rationalisation of user charges and unproductive expenditure of local bodies -Unlocking the capital/wealth (land, buildings, etc) within local bodies-Exploring possibility of establishing metropolitan areas in or around cities having more than 5 lakh population||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6th-finance-panel-to-examine-state-s-fiscal-health-suggest-framework-for-restoration-101615836891353.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze’s Shiv Sena connection||While the Opposition claims that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was not keen on acting against Sachin Vaze, the Mumbai Police officer suspended on Monday after his arrest by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the security scare at Mukesh Ambani’s home, Antilia, the cop was never an active member of the party he joined in 2008, according to insiders. Vaze, a 1990-batch officer of the state cadre, was known as one of Mumbai Police’s ace sharpshooters and is said to have killed 63 persons in his career. He was suspended from the police force in 2004 in connection with the murder and destruction of evidence in the Khwaja Yunus custodial death case. He made repeated attempts to get reinstated between 2005 and 2007, but did not succeed. He resigned from the force, but that too was not accepted. The following year, in 2008, he joined the Shiv Sena. Party insiders said his entry into the party was not surprising as Vaze and other police officers who gunned down gangsters in Mumbai were often appreciated by Sena supremo Bal Thackeray. Vaze earlier said he had joined the party with the backing of Sena leader Eknath Shinde, a leader from Thane district. “Vaze was never an active member of the party. He took the primary membership in 2008, but never renewed it and therefore it expires automatically,” said a senior party functionary, requesting anonymity. However, Vaze never formally resigned from the party. Vaze and other “encounter specialists” like Pradeep Sharma, Praful Bhosale, Daya Nayak, Vijay Salaskar gained prominence in the force during the Sena-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government between 1995 and 1999. “These sharpshooters grew under the Sena government. Balasaheb appreciated these people, sometimes through his editorials, and in private as well,” another functionary said requesting anonymity. Vaze’s reinstatement into the police force happened in June 2020, months after Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray took charge as the chief minister. The opposition BJP has been targeting the Shiv Sena over the entire episode. Sena leader Sanjay Raut has been defending the police officer by calling him a “capable” and “honest” cop. Last week, Thackeray said the Opposition was painting him out to be “Osama Bin Laden”. The party functionaries and leaders who spoke to HT maintained the party has no link with Vaze and if he was found to be involved in any wrongdoing by the anti-terrorism squad, which was probing the case before the NIA took over, the government wouldn’t have protected him. BJP leader and former CM Devendra Fadnavis, however, said in Pune on Sunday that the unwarranted support and trust by the state government led Vaze to think he could do anything and so he allegedly planned and executed the scare near Antilia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-s-shiv-sena-connection-101615836711194.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s weather turns cold, rainy after relatively hot February||After a relatively hot February, March is turning out to be cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across Jammu and Kashmir. After spells of rainfall and snowfall from March 7 to 14 across Kashmir, the weather office has predicted another wet spell. “The weather on Monday was cloudy and dry. However, light rain in isolated places can be expected in the subsequent days,” said Sonam Lotus, director, meteorological centre. Lotus said moderate rainfall cold be expected after March 20: “Moderate rainfall is likely on March 21 and 22 in Jammu and Kashmir along the Sonmarg -Drass axis” he said. Rainfall was witnessed across the Valley on Sunday. The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded 2.5cm snow. The wet and cloudy weather caused the maximum temperatures to dip across the Union territory. The day temperature in Gulmarg plunged to 1°C while the night temperature plunged to -2.6°C. The summer capital, Srinagar, recorded a maximum temperature of 10.3°C against a normal temperature of 14.7°C on Sunday and a minimum temperature of 6.3°C during the night. On Friday, the day temperature in Srinagar had dropped by 10 degrees to settle at 4.6°C against the normal 14.7°C. “Weather, so far, has remained erratic in March. We are witnessing rainfall and snow every other day, which is why it is cold,” said deputy director meterological centre, Mukhtar Ahmad. Although the month of February had witnessed a number of snow spells but the month also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. On February 22, the capital Srinagar had recorded a maximum of 18.6 degrees and Kupwara had gone even further to record 20.5 degrees. Kashmir experienced harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in the month of January. On January 31, Srinagar had recorded minus 8.8 degrees, lowest since the January of 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-weather-turns-cold-rainy-after-relatively-hot-february-101615836591132.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat inducted into SAD working committee||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has inducted former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal into the party’s working committee, the highest decision-making body of the SAD. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced a new list of 87 members of the working committee. There are 101 members in the working committee and the vacant positions will be filled soon. According to the Akali top brass, party’s patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and five-time chief minister, will continue to be at the top of the hierarchy as patron. In Harsimrat’s nomination, party sees an opportunity to rehabilitate her after she had resigned from the Narendra Modi cabinet last year as a mark of protest against the three farm bills. Her resignation coincided with the party’s decision to cut four-decade ties with the BJP. In the recast, many new faces have been inducted, including Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and SAD’s Delhi wing president Harmeet Singh Kalka. Both were inducted to keep party’s flock together keeping in mind the DSGMC polls expected to take place later this year. In the list of office-bearers announced a few days ago, party’s old-timer and Badals’ confidante Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhundar has been given a pivotal role as secretary general. He replaced Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who resigned from the party’s second senior-most post after the incidents of sacrilege of the holy scriptures. He had formed a separate Akali faction SAD (Democratic). “The core committee that often meets at short notices to take decision and ponder on key issues concerning the party has members chosen from the working committee,” said party senior vice-president and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur, its former presidents Kirpal Singh Badungar and Gobind Singh Longowal also figured on the list. The party has tried to strike a balance of region, caste and age in the recast done after a gap of five years. The first-timers on the list also include Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parmbans Singh Bunty Romana, first-time MLAs Kanwarjit Singh Rozi Barkandi, Dilraj Singh Bhunder and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra. Barjinder Singh Brar son of Taksali Akali Tota Singh and former SSP Harmohan Singh Sandhu, son of Satwant Kaur Sandhu, who died recently, also figure on the list. Tota Singh to head disciplinary committee SAD president also constituted a three-member disciplinary committee led by Jathedar Tota Singh. Former minister Gulzar Singh Ranike and former MLA Parkash Chand Garg are the other two members. Interestingly, Tota Singh replaced former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, who was expelled from the party in 2019 for anti-party activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harsimrat-inducted-into-sad-working-committee-101615836471406.html
16-03-2021||Other||Sachin Vaze’s kin moves Bombay HC, says ex-cop’s arrest by NIA is illegal||Sudharm Vaze, the brother of suspended Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, has moved a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay high court (HC), claiming that the former cop’s arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13 was illegal and unlawful. Sudharm’s petition stated that though Sachin Vaze had cooperated with the central agency, he had been detained without following the due procedure established by law, and hence, he should be brought before HC, and NIA should justify the detention. The petition filed through advocate Sunny Punnamiya has averred that Sachin Vaze has been an upright and law-abiding officer working with the Mumbai Police for 17 years but was made a scape goat by some political powers, based on the allegations of Vimla Hiran, the wife of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran who was found dead in a Mumbra creek on March 5. Following the discovery of Hiran’s body, his Vimla had approached the anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which was investigating the case of the explosive-laden car found outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. The car belonged to Mansukh Hiran. Vimla told ATS that she suspected that her husband was murdered. After a case of murder was registered against unknown persons, Vimla started spreading false and baseless allegations against Sachin Vaze, the petition by Sudharm alleged. It further stated that NIA also registered a first information report (FIR) against unknown persons the very next day. In his petition, Sudharm claimed that due to Vimla’s allegations, Vaze anticipated his arrest and hence approached the sessions court for anticipatory bail, but it was rejected on March 12. The next day, Vaze was called for interrogation by NIA, which he duly obliged to, though he was not served a notice under section 41 (a) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Sudharm further claimed that during the interrogation, his brother cooperated with NIA investigators, and gave them all the corroborative pieces of evidences. Yet, following 10 hours of interrogation, Vaze was arrested without being served a copy of FIR or informed of the nature of allegations against him. He was also not allowed to speak to his lawyers or family which was a violation of his fundamental rights, claimed the petition. The plea further stated that just before his arrest, Vaze had sent a WhatsApp message to his family, in which he had mentioned that he may be trapped by his fellow officers, and that he may not survive the ordeal. “The haste in which the petitioner’s brother was arrested, clearly shows some ulterior motives and huge political influence and interference with the sole intent to use the petitioner’s brother as a scapegoat to further certain political agendas of some big interested parties. The petitioner’s fundamental rights have been severely violated and the petitioner fears for his brother’s life and limb, as the respondent officers can go to any extent to extract an illegal and false confession from the petitioner’s brother,” the petition further stated. In light of these averments and the fact that proper procedure was not followed by NIA officers while detaining and arresting Vaze, the petition prays for directions to NIA to produce his brother before the court and justify his detention in accordance with the procedure established by law, and after hearing the parties, to set him free. According to Punnamiya, the petition has been numbered, and will be mentioned before the appropriate bench on Tuesday for an early hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sachin-vaze-s-kin-moves-bombay-hc-says-ex-cop-s-arrest-by-nia-is-illegal-101615836291169.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal cases against cops: HC issues show-cause notice to Punjab home secretary on perjury proceedings||The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a show-cause notice to additional chief secretary, home, Punjab, Anurag Aggarwal why perjury proceedings should not be initiated against him. The order was passed in a matter in which high court had sought information regarding criminal cases against cops. The concealment about FIRs had come light in the hearing of a plea in December from Moga resident Surjit Singh, who had challenged his dismissal from service, due to pending FIRs. During proceedings of the case, it has come to light that at least 107 convicted cops, including SPs, DSPs, inspectors, and 840 facing serious criminal charges are still serving in Punjab Police. An affidavit was filed by Vijay Singh Chauhan, deputy secretary, department of home affairs and justice, Punjab, on October 8 disclosing the names of officers, who were facing criminal cases. However, petitioner’s counsel Balbir Saini contended that the entire information has not been disclosed. On October 28, the court sought an affidavit from Aggarwal. He filed an affidavit on December 10, but on allegations of discrepancies in the same, the court on January 14, asked him to personally look into the matter to ascertain factual aspects. On February 1 this year, he filed an affidavit admitting of wrong information in the December 10 affidavit. The high court bench of justice Anupinder Singh Grewal observed that it is apparent that the information, as sought by the court, was not forthcoming. Aggarwal should have taken due care and caution as it is expected from the administrative head of the department to disclose the entire information as had been sought by the court, the bench said, adding that concealment or not disclosing the information sought, amounts to swearing a false affidavit. “The filing of false affidavit has the tendency to subvert, obstruct, impede and interfere in the due course of judicial proceedings, which cannot be overlooked especially when the affidavit has been filed by a senior government officer,” the bench observed, adding that besides the contempt of court, such an act would amount to giving false evidence to court. Before directing institution of a criminal complaint before the competent judicial magistrate for the prosecution of the officer for perjury, I deem it appropriate to issue him notice, the bench added seeking his response within four weeks as to why directions be not issued for filing a complaint with the judicial magistrate for the offence of perjury. Questions how PPS posted as SSPs Giving an example, the bench said that Rajinder Singh Sohal, convicted in a criminal case has been posted as the SSP of Gurdaspur. He is a PPS officer and has been posted as Gurdaspur SSP, which is an IPS-cadre post. The continuation of such an officer at the post of the SSP, who is the district head of the police force, would erode the confidence of the people in the police administration apart from being an affront to the rule of law. Therefore, the competent authority should consider transferring him from the post, the bench said. It observed that there are several other PPS officers, who have been posted as SSPs of various districts in violation of the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954. Impleading Centre as a party to look into these apparent violations, the court further said that it is apparent that there is arbitrariness in dealing with officers facing criminal cases. “In our system of governance administered by rule of law, the government cannot act like an absolute despot at its whims and fancies by patronising certain officers while imparting a step-motherly treatment to others,” it said, adding that the need of the hour to put in place a proper structure. Now, the government has been asked to file an affidavit by the next date to explain as to why PPS officers have been posted as SSPs of several districts. The bench also asked that government committee, which is in the process of framing a policy on action to be taken against cops with criminal cases/ convicted, would come up with a uniform policy while keeping in mind gravity and nature of the offence. The court has directed that till the committee arrives at a decision and considers the individual cases of the officers, no police officer who is charge-sheeted or convicted in a criminal case involving moral turpitude, shall remain posted at a post having public dealing. They shall not be assigned investigation, either as investigating officer or in a supervisory capacity and will not be posted in the vigilance bureau till the final decision is taken by the committee. They shall also not be posted in the district where their criminal case is being tried, the bench said seeking status report by April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-cases-against-cops-hc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-punjab-home-secretary-on-perjury-proceedings-101615836231416.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s budget session: Opposition stages walkout||Dissatisfied with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s response to the discussion on the budget, the Opposition staged a walkout from the Vidhan Sabha on Monday. As soon as the CM started to reply to the debate, leader of opposition Mukesh Agrihotri asked him to reduce VAT rates on petrol and diesel. “The leader of opposition said the chief minister is also silent on the issue of inflation. There is no clarity regarding the implementation of the sixth pay commission.” Later, members of the Congress staged a walkout. The CM completed his response in absence of the Opposition.Thakur blamed the previous Congress government for fiscal mismanagement. “Our government has inherited a debt burden of ₹50,000 crore from the previous regime. Had the previous government had not taken this loan, the present government would not have needed to do so either. This government has raised loans within the limits set by the Reserve Bank of India.Taking a dig at the Opposition, he said financial mismanagement by the previous government had resulted in the ever deteriorating fiscal health of the state. The government has made provisions in the budget for the unemployed, employees and the poor. In his speech, he flayed the Opposition for using inappropriate words while mentioning names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur presented the budget for the upcoming financial year 2021-22 on March 6 in the state assembly. The budget was discussed from March 8 and 34 members of the Opposition participated in the discussionEarlier, the CM had introduced the Himachal Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Amendment Bill in the House. After the passage of the amendment bill, the government can take loans up to 5% of state’s gross domestic product. Currently, this loan limit is 3%. Members of the Opposition criticised the amendment saying the government was going to increase the right to borrow after the amendment. Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Communist Party of India (CPI) MLA Rakesh Singha opposed the amendment to the FRBM Act.Even before the CM had introduced the amendment bill in the House, leader of opposition Mukesh Agrihotri questioned the intentions of the government. He said that the ease with which the CM was introducing the bill is not really the case. He said it did not bode well that the limit for taking loans was being increased by 3-5%. He said the government was continuously taking loans, due to which the financial situation of the state was deteriorating. He demanded that the CM to withdraw the Bill immediately, instead of promulgating it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-budget-session-opposition-stages-walkout-101615836171119.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Investigation into 2015 Behbal Kalan, Kotkapura firing cases complete: SIT||More than five years after the 2015 police firing incidents, which plunged Punjab into turmoil, the Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) on Monday claimed investigation in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents have been completed. The SIT also said the final supplementary chargesheet in the Behbal Kalan firing cases will be filed in the Faridkot court soon. SIT member and inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said nine chargesheets have been submitted in the court in both the cases. One more chargesheet will be filed soon. “I have completed the responsibility which was given to me. I have submitted everything in the court and whatever is left will be filed soon as investigation has been completed,” he said. On one of the chargesheets wherein it was mentioned that the role of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal were under investigation, the SIT member said: “I will not name anyone. I want to make it clear that in the chargesheets, we have identified the roles of all persons involved in these incidents. You can see their (Badals) roles are identified in the first chargesheet, which was filed on May 27, 2019. But one chargesheet is yet to be filed in the court,” he said. “Genesis of police firing cases was sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari, so these cases are interlinked. Our team has worked so hard, there were attempts that this investigation should not conclude,” he added. On former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini, Kunwar Vijay said that SIT had interrogated him and he had been granted blanket bails by court. “He was summoned and interrogated in Chandigarh. We started the investigation on October 12, 2018, but he was granted blanket bail on October 11, 2018, before we started our investigation,” he said. When asked about the victim families’ allegation that the government was not perusing the cases properly, he said: “I don’t want to make any comments on their blames, but I want to tell you that I am also not getting the required support.” The Punjab Police teams had opened fire at the people protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in Faridkot district on October 14, 2015. Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village had died in police firing at Behbal Kalan. They had joined the villagers in holding a demonstration at the Behbal Kalan bus stand to protest against the sacrilege incident at Bargari on October 12.The SIT had filed nine chargesheets in the 2015 police firing cases, including five in Behbal Kalan incident and four in Kotkapura episode. Seven persons, including six police officials and a former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Mantar Singh Brar, are accused in the Kotkapura case, while eight persons, including six cops, are named in Behbal Kalan case. Former DGP Saini, suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal and former Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma are accused in both the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/investigation-into-2015-behbal-kalan-kotkapura-firing-cases-complete-sit-101615835992492.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||37 gangsters shifted to ‘dead zone’ Bathinda jail, no mobile signal for 2km||The Punjab jails department has shifted at least 37 dreaded gangsters to Central Jail, Bathinda, where a special ‘dead zone’ has been created. In this dead zone, there is no mobile connectivity, in a 2km radius. All communication from the Central Jail by the staff or prisoners (facility available at a fixed time) will be through landline. Seven ‘A’ category dreaded gangsters have been brought here over the past week, including Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, Neeta Deol and Dilpreet Baba. Six more gangsters will be brought here over the next two days.The Punjab government, vide a notification that additional chief secretary (home) issued on March 10, has already notified a radius of 2km from the walls of the Bathinda Central Jail as a dead zone. All telecom service providers have been sent this notice, asking these to stop all type of services in the notified area under Rule 2 of Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety), Rules, 2017. The Special Task Force (STF) had mooted the idea of a creating a dead zone, by writing a letter to the prisons department in December last year. Why was the need felt? For the prisons department, controlling the operations of gangsters and other criminals through mobile phones from inside jails had become a major headache. There was a proposal to install jammers inside jails as well, but the government rejected it, citing its low efficacy. The STF letter to the prisons department states that there has been numerous instances of misuse of mobile phones and smart phones by inmates to manage, plan, abet, conspire and assist in drug trafficking, cross-border trafficking of narcotics, smuggling of weapons, gang-related crime, extortion, murder and planning jail breaks. “Many inmates involved in the these serious offences have been using mobile communication within jail premises to threaten and glorify themselves and their gangs. Some of the gangsters even claim responsibility for heinous crimes on various social media platforms,” suggested the STF. Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said the Bathinda Central Jail which will now be a dead zone, will not have any option of mobile network, and if there will not no network, use of mobiles will end. “Hardcore criminals will be shifted to 43 barracks in the jail and will be kept alone. These barricades will be guarded by the Central Reserve Police Force Battalions leaving, no scope of mingling of criminals with any ordinary guard,” said Randhawa, claiming that Punjab is the first state in the country to try this kind of experiment. “Bathinda jail is located away from any major population area. Thus, it can easily be converted into a dead zone,” an STF official behind the proposal said. &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&STRAP/BLURBFor the prisons department, controlling the operations of gangsters and other criminals through mobile phones from inside jails had become a major headache||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/37-gangsters-shifted-to-dead-zone-bathinda-jail-no-mobile-signal-for-2km-101615835751142.html
16-03-2021||Other||Khwaja Yunus case: Sachin Vaze’s role remains untried in court||The trial against four policemen including suspended cop Sachin Vaze, implicated in the alleged custodial death Sayed Khwaja Yunus Sayed Ayub, a 2002 Ghatkopar blast accused, has been held up since 2018, shortly after it began, for the want of a special public prosecutor. Vaze and three constables were suspended from the police force in 2004 after they were arrested in connection with the death of the 27-year-old engineer in January 2003. The police, who had picked up Yunus in connection with the terror attack, claimed that Yunus had escaped while being transported to another district from Mumbai and had fallen into a gorge. However, an eyewitness later revealed that Yunus was allegedly beaten to death during interrogation. Yunus’s body was never recovered. In 2018, the eyewitness, Dr Abdul Mateen – also a suspect in the Ghatkopar blast case -- named four more policemen in the alleged custodial killing, which led special public prosecutor Dhiraj Mirazkar to move an application to include the cops in the list of accused. The state issued a notice removing Mirazkar as the special public prosecutor stating that he filed the application without seeking instructions. Mirazkar was unavailable for comments despite attempts to get in touch with him. “The case is now pending over the issue of the appointment or rather removal of the special public prosecutor,” said Vaze’s lawyer Raunak Naik. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) filed a First Information Report (FIR) against Vaze and three other policemen – constables Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai and driver Rajaram Nikam – in 2004 for allegedly beating Yunus to death while he was in custody. History of the case On December 2, 2002, a bomb went off in a BEST bus parked outside Ghatkopar railway station, during the evening rush hour, killing two and injuring over 50 people. The Mumbai crime branch, of which Vaze was part, picked up a few persons including Yunus on December 25. On January 7, 2003, Yunus was reported missing from police custody. The police claimed that he escaped with two other accused while they were being taken to Aurangabad when the vehicle carrying them met with an accident in Ahmednagar district. An FIR was registered in connection with the incident at the Parner police station.However, during an enquiry into the so-called accident conducted by the special Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) court in Mumbai, Mateen, who was also one of the accused, revealed that he had heard Yunus being beaten, and later vomiting, in an adjacent cell. Mateen claimed that Yunus had likely died on January 6. This testimony was corroborated by a third accused in the case. The alleged custodial death case was handed over to the CID in May 2003. However, after seven months of no information, Yunus’s father Sayed Khwaja Ayub moved the Bombay high court requesting that the Central Bureau of Investigation probe the disappearance of his son. On February 25, 2004, the CID team said that they had found some evidence in connection to Yunus’s disappearance and arrested Vaze on March 3. The other three policemen were arrested later that month. All four were placed under suspension, pending investigation.In April, the high court directed the CID to record a fresh statement from Mateen and treat that as the FIR in the alleged custodial death case. The state appealed against this direction in the Supreme Court and lost, and eventually, a fresh FIR was registered in the Ghatkopar police station on September 16, 2004. The CID completed its probe in October 2006 and filed a charge sheet against 14 policemen, including the four suspended cops. In July 2007, the office of the Director General of Police forwarded the case papers to the state government, which accorded sanction to prosecute only the four suspended cops. An additional sessions judge framed charges against Vaze, Tiwari, Desai and Nikam, on March 19, 2011. In the meantime, Yunus’s mother, Asiya Begum, amended her petition pending before the Bombay HC for compensation and other connected prayers, and sought sanction to prosecute seven more Crime Branch personnel, in addition to the four suspended cops.In April 2012, the HC directed the state to pay Yunus’s family a compensation of ₹20 lakh, but rejected Begum’s plea regarding the prosecution of more policemen. Begum appealed against this verdict in the Supreme Court, and the matter is still pending before the apex court. Yunus’s brother, Hussain Sayed Khwaja Ayub Yunus said that their petition has not come up as yet. “It has not even been heard. We unfortunately do not have means to appoint a special lawyer for the Supreme Court. It is like justice delayed and justice denied.” Meanwhile, of the 19 persons arrested in connection with the Ghatkopar blast case, nine were discharged from the case and two, including Khwaja, died. On June 11, 2005, the special POTA court acquitted the remaining eight accused. The trial in Yunus’s death In January 2018, the prosecution examined Mateen, its first witness in the case.“After Mateen, no other witness has been examined,” advocate Naik said. In his deposition, Mateen named four cops who had also allegedly assaulted Yunus, and whose names were also part of the charge sheet filed by the CID in 2006: Praful Bhosle, Hemant Desai, Rajaram Vhanmane and Ashok Khot. On the basis of this testimony, special public prosecutor Mirazkar moved an application to add these four policemen in the list of accused and to try them alongside Vaze and the three constables. A controversy erupted over this with the state government claiming that the application was filed without taking instructions. The state issued a notification removing Mirzkar as the special public prosecutor. Yunus’s mother challenged the state’s notification in the Bombay high court. Meanwhile, in 2016, Vaze filed a petition before the HC challenging the framing of charges against him. Vaze resigned from the force in 2007 and joined the Shiv Sena, but he – and the three other suspended constables -- were reinstated in January 2020. Asiya Begum’s fight continues Asiya Begum filed a petition in the Bombay high court challenging their reinstatement last year. She claimed that the review committee which included chief secretary Amitabh Gupta and Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh did not have the authority to set aside the 2004 suspension order and hence the reinstatement order should be set aside. The state argued that the petitioner did not have a locus as the reinstatement order was an administrative decision. The petition had also stated that while the trial against the four suspended cops was pending, the review committee could not have issued orders to reinstate them. The petition was last heard on March 9, 2021 by a division bench of justices K K Tated and Riyaz Chagla. The hearing was adjourned to March 31 as Begum’s advocate Mihir Desai sought time to place the translated copies of official documents before the court. Yunus’ family reacts to Vaze’s arrest “Upar wale ke paas der hain, par andher nahi [there may be delay but not injustice in the house of God],” Hussain Sayed Khwaja Ayub Yunus, Khwaja Yunus’s brother said, after assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was suspended on Monday, following his arrest by the National Investigation Authority, in connection with the explosives-laden car found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s home last month. “If he had not be reinstated this would not have happened,” Hussain, 53, added. Yunus’s family has been fighting a long battle for justice since his custodial death in 2003, in which Vaze and three other cops were arrested and suspended. The first petition was filed by his father Sayyed Khwaja Ayub in 2004, before the Bombay high court. After Ayub died in 2004, Yunus’s mother Asiya Begum took the fight further. “I lost my father. Mother is almost 75 years now. It has been close to 20 years and still we don’t see any hope in case. When will this be over?” Hussain said referring to the trial against the four policemen implicated in his brother’s death. “The trial had just begun when they removed special public prosecutor and now there is none. When will the trial see the light of the day? We just want justice,” Hussain said. “We unfortunately do not have means to appoint a special lawyer for Supreme Court. It is like justice delayed and justice denied,” Hussain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khwaja-yunus-case-sachin-vaze-s-role-remains-untried-in-court-101615835631248.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education dept releases Class 10, 12 question bank||Ahead of the SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) board exams that are scheduled to be held in April and May this year, the state education department has started releasing question banks for students on its official website starting Monday. The education department released the subjectwise question bank on its official website maa.ac.in on Monday. For Class 10, the question bank for English, History and Geography was released on Day 1 while for Class 12, question bank for Mathematics, Chemistry, Biology, History was released. Material for the remaining subjects will be released soon. “As and when they are created, question banks will be uploaded on the official website,” said state education minister Varsha Gaikwad in her tweet on Monday. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct the HSC (Class 12) examinations between April 23 to May 29, 2021 and SSC (Class 10) examinations between April 29 to May 31. Over the last few days, parents have been requesting the department to conduct exams online. Recently, officials met with representatives of schools and parents to get suggestions about conducting exams. Some suggestions included allotting one’s own school as a centre, giving time between two papers etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-dept-releases-class-10-12-question-bank-101615835272356.html
16-03-2021||Other||Man held for molesting woman passenger on board Rajdhani Exp||VARANASI The Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a man for allegedly molesting a woman co-passenger on board the Sealdah-bound Rajdhani Express from New Delhi early on Monday, police said. The incident took place near Kanpur and the arrest was made at Pt Deendayal Upadhyay (PDDU) junction. GRP inspector, PDDU (formerly Mughalsarai) junction, RK Singh said a case was being registered against the accused identified as Vijay Kumar from Kurukshetra in Haryana on the complaint of the woman, a resident of Delhi.A police officer said Kumar, who works in a Kolkata-based private firm, was going to Kolkata by Rajdhani Express going to Sealdah from New Delhi. He was in B2 coach. In the same coach, a woman from Delhi was also traveling to Sealdah. The officer said as soon as the train left Kanpur, the woman accused Vijay of molesting her. She made a noise and informed the travelling ticket examiner who alerted the control at the PDDU junction. As soon as the train reached PDDU junction, the GRP took the youth into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-molesting-woman-passenger-on-board-rajdhani-exp-101615835271715.html
16-03-2021||Other||Sachin Vaze case: Sena’s Varun Sardesai to sue Nitesh Rane for defamation||Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Nitesh Rane has claimed that Yuva Sena leader Varun Sardesai has allegedly demanded a ‘share in extortion’ from former police officer Sachin Vaze. Sardesai is the nephew of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi. Sardesai has refuted all the allegations against him and said he would file a criminal defamation case against Rane. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13 in connection with the alleged conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden sports utility vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month. Calling for an inquiry against Sardesai, Rane said that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) should check the call records and WhatsApp chats between Sardesai and Vaze, as it will disclose the Sena leader’s “role” in the case. In a press conference on Monday, Rane said that Vaze demanded an extortion amount of ₹150 crore from the bookies who were active during the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket tournament between September and November last year. “Sardesai contacted Vaze several times and demanded a share in the extortion money which the officer was collecting from the bookies. Vaze had threatened the bookies, who were operating from various hotels or flats, of action if they did not pay him. The total amount demanded by Vaze was ₹150 crore. I demand that NIA should interrogate Sardesai and probe the call records between him and Vaze. It will help the officers reach more details of the case that they are probing.” Rane also alleged that CM has been shielding Vaze because of the former police officer’s links with his family members. The BJP legislator said that NIA has caught hold of the telegram chats between Vaze and a Shiv Sena leader from the western suburbs. “Vaze had met the leader on Saturday morning, hours before his arrest by NIA and discussed the case against him,” Rane said. Hitting back at Rane, Sardesai said that that he came from a “cultured and highly educated family” and that he would never do the things alleged by the BJP leader. Flanked by Sena leader and minister Anil Parab, Sardesai provided his and his family’s educational background details to media. “I gave you my background. Everybody here is well aware of the background that the Ranes come from as well as the gang they ran and the numerous cases of crimes including murders, kidnapping and extortion cases against them. The allegations which the BJP legislator made today are baseless, and therefore, I will file a criminal defamation against Rane. He can either apologise in seven days for the false allegations or face legal action and prove them,” said Sardesai. He further said that his move to take the legal route was to stop the “damage to his rising political career” in the future. The Yuva Sena leader also said that BJP has a habit of making baseless allegations to damage political opponents and that Rane’s claims were “painful”. “These allegations have no truth. Anybody gets up and makes allegation to damage someone,” he said. Responding to Rane’s claim that Sardesai has been given Y-plus security cover, the Yuva Sena leader clarified that he has received X-category security. Responding to Rane’s claims that Vaze had met a senior Sena leader, Parab said, “The responsibility of proving the allegations lies with the one who are levelling them. Investigating agencies have been probing the cases. They will probe these allegations too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sachin-vaze-case-sena-s-varun-sardesai-to-sue-nitish-rane-for-defamation-101615835271289.html
16-03-2021||City||Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Which way will Dravidian politics swing in 2021?||When Tamil Nadu votes to elect a new government on April 6, elections will be happening in a huge void. Both M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa, who shared the chief minister’s post between them for 32 out of the last 52 years, are no more. If we include the term of MG Ramachandran, whose political legacy Jayalalithaa inherited, the chief minister’s post was held between the three bigwigs for 42 of the last 52 years.Karunanidhi’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is now headed by his son MK Stalin. Stalin's son Udayanidhi is among the DMK candidates in these elections. The DMK was formed out of a split on the question of nepotism. Its founder CN Annadurai parted ways with his mentor EV Ramasami Periyar, who headed the Dravidar Kazhagam, which had come out of the Justice Party after Periyar decided to marry a young woman called Manimmai and named her as his political successor.The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), which, when Jayalalithaa was alive, was a tightly controlled organisation and used to drive hard bargains even with parties that were much bigger in Indian politics. The party is now trying to set its own house in order. The AIADMK is also trying to maintain a separate identity of its own without undermining its alliance with India’s current dominant political hegemon, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also read: In Tamil Nadu, the rise of MK Stalin’s son—Udhaynidhi StalinThat Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s closest confidante, announced retirement from politics after coming out of prison and the AIADMK has included removal of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in its manifesto underline these points.Beyond these obvious changes, the 2021 elections will also be interesting as far as Tamil Nadu’s long-term political landscape is concerned. An HT analysis underlines at least three interesting trends which have been developing in Tamil Nadu's political fabric.Elections have become close contestsThe AIADMK created a history of sorts by retaining power for the second consecutive term in the 2016 assembly elections. Political power had alternated between the DMK and the AIADMK since 1984. “However, the 2016 elections were among the most closely contested elections in Tamil Nadu -- if one were to look at median victory margins -- since 1971, the earliest period for which data is available in the database maintained by the Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD) at Ashoka University. A median gives the middle value in a distribution.” A median gives the middle value in a distribution. A long-term look at victory margins also suggests that they have been declining in the post-1990 period.See chart 1: Median victory margin in Tamil Nadu assembly electionsThe two main Dravidian parties had unprecedented support in 2016. While Tamil Nadu’s politics has been dominated by Dravidian parties, first the DMK and then its offshoot AIADMK for decades, they never had more than two-thirds of the vote share between them until 2016. This changed in the 2016 elections when their combined vote share crossed 72 per cent. The Congress was the leading party in the erstwhile state of Madras. It was only in 1967 that the DMK won an election in the state which was renamed Tamil Nadu later.Since then the Congress has undergone two phases of decline. The first major decline in its vote share came with the AIADMK contesting its first election in the state in 1977 when the Congress was pushed to the third spot. With members of the Congress and the DMK forming their own parties in the 1990s – such as the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) and the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam – the Congress vote share suffered another big decline in vote share. The Left parties – Communist Party of India (CPI) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) - which did not see a decline in vote share with AIADMK’s entry in elections, have also seen their vote share reduce after the formation of many regional parties in the state. The BJP, so far, has been a marginal player in the state’s politics. "The fate of all parties except the DMK and AIADMK is largely contingent on their alliance or the lack of it with the major parties."See chart 2: Long-term vote share in Tamil NaduAlliance is a tricky business of both the DMK and the AIADMKThe statistics discussed so far clearly underline the importance of alliance formation in Tamil Nadu. In a state, where median victory margins are around 6 per cent and the two major parties, even at their peak have never crossed more than three-fourth of the total vote share, alliances matter a lot. However, both the DMK and the AIADMK are extremely cautious and reluctant when it comes to seat-sharing. While the DMK has given just 25 assembly constituencies (ACs) to the Congress, its biggest alliance partner in these elections, the AIADMK has offered just 20 ACs to the BJP. A look at past election statistics explains the reluctance on part of the two major parties to offer more ACs to their alliance partners. Both the DMK and the AIADMK perform better against the alliance partners of their opponents than each other. In other words, the probability of a loss is higher for both the DMK and the AIADMK on ACs which are given to alliance partners.See chart 3A and 3B: Strike rate of AIADMK and DMK against each other and each other’s alliance partners﻿﻿Whether Tamil Nadu maintains its trend of declining victory margins, the growing footprint of the two major Dravidian parties and alliances being a necessity and liability at the same time in 2021 will only be known on May 2 when the results are declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-which-way-will-dravidian-politics-swing-in-2021-101615834669247.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai college under scanner for holding farewell party||Even as schools and colleges in the city remain shut due to Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, a junior college in Kandivli has come under the education department’s scanner after it organised a farewell party for Class 12 students recently. According to parents, Dr Jiten Mody Junior College in Kandivli (West) organised a farewell event for Class 12 students and called students and teachers for the same on March 13. “The school is risking the lives of hundreds of students and teachers by organising such an event. At the events, no social distancing was followed and hardly anyone wore a mask even,” said a parent on the condition of anonymity. Parents said Kapol Vidyanidhi High School, a school under the same management, had also organised a farewell party for Class 10 students in February and had called 350 students each in two batches. School principal Reshma Hegde did not respond to repeated calls. RS Naikwadi, education inspector of West region said the department will issue a show-cause notice to the junior college. “We have received a complaint and have thus asked the junior college to furnish information on the event and how it was held despite strict guidelines against large gatherings and opening of schools for students,” he added. Earlier this year, parents of the students had complained about the school conducting offline prelims for Class 10 and 12 students. “We will look into the issue and take appropriate action,” said Sandeep Sangave, deputy director of Mumbai region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-college-under-scanner-for-holding-farewell-party-101615835150527.html
16-03-2021||Other||Over 12K take the jabs at 122 vaccination sites in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Over 12,000 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine shots in Lucknow, where 122 vaccination sites were organised (the maximum till now) on Monday. So far, the maximum turnout was recorded on March 5 when 14,238 beneficiaries took the vaccine jabs at 65 vaccination centres in the district. Similarly, 12,773 beneficiaries were inoculated on March 4. “Of the total 12259 beneficiaries on Monday, 7,482 were men and 4,777 women,” said Dr MK Singh, in-charge of vaccination in Lucknow. “Among them, 5,492 (45%) were elderly, who have been consistently showing enthusiasm in getting the vaccine shots,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. So far, 38,814 beneficiaries above the age of 60 years had taken the covid vaccine jabs in Lucknow. At 69 government vaccination centres, 9,702 beneficiaries took the jabs and 2,557 were inoculated at 53 private hospitals. Vaccination is on for people above the age of 60 years and those between 45 and 60 years with co-morbidities. Lucknow has 51 government centres doing vaccination six days a week while 18 health centres will conduct vaccination three days a week, apart from the 53 private hospitals vaccinating people throughout the week. “Limited days of vaccination is creating confusions, particularly among the elderly. If all centres do vaccination six days a week, there will be no confusion and the number of beneficiaries will go up,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, IMA, Lucknow. GRAPHICS Lko’s turnout on MondayHealth workers (first dose) -----------------933 Health workers (second dose)-------------2852 Frontline workers (first dose)-------------- 624 Frontline workers (second dose)-----------1250 60-plus (first dose)----------------------------5492 Co-morbid between 45 and 60 years----1108 Total vaccination----------------------------12259 Males vaccinated ------------------------------7482 Females vaccinated ---------------------------4777||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-12k-take-the-jabs-at-122-vaccination-sites-in-lucknow-101615834970615.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Bill cites SC verdicts, but may upset power balance||The Bill introduced by the Union home ministry in Lok Sabha to amend the 1991 Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCTD) Act mentions that it relies on two judgments by the Supreme Court: a Constitution bench verdict on July 4, 2018 and a two-judge bench decision on February 14, 2019.Both these judgments delineated the respective powers of the Centre and the elected government of Delhi in administration of the national capital.The bill and its wording, however, have sparked anger from Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which said the proposed law violates the rulings.At the core of the controversy appears to be an amendment to Section 44 of the NCTD Act, which will insert a new proviso making it mandatory for the Delhi government to seek the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor before taking any executive action in pursuance of decisions by the council of ministers, or any other decision under any law in force in the Capital.The proposed course of action leaves no room for the elected government to exercise its discretion in deciding categories of matters which require a prior-consultation with the L-G, or to send files to the L-G after a decision is made by resorting to the executive or legislative powers provided under the Constitution.The Union home ministry has made this provision in spite of the five-judge bench in its July 2018 making it clear that the L-G is “bound to act on aid and advice of the council of ministers” in matters where the Delhi government acts in exercise of its executive and legislative powers, except relating to three subjects – police, land, and law and order.The Constitution bench held unequivocally that while it is necessary to apprise the L-G of all the decisions, it does not mean that his concurrence is required.“We have referred to the relevant rules of Transaction of Business Rules, 1993 which require that the Lieutenant Governor has to be apprised and kept in the loop of the various proposals, agendas and decisions taken by the Council of Ministers. However, a careful perusal of these rules nowhere suggests that the communication to the Lieutenant Governor is to obtain his concurrence or permission,” the bench had held in its majority judgment.The judgment also added that, “It has to be clearly stated that requiring prior concurrence of the Lieutenant Governor would absolutely negate the ideals of representative governance and democracy conceived for the NCT of Delhi by Article 239AA of the Constitution. Any view to the contrary would not be in consonance with the intention of the Parliament to treat Delhi Government as a representative form of government.”“...the decisions of the Council of Ministers must be communicated to the Lieutenant Governor but this does not mean that the concurrence of the Lieutenant Governor is required,” it further said.The bench also suggested that “the Lieutenant Governor must work harmoniously with his ministers and must not seek to resist them at every step of the way,” while adding that “neither of the authorities should feel that they have been lionised.”Interpreting a provision in the NCTD Act that empowers the L-G to refer a matter to the President in case of a difference of opinion between him and the government, the five-judge bench had aid that the L-G “should not act in a mechanical manner without due application of mind so as to refer every decision of the Council of Ministers to the President.”Similarly, the 2019 judgment also acknowledged the L-G must be informed of all decisions of the elected government but this did not mean a requirement of concurrence by him.“We would like to add that normally, and generally, the L-G is expected to honour the wisdom of the council of ministers. He is also expected to clear the files expeditiously and is not supposed to sit over it unduly. He is under duty to bear in mind expediency and urgency of the subject matter of the decisions taken by the GNCTD, wherever situation so demands. That in fact is the facet of good governance,” held the 2019 judgment.It also asked the NCT government to give due deference to the unique nature of the role assigned to the L-G, underlining that “both should realise that they are here to serve the people of NCTD and that mutual cooperation, thus, becomes essential for the effective working of the system.”Another amendment seeks to invalidate retrospectively rules made by the legislative assembly of Delhi or committees/house panels to consider the matters of “day-to-day administration of the Capital” or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions.This provision could nix the peace and harmony committee’s inquiry into the role of Facebook in the February 2020 riots in north-east Delhi, and will lead to questions over most of the house panels constituted to consider matters of “day-to-day administration of the Capital”.Most importantly, the proposed amendment will make constitution of house panels and their exercise vulnerable to challenge before the courts since the objective of their setting up will either relate to the “day-to-day administration of the Capital” or “in relation to the administrative decisions”.At least at seven different places in the constitution bench judgment, the apex court has said that Delhi assembly has legislative and executive competence over all subjects except three subjects. The 2021 amendment cites the same judgment but has clearly sought to give an upper hand to the L-G and the Centre in administration of the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bill-cites-sc-verdicts-but-may-upset-power-balance-101615834511845.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Need one-time solution for tech glitches: University of Mumbai senate||The recently concluded annual senate meet of the University of Mumbai (MU) once again brought the attention towards a permanent solution to technical glitches disrupting routine work. MU senate, over two days last weekend, highlighted the need for the university to invest more on digitising the varsity as a permanent solution.The senate, comprising elected and nominated members including principals, teachers and management members, works as a watchdog for the university. The body has the power to approve the varsity’s annual budget.“Thousands of students from the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) missed out on their first online exam in October last year due to an apparent ‘cyberattack’, which also was the reason for all IDOL exams to be postponed. Till date, no one has given any explanation for the attack or shared any report of the investigation,” said a senate member, demanding clarity. MU pro-vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni, who chaired the senate this year, assured the senate members that the cybercrime department of the Mumbai Police is still investigating the matter and a report in the matter will be shared soon. He further clarified that the technical error during IDOL exams was not a cyberattack but a denial-of-service attack created due to excess users logging on the website at the same time. Many senate members also questioned MUs preparedness for online exams.This year, due to the ongoing partial lockdown, the annual MU senate meet was conducted virtually. Spread over two days, many senate members demanded that MU allocate funds in the annual budget for 2021-22 solely for “digital university”. “We (university) cannot be struggling for solutions every time a problem surfaces. There cannot be stop-gap arrangements anymore. We need a permanent solution because lives and futures of lakhs of students are at stake,” said another senate member.MU has allocated around ₹1 crore for digital university at present and plans to raise more funds in the near future to support this plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-one-time-solution-for-tech-glitches-university-of-mumbai-senate-101615834912560.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Antilia security scare to Sachin Vaze’s arrest: Maharashtra govt in damage control mode||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar got into damage control mode on Monday, following the major embarrassment for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, Antilia; death of the car owner, Mansukh Hiran; and arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the scare. In the backdrop of the developments, the CM met Pawar on Monday afternoon at the former’s official residence, Varsha, as part of crisis management. Later, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole met the CM. Thackeray also met senior police officers from Mumbai police commissionerate to discuss the situation. He has believably expressed his unhappiness over the case and lack of control of the top officials on the affairs of the crime branch, said a senior official. Top leadership of both the NCP and Congress have told Thackeray that they were not happy with the way the entire episode was handled, especially the way the Shiv Sena defended Vaze, which could backfire if he is found to be involved in the case, as being pointed out by the NIA, said MVA insiders. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has squarely hit out at the Thackeray-led government and alleged Thackeray was shielding the officer. The MVA is likely to take a few corrective measures in a bid to put an end to the controversy and a few heads are likely to roll in the police department. Top leaders felt the case should have been taken seriously from day one and handled in a better manner. The two people who could face the music are Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and home minister Anil Deshmukh, according to MVA insiders. Singh may get transferred soon, as part of the routine development. Deshmukh may be shifted to some other ministry during routine reshuffle of cabinet in the near future. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar or water resources minister Jayant Patil may be considered as his replacement.”There is an impression among NCP top brass that Deshmukh has not been able to handle the home department effectively,” said a senior NCP minister. Besides, the state is likely to make an attempt to distance itself from the Vaze issue, pointing at it as a misdeed of a few officials, the insiders said. According to a senior NCP leader, Pawar is said to have expressed his displeasure over the attempt made by chief minister and home department to shield controversial police officer even though there were indications that he could be involved in some way. The NCP chief later held a meeting with senior ministers, including Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil, Chhagan Bhujbal, Nawab Malik and Jitendra Awhad. “Putting a full stop to reports of action against Deshmukh, Pawar said the party would wait till completion of probe by the anti-terrorism squad. He said that we should not stand by anybody found guilty,” said a senior minister, who was part of the meeting.The party leadership clarified that immediate action against Deshmukh was not necessary, but officers in the Mumbai Police force should be held responsible. “There is larger perception within the ruling parties that Deshmukh could not handle the department. Immediate action is unlikely. In fact, he was asked by Pawarsaheb to apprise the meeting about the current status of the case,” said an NCP insiderJayant Patil, who is also Maharashtra NCP chief, said, “Deshmukh has been doing his job properly…All the three ruling parties are of the view that if someone has committed a mistake, he should he held responsible and the responsibility be fixed. No one in the government is trying to shield anyone.”He also said that the ATS is still investigating the Mansukh Hiran’s death and the facts will come out before everyone. “If Antilia bomb scare would have remained with the ATS, facts would have come out before the people. They were probing in the right direction. Irrespective of the outcome, action will be taken,” the water resources minister said.“The party leadership is said to have told its leaders in the state that they are concerned about how the controversy has hurt the image of the MVA. Patole, in his meeting with the CM, has conveyed it to the latter,” said a Congress leader.Anil Parab, Sena minister and close aide of CM Thackeray, refuted the claims that cases, from Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in 2020 to Mansukh Hiran death case, have been poorly handled by the home department. “ In all these cases, there was a clear attempt to defame the MVA government. You mentioned Sushant Singh Rajput case, that probe is still not complete. There are no expected names in the charge sheet. It was only a ploy to defame. In all these cases, we have maintained that let the investigation get over. Whoever is found in the wrong will not be let off.” The Sena minister said that Vaze’s suspension was according to the law, where a public servant is suspended within 48 hours of his arrest. While speaking about the BJP’s reference to imposition of President’s rule in the state, Jayant Patil said, “There are norms for imposing the President’s rule in a state. The probe is going on and the state is determined to act against the guilty. If there is an intention to impose President’s rule, then the motive is clearly political. On merits, the truth will be out and the government will take action after the probe is completed,” the state NCP chief said, in his response.Patole, after meeting CM Thackeray, said they did not discuss the reshuffle in the state cabinet. “Officers are transferred in March-April anyway. Some officers may be transferred.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-security-scare-to-sachin-vaze-s-arrest-maharashtra-govt-in-damage-control-mode-101615834911136.html
16-03-2021||Other||Strict lockdown imposed in Nagpur as Covid-19 cases continue to rise||On the first of the week-long lockdown in Nagpur, the district reported 2,297 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths on Monday. Nagpur is the first city to go under lockdown in the second Covid wave, which is sweeping many parts of the country. Nagpur saw more than 2,200 cases for the third consecutive day on Monday, making it the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in Maharashtra. While the lockdown was aimed at keeping people indoors, many citizens ventured out citing various reasons. City police were out to implement stringent restrictions, and a few instances of people and police entering into an argument were reported. However, the number of people outside their homes reduced by after with stringent implementation of lockdown. “There will be very effective implementation of Covid curbs. We will not spare anyone violating Covid-19 norms,” said police commissioner Amitesh Kumar, who oversaw the implementation of lockdown since early on Monday. Kumar and his deputies from various zones were out on the streets to supervise the implementation of lockdown. Barricades were set up in all busy streets in the city and police were monitoring traffic movement. Vehicles were stopped to inquire why they ventured out. Announcing the lockdown, guardian minister for Nagpur district, Nitin Raut said it was imperative to impose the strict lockdown as cases were on the rise for the past week. Raut said, “Swab samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check whether there is any mutation in coronavirus in the district.” He also asked the district task force to study reasons behind the sudden spike in cases. He also made it clear that if cases continue to increase, the lockdown would be extended with stricter restrictions. On the first of lockdown on Monday, streets bore a deserted look. Schools, colleges, gyms and private offices remained closed while government offices were functioning with 25% strength. Essential services including medical shops, vegetable and grocery shops were allowed to function. It is for the first time that active cases in the district are higher than Mumbai and Thane, which are mass urban areas with bigger population as compared to Nagpur. The district administration has, however, made it clear that the ongoing lockdown would not affect the vaccination drive in its 128 centres across the city. It has allowed people to accompany those getting vaccine. The administration has also appealed to social organisations, non-government organisations to come forward to help senior citizens reach vaccination centres. In view of rising Covid-19 cases in the district, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has started hearing cases through video-conferencing from Monday and it will continue till March 21, according to a notice issued by the court registrar. Meanwhile, various traders’ bodies met Raut to register their objection to imposing lockdown till March 21. Citing that businesses were severely hit during the lockdown, traders said a fresh lockdown would come as a huge blow to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/strict-lockdown-imposed-in-nagpur-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-101615834852603.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Antilia case: Sachin Vaze suspended again||The Mumbai Police on Monday suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze following his arrest by the National Investigation Authority (NIA) in connection with its probe on the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month, even as his brother Sudharm Vaze filed a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay high court on Monday against the arrest claiming that Vaze was being made into a “scapegoat” by “certain political powers”.Vaze, 49, remained the centre of political debate as leaders from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party said that his arrest would allow for further investigation into ruling Shiv Sena leaders.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met Monday afternoon to deliberate on damage control measures. According to the leaders of the ruling coalition government, Pawar and Thackeray discussed a strategy to find the way out from the crisis. Thackeray also met Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole.Vaze, 49, a former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch was initially lead investigator after a Scorpio carrying 20 loose gelatin sticks (unassembled, with no detonator or timer) was found outside Antilia on Carmichael Road on February 25, but the case was transferred to the NIA on March 8. Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya said, “API Sachin Vaze has been placed under suspension by an order of the additional commissioner of police, special branch.”Also, the NIA questioned five people from CIU, including API Riyazuddin Kazi, API Prakash Howal, and three constables, on Monday. The NIA had also questioned Kazi and Howal on Sunday.Kazi was part of Vaze’s investigation team and NIA questioned him over the records made at Carmichael Road, where Antilia is situated, and in Hiran’s shop in Thane.The NIA also collected CCTV footage from the Mumbai police control room as well as from several sites in Mumbai and Thane. Two NIA officers also visited Vaze’s house in Saket, Thane on Monday afternoon, to question his family in connection with an explosives-laden SUV found near Ambani’s residence. The team questioned the family for over five hours and was still there by the time of going to the press. No one was allowed to enter the complex during this time, residents said.This was the team’s first visit to Vaze’s house after his arrest. Vaze’s brother, Sudharma Vaze said, “We have filed a writ petition and our lawyer has asked us not to talk to the media. We will make a statement to the media after March 25 to make our stand clear in the said matter.”Vaze was questioned for over 12 hours on March 13 by the NIA, along with other investigators in the case. However, only he was arrested late Saturday night, and produced before the NIA court the following day. He was remanded to the custody of the NIA till March 25.A habeas corpus petition, usually filed to challenge illegal detention or arrest.Sudharm’s petition stated that Vaze cooperated with the NIA, gave them all the corroborative pieces of evidence and yet, after several hours of interrogation, he was arrested without being served a copy of the First Information Report, or being informed of the nature of allegations against him. It further claimed that he was not allowed to speak to his lawyers or family members, which is a violation of his fundamental rights. This is the second time that Vaze has faced suspension. In 2004, he was suspended after being arrested for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, an accused in a 2002 bomb blast that took place in Ghatkopar. Vaze eventually left the force in 2007. He was reinstated in 2020 after the suspension order was revoked. His reinstatement has been challenged by Yunus’s mother in the Bombay high court.Vaze’s lawyers Sudeep Pasbola and Raunak Naik had moved an application on Sunday before the special court, claiming that Vaze had been illegally detained by NIA officials since Saturday morning, and that they were also denied a copy of the remand application. They further told the court that Vaze’s family had not been informed about his arrest, and Vaze was not apprised of his rights and the grounds of his arrest.The court on Monday asked Pasbola and Naik to apply for certified copy of the remand application.Denying the allegations, NIA counsel Sunil Gonsalves told the court that Vaze was summoned by NIA officials on Saturday in his capacity as the previous investigating officer in the probe pertaining to the explosives found in the Scorpio.He said that there were discrepancies in various documents filed in the course of the investigation, and that Vaze, who did not have his cellphone on him, had further refused to give the contact details of his family members after his arrest.Vaze is also under the scanner for the mysterious death of 48-year-old Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the Scorpio found outside Ambani’s residence. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5.Vaze had been transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre last week, after leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis sought his arrest following the statement Hiran’s wife Vimla gave to the Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) team investigating her husband’s death.In her statement, Vimla said that she suspected Vaze had a hand in Hiran’s death.Since then, Vaze has also become the subject of a political slugfest between the coalition partners of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Sachin Vaze has been suspended once again. But why, how, on what basis and who reappointed him on June 6, 2020? It should be investigated. Persons responsible must be punished,” BJP leader Kirit Somaiya tweeted on Monday.BJP legislator Nitesh Rane on Monday alleged that Yuva Sena leader Varun Sardesai was linked to Vaze in the latter’s alleged extortion racket from bookies during the previous Indian Premier League. Rane demanded that the NIA seek the call detail records of Vaze and Sardesai.Sardesai, who is a cousin of Aaditya Thackeray refuted these claims and said, “The allegations that the BJP legislator made today are baseless and therefore I am going to file a criminal defamation against legislator Nitesh Rane. He should either apologise in 7 days for false allegations or should face legal action and prove them.”On Sunday, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had come out in support of Vaze, as an “honest” cop, and said that the investigation into the case needed to proceed unassailed by politics.Sudharm’s petition filed through advocate Sunny Punnamiya stated that Vaze had been an upright and law abiding officer working with Mumbai police for 17 years but was made a scapegoat by some political powers based on the allegations of Vimla Hiran. (inputs from Anamika Gharat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-case-sachin-vaze-suspended-again-101615834851257.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai non-teaching staff to start physically reporting to duty||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Monday released a circular stating that non-teaching staff from all MU departments will now physically report to duty starting Tuesday until the end of the month. While class 1 staffers are expected to report for duty every day, class 2, 3 and 4 non-teaching staff are to physically report to duty on alternate days while maintaining 100% attendance, according the circular. The circular further states that class 3 and 4 non-teaching staff of the examination department too will be expected to maintain 100% attendance.“In the past few months, a lot of the university’s work has been pending, including paper work for National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading process as well as other important work, which is why we had asked for all non-teaching staff to report to duty,” said MU registrar-in-charge Baliram Gaikwad. He, however, added that increasing number of the university staff has been unable to report to duty due to travel restrictions in local trains. “With rising Covid-19 cases, the university is allowing class 2, 3 and 4 non-teaching employees to come to work on alternate days,” said Gaikwad.The university has, over the past few months, approached the state government and the railways, seeking extension of essential services tag to the university staff. “We cannot postpone work anymore. And for our staff to be able to report to duty, it is important that the railways allow us to travel even during peak hours. Since we are yet to hear from the authorities and the fact that Covid-19 cases are also increasing, for the next two weeks we are allowing 50% attendance with alternate days rule,” said Gaikwad and added that the university will review the decision by March 31.In the first week of February this year, state education minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that colleges can reopen with not more than 50% attendance on campus at any given point of time. MU affirmed this move with a circular asking colleges to approach local civic authority or collectors office before restarting physical classes in a phased manner. The circular also shared Covid-19 safety guidelines prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to ensure safety of staff and students.On February 12, however, after a meeting between officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and MU, civic officials asked to postpone reopening of colleges by a week until February 22 which has now been further postponed due to increasing cases of Covid-19 in the city.While the varsity is hoping to speed up all pending work by bringing back their staff, many members of the non-teaching staff unions are unhappy. “The university knows that Covid-19 cases are increasing, especially because of train travel. And they are still expecting all of us to report to duty. We hope the government will intervene in this matter and bring some relief to us,” said a member on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-non-teaching-staff-to-start-physically-reporting-to-duty-101615834791204.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 15,000 Covid cases for 4th straight day, slaps stricter curbs||Maharashtra on Monday saw 15,051 new Covid-19 infections, the fourth straight day of over 15,000 new infections, including one 16,000-plus case spike. The state’s case tally went up to 2,329,464, while active cases, too, rose to 130,547 — 5.60% of the tally.The surge in Covid-19 cases is likely to take a month to come under control, officials said. The spike has led to imposition of a lockdown or partial lockdown in several districts and cities of the state, even as state health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday clarified that no state-wide lockdown will be imposed, but instead stricter restrictions will be implemented to contain the spread. A few hours later, the state government issued an order banning all sorts of social, cultural, political and religious gatherings in the state. The order also imposed stricter punishments such as closing down establishments violating the rules for a period until the central government declares that the Covid-19 pandemic is no more a disaster. The fresh order will remain in place till March 31.“Hotels, restaurants, single screen theatres, multiplexes have been allowed to operate at 50% capacity by following restrictions such as no entry without masks, temperature checks before entry, hand sanitisers to be kept at various convenient locations, enough manpower to ensure wearing of masks as well as maintaining social distancing by visitors all the time,” stated the notification issued by the chief secretary Sitaran Kunte on Monday. In case of violation of this order, concerned establishment of the property will have to remain closed for a period until the Covid-19 pandemic stays notified as a disaster by the central government. Violation shall also attract penalties under the disaster act for the owner of the premises, it added.All offices except those that are related to health and essential services shall have to work with 50% capacity. Work from home should be encouraged and any violation will attract the same punishments determined for commercial establishments such as hotels, restaurants and cinema theatres, according to the order.The state government has allowed only 50 people to attend weddings and 20 people to attend last rites. Further, the state government has directed the management of all religious places to decide and declare the maximum number of visitors per hour depending upon the availability of space for movement and gathering with proper social distancing. “It is advised that convenient systems like online reservations for visits may be initiated,” said the notification.State health minister Rajesh Tope urged the people to cooperate by following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“We have opened up everything. The government is not considering to reimpose lockdown, neither in Mumbai nor in the state. But we will be bringing strict restrictions to avoid unnecessary crowding. We have already directed the local administration as well as police to ensure people wearing masks and social distancing are strictly followed. I urge the people to co-operate by following Covid protocol,” Tope said on Monday.He also said that there is no shortage of Covid vaccines in the state. In fact, the government is looking to improve the figure of those getting vaccinated every day. “We are vaccinating around 125,000 people every day and are trying to increase the numbers. I urge all those above 60 years and those affected with co-morbidities to get immunised at the earliest because the chances of Covid symptoms getting serious in this category of people is much more than the rest of the categories. Despite rise in infectivity, the rate of asymptomatic patients is between 85 to 90% and they recover in seven days,” Tope added.Meanwhile, the state’s death toll reached 52,909 as 48 casualties were reported, of which, 27 were in the past 48 hours and seven happened in the past week. The remaining 14 deaths were from the period before last week, health officials said.Mumbai on Monday reported 1,713 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the total number of cases to 345,675 and toll to 11,539. The case fatality rate is 3.3%. Active cases in the city have also shot up to 13,309 from 8,294 recorded on March 1. The recovery rate in Mumbai is 92%. So far, Mumbai has conducted 3,574,056 Covid-19 tests, of which 15,697 were conducted within 24 hours up to Sunday night.With 2,094 cases, Nagpur city recorded the highest cases across the state. The combined tally of the city and district went up to 2,448 in a day. Pune city also reported 1,122 cases, third highest cases after Mumbai. The combined tally of the city and district comes to 1,485 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-over-15-000-covid-cases-for-4th-straight-day-slaps-stricter-curbs-101615834731255.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends interim protection for Sharjeel Usmani||While noting that Sharjeel Usmani, an accused booked by Swargate police station on February 2 under section 153A of the Indian Penal Code, was cooperating with the investigators, the Bombay high court (HC) accepted the state’s assurance that no coercive action would be taken if Usmani presented himself before the investigators. The court directed Usmani to attend the police station on March 18 and further observed that it was up to Usmani to impose a self-restriction from speaking to media about the investigation in the case. The matter has been posted for further hearing on March 22. Usmani, former student leader of Aligarh Muslim University, was booked by the police based on a letter by Pradeep Gawade, regional secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Gawade alleged that Usmani had made a provocative speech at Elgar Parishad conference on January 30 in Pune. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by Usmani seeking quashing of the FIR filed against him and staying the proceedings arising out of it, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that the speech had been taken out of context by Gawade. Desai further submitted that the speech needed to be looked from the aspect of what message was being sent by the speech, who was it addressed to, and the context in which it was made before deciding whether it was provocative. He added that it could be construed from the wordings of the speech that he intended to send the message that everyone should join and work together, and in that case no offence was made out against Usmani. He also added that as per the assurance in the previous hearing, Usmani had attended the police station as per HC’s directions and hence the protection from coercive action should continue. However, advocate Aniket Nikam, who was allowed to intervene on behalf of Gawade, opposed the petition and said young minds or even strong minds would get influenced by the manner in which the speech was made, and hence the petition should not be entertained. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik, for the state, informed the court that the police was not willing to extend the assurance of no coercive action as Usmani had been speaking to the media about the complaint against him. After hearing the submissions, the court noted that it would have to read the speech by Usmani in its entirety to ascertain his intent while saying “don’t trust Indian judiciary, parliament...and I say we are in a state of war...” and stated that the court was open to criticism. The court further asked Yagnik whether Usmani had cooperated as per previous directions. On receiving an affirmative reply, the court asked him to continue the earlier assurance of no coercive action provided Usmani cooperated with the probe. The court then directed Desai to tell his client to decide on whether he wanted to impose a self-restraint on himself from speaking to the media, to which Desai assured he would convey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-interim-protection-for-sharjeel-usmani-101615834671276.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Is panel of developers feasible, Bombay HC asks state, BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file an affidavit on whether its suggestion of setting up a panel of competent developers to ensure that development/re-development projects can be taken up and completed in a time-bound manner was possible. The suggestion was made while hearing a petition filed by some persons who claimed that though they had given up their homes for redevelopment in 2015, they were yet to get new homes as construction of the building by the developer was stuck at the plinth level. In light of many such petitions coming before the HC regularly, the bench asked the state and BMC to file their replies on the feasibility of setting up panel of developers. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition filed by 37 members of a society, was informed by advocate MA Khan that all the petitioners were tenants of the civic authority, as the land of the tenement they lived in belonged to BMC. Khan submitted that in 2015 the members had agreed to a redevelopment proposal and vacated the building on the assurance that once the new building was ready, they would get new homes. However, as work on the new building was stuck at the plinth level, they were left without a roof over their heads. In view of this, they approached the HC for directions to the developer to complete the construction of the building as soon as possible. After hearing the submission, the bench noted that there was a tendency of developers who were not competent enough to undertake such projects or hand over projects to others after securing them, as a result of which people were rendered homeless. The court then observed, “We may also take judicial notice of the fact that a large number of litigants are knocking the doors of this court concerning projects, in which the developers have failed to fulfil their obligations to complete the construction for long years, either of slums scheme or such other redevelopment. This has created an alarming situation, to the effect that a large number of citizens are homeless and are made to suffer at the hands of such developers.” The court suggested that the state government ponder over the issue as to whether it was the need of the time that statutory authorities maintain a panel of registered developers, whose competence on all fronts to execute projects was tested by either the government or other statutory authorities and who could be entrusted with the work of development/re-development. This, the court said, would assure the citizens that construction, once undertaken, was completed in a time-bound manner. After making the observations, the court directed the state government and municipal authority to file an affidavit on the suggestion canvassed by the court, and also asked the advocate general to appear in the matter in the next hearing on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-panel-of-developers-feasible-bombay-hc-asks-state-bmc-101615834551247.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||ED attaches Rs35.48-cr immovable assets of Sushil Kumar Shinde’s daughter, son-in-law||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have provisionally attached immovable assets worth ₹35.48 crore belonging to Raj Shroff and his wife Priti, who are owners of Jindal Combines Pvt. Ltd and Orlando Trading Pvt. Ltd, under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) in a bank fraud case linked to Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, promoters of Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and others. Priti is the daughter of former Maharashtra chief minister Sushil Kumar Shinde. ED officials from Mumbai office confirmed the attached assets are two commercial properties admeasuring approx. 10550 sqft each in Kaledonia building, Andheri (East), Mumbai. The details of the properties surfaced during the ED’s investigation into the case registered against Wadhawans on the basis of an FIR registered by the anti-corruption bureau for siphoning off loan money to tune of ₹200 crore sanctioned by Yes Bank to Mack Star Marketing Pvt. Ltd. Wadhawans fraudulently transferred one commercial property of Mack Star located in Kaledonia building, Andheri East, to Jindal Combines Pvt. Ltd at a price of ₹9.39 crore (ready reckoner value ₹15.64 crore at the time) in 2014 and another commercial property to Orlando Trading Pvt. Ltd at an agreement value of ₹18 crore (ready reckoner value ₹19.84 crore) in 2016, ED sources said. However, they paid only ₹10 crore for the second property till date. The firms are receiving rent of ₹1.76 crore and ₹1.39 crore per annum for these two properties, respectively. Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawan cheated Mack Star Marketing Pvt. Ltd by illegally selling above said properties without consent of the majority shareholder (DE Shaw Group, which holds 83.36% shares) of Mack Star Marketing Pvt. Ltd. at very low price causing loss to Mack Star, ED sources added. The total value of the attachment in this case is now ₹69.84 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-attaches-rs35-48-cr-immovable-assets-of-sushil-kumar-shinde-s-daughter-soninlaw-101615834492973.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||North Mumbai saw more Covid-19 cases in past 7 days: BMC data||According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Andheri, Mulund, Kandivli, Borivli, and Ghatkopar have recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases between March 6 and March 13, with more than 500 reported cases last week. Thirteen out of 24 wards in Mumbai have Covid growth rates higher than the city’s average growth rate of 0.39%. T ward, corresponding to Mulund, tops the list with a Covid growth rate of 0.59%. G-South ward, corresponding to Worli, has the slowest growth rate (0.22%). The lowest spikes have been recorded between Dongri and Mohammad Ali Road, Colaba and Fort, Marine Lines, Worli, Wadala and Matunga. Between March 6 and 13, Andheri (West) recorded 895 cases of Covid-19 and a growth rate of 0.56%. Mulund recorded 671 cases and a growth rate of 0.57%. Kandivli (West) recorded 599 cases and a growth rate of 0.42%. Andheri (East) recorded 576 cases and a growth rate of 0.41%. Borivli (West) recorded 536 cases and a growth rate of 0.42%. Ghatkopar recorded 510 cases and a growth rate of 0.44%. Highest growth rate does not correspond with most reported cases since for some wards, the base bases (total number of cases reported up to March 6) was lower, said civic authorities. A senior civic official said there could be multiple reasons why a ward has more cases but a slower growth rate. “Some areas have more hospitals in their jurisdiction. A ward close to the international airport, which is quarantining international passengers, is likely to record more cases. We also found certain clusters where higher number of cases were detected together.” Civic officials attributed the growing number of cases to a number of factors, including resumption of local train services for the general public and citizens not following social distancing norms. “Since the resumption of local trains for everyone, we have seen a spike in the number of new cases. We are recording maximum Covid-19 cases from high-rise buildings, which are turning into superspreaders. People are attending marriages, family functions without wearing masks,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Experts from the state’s Covid-19 task force also pointed out more tests were being conducted. “We are testing about 20,000-22,000 people each day and that’s why the number is high. However, the test positivity rate is alarming. Also, patients are now coming in with gastrointestinal symptoms. Before they realise they have Covid-19, they have spread it to the rest of the family which is also adding to the caseload,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the task force. Dr Rahul Tambe, senior consultant, internal medicine and infectious diseases, Nanavati Hospital, emphasised that it is essential for the public to wear masks, wash hands regularly and observe social distancing. “Vaccination alone can’t eliminate the risks of infection without strict adherence to basic preventive measures,” he said. BMC officials said samples from Covid hotspots are being sent for gene sequencing to see if any new variant of Covid-19 has developed in areas like Amravati, where the infection appears to be spreading at a faster rate. “We are sending samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune from hotspots for genome sequencing to find any possible mutation of the virus. Earlier, we were sending samples only from Seven Hills Hospital, but are now selecting samples from wards with more cases,” said Kakani. While at this time last year more cases of Covid-19 were being reported from slums, BMC said last week that 90% of the cases reported in January and February were from wealthier, residential buildings. Ward officers have increased testing in areas with more cases of Covid-19 and all high-risk contacts of Covid-positive patients must be tested on the seventh day. “The sero survey also showed that antibodies were fewer amongst those in high-rises as against those from the slums,” said Dr Pandit. As of March 13, the most active cases are in R-Central ward, (Borivli; 947 cases); followed by K-West, which covers Andheri (West) (918 cases); R-South, which covers Kandivli (West) (816 cases); K-East, which covers Andheri (East) (799 cases); and P-North, which covers Malad (West) (798 cases). The fewest active cases of Covid-19 cases are in B ward (Dongri and Mohammad Ali Road; 94 cases). Meanwhile on Monday, 44,683 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 39,505 received the first dose and 5,178 received the second dose. 30,298 beneficiaries were senior citizens and 4,500 were citizens aged above 45 years who also have comorbidities. There are 85 active vaccination centres in the city at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/north-mumbai-saw-more-covid-19-cases-in-past-7-days-bmc-data-101615834491919.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Some domestic passengers use fake Covid-19 reports to fly||Authorities said some passengers flying into the city are providing fake test reports at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to show they are Covid-negative. Terming these as “rare” instances, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said fake reports showing results of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are being presented at the airport. There is no mechanism to track the veracity of RT-PCR test results. In November, CSMIA issued guidelines stating domestic passengers from Delhi, Gujarat, Goa, and Rajasthan are required to provide a negative RT-PCR test report undertaken within 72 hours prior to travel. Otherwise, they must undergo the test at the airport on arrival at their own cost. Kerala was added to the list in February. There is a team dedicated to conducting checks at CSMIA before passengers enter arrival halls. However, it is not possible for officials to cross-check the authenticity of each passenger’s report. According to BMC, some are presenting fake test certificates at the airport. “We got to know that some passengers take a Covid-19 negative report from a relative. Then with the help of Photoshop, they change the dates, names and PAN numbers. Within five minutes, they are able to create fake RT-PCR reports,” said a BMC official, requesting anonymity. Last week, BMC registered a first information report against a family based in Khar, who had presented a Covid-negative report that was exposed as fake when the test result with the laboratory showed as positive. “In the event of suspicion of a fraudulent report, BMC officials on ground at the airport are alerted to the incident for further action,” said a spokesperson from the airport. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “I don’t overrule that domestic passengers aren’t submitting fake test reports but such instances are rare.” Another tactic used by passengers from the five restricted states is reportedly to enter Mumbai via other neighbouring states. For instance, BMC noted some passengers coming from Goa had taken a flight to Bengaluru and then flown to Mumbai. “In that way, they skip screening at the airport as passengers from Bengaluru don’t have to show RT-PCR reports. If a passenger doesn’t reveal their travel history, it is not possible to cross check it,” said the BMC official. “Travelling from other states is one of the contributing factors to the rise of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. To control the possible spread of the virus, we are checking test reports,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. He added that if the public continued to flout rules, more stringent measures may have to be imposed. Velrasu said there is no accessible government database against which the veracity of Covid-19 reports may be checked live. “If people are showing reports from Maharashtra, then through the bar code, we can still verify the authenticity. But if passengers submit fake reports from other states, there is no way to check those,” he said. The regular Covid-19 test is available at a minimum cost of ₹850 at CSMIA. Results are delivered in eight to -24 hours. An express test is available at ₹4,500, which delivers results in 13 minutes. Self-quarantine is mandatory for international passengers from the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa. “CSMIA recently re-opened its Terminal 1 to further enhance health and safety of the passengers and personnel at the airport” reads the airport’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-some-domestic-passengers-use-fake-covid-19-reports-to-fly-101615834372383.html
16-03-2021||Other||41-year-old killed, 3 hurt in car-van collision on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway||A 41-year-old man was killed on Monday morning after his car collided with a van coming from the opposite side on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway. Three passengers of the van were injured in the incident. The accident led to a three-hour traffic snarl on the Ahmedabad lane of the highway, as the authorities had to clear the damaged vehicles. By late afternoon, the highway was cleared for vehicles.The car driver has been identified as Shobitkumar Das. “Das was travelling to Mumbai, when he lost control over his speeding car. The car jumped the divider and landed on the Ahmedabad lane, where it collided with a van. After we learnt about the accident, we rushed Das to hospital, but he had already died. The three injured passengers are undergoing treatment at two government hospitals,” said assistant inspector Pratap Darade of Manor police station.Das has been booked under section 304 (a) (negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and his post-mortem report is awaited. His body was handed over to his family and the police are probing further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/41yearold-killed-3-hurt-in-car-van-collision-on-mumbai-ahmedabad-highway-101615834371300.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt can’t change assistance pattern of 12 fully funded colleges: DU||The Delhi University (DU) administration on Monday wrote to the Delhi government saying its 12 fully funded colleges are bound to follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) norms in matters of budgeting and expenditure, and the government cannot change the pattern of assistance for releasing funds.The move comes a day before chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is scheduled to meet the principals of the 12 colleges. The principals have been asked to produce details of appointments, and surplus funds available with them.These 12 state government-funded colleges have been at loggerheads with the Delhi government over funds for a long time. Earlier, the colleges had alleged that the government either delayed release of funds or gave “insufficient” funds, and the government alleged financial irregularities in these colleges claiming they had surplus reserves.On Saturday, the governing bodies (GBs) of two of these colleges -- Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and the Sports Sciences, and Maharishi Valmiki College of Education -- passed a resolution stating that the pattern of assistance as suggested by the Delhi government, and not that of the UGC, will be followed for the release of grant-in-aid from the government.But DU registrar Vikas Gupta said the Delhi government cannot change the pattern of assistance. “These colleges were established as per the norms of the UGC in 1997. All these years, the government has been providing funds to these colleges in line with the UGC norms. Now, they are saying they will decide their own assistance pattern... Also, college governing bodies cannot decide this matter on their own -- they work under the control and supervision of the DU’s executive council. They are bound to follow the rules and regulations as prescribed by the executive council.”According to a resolution passed by the executive council-- the highest decision-making body of the varsity-- last December, the funds collected under different heads such as college development fund, hostel fund, student society fund, and admission process charges, can only be used for the purposes for which they were collected.However, the resolution passed by the GBs of the two colleges stated that the colleges can use “surplus grant in aid” drawn and available with them for purposes such as salary, allowance and other recurring expenses.The resolution further said these colleges cannot undertake any activity that entails a financial liability, such as making appointments, without taking prior approval from the Delhi governmentDU dean of colleges Balram Pani said the university on Monday wrote to the director, directorate of higher education, raising the issue.In its letter, the DU administration said, “The modification which has been processed by the directorate of higher education on a retrospective basis is against the law and has resulted in unnecessary and uncalled for panic and unrest among the academic fraternity in these colleges.”“Any attempt to curtail the autonomy and financial independence of these institutions will neither be a constructive step nor legally tenable as it would vitiate the act, statues, ordinances, and guidelines of the University…” it added.Earlier in the day, DU teachers’ association (DUTA), along with scores of students and DU principal association (DUPA), took out an “adhikar rally” from the office of DU’s acting vic-chancellor to Kejriwal’s office. DUTA also submitted a memorandum with the chief minister’s office over the alleged crises in these 12 colleges.Delhi government spokesperson did not provide a comment despite repeated requests for one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/funding-tussle-delhi-govt-can-t-change-assistance-pattern-of-12-fully-funded-colleges-says-du-101615834252275.html
16-03-2021||Other||Doctors in north corporation threaten to go on leave on Friday, launch indefinite strike after to demand pending wages||New DelhiDoctors from North Delhi municipal Corporation-run hospitals have threatened to go on mass leave on Friday, followed by launching an indefinite strike next week onwards over non-payment of salaries for the last four months. The doctors from Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals of the north corporation had gone on a strike last year as well, which was later called off in October, on assurances that their salaries will be released. “Doctors of North MCD are deeply anguished and very disturbed due to non-payment of their salaries of last four months, which has made their life extremely difficult due to hardships forced on them. Today, we feel traumatized and humiliated as the corporation has once again forced us to beg and that too for our own due salaries,” said a letter by the municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association to the MCD commissioner. The letter said, “As most hospitals and many peripheral health units are also involved in vaccine administration, sampling, contact tracing and data reporting of Covid-19, hence suitable alternate arrangements will be made beforehand to avoid any hardship to patients and concerned government organisations/authorities. During the strike period, work at the casualty ward will remain unaffected. The responsibility for this strike shall lie with the government which forced us to take this bitter avoidable step.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-in-north-corporation-threaten-to-go-on-leave-on-friday-launch-indefinite-strike-after-to-demand-pending-wages-101615834251708.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 368 new cases of Covid-19||With 368 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday, Delhi added fewer than 400 cases of the viral infection after four days. However, the dip in numbers is likely due to fewer tests conducted on Sunday, reported a day later in Monday’s health bulletin. The city had conducted just over 62,000 tests for Covid-19 on Sunday, compared to an average of over 71,000 tests conducted over the four days before that when the city had seen over 400 cases. To be sure, testing numbers usually see a dip on account of the weekendThis puts the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total samples tested – at 0.59%. The increase in positivity rate is indicative of increasing spread of the infection. However, experts believe that the spread is still under control till a positivity rate of 5% or less in maintained. The positivity rate in Delhi has been on the rise since mid-February, however, still remains below 1%. The average positivity rate over seven days stood at 0.56% as compared to 0.43% the week before and 0.36% before that. “The positivity rate in Delhi was over 15% at one time and the WHO (World Health Organization) says that it should be below 5%. The positivity rate in Delhi has been below 5% for a few months now and below 1% for nearly 2.5 months. In comparison, the positivity rate in Maharashtra is 16.46%, Kerala 3.54%, Punjab 4.81%, and Gujarat 1.78%. This means that the positivity rate in Gujarat is three times that of Delhi, Punjab six time, Kerala seven times, and Maharashtra thirty times,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. He added, “Till the positivity rate does not cross 1%, the infection is well control. The numbers are fluctuating a little. But, we are alert. We have increased the number of tests to over 70 thousand. We are taking all precaution.” The minister also said that people need to keep following all precautions, even during festivals such as the upcoming Holi, as the infection is likely to happen in waves. “It does not look like Covid-19 will just come to an end; it is likely to keep coming back. What we have learnt so far is that wearing masks is the best way to prevent the infection. Even those who have taken the vaccine should keep wearing masks.” Play dry Holi, he suggested. Experts said that one of the major cause of the increase in the infection is the complacency in following norms by the people after the infections went down. “People are going to markets and marriages. They are hardly interested in putting on the masks. This is because the number of cases has gone down, many think it is just like the flu, and others think that the vaccine will protect. Truth is, Covid-19 is not really like flu as most people have immune response ready for the common viral infection. Covid is new and not everyone has immunity to it. Vaccinating enough number of people will also take time,” said a senior pulmonologist from Safdarjung hospital, on condition of anonymity. On Monday, over 21 thousand people over the age of 60 years received their first shot against Covid-19 and 3,429 people between the ages of 45 years and 59 years with comorbidities did, according to government data. The number of hospitalisations are also on the rise. There were 607 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in various city hospitals as on Sunday night as compared to 489 at the beginning of the month. “There were very few admissions for nearly fifteen days, however, the number of admissions have started increasing over the last three to four days. Hopefully, the surge would not be like the one we had seen in November because many people have already been exposed to the infection and still others are getting vaccinated. There is a need to strictly enforce masking like the government was doing previously,” said Dr Rajesh Chawala, consulting pulmonologist at Indraprastha Apollo hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-368-new-cases-of-covid19-101615834251177.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Fake call centre being run by 7 women busted||A fake placement agency and call centre, being run entirely by women, was busted in west Delhi’s Ramesh Nagar and seven women were arrested, police said on Monday.Police said these women used to cheat job aspirants by offering them fictitious jobs with different airlines. Police said more than 150 people across the country have been duped in less than six months by these women. Several forged appointment letters of various airlines have been seized, the police said. Those arrested were identified as Sushmita (26), Chhaya (21), Akansha Sharma (21), Pooja (21), Roshni (24), Rekha (23) and Jyoti (29).Police said they had received information last week regarding a fake placement agency that was being run through a fake call centre in Ramesh Nagar.The complaint, received on e-mail, said the sender was cheated of ₹32,000 by the gang, which offered him a fictitious job. The information was developed and on Saturday evening, the police searched the call centre. Seven women who were found running the centre at the time were arrested. The police also recovered six phones, forged airline appointment letters and data of victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fake-call-centre-that-cheated-job-seekers-of-money-busted-seven-women-arrested-101615834250475.html
16-03-2021||Other||Water shortage continues in parts of east, north-east Delhi||New DelhiWater supply continued to remain affected in parts of east Delhi on Monday — for the third consecutive day — even as the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) claimed to have completed the repair work of an interconnection pipeline that had resulted in shortage in the above mentioned areas for the last couple of days. A DJB statement issued on Monday said that water supply was restored in around 90% areas that had been impacted by the repair work. Supply in areas around Mayur Vihar Phase-I, II and III, parts of Trilokpuri, Shashi Garden, Acharya Niketan and Patparganj continued to remain affected till Monday evening. “Mayur Vihar and adjoining areas are at the tail end of the distribution system; hence it will take time for water to reach there. Rest 90% of all areas have all resumed supply,” DJB said in its response. The water utility agency had said on Sunday that supply to all localities will be restored by the evening or by Monday morning. However, even in areas like Laxmi Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Mandawali, Shahadara, Ghazipur and Patparganj, where supply was resumed on Monday morning, the flow was thin. Residents also complained that the water being supplied was murky and raised a stench. Water supply in some areas in east and north-east Delhi was impacted on Friday, after the DJB began interconnection work on 1200mm diameter main lines at Jal Vihar and Greater Kailash. The interconnection work was started after complaints received by residents of Vikas Kunj, reporting major leakages at the GK main lines, which resulted in water entering the basements of their houses and posing a threat to the building structure. DJB on March 11 had issued an advisory to people that due to the repair work of pipeline, the water supply would be affected from 10am on Friday to 10am on Saturday. However, by Saturday the water utility agency had issued a fresh advisory, extending the timing of the shortage till the next day morning. On Monday, several residents took to Twitter tagging DJB’s official handle, asking when the water supply will be restored to these areas. “It has been over 72 hours since there is no water in MV phase-3. You said that the supply will be restored by yesterday (Sunday) evening. Pl (Please) find a sol (solution),” tweeted Prakash Tiwari. DJB officials said that throughout Monday, water tankers were being made available to residents of these areas free of cost, to make up for the shortage. “By evening supply had come in 99% of the localities and by Tuesday morning regular supply would continue,” a senior DJB official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-shortage-continues-in-parts-of-east-northeastdelhi-101615834193500.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||BJP welcomes Bill, Congress calls it murder of democracy||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday welcomed the Centre’s move to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act and give overarching powers to the city’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G), even as the Congress termed it as a “black day” for the city.The bill, introduced in Parliament on Monday, said “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly and made it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action, reviving a power tussle over the governance of the Capital between the Centre and the elected AAP government.The Congress, which governed Delhi for 15 years before being defeated by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2013, slammed the BJP for curtailing the powers of an elected government as well as the ruling party in the city for being a “mute spectator” despite the knowledge that the Union Cabinet had, in February, approved a proposal to amend the Act.Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said, “It is black day and a black decision, as it curtails the power of a democratically elected government. This will destroy Delhi’s democratic powers. But the ruling AAP party and a weak chief minister are equally responsible for it. This decision was approved by the Cabinet in February. Why didn’t Kejriwal, who is known for sitting on dharnas, protest against it? Why didn’t his ministers or MPs voice their dissatisfaction? All Kejriwal did was tweet against it.”BJP leaders, however, welcomed the Centre’s decision, and the party’s Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta said most administrative powers in the Capital will continue to rest with the state government.“Even after the amendment Bill, 75% of administrative work and power will rest with Delhi’s government. It will be better that the Arvind Kejriwal government concentrate on good governance and developing Delhi, instead of starting a new power struggle.”Meanwhile, accusing the AAP of misgovernance, BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the Opposition in the Delhi assembly, called the L-G’s office the “ultimate” authority. “Public money is being wasted, due to which Delhi is in a mess. No new development work has been initiated by this government. As Delhi continues to be a Union Territory, the L-G has the ultimate power. The Centre has only defined the powers more clearly. As for their charge of losing elections, the BJP won all the seats in Delhi for a second term in the 2019 Lok Sabha. The Centre has the people’s support,” Bidhuri said.The Congress, however, said the move was against the basic tenets of the Constitution. Former Congress MLA Anil Bhardwaj said, “If the Bill is passed, it will be a black day for Delhi, the murder of democracy, and a clear violation of the basic tenets of the Constitution.”The BJP hit back and said the Congress, when in power in the state and Centre, failed to give Delhi full statehood. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said, “The Congress should answer why their government didn’t give full statehood to Delhi. Their government was in power [in the Centre] when the GNCTD Act was passed in 1991. The state government was not given all the powers. When the BJP came to power [in Delhi] in 1993, the ultimate authority was the L-G. In fact, at that time, important departments like Delhi Jal Board, DTC, DESU and others were not with the Delhi government. There was cordial coordination between the Centre and the-then CMs (Madan Lal Khurana and Sahib Singh Verma, both of the BJP), who brought these departments under the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-welcomes-bill-congress-calls-it-murder-of-democracy-101615834192353.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||‘Daily governance, House panels set to be affected’||The proposed amendments to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act, 1991, if turned into a law, will have implications on day-to-day governance, and will also affect the functioning of the Delhi assembly committees, officials, bureaucrats and experts said on Monday.In a media briefing shortly after the bill was tabled in the Lok Sabha, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia addressed two amendments proposed by the Centre -- one, the definition of “government” to imply the Lieutenant Governor; two, the power of the L-G to look into matters other than the three subjects under his jurisdiction (public order, land, and police).Senior government officials said a third dimension to the proposed amendments suggests that Delhi assembly committees will not be allowed to enquire into day-to-day administrative decisions of the government.“This effectively implies that most of the House panels will become void, and the assembly rules from which these committees have been formed will also be void. The public accounts committee, which looks into the accounts of the government and the budgetary allocations, might go in such a case,” said a senior Delhi government official on condition of anonymity.The official added that the proposed amendment will also give officials some protection if they are summoned by any House panel as the definition of “day-to-day administration” is not clearly defined.“That way, several matters taken up by an assembly committee can be categorised as a subject of day-to-day administration. For example, if a committee is enquiring into the number of EWS category people who availed various government benefits and summons an official, the person can refuse citing the issue falls under day-to-day administration,” said the official.A second official added that if the Bill becomes law, the L-G will have to issue a “general” or “special order” clarifying the matter or subjects he would like to keep under his jurisdiction.“There will be increased friction between the legislature, the executive, and the Union government. This is because the amendment states that not just decisions of the council of ministers, but the opinion of the L-G will have to be sought on the decision taken by every minister. Delhi has seven ministers, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and each of them issues dozens of orders/directives on a daily basis. The back-and-forth of files would only delay a lot of projects,” said the second official.PDT Achary, former secretary general of Lok Sabha, was of the view that the amendments were intended to strengthen the hands of the L-G and hobble the elected government. “This totally nullifies the 2018 Supreme Court judgment, which clarified that the L-G is bound by the aide and advice of the elected government, except for matters related to the police, public order and land in Delhi, which primarily comes under the L-G’s domain. There was no need for the concurrence of L-G on day-to-day administrative decisions except those three subjects,” he said.“But this peculiar amendment states the elected government will have to obtain an opinion from the L-G on all decisions. The L-G is under no compulsion to give his opinion on all decisions, which effectively means most of the decisions will be stalled or will be hanging in the middle,” Achary said.A third senior government official said instances of power tussle between the L-G and Delhi government reduced after the SC’s intervention in 2018. “If this Bill is passed, bureaucrats may be caught between the L-G’s office and the political executive,” said the official.Raghav Chadha, AAP MLA from Rajendra Nagar and chairperson of the Delhi Assembly committee for peace and harmony, said to directly curtail the powers of the Assembly committees is to indirectly limit the power of the legislative assembly which represents nothing but the will of the people of Delhi.“This Bill is an affront not only to the will of the people, but to the spirit of federalism. The legislative assembly committees have been an important tool deployed to oversee the functioning of the government and is an integral part of the administrative checks and balances that exist in a democracy,” he said.Lawyer Gautam Bhatia suggested several of the provisions of the bill are specifically designed to nix the ongoing enquiry by the Delhi assembly into the 2020 riots, and suggested that they could be challenged.“Look at the proposed amendment to Section 33, which specifically bars the Delhi assembly from constituting committees to enquire into ‘the day-to-day affairs of the administration’, AND makes it applicable with retrospective effect,” he tweeted.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, “Even after today’s amendment Bill 75% of administrative works and powers will rest with Delhi’s government and it will better that instead of starting any new power struggle Arvind Kejriwal government concentrates of giving good governance and developing Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amendment-will-hit-daily-governance-experts-101615834192860.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Toolkit case: Delhi court disposes of anticipatory bail pleas of Jacob, Muluk, Kar||The Delhi Police on Monday told a city court that it would give seven days’ prior notice to Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob, Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk and climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhuri in case the police believe that their arrest is “unavoidable and imminent” in the toolkit case.Accepting the police submission, the three sought to withdraw their pleas seeking anticipatory bail and additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana, accordingly, disposed of the petitions. The trio, along with climate activist Disha Ravi, has been charged with sedition for creating and sharing a toolkit on social media related to the ongoing farmer’s protest against the three farm bills. While hearing arguments on the anticipatory bail pleas of Jacob, Muluk and Chaudhuri, Rana also noted the police submission that technical evidence is being gathered and information has been sought from intermediaries such as Signal and Telegram “whose USP is to be reluctant in sharing the information”.The police told the court that information also has to be sought from Zoom and other social media platforms while also claiming that of the 70-80 participants in the Zoom meeting of the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) held on January 11, allegedly attended by the accused, information has been obtained with respect to just two participants.Appearing for the police, additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court that the investigation is at an initial stage and technical analysis has to be done.The court said the process would be time-consuming and custody (of accused) cannot be given to “instil fear”. The police said Muluk had deleted all images and whatever else was on there on his device and these can’t be retrieved.To this, Rana remarked, “What will you do in custodial interrogation then… You can’t do it to create fear. You have to show me how you would collect evidence during interrogation”.At this point, the defence counsels said they would withdraw the anticipatory bail pleas provided that the police agreed to give them advance notice of seven days in case they intend to arrest their clients.Noting their submissions, the court disposed of the pleas by the trio. It directed the police to give seven days’ notice if it gathers enough evidence to arrest the accused.The police had registered a case on February 4 for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the ‘toolkit’ while expressing her support to the farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toolkit-case-delhi-court-disposes-of-anticipatory-bail-pleas-of-jacob-muluk-kar-101615834191677.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Gun goes off accidentally at wedding, two get hit by same bullet||An accidental firing by a man carrying an illegal pistol at a wedding in north-east Delhi’s Maujpur left him and another guest injured on Sunday evening, the police said.The man, identified by the police as 28-year-old Vishal Thakur, was arrested and booked under the Arms Act, said Sanjay Kumar Sain, deputy commissioner of police (north-east). “We have identified the source who provided the illegal gun to Thakur. We are trying to arrest him as well,” said the DCP.Sunday’s firing is the latest in a series of shooting incidents in north-east Delhi. Before that, between Friday and Saturday, three separate incidents of shooting left a man dead and two others injured in the district. The police said they have solved all those three crimes.The latest firing incident, the DCP said, was accidental, even though the gun itself was illegal, making the entire incident the result of a criminal act.Thakur, a resident of Shalimar Garden Extension in Ghaziabad, was attending a friend’s wedding in Maujpur on Sunday night when the firing happened. He runs a gymnasium in his neighbourhood.“Thakur and his friend, Suraj Dhaka, were leaving the function and getting on their motorcycle when the gun that Thakur was carrying accidentally went off. The bullet first pierced his thigh and then the knee of Dhaka sitting behind him,” said the DCP.Both men fell off the motorcycle and had to be taken to a nearby hospital even as the police were alerted.The DCP said an injured Thakur was soon arrested. Since it was difficult to immediately establish if Dhaka too had anything to do with the gun, no legal action was pursued against him. The injuries to both the men are not life-threatening, police said.Last year, there were 672 incidents of firearms used in crimes in Delhi, just a few number short of the 736 such incidents in 2019. According to the police, 2,735 illegal guns were seized throughout last year, the National Crime Records Bureau data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gun-goes-off-accidentally-at-wedding-two-get-hit-by-same-bullet-101615834191078.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||‘Give copy of charge sheet to Kanhaiya, others’: Court tells cops||A Delhi court on Monday directed the city police to supply the copy of the charge sheet to former JNU students Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya and seven others in a case, where they have been booked for sedition for allegedly raising anti India slogans during an event at the varsity campus on February 9, 2016.Chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma posted the matter for April 7 for scrutiny of documents in the case and also granted regular bail to seven accused who were not arrested in the case earlier.The seven accused — Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat — who were not arrested before filing of charge sheet were granted bail on Monday. These seven, through their counsels, had moved bail applications following which the court granted them bail on a personal bond of ₹25,000 and a surety of a like amount.Kumar, Bhattacharya and Umar Khalid, who is currently in judicial custody in connection to the Delhi riots of February 2020, and seven others appeared in the court after they were summoned as accused on February 14.The Delhi police’s special cell, on January 14, 2019, filed a 1,200-page chargesheet before the city court naming Kumar, Khalid, Bhattacharya and seven others for raising “anti-India” slogans on campus during an event on February 9, 2016.The accused have all denied the allegations and criticised Delhi Police for filing a sedition case against them. Kumar and Khalid said the police action was “politically motivated”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supply-copy-of-chargesheet-to-kanhaiya-kumar-others-in-jnu-sedition-case-court-101615834190500.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||Carriageway from Delhi to Ghaziabad reopened||Vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad through Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was restored a little after Sunday midnight, as police opened one carriageway that had remained shut for the past 48 days, since violence broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. The Ghazipur border as such continues to remain closed with farmers camping there for the past 110 days to protest against three contentious farm laws.All the six carriageways of Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-9, and NH-24 were completely blocked with multilayered barricading and deployment of police personnel following the violence that erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 (Republic Day). Movement of vehicles through the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border has remained affected since November 25-26, when thousands of farmers —who arrived from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand — occupied the roads after they were stopped from entering Delhi.As a result, the other five carriageways connecting Delhi and Ghaziabad are still closed.In a message posted on social media at 1.45am on Monday, additional deputy commissioner of police (east) Vinit Kumar said, “In view of the prevailing law and order situation at the Ghazipur border and keeping in mind the public convenience, the carriageway of NH-24 going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi has been opened in due consultation with the police officials of Ghaziabad, UP.”Earlier, on March 2, one of the carriageways had been opened for six hours before being blocked again, as police officers said there was no official order for opening the route.Motorists, who used the stretch on Monday, responded warily to its opening. “We are not rejoicing as the police may close it again. No one really cares about us,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Kaushambi who works at a finance company in south Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/carriageway-from-delhi-to-ghaziabad-opened-at-up-gate-after-remaining-shut-for-48-days-101615834130513.html
16-03-2021||Other||Noida authority to rope in pvt agency for land audit||NOIDA:The Noida authority has decided to rope in a private agency to carry out “a land audit” across the city soon. With the help of the audit report, the authority aims to figure out the land it can earmark for the development of industrial or residential plots.The agency will be tasked to carry out a survey across 54 villages and sectors, to determine undeveloped and non-government land available in the city.According to the officials, once the survey is completed, the agency will audit as to how much land can be used for the new projects, including industrial or residential purposes.“We will rope in a private agency, which will work on the audit report, and then decide on the development of the city,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida authority.The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the Noida authority to identify the land, which has already been acquired and can be used for the given purposes. The state government also wants to identify land belonging to private landowners and can be acquired for industrial or other purposes.The UP government also wants to identify the available government land, so that it can be protected from the land mafias. They grab lands and construct unauthorised properties, causing revenue loss to the government, said the officials.Right after coming to power, the UP government had directed the Noida authority to carry out a land audit of the available government land. The land department had conducted an audit, which showed that at least 250 hectares of land was to be acquired along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. But, due to shortage of staff, the department was unable to figure out the available government land in each village which could be used for different purposes such as residential, commercial or industrial, the officials said.“The authority had conducted an internal audit in 2018, but there is a need to hire an agency that can conduct the land audit for planning in the future,” Maheshwari added.The authority will also conduct a survey of around 550,000 square metres of undeveloped government land in City Centre, to understand if there is a requirement of land for group housing in the market. “Once we know about the demand for the land, we will float the scheme to sell this land,” according to Maheshwari.The authority has mixed-use land in City Centre, and it can sell it to the developers. The officials estimate that they can raise around ₹2,000 crore by selling this government land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-authority-to-rope-in-pvt-agency-for-land-audit-101615833531048.html
16-03-2021||Other||Noida authority opens call centre to address C&D debris complaints||NOIDA: The Noida authority has set up a call centre to address complaints related with construction and demolition (C&D) debris in the city. It aims to ensure that the C&D debris does not remain unattended on roads, pavements, in residential areas among others.Once a complaint is filed, the officials will collect the C&D waste — which causes sanitation and environment pollution issues — from the area concerned.“People can file their complaints with regard to C&D debris via the toll-free helpline number (18008919657) any time. They can also send their complaints through the WhatsAap number (9717080605),” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority.“Once the complaint is filed, our staff will contact the person concerned and collect the waste. The debris will be transported to our plant for treatment and recycling, as per the rules,” Mishra added.The C&D waste plant is built on 5 acres of land in Noida sector 80. There are 14 collection points where the waste will be collected and transported to the plant for recycling. However, bulk waste generators will have to pay for the collection of the C&D debris. Bulk waste generators such as contractors, realtors among others will be charged ₹494 per tonne, the officials said.“If bulk waste generators dump the debris at the plant in sector 80 directly, then they will have to pay ₹145 per tonne, for the recycling. However, the facility has been made free for the common people,” said Mishra.The authority will treat 300 metric tonnes of C&D debris at the plant on a daily basis and plans to make bricks/tiles out of the treated waste. It had sanctioned ₹81 crore for the plant on September 6, 2018, to handle the C&D debris properly. It now focuses on handling all types of waste, including the C&D debris, to score better in Swachh Survekshan 2021. Swachh Survekshan is an annual survey of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation in cities and towns across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-authority-opens-call-centre-to-address-c-d-debris-complaints-101615833530450.html
16-03-2021||Kolkata||After CM's injury, Bengal govt appoints new director security||A day after the Election Commission of India (ECI) removed Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vivek Sahay from the post of director, security, the West Bengal government on Monday appointed Gyanwant Singh, another senior IPS officer. Singh was the additional director of security.Sahay was removed by the ECI following a probe into the March 10 incident at Nandigram in East Midnapore district in which chief ministerMamata Banerjee suffered an injury in her left ankle hours after filing her nomination from the assembly seat.Also read: Shah promises development, forest rights in Bengal tribal belt; CM hits backBanerjee alleged that some people intentionally pushed the door of her SUV when she was standing on the footboard of the moving vehicle and waving at the crowd. She is contesting against her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari.Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay decided to appoint Singh for the post after holding a meeting with director-general of police P Nirajnayan who, too, was recently appointed by the ECI.The ECI suspended and removed Sahay saying he failed to conduct his duty and protect the chief minister who enjoys Z+ category security.Banerjee is touring the districts in a helicopter and attending rallies in a wheelchair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/after-cm-s-injury-bengal-govt-appoints-new-director-security-101615833170086.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Noida set to get warmer as mercury spikes||Noida: The city will witness warmer days ahead with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting mercury to rise by four degrees Celsius (°C) in the next three days. “The mercury is set to rise and reach around 35°C in the next three to four days. Since the region will see cloudy sky over the next few days, there will not be a sudden spike in the daytime mercury, rather the rise will be gradual. The wind speed will be moderate and hover around 12 km per hour for next two days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.As per IMD, the minimum and maximum temperatures for Noida on Monday were recorded at 19°C and 31.5°C, respectively against 18.1°C and 30.9°C a day earlier. The average maximum and minimum temperatures recorded at Safdarjung observatory, considered average for the region, were 32°C, three degrees higher than the season’s average and 16.2°C, a degree higher than the season’s average.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida deteriorated on Monday. While Noida’s air quality slipped within ‘moderate’ levels, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida slipped from ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday was 182 against 174 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 208 against 182 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 224 against 195 on Sunday. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality will deteriorate due to dust raising winds in the next two days. “Surface winds are high and west south-westerly. AQI is likely to stay in the moderate to lower end of poor category for next two days. An increase in dust contribution is expected in the coming days. The poor AQI is forecasted for March 18,” said a SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-set-to-get-warmer-as-mercury-spikes-101615833412617.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Gang of robbers busted in Punjab’s Mohali, five held||A gang involved in about 150 incidents of robbery, snatching and theft in Kharar and Zirakpur in the past three years has been busted with the arrest of five of its members, Mohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said on Monday.The crime investigating agency has also recovered a .315 bore pistol with two rounds and other deadly weapons besides three motorcycles from their possession, he said.All the accused are aged between 20 and 24 years, belong to Uttar Pradesh and were presently residing in different parts of the district. They have been identified as Rakesh Giri of Bareilly who was residing in Kailon village of Mohali, Shahrukh Khan of Sambal residing in Bhabat village of Zirakpur, and Charan Dass of Muradpur, Nannu Singh of Muzaffarnagar and Sohail Khan of Sambal, all of whom were residing in Zirakpur.The gang used to come together in groups in early hours, and target labourers and commuters, mostly at newly developed colonies, said the SSP. They used to snatch money, mobile phones and even motorcycles at gunpoint. The interrogation of gang members revealed that they had committed 70 crimes near Sunny Enclave in Kharar and 80 crimes near Zirakpur. Several FIRs were already registered at various police stations against them.“They were planning to execute a major robbery at a construction site near Jandpur village, when a team led by sub-inspector Harjinder Singh raided the area and arrested them,” said the SSP.A case under Sections 379 (theft), 379B (snatching), 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act has been registered against the five at the Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-robbers-busted-in-punjab-s-mohali-five-held-101615833412112.html
16-03-2021||Noida||No ‘good’ days during Grap period in Ghaziabad, city mostly suffered ‘very poor’ AQI days||Ghaziabad: During the entire period of the graded response action plan (Grap) when heightened measures were taken up to control air pollution from October 15 to March 5, Ghaziabad experienced no “good” days in the period of 140 days. During the period, the city suffered 33 days under the ‘severe’ category and 74 under ‘very poor’ which are considered high levels in terms of air quality index (AQI), figures of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) have revealed . As per the UPPCB figures, only one day was under ‘satisfactory’ category, 10 under ‘moderate’ and 23 under the ‘poor’ AQI during the said period. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The official figures indicate that water sprinkling on a total of 4,344km of different road stretches was taken up, besides roads of nearly 3,530km were also taken up for mechanical sweeping every week. As regards the enforcement, about 13,962 inspections were taken up and notices served to 395 erring persons or establishments, and 148 FIRs were lodged. Besides, penalty of ₹1.97 crore was imposed against different defaulters for spreading pollution. “The impact of air pollution has also been as a result of meteorological conditions. Besides, due to increase in traffic due to diversions in trans-Hindon areas, our two monitoring stations at Indirapuram and Vasundhara were high on pollution levels. We are working on a plan under which ₹60 crore was received by the municipal corporation,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The traffic diversions in trans-Hindon have been in place since November when the protesting farmers arrived at the UP Gate and are camping there since then. “The Grap is generally observed from October 15 to February 15. This year, we have received directions from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on March 5 for lifting of ban on diesel generator sets. So, we are assuming that Grap has ended on March 5. The CPCB has also issued more directions which we need to take up regularly,” Sharma added.Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist, said that the pollution levels have been high during the winter season. “This is happening continuously for the past 4-5 years and officials have no clues whatsoever to deal with the situation. More ground level enforcement and a comprehensive study on wind pattern, changing meteorological conditions and contribution of sources, is must to deal with the situation,” Vashishtha said. In its directions, the CPCB has asked the state agencies to ensure that large construction sites adhere to norms and stringent actions should continue with special emphasis to hotspot areas. The funds of ₹60 crore received by the municipal corporation are specifically devoted to air pollution abatement measures. “Our work with regard to the funds is under tendering process. Further, we are also expecting to receive 50 electric buses from the state government once the infrastructure gets complete by April. The buses will largely help in reduce pollution, besides providing safe journey for local commuters,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-good-days-during-grap-period-in-ghaziabad-city-mostly-suffered-very-poor-aqi-days-101615833410612.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh govt schools see high turnout as offline exams begin||Offline exams began in government schools on Monday with high turnout witnessed in most centres.Class 11 students had their accounts exam on Monday. Accounts is a centralised subject as per the UT education department and all the schools got the same paper. Students said that the paper was easy and they were able to attempt it satisfactorily. Physics exam will be held on Tuesday.One of the students who appeared for the exam at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 46, Aakash Kumar of Sector 16, said, “The exam was straightforward and was from what we had prepared during the offline classes.” Another student here, Daksh, also said that the exam was easy, but the paper was a bit lengthy.100% attendance in most schoolsMeanwhile, most schools said that attendance had remained high. Officials from GMSSS-46 said their attendance was at 100%. At GMSSS-35, only one student was absent. GMSSS-23 reported two students absent. UT director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said school-wise data will be compiled and would be available soon.In case any student is quarantined or contracts Covid-19, they will be allowed to take the exam online. There is a station to sanitise students at the entrance, check their temperature and ensure they are properly wearing a mask. In case a student feels unwell during the exam, provision of a sick room has been made in each school, where the student can be kept isolated to take the exam.Vice-principal Bhag Singh Kairon of GMSSS-23 said a student with normal body temperature was complaining of body ache, so he was shifted during the exam.Parents want online examsMeanwhile, the Chandigarh Parents’ Association have written to the UT adviser asking that exams be conducted online. President of the body Nitin Goyal said, “Most universities are conducting online exams. Even board exams have been delayed so why put the students at risk? The number of active students has risen over 1,000 and we demand that only online exams and classes should be conducted till the situation improves.”Meanwhile, officials of the UT education department said they will continue with the current offline practice unless they receive instructions from the administration. “All Covid protocols are being followed thoroughly. A distance of six feet is maintained between students and only one student per bench is allowed,” officials said.Total 12 students can sit in a classroom unless the class is bigger and more students can be adjusted while following all social distancing parameters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-govt-schools-see-high-turnout-as-offline-exams-begin-101615833360827.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University likely to skip physical convocation again this year||With the recent spike in the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in the city, Panjab University (PU) is likely to skip holding a physical convocation for the second year in a row.Last year, the annual event was withheld after teaching was suspended due to the outbreak in March. No formal decision, however, has been taken in this regard.The annual convocation is usually held in April and the preparations begin in March. No preparations have been made by the varsity so far.In 2019, the varsity held its 68th annual convocation on April 28, which was addressed by vice-president of India Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of PU. A total of 1,020 students had received their degrees including 493 PhD degrees.Last year, the varsity had urged its research scholars to register on the National Academic Depository (NAD) to get their degrees online. The NAD is a digital database of academic awards provided by the Government of India, facilitated by the ministry of human resource development.PU may explore virtual optionThis year, PU may explore whether they will hold the convocation in online mode. PU controller of examination, Jagat Bhushan, said, “There is uncertainty whether the annual convocation will be held physically due to the prevailing situation. However, the issue of holding it virtually will be discussed with the university and the matter will be pursued as per the directions issued.”However, PU students do not seem to be in favour of a virtual event. Nikhil Narmeta, who is NSUI’s PU president, said, “The convocation has to be held physically whenever it would be possible. It is the dream of every student and parents to see themselves in a black robe.”The annual convocation at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), which was scheduled on March 15, was also postponed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-likely-to-skip-physical-convocation-again-this-year-101615833358899.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad starts testing for Covid at railway station||Ghaziabad: In view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in states such as Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, the district health department on Monday started conducting of tests of passengers coming from such states at the Ghaziabad railway station. Health officials said that they will conduct both the rapid antigen tests and the RT-PCR tests for the passengers arriving at Ghaziabad from the states having high incidence of Covid-19 cases. “We have deployed a team that will conduct random tests for 10-15% of passengers from states like Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. The railway authorities have also been requested to provide us a list of such passengers so that they can be screened at their homes as well. We will carry out rapid antigen tests for symptomatic cases, while random RT-PCR tests will also be taken up,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The officials said that during the past 10 days, about 122 positive cases were detected in the district and 35 of their 1,488 contacts were found positive. According to the state Covid-19 bulletin, Ghaziabad on Monday reported seven new cases, taking the overall tally to 26,887 which include 102 deaths. At present, the district has 105 active cases while 26,692 patients recovered since March last year.The officials have also asked the members of various ‘nigrani samitis’ to inform the district Covid command and control centre about people coming in from high incidence states. The district has 286 such samitisin urban areas and another 182 in rural areas to keep an eye on persons having Covid-like symptoms. Gupta said that about 30 people from different states were tested during past one month and all were found negative for Covid-19. “Besides the random testing of passengers from the high incidence states, we will also take up random testing of other passengers as well. We have also received directions from the state officials to increase our daily testing target. For this, we have formed five more teams, and now we have a total of 25 teams taking up testing and surveillance,” the CMO said. The Ghaziabad district is already assigned a target of conducting 3500 rapid antigen tests and 1700 RT-PCR tests per day. The officials said that the daily average of tests is about 2200 in the first fortnight of March and low since cases declined considerably during winters. “As a result, their contacts also declined, and it also affected daily testing. Now, we are focussing more on RT-PCR tests and will try to achieve the daily target of 1700 tests per day,” Gupta added. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls. According to railway officials, there are about 175 different trains which stop at Ghaziabad railway station. “Before the lockdown last year, the Ghaziabad railway station catered to about 300 trains, including the local EMU trains. The average daily footfall at present is about 8,000-10,000, which was about 50,000 during pre-lockdown period,” said a railway official at the Ghaziabad station. In a statement issued on Monday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said that five states of Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in the daily new Covid cases. They cumulatively accounted for 78.41% of the 26,291 new cases reported in the past 24 hours across the country, as per the statement. “A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. Kerala has a consistently declining trend over last one month,” the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-starts-testing-for-covid-at-railway-station-101615833291632.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||Domestic help steals cash, jewellery from house in Chandigarh||A woman, who was hired as a domestic help a few days ago, has stolen ₹30,000 cash and gold jewellery from a house in Sector 49, Chandigarh.In his police complaint, Harsh Tando of Nirvana Society, Sector 49, who is a businessman, stated that the housemaid stole ₹30,000 cash and gold jewellery, including chain, mangalsutra, bracelet, earrings and bangle.Police said that the accused woman, identified as Pooja, had approached the family a few days back seeking work as domestic help and was hired.A case under Sections 381 of the IPC has been registered against the woman at Sector 49 police station.Sector 49 station house officer Surinder Singh said, “Residents should get the police verification done before hiring anyone. The least that can be done is to share their information with the beat staff.”On March 1, the police had arrested a caretaker for theft in the house of an aged couple in Sector 8, Chandigarh. The theft was committed by two women who had come looking for work as housemaids in Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/domestic-help-steals-cash-jewellery-from-house-in-chandigarh-101615833291199.html
16-03-2021||Other||Experts hint at possible second wave of Covid||Bengaluru Chief minister B.S Yediyurappa on Monday said the rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases was a possible warning of a second wave of the pandemic in Karnataka and particularly in its capital, Bengaluru.“The Covid-19 infection rate in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Rural, Udupi, Tumakuru, Dakshina Kannada and Bengaluru has gone up. This is an indication of a second wave, is what the experts have conveyed to me,” Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru on Monday.The chief minister held a meeting with the health department and other experts to discuss possible measures to deploy in order to contain the growing number of cases in the state.His statements come at a time when Karnataka and Bengaluru in particular has seen a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, raising cause for concern in the south Indian state, which has let its guard down to allow economic activities and bring in some much needed revenue to the cash-starved state.There were 932 positive cases reported across Karnataka on March 14 (Sunday) and seven deaths. Of this, 550 were from Bengaluru, including five deaths, taking the total number of active cases in India’s IT capital to 6,454, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The meeting raises alarm among the city and state’s residents of any decision of a relapse into the lockdown as a measure to contain the growing number of cases. He said the government will watch how the public reacts to the requests of maintaining safety protocols for a week before deciding its future course of action.The chief minister also indicated further measures after a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 17.“In order to balance economic activity and avoid lockdown, I request all citizens of Karnataka to wear masks, maintain social distance at public places,” he said.Yediyurappa reiterated that people should cooperate with the safety protocols to help the government refrain from announcing further restrictions or another lockdown.He said the health department should initiate talks with private hospitals to keep beds, oxygen tanks and other requirements ready like earlier.Yediyurappa said that authorities should increase vaccinations in districts that have seen a rise in Covid-19 cases. He acknowledged that the rate of vaccinations was not going according to the rate at which the state would require.The chief minister said the rate of vaccination among front-line workers was just around 58% and directed concerned authorities to increase the inoculation.Karnataka has so far vaccinated over 14.96 lakh people (first and second dose).The technical advisory committee also said that senior citizens should be identified with the help of voters’ list for vaccination. The committee also recommended setting up vaccination centres in large apartment complexes.The chief minister said that the earlier decision to impose a cap of 500 people will continue in marriages, public and political events and violators will be penalised heavily. The committee also suggested testing shopkeepers, bus drivers and others to identify cases at the earliest and contain them.The earlier directive of mandatory Covid-19 negative certificates for people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala will continue, according to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-hint-at-possible-second-wave-of-covid-101615833233445.html
16-03-2021||Other||Project to construct bee fences launched to stop animal-human conflict||BengaluruThe Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) on Monday rolled out its pilot project, RE-HAB (Reducing Elephant-Human Attacks using Bees), as a measure to contain the growing instances of human-animal conflict in the coffee-growing region of Kodagu, about 225 km from Bengaluru.The project, estimated to cost ₹15 lakh, proposes to create “bee-fences” to mitigate human–elephant conflicts in the district, state and country.“The objective of Project RE-HAB is to thwart elephant attacks in human habitations using honey bees and thus reduce fatalities of humans as well as retaliatory deaths of elephants in the hands of humans,” according to the statement by KVIC.The project was launched at four locations around Chelur village in Kodagu district, located around the periphery of Nagarhole National Park and Tiger Reserve, and are known to be human-elephant conflict zones.The initiative comes at a time when there has been a growing number of human-animal conflict in Karnataka.According to data from the Karnataka forest department, there have been 17,561 incidents of human-animal conflict in 2020-21 as against 16,314 in 2019-20. A majority of this includes destruction of crops, plantations, attacks on cattle and livestock among other incidents, according to the department.The ecologically rich south Indian state is also home to over 6,000 elephants (2017), 524 tigers and 1,783 leopards spread across five national parks, 23 wildlife sanctuaries and one conservative reserve, which includes five tiger reserves.The statement added that the project served a dual purpose as it is also aimed at increasing the bee population, considered key to the environment as they are one of nature’s best known pollinators.The organisation has set up 15-20 interspersed bee boxes in the passage ways of elephant-human conflict zones to block the entrance of animals to human habitations. A string attached to the boxes acts as a trigger when elephants attempt to pass through, which will set them off and dissuade them from progressing further.“High resolution, night vision cameras have been installed at strategic points to record the impact of bees on elephants and their behaviour in these zones,” the department said.“It has been scientifically recorded that elephants are annoyed and even frightened of honey bees. Elephants fear that the bee swarms can bite their sensitive inner side of the trunk and eyes. The collective buzz of the bees is annoying to elephants that force them to return,” Vinai Kumar Saxena, the KVIC chairman, said in a statement.According to KVIC, over 500 people die every year due to elephant attacks in India, which is 10 times more than casualties caused by big-cats. Over 170 human fatalities have been reported in Karnataka alone and over 500 elephants have also died as a result of such conflicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/project-to-construct-bee-fences-launched-to-stop-animal-human-conflict-101615833232900.html
16-03-2021||Other||Airport train services fail to attract daily passengers||Bengaluru: Less than 50 people on a daily basis use the airport train services that were launched by the South Western Railway (SWR) amid a lot of fanfare in January this year. Even though the ticket is priced at just ₹10, the ridership continues to remain low, according to SWR.The average cost of travelling to Kemepgowda International Airport here ranges from ₹700 to ₹1,400.Experts in the city are not surprised at the low figures. “The train runs at odd hours and the frequency is not great either. Considering the fact that the railway had shut down the service for some work (during the second week of February) shows there is a lack of consistency. It was obvious that the project would not be a success and will require more time to settle,” Srinivas Alavilli, head of civic participation of Janaagraha, a non-profit organisation working for urban governance, said.Even though a SWR spokesperson said that efforts are underway to revise the train schedule to attract more passengers, activists claimed that the service was nothing less than eyewash. Instead of a single service only to the airport, the work on the suburban line to the airport which has been delayed due to “bureaucratic egos” should have begun by now, they argued.The 41.40 km suburban line connecting Bengaluru city railway station to the airport via Yeshwantpur was approved by the Union Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs in October 2020. Following this, K-RIDE (Karnataka Rail Infrastructure Development Company), joint venture between the state and Centre, announced that the airport line would be a priority and be completed in three years.However, following a meeting between the government and the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), K-RIDE changed its plan to develop the direct airport line first.“Even though the BMRCL has not received approval for their airport line, they are asking K-RIDE not to prioritise the same. Clearly, they are concerned that the sub-urban rail would affect their plans to have a metro line to the airport,” Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a rail activist, said.“With minimal land acquisition requirements, K-RIDE could have ensured that the train chugs to the airport terminal within the stipulated time of three years. But because of this competition, the people of Bengaluru have been denied convenient transport to the airport,” he added.Activists also pointed at the lack of coordination between authorities responsible for public transport in the city. “The smooth integration of the bus, suburban rail and metro is the solution for providing a seamless transportation network. But the fact remains that there is a lack of coordination and an urgency to prioritise the work by these agencies,” Alavilli said.Experts believe that a plan to effectively use both the sub-urban rail and metro is still not on the cards.A former Indian Railway official, on the condition of anonymity, raised flags over the current plan for the suburban rail network.“If you look at the map of the proposed railway network, it is ‘urban rail’ rather than ‘suburban rail’ as it only reaches the edge of the city. Ideally, the suburban railway should have been connected to the district in the outskirts of Bengaluru like Tumkur and Chikkabalapur while metro should have been provided for commuting within the city,” he said.He added that when compared to other cities running sub-urban rails, the proposed 148 km is not good enough.“Bengaluru needs at least a 500-km long suburban rail network (according to the proposal, the suburban rail will be 148-km long). Mumbai has more than 700 km, Chennai has over 500 km while Kolkata has 1,500 km of suburban train. There should be long term planning for such development where commutation to Bengaluru from neighbouring districts would be faster. There is no such planning right now,” he said.A K-RIDE official, preferring anonymity, said that work has begun on the Byappanahalli-Yeshwantpur- Chikkabanavara and Heelalige-Byappanahalli- Rajanukunte lines.“This is because of government instructions. It is not that we will not work on the airport line, but it will happen much later,” the official said.The official refused to comment on the rivalry between the two agencies leading to the delay in the project. BMRCL spokesperson was not available for comments at the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/airport-train-services-fail-to-attract-daily-passengers-101615833231753.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||4 Covid warriors test +ve month after getting 2nd shot in Mohali||Four healthcare and frontline workers who were administered the second and final dose of Covishield in February have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali. A similar case surfaced in Chandigarh too. Those tested positive include two doctors and a staff nurse of the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, a field officer posted at the civil hospital in Lalru, also in Mohali district, and a healthcare worker at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh. Urging people not to hesitate from getting vaccinated due to such cases, doctors said that vaccines have limited efficacy and their importance lies in decreasing the chances of contracting the disease as well as its severity.“The level of antibody response varies from person to person. It is very much possible that a person tests positive after getting vaccinated. Data too suggests that the double dose efficacy of the vaccine is 62%. Getting vaccinated is important as it decreases the severity of the disease,” said Dr Madhu Gupta, principal investigator of Covishield vaccine trials at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.Dr Deepak Chawla, nodal officer for immunisation at GMCH, said that after people are vaccinated, they are advised to keep taking precautions. “Vaccine is majorly effective against the severity of the disease, hospital admissions and death. It does not grant guarantee until a large segment of the population gets vaccinated,” he said.Mohali civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said the four staffers who tested positive have mild symptoms and are in quarantine. “The vaccination is being carried out by trained staff under the direct supervision of specialist doctors. We administer the shot with the surety that the person will not have any side effect and it will not endanger life. The vaccine is very safe and no one should hesitate from getting it,” she said. In Mohali, 7,051 healthcare workers and 5,819 frontline workers have got the first dose of the vaccine. Among them, 3,507 and 891, respectively, have got the second dose. In Chandigarh, 13,266 healthcare workers and 13,051 frontline workers have been vaccinated, with 4,603 and 1,622, respectively, getting the second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-covid-warriors-test-ve-month-after-getting-2nd-shot-in-mohali-101615833231223.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida car jacking: 4 cops sent to police lines for negligence||Greater Noida:Four police personnel were recalled to the district police lines on allegations of negligence following the Sunday evening robbery of a vehicle from an engineer in Greater Noida. The assailants, who carjacked the SUV at gunpoint in Sector Omicron around 6.45 pm on Sunday, are yet to be unidentified.Nishant Dhanda — an engineer with an MNC in Greater Noida, his wife, and their four-month-old daughter were going to a market in their Vitara Brezza. On their way to the market, Nishant had stopped and went out of the vehicle to buy vegetables from a roadside vendor in Sector Omicron. He had left the key in the SUV as his wife and daughter were inside it. The suspects hijacked the SUV while Nishant’s wife and minor daughter were in the rear seat of the vehicle.Dhandas are residents of Omaxe Palm Greens society in Sector Mu. The suspects had pointed a gun at the victims, boarded the car, and drove away with the vehicle. They had dropped the mother-daughter duo around 200 metres away from the crime spot. Nishant called the police helpline after the incident. A case of robbery under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 392 was registered at the Surajpur police station.The family had given their statement on Monday, but due to inaction, four police personnel were sent to the Surajpur police lines.“A police post in-charge, head constable, beat constable and a constable were removed from their duty for negligence in handling the case. First of all, they are liable as such an incident occurred in their jurisdiction area. Also, they didn’t pursue the robbers yesterday, and failed to take thorough measures like setting up check posts or a perimetre to nab them,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.A patrolling team had tried to chase the suspects but they managed to evade police in a housing complex in the area.Four police teams have been formed to solve the case. Senior officials claim that they have some important clues and the robbers will be nabbed soon.“We are working on certain angles and necessary action is being taken,” said the DCP.Certain vehicle theft gangs and other known criminals are on police radar in connection to the case.“We have been told that several teams have been informed to look into the case. My wife only sustained minor injuries on her leg when she was pushed out. She is traumatized but otherwise doing fine,” said Nishant.Apart from the cops who were recalled to police lines, eight station house officers in the district were also internally transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-car-jacking-4-cops-sent-to-police-lines-for-negligence-101615833170545.html
16-03-2021||Noida||Goons attack staff at Dasna toll plaza, one arrested||Ghaziabad: A group of at least 10 persons on Sunday night allegedly thrashed the employees at Dasna toll plaza on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway after an argument over the payment of toll. The assailants also vandalised the toll plaza, police said, adding that they have arrested one of the suspects. Police said the entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed inside one of the toll cabins, and an attacker was seen beating up the staff and also throwing chairs and breaking window glasses. According to police, the incident took place at around 10pm when some men in an SUV, a Maruti Brezza, had altercation with the toll staff about paying up the toll and later some unidentified men arrived on motorcycles and attacked the toll staff. “The men on motorcycles came about 15-20 minutes after the Brezza went away. There was some technical snag with the server at the toll, so the SUV could not be identified immediately. But we have deployed teams to trace the suspects. One of them was nabbed and others will soon be identified and arrested. The men are from nearby Masuri area,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Police said that they lodged an FIR against unidentified suspects for rioting, robbery, causing hurt and criminal intimidation at Masuri police station. “The toll staff filed a police complaint in connection with the incident and police are taking up investigation,” said Mudit Grag, project director, National Highways Authority of India. The complainant, Rakesh Pathak, is one of the staff at the Dasna toll plaza. “They were 8-10 men who had come on four motorcycles to the toll at around 10pm on Sunday. As soon as they arrived, they started beating up the toll staff and also damaged the equipment and broke the window glasses. They also snatched ₹1,260 in cash from the toll staff and fled before issuing threats and hurling abuses,” Pathak said in his police complaint. In Ghaziabad, the 135km long Eastern Peripheral Expressway has toll plazas at Dasna and Duhai interchanges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/goons-attack-staff-at-dasna-toll-plaza-one-arrested-101615833050497.html
16-03-2021||Chandigarh||A year on, uncertainty surrounds reopening of Kartarpur corridor||Uncertainly prevails over reopening of the Kartarpur corridor, which provides Indian pilgrims visa-free access to the last resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak in Kartarpur, Pakistan, even as its closure in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic completed one year on Tuesday. This despite the fact that members of the Sikh community have made scores of appeals to the Union government to reopen it so as to offer prayers at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, located just 4 kilometers from the international border. Dedicated to the 550th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak, the corridor was inaugurated by the Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan on November 9, 2019. The corridor remained operational for only four months before governments of both countries closed it to curb the virus spread. Even during those four months, several controversies cast shadow over it, and the turnout of pilgrims remained low. Only 59,000 people used the corridor, even as India asked Pakistan to allow 5,000 pilgrims daily and 10,000 on special days.Citing improvement in the pandemic situation, the Pakistan government first expressed its willingness to reopen the corridor on June 27 last. It then announced to reopen it on October 3, but India did not take a call. As a result, the integrated check-posts on both sides of the border continue to wear a deserted look.Since the government has allowed opening of places of worship across the country, Sikh community leaders have made scores of appeals to the central government to reopen the corridor and lift the suspension, but to no avail. ‘Covid-19 outbreak is just an excuse’ Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the government is keeping the corridor shut on the pretext of the pandemic. “The prolonged closure gives one reason to doubt the government’s intentions. When all religious places are open and thousands of devotees are visiting them, why are Sikhs being stopped from visiting their sacred shrine? We again urge the government not to remain adamant on the issue,” he said. Sukhwinder Singh, a Sikh leader from Agwan village near Dera Baba Nanak, said, “Indian Sikhs had to wait for 70 years for opening of the corridor. Now when the corridor was constructed by spending crores of rupees, it must be reopened.Also, the corridor also raised hope of development of historic Dera Baba Nanak town which has been in a state of neglect.”Punjab cabinet minister and Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “There should be no hesitation in reopening the corridor. I don’t understand the policies of the BJP government at the Centre. If pilgrims can be allowed to visit Nankana Sahib, why cannot they travel 3-4 km through the corridor for a few hours?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-year-on-uncertainty-surrounds-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-101615829211113.html
16-03-2021||Delhi||NCT Bill to have ‘dangerous’ consequences on India’s federal structure: Sisodia||The deputy CM said the two proposed amendments to the GNCTD Act include changing the definition of “government” to imply the L-G instead of the elected government.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia the bill, if turned into law, will have “dangerous” consequences on India’s federal structure.Calling the move “unconstitutional” and “undemocratic”, he said the bill overrides the Supreme Court’s judgment of July 4, 2018, which gave the elected government the power to take decisions on day-to-day matters except on three subjects — police, land and public order — which is directly under the control of the L-G.Sisodia said the Bill will stall Delhi’s progress. “The BJP has meddled with the welfare and provisions for the people in various states that it holds power in. Now it wants to ensure that the people of Delhi do not benefit from rightful provisions and initiatives of the Delhi government,” he said.“By bringing this bill in Parliament, the central government has made it clear that it wants to rule Delhi through a back door channel by making the L-G ever more powerful,” he said.Also Read | Sisodia orders probe in financial irregularities of 12 DU collegesThe deputy CM said the two proposed amendments to the GNCTD Act include changing the definition of “government” to imply the L-G instead of the elected government.“The second proposed amendment to the GNCTD Act is that all files will now have to go the L-G. This in itself is an anarchist move. If this is done, then what is the point of electing a government through elections,” he said.Sisodia read parts from the Indian Constitution and also from the July 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court to justify the Delhi government’s stand that the proposed amendments are unconstitutional.“The bill implies there will be no role of the elected government. Section 239A(a) of the Indian Constitution states that Delhi will have a state legislative assembly. It (the assembly) will have powers to make laws on everything except on subjects of land, law and order and police. It also states that there will be a council of ministers headed by a chief minister who will provide aid and advice to the L-G. In case of difference of opinion, the matter will be referred to the President by the L-G, this is what the constitution states,” he said.Sisodia further said that when the AAP government came to power in 2015, the BJP started interpreting the law in such a way that the then L-G started taking up files and projects saying he is the government.“We went to the HC, which ruled in the L-G’s favour but then we moved the Supreme Court, which gave an order in our favour. The Constitution bench stated that federal balance of states should be maintained,” he said. BJP leaders have, however, hailed the move, and said the amendments will “more clearly define” the L-G’s powers in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nct-bill-to-have-dangerous-consequences-on-india-s-federal-structure-sisodia-101615809410460.html
16-03-2021||Mumbai||In Mumbai, a bomb scare, a murder mystery, and terror angle: What we know so far||In a series of fast-paced developments over the weekend, the special National Investigation Authority (NIA) court at Kala Ghoda, Mumbai on Sunday remanded assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to custody till March 25, after the central agency arrested him late Saturday night for his purported role in planting explosives in a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25. On Monday, Vaze was placed under suspension.He was arrested under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 506(2) (criminal intimidation, if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4(a)(b) (1) (punishment for attempt to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosive with intent to endanger life or property) of the Indian Explosives Act, 1908.According to a top NIA official who did not wish to be named, Vaze, who had been questioned for over 12 hours on Saturday, confessed to being part of a group that placed 20 loose gelatin sticks (unassembled, without a detonator or a timer) in a green-coloured Scorpio that was found parked outside Ambani’s residence, Antilia.“Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive-laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25. He has confessed to it,” the official said.Vaze has reportedly moved the Bombay high court challenging the grounds of his arrest, and the special NIA court will take up the matter further after the prosecution refused to give Vaze a copy of his remand application citing privilege and confidentiality.Vaze is also under investigation for his role in the suspicious death of 48-year-old Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based auto spare parts businessman, who was linked to the Scorpio found parked outside the Ambani residence in South Mumbai. The case is being probed by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).Also Read | In Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray’s repeated encounters with crisesVaze was in the news all of last week — he was accused by Hiran’s wife Vimla of being involved in her husband’s death; leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis sought his arrest based on Vimla’s statement, causing a political storm during the last two days of the Assembly session; state home minister Anil Deshmukh announced that Vaze will be removed as the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch till the investigation in this case was complete; he was interrogated by both the NIA and the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which are probing related aspects of this case; and on Saturday, as he was being questioned by NIA officials, a Thane district and session court refused to grant him interim protection in his anticipatory bail plea in the murder case, stating that his “custodial interrogation was necessary”.The case continues to be a political flashpoint between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Speaking to reporters from Pune on Sunday, Fadnavis said that the arrest indicated that other names will soon come out, and put a question mark on how the probe was carried out earlier. “This isn’t a small plot. It is a major plot. There are many people involved in this. All those who are involved and the reasons for doing this will come out now,” he said. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya told news agency ANI that Vaze has more than six businesses and Shiv Sena leaders Sanjay Mashelkar and Vijay Gawai were his business partners.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday came out in support of Vaze. “I believe Sachin Vaze is a very honest and capable officer. He has been arrested in connection with gelatin sticks that were found. One suspicious death also occurred. It’s Mumbai Police’s responsibility to investigate the matter. No central team was needed,” Raut told news agency ANI.On Saturday, the 49-year-old cop, who had recently been shunted to the Citizens Facilitation Centre, updated the status on messaging application, Whatsapp. It ended with the lines: “I think the time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer.”Here’s what we know of Vaze’s role — and the investigation into this case — so far:A car outside Antilia On February 25, when Bharat Patil, a security officer at Antilia placed a call to the Mumbai police control room and the Gamdevi police station regarding a suspicious SUV parked opposite the multi-storeyed house where the Ambanis reside, Vaze, the head of the CIU, was one of the many officers who arrived at the scene.A Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) officer present there that day said on the condition of anonymity that the 2.5 kg gelatin was enough to trigger a low intensity blast, but that the gelatin sticks found in the SUV were not in the form of an assembled explosive device. The mark of a Nagpur-based company found on the gelatin sticks indicated that the explosive was procured from Nagpur where it is commonly sold for mining purposes.The same day, the Gamdevi police registered an offence in connection with the incidence against unknown persons under sections 286, 465, 473, 506(2), 120 B of IPC, and 4(a)(b)(I)Explosive Substances Act 1908.On February 26, Vaze was made lead investigator in the case and CCTV footage collected from a department store across the road from Antilia revealed that the Scorpio car had arrived the previous night accompanied by an Innova and the driver had left in the latter after sitting in the car for a few hours. The driver was not visible in the footage. The Innova was later found at the Mulund toll point but the night hours made it impossible to make out who was in the car. The case was, however, later transferred to a higher ranking officer of the ATS after the Opposition began to demand that the NIA be called in to investigate.Though its chassis number was wiped clean, and the registration number on the Scorpio was fake, the cops were able to link the car to Hiran within hours, primarily because the Thane-based businessman had reported it stolen on February 18.Also Read | Maharashtra: List of cities, districts where restrictions have been imposedIt turned out that Hiran had been using the car for the past three years, but it did not belong to him. It had been given to him by a certain Peter Newton in lieu of a payment that he had defaulted on. On February 17, Hiran had parked the car on the side of the road after the steering wheel got jammed while he was driving it. The next day, he visited the spot with a mechanic, but found the car missing. Hiran visited the CIU on February 26, and later spoke to the media gathered outside. He admitted that the car was indeed his, but it had not been in his possession for over a week.Between February 26 and March 4, Hiran was questioned by several policemen from various teams. Then, on March 5, his body washed up ashore at the Retibunder creek in Mumbra, in Thane district. All his belongings were missing, and his face was found covered with a scarf, with handkerchiefs stuck into his mouth.Last week, the Union home ministry directed the NIA to take over the investigation into the explosives from the ATS; the FIR filed in the Gamdevi police station was re-registered and on March 9, an NIA team landed in Mumbai and began its investigations. It visited the creek where Hiran’s body was found. It also went to Carmichael Road, examined the Scorpio that had been towed to the Yellow Gate police station premises, and sifted through existing evidence. It also met the various police officers who were part of the initial investigation, including Vaze, assistant commissioner of police Nitin Alaknure and ACP Sripad Kale. On March 13, the three were questioned for several hours, and but only Alaknure and Kale were allowed to leave by 9.30pm.The NIA on Sunday also seized a white Innova car used by officers of the CIU headed by Vaze. Officials claimed that the car was the same Innova which had tailed the Scorpio on the intervening night of February 24 and 25, when the SUV was parked on Carmichael Road across Ambani’s residence. The Innova, bearing registration number with MH01- ZA- 403, was picked up from the motor transport department in Nagapada, an official said. The NIA visited the department late Saturday night/early Sunday morning, and brought the Innova to its office in South Mumbai around 3am on March 14. It is currently parked in the MTNL building where the NIA office is situated. The Scorpio was towed to the Gamdevi police station and later, parked at the Yellow Gate police station, shortly after it was discovered outside Ambani’s residence on February 25.Also Read | From investigators to accused: Rise and fall of officers on the police forceA statement that set the ball rolling Two days after his death, Hiran’s wife Vimla recorded her statement with the ATS, which was now also tasked with investigating the murder. Her statement spoke at great length of Vaze’s connection to Hiran, and the Scorpio.In her statement, Vimla told the investigators that Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio [that was found parked outside Antilia] in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021. The car, she stated, had been in possession of Vaze for four months.Vimla’s statement also revealed that Vaze had advised Hiran, a day after the businessman had written a letter to the authorities that he was being harassed by cops and a reporter, to get arrested. Vaze told Hiran on March 3 that he would be out on bail within a few days, Vimla’s statement read. Based on this, Hiran even approached his brother Vinod to seek legal advice, and was told that he would not receive anticipatory bail at this stage in the case.On March 4, Vimla said that her husband returned from his shop at 8.30pm and told her that he was going to meet a police officer named Tawade, somewhere along Ghodbunder Road. Vimala told the investigating team that when she tried calling her husband at 11pm, his mobile phone was switched off. Later at night, when Hiran had still not returned home, Vinod called Vaze who reportedly expressed surprise at the meeting and informed Vinod that Hiran had not mentioned that he was going to meet Tawde.The following morning, Hiran’s son Meet, and Vinod lodged a missing person’s report at Naupada police station. Hiran’s body was found by fishermen on March 5 around 10.30am. The Mumbra Police handed over the body to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa and filed an Accidental Death report. Prima facie, the police said, it seemed that Hiran had died by suicide. But Vimla contested that claim. In her statement, she told the ATS team that Hiran was too good a swimmer to have drowned.“Taking into consideration all the above circumstances, I am sure that my husband was murdered,” the last few lines of Vimla’s statement read. “I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder.”Based on her statement, the ATS began to treat Hiran’s death not as a case of suicide or accidental drowning. The agency filed a First Information Report against unknown persons under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Also Read | In Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray’s repeated encounters with crisesThe ATS team questioned Vaze for several hours. On Friday, March 12, Vaze filed an anticipatory bail plea, which came up for hearing on Saturday. Public Prosecutor Vivek Kadu representing the ATS opposed the plea and said there was prima facie evidence linking him to both, Hiran and the car.Vaze’s lawyer KM Kalekar, in turn, argued that Vaze had been extensively interrogated by the ATS, including top officials, and had joined the investigation himself to allay any apprehension.In his application, Vaze stated that he was in Dongri, South Mumbai, at the time of Hiran’s disappearance on the night of March 4, when the businessman left his home and didn’t return. Thus, there was no reason to suspect him of committing murder of the deceased.But the Thane District and Sessions Court rejected interim protection and posted the anticipatory bail hearing to March 19.“This court is not agreed to grant interim bail because there is prima facie evidence and material against the applicant, the say of the ATS IO [Anti Terrorism Squad Investigating Officer] is necessary and custodial interrogation of applicant is necessary,” the court said.Vaze, the officer Vaze, who has been placed under suspension for the second time in his career, joined the Maharashtra police force in 1990 as a sub inspector. His first posting was in Gadchiroli, a Naxal-affected area and he was moved to Thane city police in 1992. It was here that he gained a reputation of being a good criminal investigator. He was later inducted in the Special Squad of Thane crime branch.In 2000, Vaze was transferred to the Powai unit of the Mumbai crime branch. It was during his stint here when, together with three other policemen, he faced a charge of murdering Khawaja Yunus, an accused in the December 2, 2002, Ghatkopar blast case when a bomb placed under the seat of a BEST bus parked outside Ghatkopar railway station went off, killing two persons and injuring several others.Yunus, an engineer, was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch, and later reportedly died in police custody. The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) charged Vaze and three other police personnel — Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai —with murder and destruction of evidence on March 3, 2004. Following this, Vaze was placed under suspension.He eventually resigned from service on November 30, 2007. The following year, he joined the Shiv Sena.The assistant police inspector was eventually reinstated in the police force on June 6, 2020. So were the three other policemen who were booked for their alleged involvement in Yunus’s custodial death. A dispute over the framing of charges in this case is pending before the Bombay high court.On Saturday, Vaze’s Whatsapp status made a reference to this case, when he wrote: “3rd March 2004. Fellow officers from the CID arrested me in a false case. That arrest inconclusive till date. Sensing the history is going to repeat. My fellow officers are on to falsely trap me.”At the CIU, Vaze handled a few high-profile cases, including the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case in which 15 persons, including Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), were arrested. The case pertained to Republic TV, owned by ARG Outlier Media, which had allegedly benefited from purported manipulations of TRPs. The CIU filed a voluminous charge sheet against Vikas Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV, Dasgupta and Romil Ramgarhia, former CCO of BARC, earlier this year in January.Vaze was also part of the police team that arrested Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in November 2020, in connection with designer Anvay Naik’s suicide. The police said that Naik and his mother Kumud Naik were found dead in May 2018. According to a suicide note, Naik alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and two others.Recent news reports indicated that Vaze had used the Scorpio while he was part of the team that arrested Goswami. However, the reports are as yet uncorroborated.Meanwhile, in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday questioned whether BJP was targeting Vaze for reopening an abetment to suicide case against Goswami and probing the Republic TV editor-in-chief’s alleged role in the Television Rating Point (TRP) scam.A Tihar jail angle On Saturday, a Delhi Police special team interrogated Tehseen Akhtar, the last known chief of the now dormant home grown terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), for seven hours after two smart phones were recovered from his barrack in Tihar’s jail number 8, one of which reportedly sent out a message that claimed responsibility for the explosives found in the SUV outside Ambani’s residence on February 25.A Telegram channel was created by “jaishulhind” [Jaish-ul-Hind] on February 26 and a message claiming responsibility for parking the vehicle outside Antilia, where Ambani lives with his family, was posted from that channel. A message seeking payment in bitcoin, a crypto currency, was also sent out on this channel, which reportedly had 10 members.The identity of the members is not immediately known as the maker of the channel closed the group the following day.During the course of their investigation, the NIA discovered the Telegram message and traced it to the Tihar jail. The Delhi Police’s special cell was informed that two phones – an Oppo and a Vivo; both smart phones – were active inside the prison. At 8pm on March 11, Tihar prison authorities conducted a raid inside jail number 8 and found both phones.Akhtar, a 30-year-old civil engineer from Darbangha, Bihar, is a close associate of arrested IM co-founder Yasin Bhatkal, and is known to the authorities as being both tech-savvy and an expert in making bombs.Also Read | TRP manipulation case: Republic TV not termed accused, says Mumbai PolicePolice were investigating whether Akhtar was involved in making the Telegram channel, as he is not the only one lodged inside the high risk cell of jail number 8. A second police officer said that Akhtar shares the cell with at least four other prisoners who have also been arrested on terror charges. The four men were arrested for being operatives of IM and Al Qaeda’s Indian sub-continent module.On Saturday, Akhtar reportedly confessed to using one of the phones, and the interrogation will resume on Monday.While most of the leaders behind IM are either convicted or behind bars, little is known about Jaish-ul-Hind.“[Akhtar] seems to have a role in recovery of mobile phones from Tihar but one thing is for sure that there is no terror outfit named Jaish-ul-Hind on the ground. It’s most likely that somebody has played mischief or old Indian Mujahideen (IM) members are trying to be in limelight by claiming to be somebody else. We are investigating Tehseen Akhtar and other angles. We do not want to rule out anything yet,” said a Delhi Police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-a-bomb-scare-a-murder-mystery-and-terror-angle-what-we-know-so-far-101615801130413.html
16-03-2021||World||Talks between Prince Harry and brother William remain 'unproductive': Report||Britain's Prince Harry has spoken to his elder brother William for the first time since he and his wife Meghan's Oprah Winfrey interview but the talks were "not productive", a friend of the couple said on Tuesday.During the interview aired by US television network CBS on March 7, Meghan said one unnamed member of the royal family had asked how dark their son Archie's skin might be when he was born, while Harry said his father, heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles, had let him down and that he had felt trapped.At an engagement last Thursday, Prince William said he had not yet spoken to his brother but intended to do so, telling reporters: "We're very much not a racist family."Gayle King, the co-host of CBS This Morning, said she had spoken to Harry and Meghan at the weekend and that a conversation between the brothers had taken place."It's true, Harry has talked to his brother and he has talked to his father too, and the word I was given was that those conversations were not productive, but they are glad that they have at least started a conversation," she said.William's office Kensington Palace had no comment on King's remarks.Harry and Meghan's interview plunged the British monarchy into its biggest crisis since the death of William and Harry's mother Princess Diana in 1997.'Heartbreaking'It came after Buckingham Palace said it was investigating allegations of bullying made against Meghan by aides before she and Harry gave up their royal roles to move to California last year."I think what is still upsetting to them is that the palace keeps saying they want to work it out privately yet they've all these false stories coming out that are very disparaging against Meghan," King said."I think it's frustrating for them to see that it's a racial conversation about the royal family when all they wanted all along was for the royals to intervene and tell the press to stop with the unfair, inaccurate, false stories that definitely have a racial slant."Queen Elizabeth, 94, has said the royals were saddened by the challenging experiences of her grandson Harry and his wife."The issues raised, particularly that of race, are concerning. Whilst some recollections may vary, they are taken very seriously and will be addressed by the family privately," Buckingham Palace said in a March 9 statement.Earlier, former US first lady Michelle Obama said Meghan's recollections about a remark made about the possible colour of her son's skin were heartbreaking and she hoped Meghan's experiences would be a lesson for the world.Obama told NBC News: "I feel like that was heartbreaking to hear, that she felt like she was in her own family - her own family thought differently of her.""As I said before, race isn't a new construct in this world for people of colour, and so it wasn't a complete surprise to hear her feelings and to have them articulated," she said."I think the thing that I hope for, and the thing I think about, is that this, first and foremost, is a family. I pray for forgiveness and healing for them so that they can use this as a teachable moment for us all."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talks-between-prince-harry-and-brother-william-remain-unproductive-report-101615917996693.html
16-03-2021||World||Ex-officer wants jury to hear about 2019 George Floyd arrest||A lawyer for a former Minneapolis police officer charged in George Floyd's death asked the judge again Tuesday to allow evidence of a previous arrest during which the Black man was found with drugs, a request the prosecutor derided as an attempt to “smear” Floyd's character.Defense attorney Eric Nelson said that Floyd's May 2019 arrest — a year before his fatal encounter with officer Derek Chauvin — was remarkably similar: He ignored officers’ commands, put something in his mouth, and had to be physically removed from a vehicle. In that arrest, several opioid pills were found, along with cocaine.But Prosecutor Matthew Frank argued that evidence was prejudicial, and suggested the defense wanted to admit it as a backdoor way of depicting Floyd as a bad person.Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill previously rejected Chauvin’s attempt to tell the jury about the 2019 arrest, but heard fresh arguments Tuesday from both sides.Allowing testimony about the arrest would be a victory for the defense, which plans to argue that Floyd’s drug use contributed to his death. An autopsy showed Floyd had fentanyl and methamphetamine in his system. Cahill said he would rule on the request Wednesday morning at the earliest.Floyd, a Black man, was declared dead on May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against his neck for about nine minutes. Floyd’s death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond and led to a national reckoning on racial justice. Chauvin is charged with murder and manslaughter.Nelson argued the similarities in both incidents are relevant to establish cause of death.Both times, as officers drew their guns and struggled to get Floyd out of the car, he called out for his mother, claiming he had been shot before and crying, and he put what appeared to be a controlled substance in his mouth. Both searches turned up drugs in the cars. Officers noticed a white residue outside his mouth both times, although that has not been explained.“The similarities are incredible. The exact same behavior in two incidents, almost one year apart,” Nelson said.Paramedics who examined Floyd in 2019 warned him that his blood pressure was dangerously high, putting him at risk for a heart attack or stroke, and took him to a hospital for examination. Nelson argued that shows Floyd knew that ingesting drugs could result in his hospitalization, rather than his incarceration.Frank decried what he called, “the desperation of the defense to smear Mr. Floyd’s character, to show that what he struggled with, an opiate addiction like so many Americans do, is really evidence of bad character.”Cahill said he would stop the defense “very quickly” from suggesting at trial that Floyd didn’t deserve sympathy because he used drugs. “You don’t just dirty up someone who has died in these circumstances as a defense,” he said.The judge said some evidence from the 2019 arrest might be relevant to Floyd's cause of death, but he questioned whether two incidents were enough to show a common pattern of behavior.The jurors seated so far are a diverse group, an element being closely scrutinized in a case where race plays a central role.Nine jurors had been seated through Monday, including five who are white; one who is multiracial; two who are Black; and one who is Hispanic.The jurors include six men and three women and range in age from their 20s to their 50s. The selection process resumes Tuesday and continues until 14 people — 12 to deliberate and two alternates — are seated. Opening statements are expected March 29 unless the process isn't complete by then.On Monday, Nelson asked Cahill to postpone the trial, arguing that the jury pool was likely tainted by Friday's announcement that the city of Minneapolis would pay $27 million to Floyd's family to settle their civil rights lawsuit.“It is profoundly disturbing to the defense,” Nelson said of the settlement in the midst of jury selection. “This is not fair.”Cahill didn't immediately grant the delay, but acknowledged that the timing was “unfortunate” and said he would consider it. He said he likely would recall the seven jurors who were seated last week for further questioning, though he already instructed members of the jury pool to avoid all news coverage of the case.Three other former officers face an August trial on charges of aiding and abetting second-degree murder and manslaughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exofficer-wants-jury-to-hear-about-2019-george-floyd-arrest-101615912864878.html
16-03-2021||World||Brazil's new health minister signals little change in policy to fight Covid-19||The cardiologist who’s taking the helm of Brazil’s health ministry said it’s President Jair Bolsonaro who’ll continue to dictate policies to fight a pandemic that is claiming about 2,000 lives a day.Marcelo Queiroga, who is taking over from General Eduardo Pazuello, shunned lockdowns as a government tool, telling local media it should only be used in extreme situations, and said doctors are free to prescribe medications that are unproven to combat the virus. In previous interviews before accepting the job, he had said he’s personally against the use of chloroquine in Covid-19 patients, a medication repeatedly touted by Bolsonaro.“It’s President Bolsonaro’s policy, not the health minister’s,” he told reporters on Tuesday as he arrived at the health ministry in Brasilia. “I was called to give continuity to Pazuello’s work.”Yet he defended an ample vaccination campaign in an interview with CNN Brasil, saying the government needs to increase talks with governors and mayors who are often attacked by Bolsonaro for implementing restrictive measures.Queiroga is Brazil’s fourth health minister since the coronavirus arrived in the country a little over a year ago. Luiz Henrique Mandetta and Nelson Teich, who both had medical backgrounds, left after disagreements with Bolsonaro over social distancing and unproven treatments against Covid-19. Pazuello had been in the post since May.Pressure to replace Pazuello, a logistics expert in the Army, grew in the past few weeks as Brazil succumbs to a new wave of the virus. The country has consistently reported more than 75,000 cases and 2,000 deaths a day, overtaking India -- which has a population over six times larger -- in total infections.Brink of CollapseSeveral hospitals across the country have no room for more patients as the nation’s health system finds itself on the brink of collapse. The surge in cases has been made worse by lax social distancing orders and a new, more contagious variant that originated in the Amazonian capital of Manaus.Earlier this year, patients died in Manaus as oxygen ran out at overwhelmed hospitals, a crisis that sparked a Supreme Court investigation into Pazuello’s actions and dented his reputation. The General had already faced harsh criticism over a data blackout when he first took over the job, as well as for promotion of chloroquine and other unproven medication against Covid also touted by Bolsonaro.“It is as simple as that: one commands and the other obeys,” Pazuello said in October, when Bolsonaro disapproved of his plan to buy Sinovac Biotech Ltd’s vaccine because of its Chinese origin.Vaccine Shortages, Higher Rates Muddle Outlook for Brazil FundsA lack of vaccines -- which Pazuello is largely blamed for -- has added to concerns about the recovery of Latin America’s largest economy. Conversations with pharmaceutical companies including Pfizer Inc have dragged on for months, leaving the country with few shots at hand. The health ministry has repeatedly reduced the amount of doses it expects to have at hand in March, pushing congress to ask for a formal response and leaving states and cities trying to buy their own.Brazil has recorded 11.52 million cases of Covid-19 and almost 280,000 deaths, trailing only the U.S. in both counts. It has given out about 13.5 million vaccine doses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-new-health-minister-signals-little-change-in-policy-to-fight-covid19-101615912031530.html
16-03-2021||World||1 dead, 2 held in shooting near Boise State University||Two suspects have been taken into custody in a fatal shooting near the campus of Boise State University, police said early Tuesday.Neither the victim nor the suspects are current Boise State University students or employees, the university said in a statement.Although alerts were sent out after the shooting telling students to shelter in place because of a shooting near a residency hall, the college said later in a statement that the shooting did not actually happen on the campus, which is in an urban setting.Officers responded to a call about shots fired at around 11:30 Monday night, Boise police tweeted. They found a man lying in the street with gunshot wounds who was taken to a hospital, where he died from his injuries, a police statement said.A white passenger vehicle was seen fleeing the area after the shooting, and a short time later officers tried to pull over a similar car about two miles (3.2 kilometers) away from the shooting scene, the statement said.One man ran from the car, but was taken into custody a few blocks away, the statement said. Police said another suspect in the area was also taken into custody after officers chased him on foot.The identities of the victim and the suspect were not immediately made public. Police also did not disclose details of how the shooting unfolded.News outlets reported that the university’s BroncoAlert messaging system warned the campus community that there had been a shooting in the vicinity of Jade Hall, which has student housing. A second alert urged people to shelter in place. An all-clear message was sent early Tuesday, less than an hour later. The university said that the shooting did not happen on campus property.Boise State University is one of Idaho's three public universities, with nearly 20,000 full- and part-time students. It's campus is in downtown Boise, surrounded by neighborhoods and local businesses, and it's known to sports fans for its blue football turf.The university said in a statement that counseling services are available for students and staffers impacted by the shooting.“The university community is saddened by this loss of life and extends heartfelt condolences to the victim's family and loved ones,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/1-dead-2-held-in-shooting-near-boise-state-university-101615912136861.html
16-03-2021||World||Health experts under pressure as countries suspend use of AstraZeneca||Global health experts came under increasing pressure on Tuesday to clear up questions over the safety of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot, as Sweden and Latvia joined countries suspending their use in a further blow to Europe's vaccination rollout.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said it was investigating reports of 30 cases of unusual blood disorders out of 5 million recipients of the AstraZeneca vaccine. In total, 45 million Covid shots have been delivered across the region.The EU regulator will release its findings on Thursday but its head, Emer Cooke, said she saw no reason to change its recommendation of AstraZeneca - one of four vaccines that it has approved for use."The benefits continue to outweigh the risks, but this is a serious concern and it does need serious and detailed scientific evaluation," Cooke told a news conference.A World Health Organization (WHO) committee of experts was reviewing the cases and was expected to issue a statement by the end of the day, a spokesman said.The EU's largest members - Germany, France and Italy - suspended use of AstraZeneca's vaccine on Monday pending the outcome of investigations into unusual cases of a rare cerebral thrombosis in people who had received it.The addition of Sweden and Latvia on Tuesday brought to 13 the number of EU countries to act since reports first emerged of thromboembolisms affecting people after they got the AstraZeneca shot.The WHO and EMA had earlier joined AstraZeneca in saying there is no proven link, but some experts said the episodes of blood clots, bleeding and low platelet counts in younger people seemed to indicate a causal connection to the AstraZeneca shot."The benefits of vaccination significantly outweigh the risks, especially for the elderly," said Karl Lauterbach, health spokesman for Germany's Social Democratic Party."But it could be the case that the risks of the vaccine are higher for certain patient groups such as young women," Lauterbach, an epidemiologist whose party is part of the Berlin coalition, told Deutschlandfunk radio in an interview.Other epidemiologists note that similar cases have not been found in unusual numbers in Britain, which began using AstraZeneca earlier and has given more than 10 million doses."A very likely explanation of at least some of the clotting disorders seen are a result of Covid-19 rather than the vaccine," said Stephen Evans, professor of pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine."There are published papers that make clear that these problems definitely occur in Covid-19 and there is no doubt that all the vaccines in use prevent that disease. Hence the risk and benefit balance for the AstraZeneca vaccine remains clearly in favour of its benefits."Economic falloutIn the EU's largest states, including Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain, AstraZeneca has accounted for about 13-15% of shots given since the rollout began almost three months ago, with Pfizer-BioNTech making up the majority, according to official data.As one as the cheapest to be developed, the AstraZeneca shot is set to be the mainstay of vaccination programmes in much of the developing world.Governments say they acted on the AstraZeneca shot out of an abundance of caution - of 1.6 million people in Germany given the vaccine, seven fell ill with a very rare cerebral vein thrombosis of whom three died.In a detailed analysis of its findings Germany's vaccine oversight body, the Paul Ehrlich Institute, said six of the cases were in women of young or middle age - a number statistically significantly higher than normally expected.Nicola Magrini, the director general of Italy's medicines authority AIFA, told daily la Repubblica the AstraZeneca shot was safe and its benefit to risk ratio was "widely positive". There have been eight deaths and four cases of serious side-effects in Italy following vaccinations, he added.In France, Health Minister Olivier Veran told reporters the risk-reward ratio for the AstraZeneca vaccine remained positive.A third wave of infection in Europe, driven by more infectious viral variants, threatens to worsen a pandemic that has claimed 575,000 lives in the European Union and further delay recovery from a pandemic economic slump.Deutsche Bank on Tuesday slashed 2021 economic growth forecasts for the euro area by a whole percentage point, citing spillover of the ongoing pandemic-linked activity restrictions.Coronavirus infections are rising exponentially in Germany, an expert at the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases said, putting at risk plans to lift its lockdown. France is considering a possible third national lockdown.Vaccination campaigns had got off to a slow start due to scarce supply, but the European Commission said on Tuesday it expects to receive more than 200 million doses of vaccine from Pfizer and BioNTech in the second quarter, putting the EU on course to meet its targets.The EU aims to vaccinate at least 255 million people, or 70% of its adult population, by the end of the summer. The bloc has administered 11 shots so far for every 100 residents, while Israel - a world leader in vaccination - has given 108 doses, according to Our World in Data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/health-experts-under-pressure-as-countries-suspend-use-of-astrazeneca-101615911692571.html
16-03-2021||World||Have taken AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine shot, says Duchess Camilla of Britain||Camilla, Britain's Duchess of Cornwall and wife of heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles, said on Tuesday she received the AstraZeneca shot when she had her first vaccine dose.On a trip to a vaccination centre in north London, Camilla, 73, said she had received the AstraZeneca vaccine and had not been concerned whether she received that or another shot made by Pfizer and BioNTech."I don't even ask because I hate injections so much that I shut my eyes ... so whatever comes out," said the duchess, who was vaccinated along with her 72-year-old husband last month.Her comment came after the AstraZeneca vaccine was suspended by 13 countries across the European Union and several national regulators expressed safety worries about blood clots.The European Medicines Agency is investigating reports of 30 cases of unusual blood disorders among 5 million recipients, but said it itself did not see a reason to change its recommendation that the AstraZeneca vaccine remained safe.More than 24 million people in Britain have so far received their first dose, with over 11 million having received the AstraZeneca shot.Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesman said on Tuesday there was no evidence that blood clots were any more likely to occur after people had been given the AstraZeneca vaccine, citing the view of Britain's medicine regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/have-taken-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-shot-says-duchess-camilla-of-britain-101615911332539.html
16-03-2021||World||'Help is Here': Biden visits Pennsylvania to promote Covid-19 stimulus package||President Joe Biden visits Pennsylvania on Tuesday to promote his $1.9 trillion stimulus package as part of an all-out push by his team to sell a plan aimed at boosting the US economy out of its pandemic doldrums.Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, first lady Jill Biden and others are visiting various states and appearing on television as part of what the White House is calling the "Help is Here" tour.Biden is expected to visit a small business in Delaware County, a suburb of Philadelphia. The Democratic president defeated Republican former President Donald Trump in the election battleground state of Pennsylvania in the Nov. 3 election. Biden and Harris on Friday will visit Georgia, another state where Biden eked out a win over Trump.The law, known as the American Rescue Plan, passed the Democratic-led US Congress despite unified Republican opposition. Republicans supported pandemic-related relief bills under Trump but rejected Biden's plan as too expensive and not sufficiently focused on the public health crisis.White House economic adviser Jared Bernstein, speaking on CNN, defended the size of the package, saying it will power the economy out of the "start again, stop again" phase it has been in since Covid-19 pandemic-related lockdowns began a year ago.The package, one of the largest economic stimulus measures in US history, provides $1,400 direct payments to most Americans, $350 billion in aid to state and local governments, an expansion of the child tax credit and increased funding for Covid-19 vaccine distribution.The measure was Biden's first legislative priority upon taking office in January. Partisan battle lines are already being drawn over what could come next - a massive infrastructure plan that could involve the first major tax increase since 1993. Biden has promised he will not raise taxes on people making less than $400,000 a year.The White House has said it does not believe former President Barack Obama's administration, in which Biden served as vice president, did enough to promote its more than $800 billion 2009 economic rescue program. Democrats lost control of the House of Representatives to Republicans the next year.Biden on Monday said his administration would reach two important goals over the next 10 days: 100 million coronavirus shots in people's arms and 100 million checks in people's pockets or bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/help-is-here-biden-visits-pennsylvania-to-promote-covid-19-stimulus-package-101615909235941.html
16-03-2021||World||Michelle Obama aims to give a million meals in new campaign||Michelle Obama is launching a nonprofit campaign that aims to provide more than 1 million meals to food-insecure families in connection with the debut Tuesday of her children's food show on Netflix.The “Pass the Love w/ Waffles Mochi” initiative, named after the new series ”Waffles Mochi," is a collaborative campaign by the nonprofit Partnership for a Healthier America, its honorary chair Obama and Higher Ground Productions, the production company owned by the former first lady and her husband, former President Barack Obama.The nonprofit says the campaign was inspired by the series, which tells the story of two puppet friends who “travel the world exploring the wonders of food and culture while learning how to cook with fresh ingredients.”Walmart and Blue Apron have jumped in to support the initiative, which also aims to “leverage the show, its characters, and Mrs. Obama to meaningfully shift our food culture toward more affordable, fun, at-home meals for families of every income level,” according to the nonprofit.PHA President and CEO Nancy Roman told The Associated Press that the two companies will contribute funds to the campaign and raise money for it among their customers. More than half the money is expected to come from the public, Roman says.The nonprofit was created in conjunction with Michelle Obama's Let's Move! effort in 2010.The former first lady, who has long been a champion of healthy eating, said in the announcement last week that the idea is to “help make sure families all over the country can access fresh, nutritious food” amid the devastating impacts of the coronavirus pandemic.The US has seen a significant rise in hunger during the virus outbreak. One estimate from the organization Feeding America says around 45 million Americans in 2020 may have experienced food insecurity — limited or uncertain access to adequate food — compared with 35 million in 2019.Caitlin Caspi, a University of Connecticut professor who studies food insecurity, says the rise in unemployment, the closure of schools and disruptions across food systems -- like shortages of staple foods in the early days of the pandemic — all played a factor in the increase. And many, left with little options, turned to food banks for help.The issue has been “most pronounced among households with children, and in particular, households with children of color," Caspi said.“Meal boxes that provide fresh food and a complete set of ingredients to households are one way to reduce the impact of these food access disruptions, and to get healthy meals on the table,” she added.The food service organisation Genuine Foods will source and assemble the campaign's meal boxes, which will then be distributed by local nonprofits in various cities. Roman says they will begin to roll out the campaign in cities that have the highest child poverty rates as the funds are raised.The rollout will start in May, Roman says, and continue throughout the year. Each city deployment is expected to take place over four weeks.“We're thinking of a pace of about two a month,” Roman said. But, she added, “It will depend in part on how the campaign is going.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michelle-obama-aims-to-give-a-million-meals-in-new-campaign-101615904216147.html
16-03-2021||World||UK's Covid-19 vaccine is safe and works extremely well, says Boris Johnson||The Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and bio-pharmaceutical major AstraZeneca is safe and works extremely well, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday, amid reports that the doses were causing blood clot-related complications.In an editorial to coincide with the launch of a new 'Integrated Review' of the UK's foreign policy vision, the prime minister reflected on how just six months since its discovery, the vaccine is being produced in multiple countries including India.“I could tell from the excitement of the scientists that this was promising and that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine looked as though it would work. After exhaustive tests, so it has proved,” Johnson wrote in ‘The Times’.“That vaccine is safe and works extremely well, and now, only six months later, it is being made in multiple places from India to the US, as well as Britain, and it is being used around the world,” he said.In explaining the context of the 'Integrated Review', which lays out Johnson’s Global Britain agenda as a non-member of the European Union (EU), Johnson made reference to the vaccine as a symbol of Global Britain in action.His comments come in the wake of several European countries -- including Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Norway and Iceland -- pausing the administration of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jabs with concerns of a blood clotting side-effect. Some Asian and African countries have expressed concern. Congo and Thailand have stopped the doses.However, the UK and EU regulators and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have backed the usage of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jabs.“Successful as the UK vaccination programme may be, there is little point in achieving some isolated national immunity. We need the whole world to be protected. We need the whole world to have the confidence to open up for trade and travel and holidays and business, all the things that drive jobs and improve our lives at home,” said Johnson, highlighting that it is the “principle of enlightened self-interest” that underlies the new review of UK security, defence, development and foreign policy published on Tuesday.The coronavirus has so far claimed 125,817 lives in the UK, along with 4,276,840 confirmed cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-covid-19-vaccine-is-safe-and-works-extremely-well-says-boris-johnson-101615903874672.html
16-03-2021||World||Syrian president decrees financial stimulus amid crisis||Amid sharp economic decline, Syrian President Bashar Assad issued a decree on Tuesday granting hundreds of thousands of public sector workers and soldiers a one-time financial stimulus, equivalent to an average monthly salary.The stimulus — the third since October — comes as the national currency is crashing, now at more than 4,000 Syrian pounds to the dollar on the black market, compared to 700 a year ago. The official rate for the dollar is fixed at 1,256 Syrian pounds for $1.The decision comes a day after the government raised the price of fuel, including subsidized, by more than 50% in the third increase this year. It also raised the price of cooking gas.Nearly 80% of Syrians live in poverty, and 60% are food insecure — the worst food security situation ever seen in Syria, according to the United Nations.The decree stated that a one-time 50,000 Syrian pounds, which is nearly $11 on the black market, would go to public sector workers, including those on part-time contracts and conscripts. And 40,000 Syrian pounds would be dispensed to pensioners.Inflation has hit between 180% and 300%, according to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics. The price of a kilogram (2.2 pounds) of sugar has gone from 700 Syrian pounds to around 2,400 this year.The Ministry of Interior Trade and Consumer Protection said the price of unsubsidized fuel would go up from 1,300 Syrian pounds per liter to 2,000 pounds, a more than 50% increase.The price of subsidized fuel would increase by nearly 60%, to 750 Syrian pounds per liter. The price of butane gas for cooking went up 37%.Economist Ziad Ghosn said the one-time payment is equivalent to the average monthly salary and estimated the cost of the stimulus would be around 120 billion Syrian pounds. He also estimated the stimulus would reach about 2 million people.Syrians have been struggling with deteriorating economic conditions, shortages of basic goods and medicine, and have been forced to wait in long lines to buy subsidized bread and fuel.A decade of conflict has caused huge devastation to the Syrian economy, isolated its government and displaced its people, driving most of them into poverty. The pandemic restrictions have added to pressure on the economy, compounded by the financial crisis in neighbouring Lebanon, which has been a bridge to Syria economically and financially.More than half a million people have been killed in Syria's 10-year conflict that has also left the country's infrastructure in ruins and most of its oil and agriculture resources outside of government control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syrian-president-decrees-financial-stimulus-amid-crisis-101615903100912.html
16-03-2021||World||With flash mob, Israel's Arabs try to highlight fatal police shootings||At Tel Aviv's Dizengoff Circle, buzzing on a Saturday afternoon, around a dozen young people suddenly began to collapse slowly and theatrically to the ground, to the shock and confusion of Israelis out shopping or enjoying a coffee."Did it scare you?", flash mob organiser Mohamd Jabarin asked those watching, and proceeded to explain the intention - to draw attention to a surge of shootings within Israel's Arab community and accuse police of failing to tackle the violence.At least 24 Arab citizens of Israel have been shot dead this year, mostly by unknown assailants from within their towns and villages. The shootings, most often crime and gang related, have become a defining issue for the 21% minority ahead of a March 23 national election.The largest expression of the frustration and anger felt by the community has come through anti-violence protests by tens of thousands in Umm al-Fahm and other Arab towns.But the flash mobs are an attempt to raise awareness of the shootings in the heart of Jewish Israeli towns.Demonstrators accuse the police of turning a blind eye to the violence, which they say is a result of poverty and years of underinvestment in their minority communities.Israel's police say they investigate all shootings and are continuing their work to gather illegal weapons, arrest all criminals and bring them to justice."The only solution for the inaction of the police ... is to take to the streets and mobilise the Palestinian Arab people," said Enab Mhajne, 19, at the Umm al-Fahm protest on Friday.Behind her protesters waved Palestinian flags, an unusual sight on the streets of Israel.Israel's Arabs - Palestinian by heritage, Israeli by citizenship - are mostly descended from the Palestinians who lived under Ottoman and then British colonial rule before staying in Israel after the country's creation in 1948.Some Arab politicians have advocated working with right-wing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to address the violence.Posters of Netanyahu have begun appearing in Arab neighbourhoods of cities like Haifa with a slogan bearing the Arabic slogan "We are with you".Netanyahu, who many Arabs accuse of discrimination against their community, has pledged 100 million shekels ($30.24 million) to combat violence in Arab localities.But Luna Hasan, another one of the flash mob organisers, said Arabs should focus on collective action to address the shootings, rather than rely on any one politician."Arabs are represented in every aspect of the economy, in almost every aspect of life in Israel ... we deserve safety, and we deserve protection," Hasan, 24, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-flash-mob-israel-s-arabs-try-to-highlight-fatal-police-shootings-101615902114594.html
16-03-2021||World||Chinese companies’ bid to trademark PLA soldier’s patriotic phrase rejected||A patriotic expression “crystal clear love” used by a Chinese soldier who died fighting Indian troops at Galwan Valley in June last year can’t be used to sell products like food and drinks, China’s top intellectual property body has ruled, condemning applications to trademark the phrase.Chen Xiangrong was one of the four PLA troops - the official casualty number declared by Beijing last month - who was killed in the June 15 showdown.Soon after the names and personal details of the soldiers were made public in February, a phrase used by Chen in his personal diary went viral on Chinese social media. It read: “My love is crystal clear, and it is only for China.”Several companies in China found the expression a potential catchphrase that could be used to market products.“Since February 20, some businesses and individuals have applied to use ‘Crystal Clear Love’ for the registration of trademarks on 17 items, including food, drink and clothing,” the National Intellectual Property Administration (NIPA) said in a release on Monday.“It’s the battle cry written by Chen, fully showing the martyr’s love for the motherland and his noble sentiment of selfless dedication,” the state-controlled China Daily reported, quoting the NIPA.Condemning the applications as improper efforts, the NIPA said, “It desecrated the spirit of heroes and deviated from the core values of socialism, which would make it easy to have a bad social impact.”Trademarks should not be “harmful to socialist morals and customs”, the statement added.China has been sensitive about comments perceived to be slanderous about the four soldiers who died and one who was injured in the Galwan Valley clash.At least eight persons have so far been arrested, detained or have had proceedings initiated against them for insulting the “PLA heroes and martyrs” online.On March 1, one of them, Qiu Ziming, who is a blogger, became the first person to be booked under the newly changed law on harming the reputation and honour of heroes and martyrs. He is likely to get jail time.A day later, Chinese state broadcaster CCTV aired a minute-long video during a prime-time news programme, showing Qiu, 38, admitting to the “annihilation of conscience” and “arrogance” in insulting the soldiers who were killed and injured in the clash with Indian troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-companies-bid-to-trademark-pla-soldier-s-patriotic-phrase-rejected-101615902901606.html
16-03-2021||World||White House 'pushed' US Attorney in Atlanta, a Trump appointee, to quit: Report||The White House pressured the U.S. Attorney in Atlanta to quit because President Donald Trump was unhappy with a lack of cooperation from officials there on his unproven allegations of election fraud, the Wall Street Journal reported.U.S. Attorney Byung J. Pak, a Trump appointee, was told to step down a day before the Jan. 5 Georgia Senate run-off elections, the newspaper reported, citing people it didn’t identify. The Republican incumbents lost both contests.Separately, the Washington Post reported that Trump urged Georgia’s lead elections investigator to scrutinize ballots for “dishonesty” and that she had “the most important job in the country right now.”Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger confirmed to the Post that Trump placed the call, adding that he wasn’t familiar with what the president specifically said.The Post withheld the name of the investigator, who didn’t respond to its requests for comment, because of the risk of threats and harassment directed at election officials.In the case of Pak, the federal prosecutor resigned abruptly in an email to colleagues that cited “unforeseen circumstances.”The reports follow a week after it was revealed that Trump urged Georgia election officials in an hour-long call to “find” thousands of votes and recalculate the state’s presidential election results to flip the state to him.Georgia was one of five states won by Democrat Joe Biden in November that Trump had won in 2016. The state had two recounts of the presidential vote, with each showing the same outcome: that Biden had a narrow victory in a state last carried by a Democrat in 1992.Dozens of rejected claims by Trump and his associates that there had been widespread election fraud in the U.S., ranging from dead people voting to voting machines that changed Trump votes to Biden, have been thrown out of court.William Barr, the U.S. Attorney General who departed in December, also said that the Justice Department hadn’t found such evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-pushed-us-attorney-in-atlanta-a-trump-appointee-to-quit-report-101615901449088.html
16-03-2021||World||Nations assess risk of halting, continuing with AstraZeneca||With coronavirus cases rising in many places, governments faced the grimmest of dilemmas Tuesday: push on with a vaccine that is known to save lives or suspend use of AstraZeneca over reports of dangerous blood clots in a few recipients despite no evidence the shot was responsible.It has created a jagged divide across the globe, forcing politicians to assess the health risks of halting the shots at a time when many countries, especially in Europe, are already struggling to overcome logistical hurdles and vaccine hesitancy among their populations.Sweden was the latest to join a swelling group of European Union nations choosing caution over speed, even as international regulators said the data does not suggest the vaccine caused the clots and that vaccinations should continue.Europe has the luxury to be able to pick from several vaccine candidates — but the decision is still not an easy one on the continent, where the virus is again surging and where the vaccination campaign has repeatedly stumbled.The choice may be even more fraught elsewhere because many countries are relying heavily on AstraZeneca, which is cheaper and easier to handle than some other shots. The vaccine has so far played a huge role in the global initiative to ensure vaccines get to poorer countries known as COVAX.The difficulty of the decision was clear in Thailand, the first country outside Europe to temporarily suspend use of the AstraZeneca vaccine, only to recant on Tuesday — when its prime minister received a dose.“There are people who have concerns,” Prayuth Chan-ocha said after getting the shot. “But we must believe doctors, believe in our medical professionals.”Many other countries in Asia have likewise shrugged off concerns, though Indonesia halted use of the shot this week, saying it would wait for a World Health Organization report on the issue.AstraZeneca, the European Medicines Agency and the WHO have said there is no evidence the vaccine carries an increased risk of blood clots. There have been 37 reports of blood clots among the more than 17 million people who have received the vaccine across the EU and Britain, the company said.“This is much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population of this size and is similar across other licensed COVID-19 vaccines,” the Anglo-Swedish drugmaker said.The EMA has asked experts to look into the issue and originally planned to share their findings Thursday, but as the debate reached a fever pitch Tuesday, the regulator said it would provide an update in a news conference later in the day.The agency has so far said that the benefits of receiving the shot outweigh the risk of side effects.But the number of countries in the bloc that are sticking with the shot is falling after heavyweights like Germany, Italy, France and Spain all said they were suspending it.That left Belgium — and a handful of others such as Poland, Romania and Greece — increasingly isolated in their insistence that halting the shots now would cause a lot more harm that the side effects so hotly debated now.“When you know how the virus is making the rounds, it would be very imprudent to stop,” Belgian Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke told VRT network early Tuesday.Experts have noted that such concerns are inevitable in mass vaccination campaigns — with so many people getting shots, some are bound to get sick even if the vaccine is not to blame. That would mean “we’d have to incessantly interrupt campaigns during the coming months,” Vandenbroucke said.“We wanted to remain as scientific as possible in the mediatic-political turmoil that is currently agitating Europe,” Belgian virologist Yves Van Laethem said.In Spain, which announced it was suspending the vaccine on Monday, some medical experts had their doubt about the move. Amós García, president of the Spanish Vaccinology Association, said that countries were being overzealous in halting use of AstraZeneca.And the decisions seemed to be having a snowball effect. “There’s a cross-border contagion effect,” Garcia said.“Anything triggers the principle of caution,” García told Spanish broadcaster TVE. "Once it begins it’s like a domino, it becomes very difficult for a country to keep delivering the vaccine,” if others stop, even if only out of precaution.With the torrent of decisions casting doubt on the AstraZeneca vaccine despite assurances of experts, public opinion was tested once again to believe science over suspicion.Serbia’s Prime Minister Ana Brnabic says the Balkan country won’t stop the use of Astra-Zeneca vaccines and insisted that “unfortunately, some people are having second thoughts because of a negative campaign.”So often in disarray during the vaccine drive, the 27-nation EU was once again out of lockstep, with the member states each taking their own decision, as the executive Commission called on all to heed EMA advice. When asked if EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen would take the AstraZeneca vaccine, her spokesman Eric Mamer said “of course.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nations-assess-risk-of-halting-continuing-with-astrazeneca-101615901292007.html
16-03-2021||World||'Just a proposal': Sri Lanka on proposed burqa ban after criticism from allies||Sri Lanka said on Tuesday a call to ban the wearing of the burqa was "merely a proposal", following criticism from regional allies ahead of a crucial United Nations vote on human rights in the island nation.Sri Lanka's minister for public security, Sarath Weerasekera, said on Saturday it would "definitely" ban the full face covering worn by some Muslim women on national security grounds, pending cabinet approval.But the foreign ministry said on Tuesday a decision had not yet been taken on what it described as "merely a proposal... under discussion"."The government will initiate a broader dialogue with all parties concerned and sufficient time will be taken for necessary consultations to be held and for consensus to be reached," it said in a statement.Muslims make up around a tenth of the population in majority-Buddhist Sri Lanka.The statement follows criticism from Pakistan's ambassador to Sri Lanka, Saad Kattak, who said in a tweet on Monday a ban "will only serve as injury to the feelings of ordinary Sri Lankan Muslims and Muslims across the globe".Ahmed Shaheed, a Maldivian diplomat currently serving as the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief, said a ban was incompatible with international laws that protect religious belief and freedom of expression.Several Muslim-majority countries, including Pakistan and Bangladesh, are among the 47 nations that will vote on Sri Lanka's human rights record at a United Nations session in Geneva next week.A UN resolution passed against Sri Lanka could allow for prosecutions of government and military officials involved in ending a decades-long civil war in 2009, and Colombo is sensitive to anything that may impact voting there, according to a person familiar with the developments.Almost a third of the 47 nations are members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, which last year criticised a Sri Lankan policy to forcibly cremate coronavirus victims in the country, in violation of the Islamic tradition of burial.The policy was repealed last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/just-a-proposal-sri-lanka-on-proposed-burqa-ban-after-criticism-from-allies-101615900816608.html
16-03-2021||World||US defends response to child migrant surge at southwest border||Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas defended the US response to a surge of unaccompanied minors at the southwest border on Tuesday, saying the region was on track to see more people trying to enter than any time in the last 20 years.Mayorkas said the government is creating a joint processing center to transfer the children, as young as six, to the custody of the Department of Health and Human Services and is trying to find additional shelters for them."The situation we are currently facing at the southwest border is a difficult one. We are tackling it," he said in a statement.The administration of President Joe Biden has been racing to speed up the processing of hundreds of unaccompanied children who are crossing the southern border every day.Officials have warned "the border is not open" and said they are sending back adults and families who have tried to cross the border illegally since Biden took office promising to reverse some of predecessor Donald Trump's hardline policies.Nearly 4,300 unaccompanied children were being held by border patrol officials as of Sunday, according to an agency official who requested anonymity to discuss the matter. By law, the children should be transferred out of Customs and Border Protection facilities to HHS-run shelters within 72 hours."The Border Patrol facilities have become crowded with children and the 72-hour timeframe for the transfer of children from the Border Patrol to HHS is not always met," Mayorkas acknowledged. HHS also has not had the capacity to take in the number of children, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-defends-response-to-child-migrant-surge-at-southwest-border-101615899049027.html
16-03-2021||World||Moderna begins study of Covid-19 vaccine in children||Moderna Inc has begun dosing patients in a mid-to-late stage study of its Covid-19 vaccine, mRNA-1273, in children aged six months to less than 12 years, the company said on Tuesday.The study will assess the safety and effectiveness of two doses of mRNA-1273 given 28 days apart and intends to enroll about 6,750 children in the United States and Canada.The vaccine has already been authorized for emergency use in Americans who are aged 18 and older.In a separate study which began in December, Moderna is also testing mRNA-1273 in adolescents between 12 and 18 years old.The latest study is being conducted in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-begins-study-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-children-101615898635238.html
16-03-2021||World||EU health ministers debate AstraZeneca shot after halting vaccine||European health ministers are discussing the future of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine as they await fresh guidance from the region’s drug regulator in response to concerns about health risks.The European Medicines Agency will hold a press conference on Tuesday afternoon, bringing forward a planned review by two days amid a fresh vaccine crisis. A growing number of countries have suspended use of Astra’s shot to examine side effects, potentially throwing the region’s already slow inoculation campaign further off track.At stake is the future of one main building block of Europe’s vaccine push, where Astra was due to account for about a fifth of all doses in the second quarter.The EU has received 14 million doses from the company so far, and could have taken in about 120 million doses in the next six months. Of the Astra doses delivered to the EU, almost 8 million have not been administered, or more than half. That compares with just 13% for the shot provided by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE.”We cannot afford a single doubt over the vaccines’ efficiency,” French Industry Minister Agnes Pannier-Runacher said on France Info radio on Tuesday. The AstraZeneca CEO, Pascal Soriot, “is in the hot seat and he knows it.”But the EMA reiterated Monday that the vaccine’s benefits still outweigh its risks. Some medicines that have been on sale for decades, such as contraceptive pills, have been proven to increase the risk of blood clots and are nonetheless still on the market.With infection numbers creeping up again in countries like Germany, the risk of further vaccine shortages will increase pressure on politicians who have been punished for a lackluster immunization program. German Chancellor Angela Merkel saw her party slump to its worst ever results in two state elections on Sunday. In France, President Emmanuel Macron is running neck and neck with his populist rival Marine Le Pen in polls for next year’s presidential election.The European Commission has committed to immunizing 70% of adults by the end of September, but the latest precautions could push back efforts by at least a couple of weeks and potentially longer, according to London-based research firm Airfinity Ltd.Such delays would come at a high price by keeping businesses under virus restrictions for longer. Italy has reintroduced harsher measures, and parts of Germany have also seen an increase in infections, prompting some medical experts to demand a tightening of the restrictions from which Europe’s largest economy was just starting to emerge.“For each week that restrictions linger, we estimate the economic loss is roughly 3% of gross domestic product,” said Maeva Cousin, an economist at Bloomberg Economics. “That equates to nearly 17 billion euros for a two-week delay.”Even before the suspension, the UK-based company’s shot, jointly developed with the University of Oxford, had grappled with production delays, which the company attributed in part to typical teething issues with a new product. As a result, Cambridge-based Astra will only be able to deliver about 100 million doses to the EU in the first half of the year, it said last week, about a third of the number originally planned.Questions over the safety of the Astra shot have inserted an extra dose of bitterness into the bloc’s troubled relations with the UK government, which has been vaunting the vaccine as a vindication of British ingenuity.The suspensions in the EU contrast with Astra’s positive run in the UK, where Prime Minister Boris Johnson is championing a rapid vaccination push and continues to deem the shot safe to use.Astra’s vaccine is one of four that have been approved in the EU, alongside shots from Pfizer and BioNTech, Moderna Inc., and Johnson & Johnson. With supplies from J&J yet to arrive and doses of Moderna limited, that means the bulk of immunizations in many countries will now be conducted with Pfizer-BioNTech.Responding to the suspensions, AstraZeneca said it’s working with national health authorities and European officials.After Denmark became one of the first countries in the region to suspend the shot, the EMA said on March 11 that the number of clots in vaccinated people was no higher than the number seen in the general population -- totaling 30 cases among 5 million people who had received the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-health-ministers-debate-astrazeneca-shot-after-halting-vaccine-101615896140427.html
16-03-2021||World||Jack Ma’s SCMP Joins Hong Kong media groups facing China control||As news broke that China is pressuring Jack Ma’s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. to sell the South China Morning Post, surprised employees pondered the future of Hong Kong’s main English-language daily.When Hangzhou-based Alibaba bought the SCMP in 2015 for $266 million, it injected much-needed cash into the operations and pledged that the century-old newspaper would retain editorial independence. While the newspaper has come under steady criticism for a tilt toward Beijing under Alibaba, its journalists closely covered the 2019 pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong while also publishing diverse opinions and coverage critical of China.Now fears are growing among some staff members that a Chinese state-owned company could eventually take over from Alibaba and put the newspaper under Beijing’s thumb, according to an employee who asked not to be identified. Such a move would mark one of the most significant blows yet to the city’s once free-wheeling media industry, where independent outlets have faced increasing pressure since Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law last year.“There is suspicion that if a Chinese entity takes it over, or a Chinese billionaire takes it over, that they’re going to change the editorial line,” said Keith Richburg, director of the Journalism and Media Studies Center at the University of Hong Kong and president of the Foreign Correspondents’ Club in Hong Kong. “This idea that the SCMP might be sold at a time when people in Beijing are talking about the need to for ‘patriots’ to be running media entities is, I would say, very, very concerning.”Beijing has moved to stifle Hong Kong’s democracy movement over the past year, rounding up dissidents and revamping the election system to give the Communist Party a veto on anyone who stands for office. The move has been criticized by countries including the US and the UK, which this week said China was in a “state of ongoing non-compliance” with the treaty that paved the way for the 1997 handover of the former British colony -- drawing an angry response from Beijing.China in recent months has heaped pressure on Hong Kong journalists, most notably with the November arrest of media tycoon Jimmy Lai, founder of the pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily, who remains in custody on a national security charge after being denied bail. Police also conducted a high-profile raid of Apple Daily’s newsroom, and have arrested other executives from its publisher Next Digital Ltd.Ma, Alibaba’s co-founder, has been at the center of a government crackdown that began last year, targeting the e-commerce giant and its finance affiliate Ant Group Co. The Wall Street Journal first reported China’s government was asking Alibaba to shed media properties. Representatives for Alibaba in China and the US didn’t respond to requests for comment.China’s pressure on Alibaba stems from a concern about the technology giant’s influence over public opinion in the country, according to a person familiar with the matter. While no specific buyer has been identified, it is expected to be a Chinese entity, the person added. A Bloomberg investigation last year showed the Communist Party has been amassing influence in Hong Kong through its ownership of newspapers and publishing houses via its Liaison Office in the city.‘No Plans for an Ownership Change’In an internal SCMP memo to staff on Tuesday seen by Bloomberg News, Chief Executive Officer Gary Liu dismissed reports of Alibaba coming under pressure to sell its media assets. “Be assured that Alibaba’s commitment to SCMP remains unchanged and continues to support our mission and business goals,” he wrote in the memo. A later message sent on the same day by Liu reiterated that “there are no plans for an ownership change.”“SCMP remains committed to serving our global readers with independent journalism and in-depth analysis, as we have for over 117 years,” a spokesperson for the newspaper said by email.Since the national security law came into force last year, media outlets have started to tread carefully out of fear of breaching vaguely defined provisions on subversion and secessions. The government this month appointed a career bureaucrat with no media experience as director of public broadcaster Radio Television Hong Kong, which has seen programs that were critical of the government censored or pulled.On Jan. 6, the same day the 55 democracy activists and former lawmakers were arrested, the national security department requested documents from Apple Daily, Stand News, and In-Media. According to Reporters Without Borders, Hong Kong fell to 80th last year in its annual World Press Freedom Index, down from 18th in 2002. Mainland China sat at 177th out of 180 countries and territories. The Hong Kong government didn’t respond to a request for comment, but has repeatedly said that press freedom remains intact despite the security law.‘I’ll Be Arrested’“I’m prepared that I’ll be arrested,” said Ronson Chan, deputy assignment editor of Stand News. ”I am not prepared to leave Hong Kong, nor Stand News. Hong Kong needs us. Hong Kongers that still believe in the values of press freedom, especially in the wake of a growing mainland Chinese takeover.”The Hong Kong Free Press, a nonprofit digital news outlet that describes itself as impartial, has also come under attack. This month a magazine owned by Sing Tao News Corp., which last month came under the control of the daughter of a Chinese tycoon, devoted a four-page spread to insinuating that HKFP may have violated the national security law.The worsening environment has prompted the news organization to only use encrypted devices, check in with staff regularly and literally chain computers to the desks, according to Tom Grundy, founder and editor-in-chief of HKFP.“We expect to be forced to navigate increased bureaucratic and legal scrutiny,” he said. “Though our current policy is to hope for the best, prepare for the worst and ‘keep calm and carry on.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jack-ma-s-scmp-joins-hong-kong-media-groups-facing-china-control-101615894842180.html
16-03-2021||World||Covid-19: China approves new protein subunit vaccine for emergency use||China has approved a new COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use, one that was developed by the head of its Centre for Disease Control, adding a fifth shot to its arsenal.Gao Fu, the head of China's CDC, led the development of a protein subunit vaccine that was approved by regulators last week for emergency use, the Chinese Academy of Sciences' Institute of Microbiology said in a statement on Monday.It is the fifth coronavirus vaccine approved in China and the fourth to be given emergency use approval. Three of those given emergency approval have since been approved for general use. All were developed by Chinese companies.The latest vaccine was developed jointly by Anhui Zhifei Longcom Biopharmaceutical Co Ltd and the Chinese Academy of Sciences. The team finished phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in October and is currently conducting the last phase of trials in Uzbekistan, Pakistan and Indonesia, according to the statement.The vaccine was approved for use in Uzbekistan on March 1. It's a three-dose shot that is spaced out with one month each between shots, a company spokesperson said. Like other vaccines China has developed so far, it can be stored at normal refrigeration temperatures.There is no publicly available information in peer-reviewed scientific journals about the clinical trial data showing efficacy or safety. A spokesperson for the company said that the data could not be shared at this time but that the company was providing the information to health authorities.The protein subunit vaccine is similar to many of the other vaccines that have been approved globally in that it trains the body to recognise the spike protein that covers the surface of the coronavirus vaccine, although the difference lies in how it tells the body to recognise the protein. Scientists grow a harmless version of the protein in cells and then purify it before it is assembled into a vaccine and injected.China has been slow in vaccinating its population of 1.4 billion people, despite having four vaccines approved for general use. The latest numbers, according to government officials at a press briefing Monday in Beijing, is that it has administered 64.98 million doses of vaccines.China has targeted what it considers key populations for vaccination thus far, namely health care workers, those who work at the border or customs, and specific industries the government has selected. Other groups that have been notably absent thus far in comparison to many other countries are the elderly and those with pre-existing conditions.The approved vaccines have previously been limited to adults 18-59 years old, as officials cited a lack of clinical trial data for those who are older, although the government appears to be signalling the limits are now being set aside.“We will promptly carry out mass vaccination of relevant populations,” Li Bin, a vice-chair on the National Health Commission, said Monday.China's official Xinhua News Agency reported over the weekend that in certain neighbourhoods in Beijing, local health centres started to offer vaccines to those aged 60 and older.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-china-approves-new-protein-subunit-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101615894604285.html
16-03-2021||World||Warburg Pincus marks down value of Chinese fintech giant after IPO derailed||Warburg Pincus LLC, an early investor in Ant Group Co., marked down the value of the Chinese fintech giant after its initial public offering was derailed last year, according to people familiar with the matter.The company cut Ant’s valuation to a range of $200 billion to $250 billion at year end, down from a peak of about $280 billion before the IPO was halted amid a regulatory crackdown, the people said, requesting not to be identified because the matter is private.Also read: Abbisko, Chinese biotech firm to plan IPO which could raise $250 mlnGlobal investors in Ant are grappling with how to assess their investments made in 2018 when the firm was valued at $150 billion. Ant is discussing a “short-term liquidity solution” for employees in April, while Chairman Eric Jing told employees that the company would eventually go public.Ant raised about $14 billion in 2018 from backers including Singapore’s GIC Pte, Khazanah Nasional Berhad, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Temasek Holdings Pte.Silver Lake Management LLC, Warburg and Carlyle Group Inc. were the biggest US backers, investing at least $500 million each, people familiar have said. General Atlantic LLC invested about $350 million in the same round, the people said.Representatives for Ant and Warburg declined to comment on the valuation, which was reported earlier by Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/warburg-pincus-marks-down-value-of-chinese-fintech-giant-after-ipo-derailed-101615889397907.html
16-03-2021||World||Vatican's edict 'same-sex unions are sinful' met with criticism by gay activists||The Vatican’s edict that same-sex unions cannot be blessed because they are sinful was met Tuesday with criticism by rights activists and gay Catholics in parts of the Asia-Pacific region as inconsistent and out of step with contemporary community standards.Louisa Wall, a New Zealand lawmaker who sponsored the bill that in 2013 legalized gay marriage in that South Pacific country, said the statement from the Vatican’s orthodoxy office seemed incongruent with Pope Francis last year expressing support for a civil union law. Roman Catholic priests now are forbidden from blessing same-sex civil unions.“I join many gay Catholics who are disheartened by this announcement and I hope their church leaders continue to advocate for these blessings,” the lawmaker said. “The Catholic Church could role-model an ability to evolve with their membership.”Also read: US bishops discouraging Catholics from getting J&J Covid-19 shot. Here’s whyRodney Croome, a leading advocate for marriage equality when same-sex marriage became legal in Australia, accused the Vatican of being out of step.Gay marriage was endorsed by 62% of voters who responded to an Australian postal ballot in 2017.“The Vatican is out of step, not only with public opinion in Australia, but with the majority of Catholics who voted ‘Yes’ for marriage equality in 2017,” said Croome, a spokesperson for just equal, an advocacy group campaigning for justice and equality.“If I could address the pope directly, I’d say that sin lies not with same-sex relationships, but with those who invoke God to push LGBTIQ people to the margins of society,” added Croome, who is gay.Benjamin Oh, co-chair of the advisory board of Australian Catholics for Equality, described the Vatican statement as “personally painful.” Oh said his 16-year same-sex relationship was “worthy of sacramental marriage.”“The church have (blessed) all kinds of things: animals, cars and even weapons used for the killing of another human being,” Oh said in an email. “For many Catholic Christians, this statement flies in the face of Jesus’ teaching to love."As a Catholic, Oh said the statement was “personally hurtful and dehumanizing, but sadly, totally unsurprising.”“There is still a toxic culture towards LGBTI people in our church and societies and this statement will no doubt be weaponized by those who want to inflict more pain, discrimination and suffering on LGBTI folks both in our church and in civil society, especially in places and communities that discriminate, marginalize, harm, abuse and even kill LGBTI persons,” Oh said.In the Philippines, Asia’s largest Catholic nation, gay rights leader Danton Remoto reacted with exasperation to the Vatican edict.“I keep on telling LGBTQIs to just have their civil unions done,” Remoto said. “We do not need any stress anymore from this church.”Remoto said it’s better to bring the struggle for gay rights in the country before local governments, which have passed more than 20 anti-discrimination ordinances through the years.“Why fight an ancient institution?” Remoto asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaticans-edict-same-sex-unions-are-sinful-met-with-criticism-by-gay-activists-101615889385047.html
16-03-2021||World||US, Japan will oppose any action by China that seeks to change status quo, says Motegi||Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs Toshimitsu Motegi said on Tuesday that Tokyo and Washington share serious concerns over China's attempts to change the status quo in the East and South China seas."We conducted extensive discussion on the regional strategic environment, on the situation in China and agreed on the recognition that China's behavior was inconsistent with the existing international order ... presents serious challenges to the alliance and the international community," Motegi said at a meeting with US State Secretary Antony Blinken as quoted by Sputnik."We will oppose any unilateral action that seeks to change the status quo, including in the East and South China seas. We share serious concerns over China's coastguard law," Motegi addedIn February, China enacted the law that permits China's coast guard to destroy other countries' structures and to use force when defending the country's maritime claims in disputed areas.Over the past several years, China has increased its territorial and maritime claims in the Indo-Pacific region, overlapping with the interests of a number of nations.Also read: US, on mission to rally Asia against China, distracted by North KoreaIn particular, Beijing has been locked up in a dispute with Tokyo over a string of uninhabited but resource-rich islets, known as the Senkaku Islands in Japan and the Diaoyu Islands in China.In addition, Beijing has boosted the scale and frequency of its military drills in the Indo-Pacific, prompting the United States and its regional allies -- Japan, India and Australia -- to enhance strategic cooperation within the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue in response.Blinken and US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin reaffirmed their commitment to cooperation with Japan, which they say is crucial for a free and open Indo-Pacific Region, and also stressed that the bond between the countries is based on shared values."For that trip, we come to Japan, because for over 60 years our alliance has been a cornerstone of peace, security and prosperity not only for our two countries but for the region and indeed for the world. We are here to reaffirm our commitment to this alliance ... to ensure that we keep delivering for our people today and for the future," Blinken said.Austin, in turn, stressed that the US seeks to "build upon the resolute and resilient bond between our two countries."The high-ranking official noted that the US Department of Defense stands "ready to buttress the hard work of diplomats."Motegi pointed to the need to "cement peace, stability and prosperity as strategic goals of Japan and the US" in light of the "change in power balance." "The environment has entered a completely different dimension ... and the Covid-19 pandemic is fueling the trend," Motegi noted.Japans's defense minister, Nobuo Kishi, noted that the bilateral partnership, which has been steadily developing in the past 10 years, should now be made even stronger, as the "security environment is becoming increasingly severe."Indo-Pacific region is largely viewed as an area comprising the Indian Ocean and the western and central Pacific Ocean, including the South China Sea.China's territorial claims in the South China Sea and its efforts to advance into the Indian Ocean are seen to have challenged the established rules-based system. China claims much of the South China Sea, but there are also overlapping claims by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam.China has built bases and other outposts on shoals, reefs and rock outcroppings to deepen its claim over 80 per cent of the 3.6 sq km waterway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-japan-will-oppose-any-action-by-china-that-seeks-to-change-status-quo-says-motegi-101615889363088.html
16-03-2021||World||WHO vaccine safety panel may issue statement on AstraZeneca on Tuesday||A World Health Organization (WHO) panel of experts examining data on Tuesday from use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine may issue a statement at the end of the day, a WHO spokesman said.Christian Lindmeier, asked about the WHO global advisory committee on vaccine safety, told a UN briefing in Geneva: "We think the committee may issue a statement by the end of the day."The WHO is reviewing the evidence in close dialogue with the European Medicines Agency, also meeting on Tuesday. The European Union's largest members - Germany, France and Italy - suspended the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine on Monday pending the outcome of an investigation by the bloc's medicines regulator into isolated cases of bleeding, blood clots and low platelet counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-vaccine-safety-panel-may-issue-statement-on-astrazeneca-on-tuesday-101615893770632.html
16-03-2021||World||UK seeks to 'moderate' China with push for more influence in Indo-Pacific||Britain wants to expand its influence among countries in the Indo-Pacific region to try to moderate China's global dominance, a document laying out post-Brexit foreign policy priorities will say on Tuesday.The document will also underline the importance of strong ties with the United States, and British media said an increase was planned to Britain's nuclear arsenal and that Russia would be named as a top security threat.Britain's biggest foreign and defence policy review since the end of the Cold War will set out how Prime Minister Boris Johnson wants to be at the forefront of a reinvigorated, rules-based international order based on cooperation and free trade.Calling the Indo-Pacific "increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world", the government highlighted a planned British aircraft carrier deployment to the region and said a previously postponed visit to India would go ahead in April.Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab acknowledged Britain's attempts to influence Beijing had been marginal so far, and said cooperating with other nations in the region gave it a better chance of persuading China to play by established rules."We're far better acting in concert with clusters of like-minded countries - not just the Europeans and the Americans - but more broadly to try and have the maximum impact and moderating impact on China, because it is sensitive to its reputation," Raab told Times Radio.The United States has also underlined the importance of the Indo-Pacific region under President Joe Biden and warned against China's growing assertiveness, and the European Union also hopes to deepen ties with countries in the Indo-Pacific.The British government has said the "Integrated Review" will show that Britain, which left the EU last year, still has international clout after Brexit and will define a new era for the country."I am profoundly optimistic about the UK’s place in the world and our ability to seize the opportunities ahead," Johnson will say in a statement to parliament.POST-BREXIT FUTUREThe document will be scrutinised for evidence of how the government will deliver on Johnson's promises as Britain copes with the economic and political fallout of Brexit and the Covid-19 pandemic.The Sun newspaper reported the document would raise the upper limit on Britain's number of nuclear warheads to 260 from 180.Sky News said the report would classify Russia as an "active threat" and take a more nuanced approach to China as a "systemic challenge" - a reference to its authoritarian, rather than democratic, leadership and its economic influence.In 2015, Britain's then finance minister, George Osborne, predicted a "golden" era in Chinese-British relations. But ties have frayed over issues including Beijing's handing of former British colony Hong Kong and security concerns around Chinese investment in Britain.Raab told Sky News Britain would like to have a positive relationship with China but not at the expense of upholding its values.A statement previewing the report underlined "the importance of our relationship with the US" alongside the defence of democracy and human rights, and safety from terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-seeks-to-moderate-china-with-push-for-more-influence-in-indopacific-101615891495611.html
16-03-2021||World||Britain's Prince Philip leaves hospital after treatment||Britain's Prince Philip, the husband of Queen Elizabeth, has left the London hospital where he has been staying for treatment, a Reuters witness said on Tuesday.Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, was admitted to the King Edward VII's Hospital on February 16 after he felt unwell, to receive treatment for an unspecified, but not Covid-19-related, infection.The 99-year-old transferred briefly to another London hospital at the start of this month where he underwent a procedure for a pre-existing heart condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britains-prince-philip-leaves-hospital-after-treatment-101615891913181.html
16-03-2021||World||George Floyd case: Diverse jury so far for ex-cop's trial||The jurors seated so far in the trial of a former Minneapolis police officer charged in George Floyd's death are a diverse group, an element being closely scrutinized in a case where race plays such a central role.Nine jurors have been seated through Monday, including five who are white; one who is multiracial; two who are Black and one who is Hispanic.Some news organizations reported the racial makeup of the jury mainly by appearances last week before Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill, mindful of strong public interest in the case, began releasing each juror's race after they were selected.Floyd, a Black man, was declared dead on May 25 after Derek Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against his neck for about nine minutes. Floyd’s death sparked sometimes violent protests in Minneapolis and beyond and led to a national reckoning on racial justice. Chauvin is charged with murder and manslaughter.The jurors include six men and three women and ranges in age from their 20s to their 50s. The selection process resumes Tuesday and continues until 14 people — 12 to deliberate and two alternates — are seated. Opening statements are March 29 unless the process isn't complete by then.On Monday, Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson asked Cahill to postpone the trial, arguing that the jury pool was likely tainted by Friday's announcement that the city of Minneapolis would pay $27 million to Floyd's family to settle their civil lawsuit.“It is profoundly disturbing to the defense,” Nelson said of the settlement in the midst of jury selection. “This is not fair.”Cahill didn't immediately grant the delay, but he acknowledged that the timing was “unfortunate” and said he would consider it. He said he likely would recall the seven jurors who were seated last week for further questioning, though he already instructed members of the jury pool to avoid all news coverage of the case.The first potential juror questioned Monday was quickly dismissed after volunteering that she’d heard about the settlement and presumed it meant the city didn’t feel it would win the civil case.“When I heard that, I almost gasped at the amount,” she said, adding that she couldn’t promise she could disregard it.Potential jurors questioned later didn’t mention hearing of the settlement, and neither attorneys nor the judge directly asked if they were aware of it.The two jurors seated Monday include a Black man in his 30s who works in banking, coaches youth sports and does creative writing as a hobby, and a white woman in her 50s who works as an executive assistant at a health care clinic.The man said in his juror questionnaire that he had neutral impressions of Chauvin and Floyd, and didn’t believe Chauvin set out to murder anyone. He also wondered why other officers didn’t intervene.“I don’t know if he was doing something wrong or not, but somebody died,” the man said. “Even if you have no intention of doing something and something happens, somebody could’ve still intervened and prevented that.”The woman said she was “disturbed” by bystander video showing Chauvin with his knee on Floyd’s neck, and couldn’t watch the whole thing.Three other former officers face an August trial on charges of aiding and abetting second-degree murder and manslaughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-case-diverse-jury-so-far-for-ex-cop-s-trial-101615891534894.html
16-03-2021||World||Iran's third homegrown vaccine reaches clinical trials phase||Iran's campaign to inoculate its population against the coronavirus and promote itself as an emerging vaccine manufacturer inched on as health authorities announced Tuesday that the country's third homegrown vaccine has reached the phase of clinical trials.Details about its production, however, remained slim.Although Iran, with a population of more than 80 million, has so far imported foreign vaccines from Russia, China, India and Cuba to cover over 1.2 million people, concerns over its lagging pace of vaccinations have animated Iran's drive to develop locally produced vaccines as wealthier nations snap up the lion's share of vaccine doses worldwide.Iranian scientists, like elsewhere in the world, are rushing to condense the typically years long process to develop vaccines into a few months — a task that has acquired urgency as the country struggles to stem the worst virus outbreak in the Middle East and its economy reels from harsh American sanctions.But details are scant about the Islamic Republic's vaccine production efforts. Two other Iranian vaccines are also in the phase of clinical trials, with the most advanced, called Barekat, tested on 300 people so far.The government said 20,000 volunteers in the capital of Tehran and other cities will soon receive Iran's new vaccine, called Fakhra, which an official described to state-run media as being “100% safe,” without providing any evidence or data to support the claim. Earlier this week, the government launched a vaccine production factory it claims can make 3 million doses a day.The vaccine introduced Tuesday on state TV was created by an affiliate of Iran's Defense Ministry, known as the Research and Innovation Organization.Like with the Barekat vaccine still in the initial phase of clinical trials, the company used inactivated coronaviruses from 35,000 samples to make the new vaccine, a traditional technology based on cultivating batches of the virus and then killing it. By comparison, Western drug manufacturers are taking a newer gene-based approach to target the spikes on the outer structure of the coronavirus, a method that had never been approved for widespread use before.Iran's fragmented approach to domestic vaccine production, with entities ranging from state-owned pharmaceutical conglomerates to the Defense Ministry working separately on at least six different vaccines, reflect the country's wider factional rivalries and competing power structures.At a ceremony attended by high-ranking officials in Tehran on Tuesday, Iranian state TV broadcast footage of just a single volunteer receiving the Fakhra vaccine, named after chief Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who was killed in a November attack that Iran blamed on Israel.While Fakhrizadeh was known to lead the country's disbanded nuclear weapons program in the early 2000s, Iran has eulogized him as a leader of country's domestic coronavirus vaccine development drive. Fakhrizadeh's son was the first to receive the jab of the new vaccine.The coronavirus has infected 1.7 million people in Iran and killed more than 61,000 — the highest death toll in the Middle East.Iran formally launched its limited vaccination campaign last month, doling out Russia's Sputnik V vaccine to health workers and those with chronic health conditions. Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has banned Iran from importing American and British vaccines, a reflection of its deep-rooted mistrust of the West.Nonetheless, Iran later said it would receive 4.2 million doses of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and UK-based drugmaker AstraZeneca through the global COVAX initiative, which was created to ensure that low- and middle-income countries have fair access to vaccines.The Health Ministry has vowed to vaccinate all adults in the country by late September, although how the government will reach that ambitious goal remains uncertain. Iran says it expects to import doses for over 16 million people from COVAX.The government has alleged that tough American sanctions imposed by former President Donald Trump in 2018 undermine efforts to purchase foreign-made vaccines and roll out mass inoculation campaigns like those making headway in the US and Europe.Although international banks and financial institutions often hesitate in dealing with Iranian transactions for fear of being fined or locked out of the American market, US sanctions do have specific carve-outs for medicine and humanitarian aid to Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-third-homegrown-vaccine-reaches-clinical-trials-phase-101615888495097.html
16-03-2021||World||Japan's Fast Retailing says supplier plants in Myanmar set on fire||Japan's Fast Retailing Co said on Tuesday that two supplier factories in Myanmar were recently set on fire amid violent unrest following a military coup.A representative for Fast Retailing, known for its Uniqlo brand of casual clothing stores, confirmed that fires had broken out on Sunday at two factories used in the manufacture of its apparel.The factories were not operating at the time and there were no injuries.The situation in Myanmar will lead to some delays in the production and delivery of products, the company said.Foreign firms have been urged to suspend operations in Myanmar to put pressure on the military junta to end its bloody takeover.Japan's Kirin Holdings Co is winding up a beer alliance with a military-linked company after coming under pressure from activist groups."We are deeply concerned about the current situation in Myanmar and have started conversations with international stakeholders, including United Nation agencies and NPOs and other global companies on this matter," Fast Retailing said in a statement.(Reporting by Rocky Swift; editing by Stephen Coates and Jason Neely)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japans-fast-retailing-says-supplier-plants-in-myanmar-set-on-fire-101615885058004.html
16-03-2021||World||EU commission says Pfizer-BioNTech to deliver over 200 mln vaccine doses in Q2||The European Union will receive a total of over 200 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine produced by BioNTech and Pfizer in the second quarter, the European Commission said on Tuesday.The amount includes 10 million jabs which were originally supposed to be delivered in the third and fourth quarters only, according to a statement."These accelerated 10 million doses will bring the total doses of BioNTech-Pfizer in quarter 2 up to over 200 million," EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said."This is very good news. It gives member states room to manoeuvre and possibly fill gaps in deliveries," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-commission-says-pfizer-biontech-to-deliver-over-200-mln-vaccine-doses-in-q2-101615888967211.html
16-03-2021||World||Kremlin says 'unprecedented' pressure on countries to reject Sputnik V vaccine||The Kremlin said on Tuesday that pressure on some countries to refuse to buy Russia's Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 was at unprecedented levels, but that said such efforts had no chances of success.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov made the remarks when asked to comment on a US government report which appeared to show that the United States had attempted to dissuade Brazil from buying Sputnik V.He said Russia was against politicising the situation around vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-says-unprecedented-pressure-on-countries-to-reject-sputnik-v-vaccine-101615888983199.html
16-03-2021||World||Boris Johnson to shift UK's foreign policy post Brexit towards India, Pacific||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday will unveil plans to shift Britain’s foreign policy focus toward India and the Pacific as the country adjusts to life after Brexit and a world in which China and Russia present an increasing threat to the nation’s security.As part of the new policy, Britain is applying for partner status in the Association of South East Asian Nations, and Johnson will travel to India next month for his first major international visit since the UK left the European Union. The Royal Navy aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will be sent to region later this year for its first operational deployment.Also read: Johnson says UK will become a global activist after BrexitThe government also says it will make climate change and preserving biodiversity its top priority over the next decade. The new priorities are the result of a year-long review of Britain’s security, defense, international development and foreign policy.While the government’s advance statement on the policy shift doesn’t mention China and Russia by name, Johnson says Britain must protect ideas like democracy and free speech on the world stage.“So under this integrated review we will work ever harder, and give ourselves all the tools we need, to coordinate with like-minded democracies in the US, in Europe and around the world to protect and advance those ideas and beliefs against those who oppose them,” Johnson wrote Tuesday in the Times of London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-to-shift-uk-s-foreign-policy-post-brexit-towards-india-pacific-101615887057143.html
16-03-2021||World||Africa CDC reviewing use of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||The Africa Centres for Disease Control is reviewing its guidance on a coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford after several European nations suspended its use amid concerns about possible adverse side effects.“The AstraZeneca vaccine was seen to be safe and efficacious and we would need to review the data. We should guide the response with strong science and evidence,” Africa CDC Director John Nkengasong said in an interview with Bloomberg TV on Tuesday. “The Africa CDC will be convening an emergency meeting this afternoon with all the experts across the continent to look at the data and what we know, and then to provide appropriate guidance to the continent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/africa-cdc-reviewing-use-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-101615886826126.html
16-03-2021||World||New Hong Kong law on patriotic oaths may threaten judges||A proposed new law that tightens patriotic loyalty tests for Hong Kong politicians could also ensnare the city's judges, further threatening its vaunted judicial independence, say legal scholars, lawyers and diplomats.They warn that the so-called "negative list" - which proscribes unpatriotic acts - under the oath-taking bill is far too vague and could put judges under intense pressure if their rulings and judgments are viewed as challenging the government.The bill, launched last month and due to be debated in the city's legislature this week, is part of a new drive by the Chinese and Hong Kong governments to ensure only "patriots" govern the city.Long seen as the bedrock on which Hong Kong's freedoms and international financial status are built, the city's independent judiciary and common-law-based legal system have grown in importance since the imposition of a sweeping national security law in June.Diplomats, business people and activists say that as various Hong Kong institutions crumble, including the legislature, local media and academia, the judiciary is the key remaining check on Beijing's tightening authoritarian grip on its freest city.Much of the bill involves ways that legislators and community-level district councilors can be disqualified if their oaths are deemed insincere. Such moves are expected to pave the way for mass disqualification of the pro-democracy politicians who humiliated the pro-Beijing camp when they won district polls by a landslide in 2019.But as the city's ranks of judges, including leading foreign jurists, must take oaths to Hong Kong under long-standing requirements, they also come under the sweep of the legislation.'Holistic loves'Launching the bill last month, Hong Kong's Secretary for Mainland and Constitutional Affairs Erick Tsang said the law fulfilled "the constitutional responsibility of the government".Tsang defined patriotism as a "holistic love" that included the leadership of China's ruling Communist Party.Simon Young, a professor at the University of Hong Kong law school, said the vague nature of some of the elements of the negative list could spark intense scrutiny and complaints.He singled out references to acts that had a "tendency" to undermine the order of the political structure or the "overall interests" of Hong Kong."These references are extremely vague and it creates more possible complications for how the judiciary itself has to regulate judges against these new standards," Young told Reuters. "There is still time to clarify things... the point is we should not be defining these specific parameters of the oath in such vague ways with such over-reaching scope that it could undermine judicial independence."A spokesman for the judiciary said that because of judicial independence, it was inappropriate for it to comment on any legislative proposals. The Hong Kong government did not immediately respond to questions from Reuters.The spokesman added that it had been stated in "express terms" that Hong Kong's courts "shall exercise judicial power independently, free from any interference"."As reflected in their judicial oath, in exercising their judicial power, judges are required to determine and handle cases strictly in accordance with the law and legal principles," the judiciary spokesman said.The legislation would still have to comply with the Basic Law, which outlines judicial independence, including legal immunity for judges.Senior lawyers warned the proposals added a new layer of outside political scrutiny and could complicate long-standing arrangements involving the appointment and disciplining of judges."The shift here is that you are not swearing to uphold a constitutional principle or value, but are expected to effectively make an oath to a party or an individual," one veteran lawyer said.A senior Western envoy said that the city's once-extensive autonomy was "hanging by a thread" and that the "judges are all that is left.""We are telling the Hong Kong and Chinese governments not only that we and our business communities are watching closely, but that we are all deeply concerned at the prospect of what Beijing is styling as reforms putting extra pressure on the legal system," the envoy said. "The judiciary must be left alone to do its work."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-hong-kong-law-on-patriotic-oaths-may-threaten-judges-101615886823944.html
16-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine scare: European health ministers to discuss shot||European health ministers will discuss the future of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine after a growing number of countries suspended its use to examine side effects, potentially throwing the region’s already slow inoculation campaign further off track.The ministers will gather virtually on Tuesday to discuss their response, ahead of the latest findings by the European Medicines Agency, the regional drugs regulator, which plans to decide on the next steps on Thursday. At stake is the future of one main building block of Europe’s vaccine push, where AstraZeneca was due to account for about a fifth of all doses in the second quarter.”We cannot afford a single doubt over the vaccines’ efficiency,” French Industry Minister Agnes Pannier-Runacher said on France Info radio on Tuesday. The AstraZeneca CEO, Pascal Soriot, “is in the hot seat and he knows it.”With infection numbers creeping up again in countries like Germany, the risk of further vaccine shortages will increase pressure on politicians who have been punished for a lackluster immunization program. German Chancellor Angela Merkel saw her party slump to its worst ever results in two state elections on Sunday. In France, President Emmanuel Macron is running neck and neck with his populist rival Marine Le Pen in polls for next year’s presidential election.The European Commission is expected to tell ministers to wait until the bloc’s drugs regulator gives its verdict on Thursday and to act upon this recommendation. The Commission will also sound the alarm over millions of unused doses in member states, according to a person familiar with the matter.Damage DoneThe European Commission has committed to immunizing 70% of adults by the end of September, but the latest precautions could push back efforts by at least a couple of weeks and potentially longer, according to London-based research firm Airfinity Ltd. Some 30 million AstraZeneca doses are due to be delivered by the end of this quarter, with more coming in the next three months.Even before the suspension, the U.K.-based company’s shot, jointly developed with the University of Oxford, had grappled with production delays, which the company attributed in part to typical teething issues with a new product. As a result, Cambridge-based Astra will only be able to deliver about 100 million doses to the EU in the first half of the year, it said last week, about a third of the number originally planned.Questions over the safety of the AstraZeneca shot have inserted an extra dose of bitterness into the bloc’s troubled relations with the U.K. government, which has been vaunting the vaccine as a vindication of British ingenuity. Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is meeting his colleagues from six neighboring countries later on Tuesday, whose leaders have complained about an “uneven” distribution of vaccines in the EU.Risk and RewardWhile the move to suspend is temporary and precautionary pending the EMA’s assessment, it stands to further damage the public perception of a vaccine already plagued by a flawed trial, production shortfalls and a public spat with officials in Brussels accusing the company of violating its contractual supply obligations.Shortly after the governments announced the suspensions, the EMA stuck to its view that the vaccine’s benefits “in preventing Covid-19, with its associated risk of hospitalization and death, outweigh the risks of side effects.”“A longer review or a permanent ban would deal a more serious blow to the EU’s vaccination program,” Eurasia Group analyst Federico Santi wrote in a note. “It could mean the EU may not achieve a level of vaccinations consistent with a meaningful easing of restrictions in many member states until the end of the second quarter, rather than mid-Spring as we are currently expecting.”The suspension contrasts with AstraZeneca’s positive run in the U.K., where Prime Minister Boris Johnson is championing a rapid vaccination push and continues to deem the shot safe to use.Political PerilsThe response to possible side-effects puts additional pressure on countries at a time parts of Europe fall back into lockdowns. Italy has reintroduced harsher measures, and parts of Germany have also seen an increase in infections, prompting some medical experts to demand a tightening of the restrictions from which Europe’s largest economy was just starting to emerge.German Health Minister Jens Spahn told reporters in Berlin on Monday that the decision to suspend was “professional, not political.” Still, the move drew a rebuke from some other lawmakers given the low numbers of possible blood-clot findings.AstraZeneca’s vaccine is one of four that have been approved in the EU, alongside shots from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, Moderna Inc., and Johnson & Johnson. With supplies from J&J yet to arrive and doses of Moderna limited, that means the bulk of immunizations in many countries will now be conducted with Pfizer-BioNTech.After Denmark became one of the first countries in the region to suspend the AstraZeneca shot, the EMA said on March 11 that the number of clots in vaccinated people was no higher than the number seen in the general population -- totaling 30 cases among 5 million people who had received the vaccine. Neighboring Sweden has stuck with the vaccine, with the country’s medical products agency saying the benefits of the shot outweigh its risks.Serious BlowResponding to the suspensions, AstraZeneca said it’s working with national health authorities and European officials.“Around 17 million people in the EU and U.K. have now received our vaccine, and the number of cases of blood clots reported in this group is lower than the hundreds of cases that would be expected among the general population,” AstraZeneca said in a statement.Belgium and Austria said late Monday that they would continue using the Astra shot, but would keep a close watch on the situation.“It’s a very good vaccine that protects people against this terrible disease,” Belgian Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke said, according to Le Soir newspaper.In the U.K., Johnson also defended the vaccine. He said Monday that the U.K. Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency is “one of the toughest and most experienced regulators in the world” and sees “no reason at all” to discontinue its use. The tally of people who have received their first dose has passed 26 million in the country.Anthony Harnden, the deputy chairman of the U.K.’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, told the BBC that about 3,000 blood clots a month are common in the general population of the country, and that such a diagnosis is bound to happen simultaneously with the vaccination, rather than being caused by it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-scare-european-health-ministers-to-discuss-shot-101615887411380.html
16-03-2021||World||Over 359 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered worldwide||At least 132 countries and territories have administered more than 359 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines so far.As per the data provided by Our World In Data citied by The New York Times, 359,460,397 doses have been administered and as many as 4.7 persons have been vaccinated per 100 people.In the US, as many as 135,847,835 doses have been delivered and 109,081,860 doses have been administered. 71,054,445 people have received at least one dose of the vaccine while 38,335,432 persons have been completely vaccinated, as per US Centres for Disease Control.In the UK, 24,453,221 people have received the first dose of the vaccine while 1,610,280 people have received their second dose of the vaccine as well, as per the figures provided by the government.In India, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 3,29,47,432 doses have been administered in the country of which 2,70,79,484 people have received the first dose while 58,67,948 people have received the second dose.According to Our World In Data, 9,374,827 people have been vaccinated in Israel at a rate of 106 persons per 100 people.However, vaccine rollout in Europe has slowed down as Denmark, Iceland and Norway have suspended the use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine while the European Union's medicines regulator investigates whether the shot could be linked to a number of reports of blood clots, as reported by CNN.Portugal has announced that it is suspending the inoculation of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine as a "precaution," joining other European countries - including France, Germany, Italy and Spain - in halting its use following reports of blood clots post-inoculation.As of now, Denmark, Norway, Iceland, Bulgaria, Ireland, Netherlands, Germany, Italy, France, Spain, Portugal, Sweden and Luxembourg are the European countries that have suspended the AstraZeneca vaccine as a precautionary measure.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) also said Monday that the benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine outweigh the risks, adding that the number of people developing blood clots after vaccination does not seem to be higher than in the general population.The agency said it would hold an emergency meeting on Thursday to advise on "any further actions that may need to be taken."CNN further reported thatthe Australian government said it "remains confident" in the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, after a growing list of countries paused the rollout of its use.Chief Medical Officer, Professor Paul Kelly, said in a statement Tuesday, "there is currently no evidence that it causes blood clots."Novavax on Thursday said final data from a trial in the United Kingdom shows its COVID-19 vaccine is almost 90 per cent effective, but the vaccine was far less effective in a separate trial in South Africa, given the virus variant there that has raised concerns about weakening vaccines.According to The Hill, the data from the UK trial was very strong and similar to interim data released in January. The final data showed the vaccine is 96 per cent effective against the original virus strain, and 86 per cent effective against the variant identified in the UK, for the overall effectiveness of 89.7 per cent.In South Africa, where a concerning variant is highly prevalent, the effectiveness was far lower, at 48.6 per cent, though it was a little higher, at 55 per cent, among people who did not have HIV.The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday issued emergency use authorization for Johnson & Johnson's coronavirus vaccine, paving the way for the one-shot dose to be used as part of the United Nation's international vaccine distribution effort.According to The Hill, The go-ahead signal from WHO, which comes a day after the European Union approved the shot, means that countries that receive shots through the UN's COVAX effort, which promotes equitable distribution of vaccines, could cite the new endorsement in the distribution of the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-359-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-worldwide-101615887417581.html
16-03-2021||World||North Korea warns US not to 'cause a stink' before Seoul meeting||In North Korea's first comments directed at the Biden administration, Kim Jong Un's powerful sister on Tuesday warned the United States to “refrain from causing a stink” if it wants to “sleep in peace” for the next four years.Kim Yo Jong's statement was issued as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin arrived in Asia to talk with US allies Japan and South Korea about North Korea and other regional issues. They have meetings in Tokyo on Tuesday before speaking to officials in Seoul on Wednesday.“We take this opportunity to warn the new U.S. administration trying hard to give off (gun) powder smell in our land,” she said.“If it wants to sleep in peace for coming four years, it had better refrain from causing a stink at its first step.”Kim Yo Jong, a senior official who handles inter-Korean affairs, also criticized the US and South Korea for holding military exercises. She also said the North would consider abandoning a 2018 bilateral agreement on reducing military tensions and abolish a decades-old ruling party unit tasked to handle inter-Korean relations if it no longer had to cooperate with the South.She said the North would also consider scrapping an office that handled South Korean tours to the North's scenic Diamond Mountain, which Seoul suspended in 2008 after a North Korean guard fatally shot a South Korean tourist.The North "will watch the future attitude and actions of the (South Korean) authorities,” before determining whether to take exceptional measures against its rival, she said in her statement published in Pyongyang's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper.Challenges posed by North Korea's nuclear arsenal and China's growing influence loom large in the Biden administration's first Cabinet-level trip abroad, part of a larger effort to bolster U.S. influence and clam concerns about the US role in Asia following four years of President Donald Trump's “America first” approach.A senior official from the Biden administration said Saturday that U.S. officials have tried to reach out to North Korea through multiple channels since last month, but had yet to receive a response. The official was not authorized to publicly discuss the diplomatic outreach and spoke on condition of anonymity.“This is Kim Yo Jong continuing to be the tip of the wedge North Korea tries to drive between South Korea and its US ally,” said Leif-Eric Easley, a professor of international studies at Ewha University in Seoul.“North Korea's latest threats mean the allies have precious little time to coordinate their approaches on deterrence, sanctions and engagement.”Biden's presidency begins as Kim Jong Un faces perhaps the toughest moment of his nine-year rule. His country's battered economy has decayed further amid pandemic border closures while his summits with Trump failed to lift crippling sanctions.While Kim in recent political speeches has vowed to strengthen his nuclear weapons program, he also has said the fate of US relations depends on Washington's actions.The 2018 military agreement, which had been the most tangible outcome from the three summits between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in, requires the countries to take steps to reduce conventional military threats, such as establishing border buffers in land and sea and no-fly zones.But inter-Korean relations have lain in ruin amid the stalemate in the nuclear diplomacy between Washington and Pyongyang.The South Korean and US militaries began annual military exercises last week that continue through Thursday.The drills are command post exercises and computerized simulation and don't involve field training. They said they held the downsized drills after reviewing factors like the status of COVID-19 and diplomatic efforts to resume the nuclear talks with North Korea.But Kim Yo Jong said even the smaller drills are an act of hostility toward the North. In the past, the North has often responded with U.S.-South Korea drills with missile tests.“(War drills) and hostility can never go with dialogue and cooperation,” she said.Boo Seung-chan, a spokesperson from South Korea's Defense Ministry, said the combined drills were defensive in nature and called for the North to show a more “flexible attitude” that would be constructive to stabilizing peace on the Korean Peninsula. He said the South's military wasn't detecting any unusual signs of military activity from the North.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-warns-us-not-to-cause-a-stink-before-seoul-meeting-101615887019933.html
16-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Hong Kong's tough rules sees babies isolated, families cramped||Families in Asia's financial hub of Hong Kong are suffering isolation and trauma after strict coronavirus rules have led to babies being separated from parents and those with newborns herded into tiny quarantine quarters for up to 14 days. Hong Kong authorities have ordered that anyone testing positive for the virus must go to hospital, including babies, while all their close contacts, even those who test negative, are sent to makeshift quarantine camps."It’s crazy," said one mother, who said she had to abruptly stop breastfeeding following separation from her seven-month-old son last week after she was diagnosed with Covid-19."I got fever last night because I have gone from breastfeeding to 100% pumping," said the woman, who asked not to be identified."So instead of dealing with Covid, I’m dealing with blocked sore breasts."The separation of families over the virus is not common in other developed cities, say legal experts.Hong Kong's government did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shahana Hoque-Ali, a scientist who moderates the Hong Kong Quarantine support group on Facebook, said it had assisted in more than 100 cases of children who had faced separation from their parents over the past year, with dozens in the past week.A separate city-wide petition circulating online on Monday asked the government to allow young children the option of home quarantine. Around 4,700 of a targeted 5,000 residents signed up in a few hours according to the website.Many expatriate families with young children were among the hundreds of residents sent to quarantine last week after an outbreak at a popular upmarket gym in Hong Kong's Sai Ying Pun district.That case has ensnared bankers, lawyers and the city’s international school network, with some teachers and students infected.Separately, a group of eight babies and parents who attended a playgroup last week were sent to quarantine after one parent was confirmed positive because of the gym outbreak.The rest of the group tested negative but they were still required to quarantine."I am really worried, it's such a small space. Three of us in this room for 10 days won't work," said Nicholas Worley, whose wife Kylie and 15-month-old son, Hunter, attended the playgroup.The quarantine rooms in Penny's Bay that accommodate Worley and many others are 18 sq. m. (194 sq. ft) in size and lack refrigerators, cooking facilities or baby amenities.While staff there did their best to assist, the facility is not designed for families, the residents said.Worley, who heads consultancy Bain's public relations in Asia, said hazards in the room, such as sharp nails and edges, fuelled additional concern over his son's safety. The trauma and psychological impact on families is intense, said a 40-year-old man in quarantine with his two young children."It's an absolute nightmare, it is just such a mess," said the man, who sought anonymity. On Sunday a class of 35 nine-year-olds from the city's Harbour School were told they needed to enter quarantine, its managing director, Dan Blurton, told Reuters."Parents and the school have strongly requested for alternative arrangements that are more humane, with regards to the treatment of young children," he added.Legal experts said there were no set guidelines regarding family separations, with each case being handled individually. Hong Kong barrister Kirsteen Lau said that legally health officers had wide discretion to grant or deny permission for a child or parent to enter a place of isolation.However, this meant that regulations "give very little guidance as to what circumstances would allow a parent and child to stay together," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-hong-kong-s-tough-rules-sees-babies-isolated-families-cramped-101615858973044.html
16-03-2021||World||News Corp inks Australia Facebook deal, signalling truce after blackout||Rupert Murdoch's News Corp reached a content-supply deal with Facebook Inc in Australia, the companies said on Tuesday, a step toward settling a dispute that saw the social media giant briefly shut down thousands of pages in the country.The agreement, terms of which were not disclosed, makes News Corp the first major media outlet to strike a Facebook deal under controversial new laws that let an Australian government-appointed arbitrator set fees if companies fail to do so.Facebook's shutting out all media content in the country for a week last month angered world leaders, as the blackout included emergency services and government health pages. It ended the shutdown when Australia agreed to soften some parts of the new regulations.News Corp, which owns about two-thirds of Australian metropolitan newspapers, was among media companies calling for the government to make Facebook and Alphabet Inc's Google pay for the media links that drive viewers, and advertising dollars, to their platforms.Google had also objected for months and threatened, like Facebook, to withdraw core services from the country, before signing deals with most media outlets - including News Corp - in the days before the rules became law."The agreement with Facebook is a landmark in transforming the terms of trade for journalism, and will have a material and meaningful impact on our Australian news businesses," News Corp CEO Robert Thomson said in a statement that thanked the Australian prime minister, treasurer and chief antitrust regulator by name."This digital denouement has been more than a decade in the making," Thomson added.Facebook's head of news partnerships in Australia, Andrew Hunter, said the deal meant Facebook's 17 million users in the country "will gain access to premium news articles and breaking news video from News Corp's network of national, metropolitan, rural and suburban newsrooms".As well as the country's top-selling tabloids The Daily Telegraph in Sydney and The Herald-Sun in Melbourne, News runs a subscription cable TV network called Sky News, which struck a separate Facebook deal, the terms of which were not disclosed, according to News Corp.News Corp was first to say it struck a Facebook deal, but free-to-air television broadcaster and newspaper publisher Seven West Media Ltd has previously said it signed a letter of intent to do so.On Tuesday, Seven rival Nine Entertainment Co Holdings Ltd reported in the Australian Financial Review that it had also signed a letter of intent for a Facebook deal.A Nine spokesman said the company, which also publishes the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper, "continue(s) having constructive and fruitful discussions with Facebook (and) when we have anything to announce we will do so".A Facebook spokesperson declined to comment on the Nine negotiations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/news-corp-inks-australia-facebook-deal-signalling-truce-after-blackout-101615859023024.html
16-03-2021||World||China state TV raps Kohler, BMW for using facial recognition||Chinese state TV has criticized bathroom fixtures brand Kohler and automaker BMW for using facial recognition to identify customers in a possible violation of privacy rules that took effect this year.The accusation came in an annual China Central Television broadcast Monday to mark Consumers’ Day that often highlights complaints against foreign brands.Facial recognition is used by China’s government as part of a nationwide surveillance network to monitor the public through millions of video cameras, eavesdropping on email and messaging services and other technology.Some Chinese developers market facial recognition technology abroad, prompting complaints they might be helping oppressive governments.Kohler Co. stores, BMW dealerships and MaxMara fashion boutiques are among retailers that use facial recognition to identify and track customers, often without telling them, CCTV said.On Tuesday, Kohler said it would stop using the technology. The company said facial recognition was used only to record how many customers visited shops and information about them wasn’t saved.“We sincerely apologize to customers!” Kohler said on its social media account. “Kohler respects the rights and interests of consumers, takes warning and seriously corrects problems.”Faces are considered “sensitive personal information” under a legal change that took effect Jan. 1, CCTV said. It said anyone processing personal information must obtain the individual’s consent.The growing number of companies and devices that allow use of facial recognition as a substitute for a password means that if that information leaks, “it will seriously threaten the privacy and property security of users,” CCTV said.Some public places in China such as airports have signs that tell visitors they are being recorded.In 2019, a law professor sued a zoo in the eastern city of Hangzhou for requiring visitors to record their faces. News reports said the zoo responded by giving visitors the option of leaving their fingerprints instead.BMW AG didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. Phone calls to MaxMara’s China headquarters in Beijing weren’t answered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-state-tv-raps-kohler-bmw-for-using-facial-recognition-101615868265313.html
16-03-2021||World||At least two killed in Afghanistan after gunmen ambush university bus||Gunmen ambushed a bus carrying university staff in northeastern Afghanistan on Tuesday killing the driver and a student, officials said, as attacks on civilians continued, while peace talks between the government and the Taliban remained stalled.Six university lecturers were also wounded during the attack in Baghlan province, said Sayed Hamid Rushan, a spokesman for the interior ministry said.The ministry blamed the Taliban for the attack, but the militant group denied involvement."The attack...has nothing to do with our mujahideen (fighters), we condemn the attack and consider it as a conspiracy of the enemy," said Zabihullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman.On the other side of the country, unidentified gunmen attacked security forces guarding a dam in Herat, killing three, wounding one, according to officials in the western province. Four other members of the security forces were missing.Diplomats and advocates have become alarmed at the rising violence, including targeted attacks on government employees, journalists, academics and rights workers in recent months even as peace negotiations were being held in Qatar.Human Rights Watch (HRW) issued a statement on Tuesday condemning the targeted killings, especially those against minority groups, women and journalists."Unidentified attackers have also gone after journalists, civil society activists, and professionals, killing many, driving some from the country, and leaving the rest to live in fear," said Patricia Gossman, associate Asia director at HRW.With the US-brokered peace talks struggling to make headway, Washington's special envoy to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad is currently on a regional visit, trying to find a way forward before a looming deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-two-killed-in-afghanistan-after-gunmen-ambush-university-bus-101615886035540.html
16-03-2021||World||UN report finds APAC region may achieve less than 10% of SDGs by 2030||The Asia-Pacific region is lagging behind in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set for 2030, and at the current rate the region may achieve less than 10 per cent of the targets, a UN report said on Tuesday.As many as 829 million workers employed in the informal sector were impacted in April 2020 due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the report noted.There are 17 goals under the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (UNESCAP), targeted to be achieved by 2030.These include no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well being, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, bio-diversity, innovation and infrastructure, and reduced inequalities, among others."The Asia-Pacific (APAC) region is not on track to achieve any of the 17 SDGs by 2030. On its current trajectory, the region may achieve less than 10 per cent of the SDG targets," said the report titled 'Asia and the Pacific SDG Progress Report' of the UNESCAP.The region must urgently reverse its regressing trends on many SDGs to achieve its ambitions by 2030, the UN report said adding Asia-Pacific fell short of its 2020 milestones even before entering the global pandemic."There is therefore an added urgency to ensure that responses to the pandemic in the region and at the national level accelerate progress toward the 2030 Agenda," it said.The report also talks about the impact of mandatory lockdowns and social distancing measures on data collection activities, particularly from vulnerable groups.Unemployment increased by 15 million in the region in 2020. Compared to 2019, workers in the region lost 7.1 per cent of their labour income in 2020, equivalent to over USD 1 trillion, it said."In April 2020, lockdown measures impacted some 829 million informal workers in Asia-Pacific region."Acknowledging that in the last decade, Asia-Pacific made extraordinary progress in good health and well-being, credited to partly explain its relative success in reducing the health impact of Covid-19 on its people, the report said despite these hard won gains, there are challenges in providing adequate healthcare workforce, reducing premature deaths and improving mental health.Some subregions are well positioned to achieve a few of the goals. East and North-East Asia is on track to eradicate poverty and provide clean water and sanitation for all.South-East Asia is on track to promote sustainable industry and innovation.However, none of the sub-regions are on track on environment-related goals, and four sub-regions are regressing on climate action and life below water.Making an alarming observation on regressing climate action trends and life below water goals, UNESCAP said the region is responsible for more than half of the global greenhouse gas emissions and adverse impacts of natural disasters on people and economies increase year-by-year."As we find our way out of this pandemic, the report suggests we must focus efforts on more equitable and greener growth," it said.Green house gas emissions containment measures due to the pandemic resulted in a significant reduction in the hazardous emissions with a decrease in global daily carbon dioxide emissions of 17 per cent in April 2020 compared to the year-ago period.In Asia-Pacific, this pattern has been evident in China, India, Japan and the Russian Federation.Environmental monitoring, including satellite data clearly indicates that air quality has improved in the first half of 2020 in many countries of the region. Data shows air pollution over northern India at a 20-year low, with New Delhi and nearby areas registering a significant 50 per cent reduction of aerosol optical depth (correlating to fine particulate matter, PM2.5 and PM10) in April.However, the report said while the drop in carbon dioxide emissions has been significant, it was also temporary and emissions rose as soon as lockdowns were lifted.China relaxed its lockdown earlier than other countries, and the impact is particularly evident with its emissions during April to June comparable to or higher than emissions in the year-ago same months, the report pointed out."Recovery measures are an excellent opportunity for us to rethink our options for development pathways that are inclusive, more resilient, and respect planetary boundaries,” said United Nations Under-Secretary-General and ESCAP Executive Secretary Armida Salsiah Alisjahbana."As we enter the Decade of Action to deliver the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we need to reinforce our collective commitment to the SDGs and let it provide our compass for building back together, better and greener," she said.To build back better, governments should renew their commitments to the SDGs' monitoring framework so that recovery can accelerate a global transformation as promised by the 2030 Agenda, the report said.The agency has also developed a National SDG Tracker tool to help the countries in the region make progress assessment on the goals.National governments can use the tool to produce snapshots of progress towards the ambitions of the 2030 Agenda, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-report-finds-apac-region-may-achieve-less-than-10-of-sdgs-by-2030-101615885895456.html
16-03-2021||World||Sweden is latest country to stop using AstraZeneca vaccine||Sweden on Tuesday became the latest European country to pause use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine amid reports of dangerous blood clots in some recipients.The company and international regulators continue to say the vaccine is safe, however, and many countries elsewhere in the world are forging ahead with their vaccination campaigns.The move by the Swedish Public Health Agency is pending an investigation by the European Medicines Agency. ”The decision is a precautionary measure,” Swedish chief epidemiologist Anders Tegnell said in a statement.Also Tuesday, the German government said it will postpone a virtual summit on the country's vaccination efforts until after the EMA meeting, scheduled for Thursday.Germany, France, Italy and Spain were among countries that suspended use of the vaccine on Monday.The German government and the country's 16 state governors had planned to meet Wednesday for a virtual summit on the country's slow vaccination campaign and on ways to speed it up.AstraZeneca’s formula is one of three vaccines in use on the European continent. But the escalating concern is another setback for the European Union’s vaccination drive, which has been plagued by shortages and other hurdles and is lagging well behind the campaigns in Britain and the US.The EU’s drug regulatory agency will review experts’ findings on the AstraZeneca shot and decide whether action needs to be taken.Much of Asia has shrugged off concerns about the AstraZeneca jab, with Thailand’s prime minister receiving a shot at the start of the country's use of the vaccine on Tuesday.“There are people who have concerns,” Prayuth Chan-ocha said after his vaccination. “But we must believe doctors, believe in our medical professionals.”Thailand initially was the first country outside Europe to temporarily suspend using the AstraZeneca vaccine. But Thailand’s health authorities later decided to go ahead with it, with Prayuth and members of his Cabinet receiving the first shots.Indonesia suspended use of the vaccine on Monday, saying it was waiting for a full report from the World Health Organization regarding possible side effects.AstraZeneca has developed a manufacturing base in Asia, and the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has been contracted by the company to produce a billion doses of the vaccine for developing nations. Hundreds of millions more are to be manufactured this year in Australia, Japan, Thailand and South Korea.AstraZeneca has said there have been 37 reports of blood clots out of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the 27-country EU and Britain. The drugmaker said there is no evidence the vaccine carries an increased risk of clots.In fact, it said the incidence of clots is much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population of this size and is similar to that of other licensed Covid-19 vaccines.Australia’s chief medical officer, Paul Kelly, said there was no evidence so far that the vaccine causes blood clots.“Blood clots happen, they happen in Australia fairly commonly,” he said. “But, from my perspective, I do not see that there is any specific link between the AstraZeneca vaccine and blood clots, and I’m not alone in that opinion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sweden-is-latest-country-to-stop-using-astrazeneca-vaccine-101615885004336.html
16-03-2021||World||EU to lay out plan for lifting lockdowns amid AstraZeneca setback||The European Union will start plotting its strategy to gradually lift coronavirus lockdowns, even as an AstraZeneca Plc vaccine health scare risks causing additional delays to the bloc’s botched immunization campaign.“There is reason to look forward to a substantial reduction in the prevalence of the virus, raising the prospect of a lifting of the restrictions weighing on citizens and the economy alike,” the European Commission will say in a policy document due to be unveiled Wednesday. “EU citizens have good reason to expect the situation to improve,” it will say, according to a draft seen by Bloomberg.The coordinated lifting of lockdowns will be based on a tier “system reflecting the epidemiological situation in each member state,” the Commission will say. The document’s publication is coming as a surge in contagion across the continent is forcing governments to prolong or reimpose restrictions.The tier system, due to be proposed by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, will simulate how much latitude each government has to lighten the measures “without risking a reversal in the spread of the virus.” The ECDC will aim to launch the system next month, the draft says.The EU wants to vaccinate the bulk of its adult population against the virus by the end of summer, paving the way for a return to a semblance of normalcy after the once-in-a-century pandemic killed more than 550,000 people in the bloc and led its economy to the steepest recession on record.London-based research firm Airfinity Ltd. said the suspended rollout of Astra’s Covid-19 vaccine in some EU countries over concerns about possible side effects could delay the goal of immunizing three-quarters of populations by as much as a month. Still, the draft confirms the bloc is expecting 300 million doses to be distributed to members in the second quarter, which may help accelerate the bloc’s sluggish inoculation programs.Vaccination PassThe Commission will say on Wednesday that inoculations are just one piece of the reopening puzzle. On Wednesday, the EU’s executive arm will also publish a legislative proposal for a digital pass certifying that holders have been vaccinated, tested negative or recovered from the virus.The latest draft of the “Digital Green Certificate” regulation allows for vaccines authorized by national governments but not by the European Medicines Agency to be included in the certificate. The document suggests that it will be up to each individual member state to decide whether those inoculated with such shots are considered immune and therefore safe to travel, according to a person familiar with the proposals.Hungary has already started administering vaccines manufactured in Russia and China, which have yet to receive approval by the EU’s drugs regulator. The decision to include shots in the certificate that haven’t received pan-European authorization could help ease travel from outside the bloc, helping tourism-dependent economies attract more visitors. The pass will also include a mechanism to provide for vaccines administered in non-EU countries.Preparations should start “on a common approach to the gradual lifting of restrictions, to ensure that efforts are coordinated when the epidemiological situation allows for an easing of current measures,” EU leaders will say in a joint communique next week. Work on inter-operable vaccine “certificates should be taken forward as a matter of priority,” leaders will say according to a draft of their statement seen by Bloomberg.The introduction of such passes is intended to ease travel for those not considered to be carrying the virus. The EU hopes member states will approve the proposal swiftly so the certificates are in place by mid-June. Vaccination certificates may also allow the lifting of the almost blanket ban currently in place for incoming travel from outside the EU.“Tourism and other travel from outside the EU are an important feature of the EU’s openness,” the Commission will say, promising to “facilitate adaptation of restrictions where travelers from third countries,” are “in a position to present certificates under a system deemed sufficiently reliable.”Investors are also pricing in a resumption of travel. Europe’s Stoxx 600 Travel & Leisure Index fully erased its pandemic losses and closed at a record on Monday. While airlines in the gauge remain a long way from levels reached in February 2020, they’ve been rebounding since November on positive vaccine expectations and as countries such as the U.K. map out a path to ease lockdowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-lay-out-plan-for-lifting-lockdowns-amid-astrazeneca-setback-101615879613773.html
16-03-2021||World||'US-China ties won't improve until...': Joe Biden's aide explains||US relations with China won’t improve until Beijing stops its economic coercion against America’s close regional ally, Australia, a senior aide to President Joe Biden told the Age newspaper.The administration has told the Chinese government that the US wasn’t going to leave Australia alone on the field, Kurt Campbell, the National Security Council’s Asia coordinator, said in an interview. Other nations including Japan, the Philippines and Vietnam have also been targeted by undeclared economic actions by Beijing, Campbell told the Melbourne-based newspaper.The nod of support comes days after the leaders of Australia, India, Japan and the US vowed to to promote regional security in their first virtual “Quad” summit. While China wasn’t mentioned in the group’s final statement, references to an “open” Indo-Pacific region and shared security interests left little doubt that the meeting was a show of unity against Beijing.Ties between Australia and its largest trading partner have deteriorated since April, when Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government called for independent investigators be allowed into Wuhan to probe the origins of the coronavirus. Since then, Beijing has implemented a range of trade actions against Australian goods, including coal, wine and barley.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian sidestepped a question about Campbell’s comments at a regular news briefing in Beijing, saying only that Beijing and Washington were discussing topics for their planned meeting later this week in Alaska. The cause of tensions between China and Australia was actions by Canberra, Zhao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uschina-ties-won-t-improve-until-joe-biden-s-aide-explains-101615885118867.html
16-03-2021||World||Aluminum PJSC expects elevated prices as global economy recovers from pandemic||Emirates Global Aluminum PJSC, one of the world’s biggest producers of the metal, expects prices to remain elevated this year as the global economy recovers from the coronavirus pandemic and vaccine rollouts continue.Positive market sentiment from late 2020 “carried over to this year and continues to give us a strong outlook for 2021,” Chief Executive Officer Abdulnasser bin Kalban said in an interview on Tuesday.Benchmark aluminum prices will probably remain around $2,000 per ton for 2021 as a whole, the United Arab Emirates-based company said. They’ve climbed roughly 12% this year to $2,218 in London -- the highest since mid-2018 -- amid a rally in commodities from metals to energy and food.EGA, which has smelters in Abu Dhabi and Dubai and a bauxite mine in Guinea, had planned an initial public offering in 2018 or 2019. That was pulled after then-US President Donald Trump imposed tariffs on aluminum imports from the UAE.The company may still carry out a listing, though it’s not said when.“The timing is a decision for our shareholders, and we will keep working on our financial performance so that when the shareholders are ready for a sale, we’re ready for it,” Chief Financial Officer Zouhir Regragui said.EGA is equally owned by two sovereign wealth funds -- Investment Corp. of Dubai and Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Investment Co.US TariffsTrump decided to end the 10% tariffs just before leaving office in January, but his successor Joe Biden then said they’d remain in place so as not to displace American producers.“The matter is between the two governments,” said bin Kalban. “We were quite disappointed with the decision. We made it clear that our aluminum is an important part of the US’s supply.”Shipments from the UAE account for slightly more than 10% of US aluminum imports.EGA said earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization were 4.1 billion dirhams ($1.1 billion) in 2020, up 63% from the year before.It expects better returns this year as it maximizes production and expands the Al Taweelah smelter in Abu Dhabi.Also read: UAE asks listed companies to add at least one woman to boardThe company will try to sell more low-carbon aluminum to customers, according to bin Kalban. Last month, it announced a deal worth as much as 100 million euros ($120 million) to supply aluminum made with solar power to BMW AG.Low-carbon aluminum is fast gaining traction, despite it being more expensive, with firms including Apple Inc. working with suppliers to reduce emissions. Electricity generation accounts for around 60% of the aluminum industry’s greenhouse-gas emissions and most smelters still use coal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aluminum-pjsc-expects-elevated-prices-as-global-economy-recovers-from-pandemic-101615879400972.html
16-03-2021||World||Germany defers Covid-19 vaccination summit over AstraZeneca furore||The German government said Tuesday it will postpone a virtual summit on the country's vaccination efforts until after the European Medicines Agency has met over reports of dangerous blood clots in some recipients of AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine.A growing number of European countries — including Germany, France, Italy and Spain — suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine on Monday, though the company and international regulators say there is no evidence the shot is to blame.The German government and the country's 16 state governors had planned to meet Wednesday for a virtual summit on the country's slow vaccination campaign and on ways to speed it up. But in a statement Tuesday morning, the government said the summit would be postponed until after the EMA's meeting, which is scheduled for Thursday.AstraZeneca's formula is one of three vaccines in use on the European continent. But the escalating concern is another setback for the European Union's vaccination drive, which has been plagued by shortages and other hurdles and is lagging well behind the campaigns in Britain and the US.The EU's drug regulatory agency will review experts' findings on the AstraZeneca shot and decide whether action needs to be taken.Elsewhere, much of Asia has shrugged off concerns about the AstraZeneca jab, with Thailand's prime minister receiving a shot at the start of the country's use of the vaccine on Tuesday.“There are people who have concerns,” Prayuth Chan-ocha said after his vaccination. “But we must believe doctors, believe in our medical professionals.”Thailand initially was the first country outside Europe to temporarily suspend using the AstraZeneca vaccine. But Thailand's health authorities later decided to go ahead with AstraZeneca, with Prayuth and members of his Cabinet receiving the first shots.Indonesia suspended the use of the vaccine on Monday, saying it was waiting for a full report from the World Health Organisation regarding possible side effects.AstraZeneca has developed a manufacturing base in Asia, and the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, has been contracted by the company to produce a billion doses of the vaccine for developing nations. Hundreds of millions more are to be manufactured this year in Australia, Japan, Thailand and South Korea.AstraZeneca has said there have been 37 reports of blood clots out of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the 27-country EU and Britain. The drugmaker said there is no evidence the vaccine carries an increased risk of clots.In fact, it said the incidence of clots is much lower than would be expected to occur naturally in a general population of this size and is similar to that of other licensed COVID-19 vaccines.Australia's chief medical officer, Paul Kelly, said there was no evidence so far that the vaccine causes blood clots.“Blood clots happen, they happen in Australia fairly commonly,” he said. “But, from my perspective, I do not see that there is any specific link between the AstraZeneca vaccine and blood clots, and I'm not alone in that opinion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-defers-covid-19-vaccination-summit-over-astrazeneca-furore-101615884496368.html
16-03-2021||World||Adani to work with John Keells Holdings to develop port terminal in Sri Lanka||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd. will work with Sri Lanka’s John Keells Holdings Plc to develop a port terminal in the island nation, billionaire Gautam Adani’s first such standalone overseas project.India’s biggest private port operator got a letter of intent from Sri Lankan authorities to build and operate the West Container Terminal of Colombo Port for 35 years, Adani Ports said in an exchange filing Monday. The project cost is estimated to be around $750 million, according to Daya Ratnayake, chairman of Sri Lanka Ports Authority.This marks the latest addition in the expanding portfolio of the Indian firm that already operates a dozen ports in India, commands 30% market share locally and recently secured an investment from Warburg Pincus LLC. Its tie-up with John Keells -- Sri Lanka’s largest listed conglomerate -- also bolsters India’s engagement with its neighboring nation that has in recent years relied heavily on China for building its infrastructure.Also read: Ranking billionaires: As Adani beat Bezos, Musk here’s a look at 5 othersShares of Adani Ports rose as much as 2.3% in Mumbai on Tuesday, pushing this year’s climb to almost 50%. John Keells’s shares advanced as much as 1.4% in Colombo.The overseas project is part of tycoon Adani’s rapidly diversifying empire as he adds assets from ports to airports, coal mines and data centers, underscoring the rising heft of this first-generation entrepreneur.The port terminal will have a quay length of 1,400 meters and depth of 20 meters, making it a prime trans-shipment cargo destination to handle ultra large container carriers, according to the filing from Adani Ports.It will be the first ever Indian port operator in Sri Lanka and hold 51% in the joint venture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/adani-to-work-with-john-keells-holdings-to-develop-port-terminal-in-sri-lanka-101615877179160.html
16-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca expands planned US supply of Covid antibody drug||British pharmaceuticals giant AstraZeneca, whose Covid vaccine faces safety doubts in some European countries, announced Tuesday that it will supply the US with up to 700,000 doses of a possible antibody treatment.The company said in a statement that it has signed a deal with the US government's Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense for an extra 500,000 doses of its potential Covid-19 antibody drug AZD7442.The announcement takes AstraZeneca's total planned US supplies to 700,000 doses, it added in a statement.The combined value, for the development and supply of the antibody drug in 2021, is about $726 million (608 million euros), it added.AZD7442 is a combination of two antibodies and is currently in late-stage development for the prevention and treatment of Covid."The long-acting antibody combination has the potential to offer almost immediate protection to those who are not able to be vaccinated, to both prevent infection or treat the disease in patients already infected with the virus," said AstraZeneca chief executive Pascal Soriot."The US government's support is critical in helping accelerate the development of AZD7442, which we believe will be an important tool in the fight against Covid-19."The US government funded the development of AZD7442, which is currently in trials with more than 9,000 participants worldwide.Tuesday's news comes as the rollout of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, developed with Oxford University, has been suspended in several European countries over blood clot fears.The World Health Organization, AstraZeneca, and the European Medicines Agency have insisted the shot is safe, and that there is no link between the vaccine and reported blood clots.However, the three largest EU nations -- Germany, Italy and France -- joined others in suspending the shot Monday, dealing a blow to the global immunisation campaign against a disease that has so far killed more than 2.6 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-expands-planned-us-supply-of-covid-antibody-drug-101615883223603.html
16-03-2021||World||Yellen to meet Christian, Jewish religious leaders and Jubilee network director||US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will meet on Tuesday with Jubilee USA Network, a non-profit group that advocates for debt relief for developing countries, and senior religious leaders from large US Christian and Jewish faith groups.The online meeting will focus on ways to increase resources to help poor and middle income countries contain the Covid-19 pandemic, permanent debt restructuring and climate change, said Eric LeCompte, executive director of Jubilee USA Network.LeCompte said it was common for religious leaders to meet once with a US president during a term, but a meeting with a Treasury secretary was unusual."What's unique is that the major religious institutions are coming together to solve the current pandemic crisis and prevent future crises," he said. The World Bank estimates the pandemic will push as many as 150 million people into extreme poverty.Also read: Joe Biden eyes first major tax hike since 1993 in next economic planHe said the meeting reflected Yellen's focus on the global nature of the pandemic, and her willingness to engage with a range of US leaders to hammer out solutions.Faith groups have been outspoken in urging the Biden administration to back a big boost in the International Monetary Fund's emergency reserve funds or Special Drawing Rights to help poor countries devastated by the pandemic.Yellen has given her qualified support for an new allocation of SDRs, reversing the opposition of the Trump administration. US support is critical for any boost in reserves since the United States is the IMF's largest shareholder.She spoke on Monday with British finance minister Rishi Sunak, and both agreed a new SDR allocation could form an important part of a package of support for low-income countries.Italy and other members of the Group of 20 major economies have called for a $500 billion issuance of new SDRs, a move akin to a central bank printing money. The IMF is currently working on a proposal to submit to its member countries this spring.The meeting will include senior officials from the Union for Reform Judaism, the largest Jewish movement in North America, the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, the United Church of Christ, the Presbyterian Church (USA), and the United Methodist Church.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/yellen-to-meet-christian-jewish-religious-leaders-and-jubilee-network-director-101615876982491.html
16-03-2021||World||Johnson says UK will become a global activist after Brexit||Prime Minister Boris Johnson will redirect British foreign policy toward the Indo-Pacific region as he sets out a sweeping overhaul of the U.K.’s international priorities after Brexit.The premier will publish a 100-page blueprint for diplomacy and defense, which his officials are billing as the most wide ranging re-evaluation of the U.K.’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War.In the plan, Johnson will outline a new more activist approach to international relations on issues such as climate change and democracy as he makes clear he regards the Indo-Pacific as increasingly the geopolitical center of the world, especially with the growing clout of China. Johnson intends to visit India at the end of April on his first trip overseas since Britain left the European Union trade and market regime.The plan is also due to lift the cap on the number of nuclear warheads that Britain can stockpile, according to the Guardian newspaper. The limit would increase from 180 warheads to 260 warheads, the Guardian said, citing a leaked copy of the review.“The policy is to maintain a minimal credible deterrent,” Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said on BBC Radio Scotland on Tuesday, when asked about the U.K.’s nuclear arsenal. “We’ve also got to deal with the asymmetric threats, from criminal gangs, hostile states, whether it’s Iran or Russia.”The policy framework spans overseas aid, cyber warfare, the future of the armed forces, and addressing climate change. For Johnson, it’s a chance to tell the world how he sees post-Brexit Britain’s role in the global order developing over the next decade.“I am profoundly optimistic about the U.K.’s place in the world and our ability to seize the opportunities ahead,” the prime minister said in a statement before publication of the so-called integrated review.Brexit TiltSince leaving the EU’s orbit at the end of last year, the U.K. has sought new trade and political alliances around the world including a focus on strengthening ties with the U.S. The new tilt toward the Indo-Pacific region is aimed at neutralizing any threat from China, as lawmakers in London take an increasingly hawkish line toward Beijing over its policies on Hong Kong and its Uighur Islamic minority.Marking this shift, the HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier warship will sail to the Pacific on her maiden deployment later this year, the government said. The U.K. is also applying for partner status at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the premier’s office said.“It is important messaging to show China that if she flouts the global rules-based system that alliances will form, she can’t pick opposition off individually,” Alan West, a member of the House of Lords and former head of the Royal Navy, said in an interview. “It is also the fastest-growing economic area and crucial for the new global Britain.”According to Johnson’s office, the review will include:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-says-uk-will-become-a-global-activist-after-brexit-101615883231577.html
16-03-2021||World||Malaysia's Top Glove charged with failing to provide worker accommodation||Malaysian glove manufacturer Top Glove Corp Bhd has been charged with failing to provide worker accommodation meeting the minimum housing and amenities standards set out by the country's Labour Department, state news agency Bernama reported.Top Glove, the world's largest medical glove maker, was charged by the Sessions Court in the city of Ipoh with 10 counts of having failed to meet those requirements, the news agency said. According to the charges, 10 of Top Glove's foreign worker accommodations in the state of Perak did not receive certification from the Labour Department, it added.The company pleaded not guilty to all charges and court proceedings will resume on April 28, Bernama reported.Top Glove could be fined up to 50,000 ringgit per charge, a charge sheet showed.Top Glove was not immediately available for a comment.Also read: Malaysia to buy more Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccinesThe Labour Department, part of the Ministry of Human Resources, launched investigations into worker accommodation and hostels at several Top Glove units in November last year after a Covid-19 outbreak at a Top Glove factory in an industrial area near the capital Kuala Lumpur.The outbreak became the largest cluster in Malaysia, with more than 5,000 workers having tested positive for the coronavirus.The Labour Deparment had recommended filing charges after opening 19 probes.Independent consultant, Impactt, said last week it "no longer" found any indication of systemic forced labour at Top Glove, and that the manufacturer was making progress on some indicators including living conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysias-top-glove-charged-with-failing-to-provide-worker-accommodation-101615879385140.html
16-03-2021||World||IPU prez thanks India for backing elections, calls Delhi, Portugal 'brothers'||The President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union President, Duarte Pacheco, on Tuesday addressed Members of Parliament at the Central Hall and thanked India for its support for Portugal's election to the IPU stating that New Delhi and Lisbon are brothers."I came to New Delhi to show that you have a friend -- a special friend in IPU. This special relationship is not just personal. We have a special relationship between our two countries. Portugal and India have over 500 years old relations, so we know each other so better that I may say that we aren't just friends, we are brothers," Pacheco said.He added, "India is the largest democracy in the world and in all levels, from local to national, is looking to be more inclusive with more women and young people. India respects convictions, political and religious, of each person."He further expressed Portugal's support for the reform process and the inclusion of India as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council stating that India "is an important player" in all fields "whose opinions are respected"."I think India should achieve the place you should have in all international levels... In the United Nations, Portugal supports reform process (to the security council) and inclusion of India as a permanent member of the Security Council," he said.He further told the MPs that he "feels at home".Lol Sabha speaker Om Birla said that India is the world's largest working democracy and represents 130 crore citizens of the country adding that the Central Hall is a witness to independence."In the last 74 years of independence, our democratic system has only strengthened. We are now celebrating 75 yrs of independence. This Central Hall is a witness to independence," he said.Also read: Portugal to continue travel restrictions, land border with Spain to remain shutThe Indian economy under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is 'amazing', said Duarte Pacheco, President of Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Geneva, on Monday.The President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union is in India on a seven-day visit. "It is impossible for us to interfere with the internal matters of a country, but can say that the Indian economy under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is amazing," Pacheco told ANI.Praising Indian society and its vitality the IPU president added, "I wish we had a society in Europe that has the same vitality that we find here in India. Other continents are thinking in past, in history but here in India towards a better future."The Inter-Parliamentary Union formed in 1889, is one of the oldest and largest international Parliamentary body consisting of more than 179 Members.Pacheco, a Member of Parliament of Portugal, was recently elected as the President of IPU, an international organization of national parliaments, for a three-year term from 2021 to 2023. He is visiting India at the invitation of the Parliament of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ipu-president-thanks-india-for-backing-elections-calls-delhi-portugal-brothers-101615876928321.html
16-03-2021||World||'Not surprised': Michelle Obama on Meghan Markle's 'heartbreaking' interview||Michelle Obama said Meghan's recollections about a remark made by one member of the British royal family about the possible darkness of her son's skin were heartbreaking and that she hoped Meghan's experiences would be a lesson for the world.Meghan and her husband, Prince Harry, accused an unidentified royal family member of raising racist concerns about their son and courtiers of ignoring her pleas for help when she was suicidal.Meghan and Harry's tell-all TV interview to Oprah Winfrey has dragged the royals into their biggest crisis since the death of Harry's mother Diana in 1997.Asked about Meghan's disclosure of the remark about the skin of Meghan and Harry's son, former US first lady Obama told NBC News: "I feel like that was heartbreaking to hear, that she felt like she was in her own family — her own family thought differently of her.""As I said before, race isn't a new construct in this world for people of colour, and so it wasn't a complete surprise to hear her feelings and to have them articulated," she said."I think the thing that I hope for, and the thing I think about, is that this, first and foremost, is a family. I pray for forgiveness and healing for them so that they can use this as a teachable moment for us all."Queen Elizabeth said last Tuesday that the royals were saddened by the challenging experiences of her grandson Harry and his wife, and promised to privately address revelations about a racist remark about their son.Prince William, Harry's elder brother, denied that Britain's royals were racist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-surprised-michelle-obama-on-meghan-markle-s-heartbreaking-interview-101615882364189.html
16-03-2021||World||Yemeni coalition: Ballistic missiles land in isolated Saudi border||Two ballistic missiles fired by Yemen' Iran-aligned Houthi group landed in uninhabited border areas of southern Saudi Arabia on Monday, the Saudi led coalition‮ ‬fighting in Yemen‬ said in a statement carried by state media.The coalition later said it had destroyed a bunker for ballistic missiles and launch pads in the northern Yemeni province of Sanaa, from which it says the missiles had been launched, Ekhbariya TV reported."We are taking operational measures to neutralize and destroy sources of threat to protect civilians," the coalition said, adding that its military operations complied with international law and its customary rules.Also read: Israeli PM avoided Saudi airspace because of Houthi missilesA military spokesman for the Houthis on Tuesday said their armed forces also fired drones at the King Khalid air base in Khamis Mushait, in southern Saudi, claiming to have hit it. The coalition said it had intercepted an explosive drone fired towards Khamis Mushait.Houthi attacks into Saudi Arabia have escalated in recent weeks. On March 7, the coalition said a barrage of drones and missiles had been intercepted en route to their targets, which included an oil storage yard at Ras Tanura, site of a refinery and the world's biggest offshore oil-loading facility. A residential compound in Dhahran used by state-controlled oil giant Saudi Aramco was also targeted.The Saudi-led coalition intervened in Yemen in March 2015 after the Houthis ousted the Saudi-backed government from power in the capital, Sanaa. The conflict is widely seen in the region as a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran.The United Nations and the United States have urged the Houthis, who are also pressing an offensive against government-held Marib city in Yemen, to turn to negotiations rather then military escalation.US special envoy on Yemen Tim Lenderking said last week a "sound plan" for a nationwide ceasefire in Yemen has been put to the Houthi leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/yemeni-coalition-ballistic-missiles-land-in-isolated-saudi-border-101615876948634.html
16-03-2021||World||Bangkok shuts down market complex after new cluster of Covid-19 cases||Thailand shut down a large market complex in Bangkok after it emerged as a new cluster of Covid-19 cases, prompting authorities to ramp up testing and order vaccination for those at high risk of infection.The Bang Khae Market compound, which houses six markets selling everything from fresh vegetables to raw meats and cooked food, will remain closed for three days after Tuesday’s cleaning and disinfection, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration said. The Thai capital reported 100 new infections on Tuesday, majority of which came from active case finding efforts to curb the spread, officials said.The spike in cases come as the Southeast Asian nation accelerates a national inoculation program before further easing quarantine rules for foreign visitors. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha was among the first to get the AstraZeneca Plc vaccine on Tuesday after a local panel of health experts said the shot posed no risk of clotting, a key reason cited by some European countries to suspend its use.Also read: Thailand plans to ease quarantine rules for tourists, Bangkok post saysAlthough the number of infections reported from the Bangkok cluster is still low, an outbreak at a seafood market in a neighboring province in December led to the country’s biggest wave of infections. Authorities are seeking to contain the outbreak ahead of a peak travel period during the Thai New Year next month.The Bangkok mayor’s office will begin vaccinating people at high risk of infections in the Bang Khae area from Wednesday, spokesman Pongsakorn Kwanmuang said Tuesday. The office plans to make available 6,000 doses of vaccine for the area, and aims to test as much as 10,000 people in the next 10 days.Thailand reported 149 new cases on Tuesday, taking the nation’s total case count to 27,154. The country has administered more than 46,000 doses of Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccine since the start of an inoculation program on Feb. 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangkok-shuts-down-market-complex-after-new-cluster-of-covid-19-cases-101615877186287.html
16-03-2021||World||UK oil, gas industry struggles to recover from slump caused by Covid-19||The UK’s oil and gas industry faces a struggle to recover from an investment slump sparked by the coronavirus and in the longer term will have to manage a prolonged decline in output, according to its trade body.Production may decline further this year and next, following a 5% decrease in 2020, Oil & Gas UK said in a report published on Tuesday. That follows a plunge in development and operations spending in the sector, which slumped 23% year-on-year to 11.6 billion pounds (about $16 billion), the lowest since 2004 in real terms.“Most companies in our industry remain in a fragile state” even as economies start to reopen, OGUK Chief Executive Officer Deirdre Michie said. “This year is likely to remain highly challenging, as companies continue to navigate the operational issues associated with the pandemic” while repairing finances.UK oil producers, which have seen output slump more than 60% in the past two decades as fields have aged, took another big hit from the pandemic. Only seven exploration wells were drilled last year, the least since 1965, according to OGUK, and thousands of jobs were lost.The sector is also under increasing pressure as the government seeks to move the country away from dependence on fossil fuels. Ministers are even considering an end to issuing new oil exploration licenses in the North Sea in 2040, the Telegraph reported at the weekend.Also read: Covid variant "taking over" UK, likely to dominate other countries too: ExpertThe UK industry “is leading the way on green technologies” and any licensing constraints would only increase volumes of imported fuel, OGUK said Monday. The country’s own gas and crude production -- 1.61 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year -- covers about 70% of needs, its data show.Longer-Term DeclineOGUK sees an output decline of between 5% and 7% a year in 2021 and 2022 due to the drop in spending, as well as an increase in planned maintenance outages deferred from 2020. The basin needs “a steady stream of investment in new fields,” according to the report.There is a chance for “stabilization” in volumes toward the middle of the decade, but “overall we are in for a period of longer-term decline,” Ross Dornan, market intelligence manager at OGUK, told reporters. Yet, it is important “to manage that decline as effectively as possible,” he said.There is a range of projects being considered for investment approval in 2021 and 2022 that could unlock 700 million barrels of resources, OGUK said in the report. “But they are contingent on greater market stability and continued regulatory and government support,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-oil-gas-industry-struggles-to-recover-from-slump-caused-by-covid19-101615877197095.html
16-03-2021||World||Israeli experts unearth new fragments of 2000-year-old Dead Sea Scrolls||Israeli archaeologists on Tuesday announced the discovery of dozens of new Dead Sea Scroll fragments bearing a biblical text found in a desert cave believed hidden during a Jewish revolt against Rome nearly 1,900 years ago.The fragments of the parchment bear lines of Greek text from the books of Zechariah and Nahum and have been radiocarbon dated to the 2nd century AD, according to the Israel Antiquities Authority. They are the first new scrolls found in archaeological excavations in the desert south of Jerusalem in 60 years.The new pieces are believed to belong to a set of parchment fragments found in a site known as “The Cave of Horror" — named for the 40 human skeletons found there during excavations in the 1960s — that also bear a Greek rendition of the Twelve Minor Prophets. The cave is located in a remote canyon in the Judean Desert south of Jerusalem.The fragments are believed to have been stashed away in the cave during the Bar Kochba Revolt, an armed Jewish uprising against Rome during the reign of Emperor Hadrian, between 132 and 136 AD.The artefacts were found during an operation by the Israel Antiquities Authority in the Judean Desert to find scrolls and other artefacts to prevent possible plundering. The authority was holding a news conference Tuesday to unveil the discovery.The Dead Sea Scrolls, a collection of Jewish texts found in desert caves in the West Bank near Qumran in the 1940s and 1950s, date from the 3rd century B.C. to the 1st century A.D. They include the earliest known copies of biblical texts and documents outlining the beliefs of a little-understood Jewish sect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-experts-unearth-new-fragments-of-2000-year-old-dead-sea-scrolls-101615881148462.html
16-03-2021||World||Israel’s fourth election in 2 years: What’s different this time?||Israel’s holding parliamentary elections for the fourth time in two years on March 23 -- yet while it seems we’ve seen this film before, the domestic and global landscapes have changed vastly since the last vote. In March 2020, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, dogged by corruption allegations, was facing his most serious challenger in years. Israel hadn’t even entered the first of its three coronavirus lockdowns. Netanyahu’s chum Donald Trump was in office, and no prospective prime minister wanted to be seen courting Israel’s Arab minority.That was then. This is now:The PandemicNetanyahu has claimed credit for the world’s most successful vaccination drive, with nearly half of Israel’s 9.3 million people fully inoculated against Covid-19. Polls suggest that hasn’t given him a bump after his initially strong leadership in the pandemic gave way to confusing and politicized health decisions.The TrialNetanyahu went on trial on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust two months after the last election. Proceedings have started slowly, but lives blighted by the virus outbreak have galvanized weekly protests demanding the ouster of a leader governing while under indictment. With joblessness a stubbornly high 18%, and thousands of businesses disappearing, he’s sunken deeper into trouble, not only with opponents, but onetime supporters, too.Gantz GoneFormer military chief Benny Gantz dueled Netanyahu to a draw in the previous three elections but his Blue and White has been limping since he teamed up with Netanyahu in a short-lived government. The party has shrunken from a high of 35 of parliament’s 120 seats to as few as four, barely enough to enter parliament, polls show. No single party is putting up a similar challenge this time.Fractured RightNetanyahu’s Likud party splintered last year, giving loyalists another slate with a similar ideology, Gideon Sa’ar’s New Hope. Sa’ar has vowed he won’t join a government headed by his former mentor, as has another nationalist party, Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu. Naftali Bennett, leader of the predominantly religious Yamina party, hasn’t committed either way and could become kingmaker.Extreme RightNetanyahu persuaded two hardline factions to run on a joint ticket to maximize their chances of entering parliament and joining the coalition he hopes to form. That means any Netanyahu-led coalition could include an admirer of the assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahane, who advocated expelling Arabs from Israel and territories it captured in wars with Arab states.No More Donald TrumpIsrael was thrilled with Trump, who recognized Jerusalem as its capital, and Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. His Middle East peace plan favored Israel, he cut off aid to the Palestinians, and he brokered agreements between Israel and former foes in the Persian Gulf and Africa. Most important, perhaps, Trump shared Netanyahu’s antipathy toward the Iranian nuclear deal. That honeymoon is over. U.S. President Joe Biden is trying to rejoin the nuclear accord, and has reset relations with the Palestinians, resuming contacts and restoring aid.Divide and ConquerIf in the past, Netanyahu had vilified Israel’s Arab leaders, and warned about Arab voters going to the polls “in droves,” then this time he went on a charm offensive, visiting communities, courting Arab mayors and promising aid. Critics attribute his sudden change of heart to a desire to break up the Joint List of Arab parties and weaken the opposition. The Joint List did fracture and polls show a drop in support for Arab parliamentary factions that benefits the prime minister.Still, Some Things Never ChangeLikud is maintaining a comfortable lead over its nearest competitor, former Finance Minister Yair Lapid’s Yesh Atid, but Netanyahu won’t be able to easily form a coalition government, polls suggest. It’s unclear whether the anti-Netanyahu bloc would be able to put aside differences and ambitions to form a government if it musters enough support. Israel has had three inconclusive elections. This might be the fourth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israels-fourth-election-in-2-years-what-s-different-this-time-101615870725520.html
16-03-2021||World||Russia identifies 2 cases of South African Covid-19 variant: Regulator||Russia has identified two cases of the new variant of the coronavirus first detected in South Africa, consumer health regulator Rospotrebnadzor said in a statement on Tuesday.According to news agency Reuters, since the start of the pandemic, Russia recorded more than 4 million COVID-19 cases and over 90,000 deaths, Rospotrebnadzor said Russia had also now found 28 cases of the coronavirus variant first detected in Britain. It reported the first case of that strain in January.Russian state-sponsored news agency, TASS, reported today that the country has registered a "test system" for detecting several different coronavirus strains.The British coronavirus strain is also among the variants that Russia is developing detection for, the agency quoted Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko as saying.Russia claims that it doesn’t yet have the Brazilian variant of the virus, although the so-called British variant was detected.The country is currently embroiled in a controversy with the United States over alleged coronavirus vaccine 'misinformation', that the US has accused Russia of spreading to "undermine" Covid-19 vaccines produced by Pfizer and Moderna.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-identifies-2-cases-of-south-african-covid-19-variant-regulator-101615878252480.html
16-03-2021||World||WE Charity founders grilled by Canadian lawmakers, Trudeau’s own party members||The two founding brothers of WE Charity were grilled Monday by Canadian lawmakers, including members of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party, as what began as a political scandal broadens into a wider controversy about the organization and its dealings with donors.In almost three hours of often combative testimony, Craig and Marc Kielburger appeared alongside their lawyer to take questions from the parliamentary ethics committee. In defiant opening remarks, Marc blamed politicians for destroying the charity. “Today, we are taking a stand,” he said. “We have been disappointed in the conduct of all political parties.”But Franceso Sorbara, a Liberal lawmaker from Ontario, told the brothers: “You want to throw blame on everyone else and not take responsibility for things that have happened within your control.”The WE organization, founded 25 years ago by the Kielburgers, landed at the heart of controversy last summer after Trudeau failed to recuse himself from a government decision to give the charity a no-bid contract to distribute pandemic aid. (The prime minister’s wife, mother and brother had received hundreds of thousands of dollars in the past to appear at WE events.)A Bloomberg Businessweek investigation in December included reports by former staff that donor plaques at WE projects in Kenya were swapped so often that the running joke was they should’ve been made of Velcro. WE denied the allegations at the time, calling them “baseless” and saying plaques are cemented into buildings. But it has since acknowledged removing at least two donors’ plaques. Further investigations by Bloomberg as well as national broadcaster CBC uncovered multiple cases where donors mistakenly believed they were the sole financiers of schools and water wells in the country.“What’s a member of the public like me to make of this?,” asked another lawmaker from Trudeau’s party, Nathaniel Erskine-Smith, expressing confusion at WE’s evolving explanations. “Why would a plaque ever be taken down?”Craig didn’t answer the question but said the organization is conducting a review to see if there were additional cases. Asked who was responsible for moving plaques, he sought to deflect accountability to staff overseas. “It would’ve been a member of the Kenya team.” He also indicated that confusion may have arisen because funding comes from multiple sources to build and later operate a school.Also read: AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine is safe and effective, says Canadian PM TrudeauIn December, WE told Bloomberg that such schools, once built, are handed off to the Kenyan Ministry of Education to manage and staffed by government teachers. Asked Monday to clarify who funds ongoing operations, the brothers said the government doesn’t pay for all costs and that WE continues to contribute to operating expenses such as teacher training and school supplies.“We are transparent with our donors. We’re not perfect. We make errors,” Craig said. “We try to own those errors to the best of our ability.”The apology drew incredulity from Charlie Angus, a New Democratic Party lawmaker who has led the effort to broaden the committee’s conflict-of-interest probe to WE’s Kenya operations and dealings with donors.Angus noted that one donor, Reed Cowan, had testified that a high-profile WE supporter -- whose extended family has funded reports defending the organization -- had sought to silence him from going public about a plaque dedicated to his deceased 4-year-old son being swapped without his knowledge.“The fact that you took that plaque down twice shows this wasn’t an accident -- this was willful,” said Angus, who has amplified Cowan’s calls for U.S. and Canadian police and tax authorities to investigate the WE organization.At times during the tense hearing, other members of Trudeau’s party sought to soften the exchanges. But opposition lawmakers, increasingly frustrated as the brothers repeatedly turned questions back on them, allowed little reprieve.“Your smirking and your evading might be fun now -- it’s not going to be fun when we’re investigating you for contempt of parliament,” said Pierre Poilievre of the Conservative Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-charity-founders-grilled-by-canadian-lawmakers-trudeau-s-own-party-members-101615868079895.html
16-03-2021||World||Microsoft rolls back update to fix access issues for thousands||Microsoft Corp said early on Tuesday glitches that affected access to workplace messaging app Teams, Outlook.com and other services have been largely fixed after it rolled back an update.The company had said in a tweet that the issues were related to a "recent change to an authentication system." Users may still face access issues with Microsoft 365 services but Teams, Outlook.com and Exchange Online are up and running, Microsoft's service status page showed.More than 26,000 people had reported issues with Teams and over 3,000 users posted about problems with Office 365, outage tracking website Downdetector.com showed.More than 2,300 people also reported problems with Microsoft's Azure cloud computing services, Downdetector showed.Downdetector only tracks outages by collating status reports from a series of sources, including user-submitted errors on its platform. The outage might be affecting a larger number of users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-rolls-back-update-to-fix-access-issues-for-thousands-101615877588779.html
16-03-2021||World||Improvement in US-China relations depends on treatment of Australia: Biden aide||US relations with China won’t improve until Beijing stops its economic coercion against America’s close regional ally, Australia, a senior aide to President Joe Biden told the Age newspaper.The administration has told the Chinese government that the US wasn’t going to leave Australia alone on the field, Kurt Campbell, the National Security Council’s Asia coordinator, said in an interview. Other nations including Japan, the Philippines and Vietnam have also been targeted by undeclared economic actions by Beijing, Campbell told the Melbourne-based newspaper.The nod of support comes days after the leaders of Australia, India, Japan and the US vowed to to promote regional security in their first virtual “Quad” summit. While China wasn’t mentioned in the group’s final statement, references to an “open” Indo-Pacific region and shared security interests left little doubt that the meeting was a show of unity against Beijing.Ties between Australia and its largest trading partner have deteriorated since April, when Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government called for independent investigators be allowed into Wuhan to probe the origins of the coronavirus. Since then, Beijing has implemented a range of trade actions against Australian goods, including coal, wine and barley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/improvement-in-us-china-relations-depends-on-treatment-of-australia-biden-aide-101615876423111.html
16-03-2021||World||Controversy around AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine explained. What WHO says||The World Health Organization (WHO) has ruled out any link between AstraZeneca’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and reported blood clots even as several European countries, including France, Germany, and Italy, suspended its use."We do not want people to panic and we would, for the time being, recommend that countries continue vaccinating with AstraZeneca," WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan was quoted as saying by news agency AFP. "So far, we do not find an association between these events and the vaccine," she added.Here’s what you need to know about the controversy around AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine1. Concerns about the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford in Britain were raised after three people were hospitalised in Norway last week with blood clots, bleeding, and low platelet counts after receiving the shot. One of them died of a brain haemorrhage, according to health authorities cited by AFP, while the other two were reported to be stable.2. WHO safety experts shall meet on Tuesday while a probe to ascertain whether there is a connection between the vaccine and the complaints is underway. If there are similarities between the three cases in Norway is also being looked into, Bloomberg reported.3. The British-Swedish pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca on Monday said that a review of at least 17 million individuals suggests that the vaccine was safe for use. The blood clotting events were not related to the vaccine, AZD1222, the company said in a statement.4. WHO and European Medicines Agency (EMA) experts will separately discuss data from AstraZeneca vaccinations, and the European regulator will hold an extraordinary meeting two days later to decide on any further action, AFP reported.5. Denmark was the first country to suspend the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine on March 11 as a precautionary measure. Iceland and Norway followed the temporary move the same day.6. On Friday, Bulgaria suspended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine as it probed caused the death of a woman with several underlying conditions who recently took the shot, according to AFP.7. Ireland and the Netherlands join the list on Sunday, followed by Indonesia and then Germany, Italy, France, Slovenia, Spain, and Latvia on Monday.8. Australia, however, has ruled out the halt of the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine, authorities said on Tuesday, Reuters reported. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also termed the shot “both safe and effective.”9. AstraZeneca's shot, among the cheapest available, was chosen for supplying to the poorer nations.10. The WHO has appealed to countries not to suspend vaccinations against Covid-19 that has killed over 2.7 million deaths across the globe. The global body’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said systems were in place to protect public health, according to Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/controversy-around-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-explained-what-who-says-101615876251825.html
16-03-2021||World||Biden's 1.9 trillion bill could end up in stocks, bitcoin: Analysts||President Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion stimulus will start flooding into the US economy soon, and some analysts say much of that money could end up invested in stocks or even bitcoin.Over the weekend, the government began sending the $1,400 direct payments that will go to nearly everyone in the United States.About $400 billion in payments will flow directly to households, going to individuals earning less than $75,000 a year or married couples making up to $150,000, as well as their children.And that does not count child tax credits or unemployment benefits in the massive package, which also includes funds to contain Covid-19, accelerate vaccinations, help reopen schools and aid businesses and state and local governments.The direct payments amount to $5,600 -- tax free -- for a typical family of four, funds officials hope will boost the US economy.But the majority of Americans say that rather than spend, they will use the money to pay off debts, add to savings or to invest, according to one survey by Bank of America, which interviewed 3,000 people.The bank found that 30 percent will use the money to repay their debt, 25 percent will save it and nine percent will invest.Those funds will "stay within the financial system and don't create demand for goods and services in the real economy," the report found.With only 36 percent saying they intend to spend these checks, "it's not clear who will be doing all the sustained, voracious consumption markets now are pricing in."Also read: 'If you wish to sleep well for next 4 yrs...': Kim Jong Un's sister warns BidenMajor stock indices have hit new records two days in a row after Biden signed the stimulus measure into law last week, as investors are betting the rush of funds will spur a rapid recovery of the world's largest economy.- The bitcoin attraction -Mizuho Securities found that about 10 percent of the stimulus, or about $40 billion, will be invested in equities or in cryptocurrency such as bitcoin.A survey of 235 people making less than $150,000 found that 35 to 40 percent of respondents said they would invest part of their stimulus checks in stocks and cryptocurrency.And 61 percent of these investors intend to buy bitcoin, said Dan Dolev, one of the leaders of the Mizuho study."We were very surprised" that bitcoin "is a bigger investment vehicle than stocks," he said on CNBC.The cryptocurrency hit an all-time high on Saturday at $60,000.Another survey of 430 people by Deutsche Bank found that "survey respondents plan to put a large chunk (37 percent) of any forthcoming stimulus directly into equities," which it called "a sizable inflow" into the stock market.In two prior rounds of stimulus checks in 2020 as the coronavirus pandemic brought the economy to a screeching halt, only about eight percent of the funds went into stocks, the bank said.The survey showed that young people, aged 25 to 34, account for the biggest share of people planning to play the markets with their stimulus money, followed by those aged 35 to 44.Goldman Sachs estimated that with the Biden plan, "households will represent the largest source of demand for US stocks in 2021."Goldman Sachs economist David Kostin said the bank estimates household demand for equities this year will jump to $350 billion from $100 billion, "which reflects faster economic growth and higher interest rates than we had assumed previously, additional stimulus payments to individuals, and increased retail activity in early 2021."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-1-9-trillion-bill-could-end-up-in-stocks-bitcoin-analysts-101615868066924.html
16-03-2021||World||China's LNG buyers seize on reforms opening access to import infrastructure||China’s smaller liquefied natural gas buyers are seizing on reforms that’ve opened access to import infrastructure to boost competition, issuing a spate of tenders for the fuel over the past month.The second-tier gas firms, including Guangdong Energy Group Co. and Shenzhen Energy Group Co., are forecast to continue to seek more cargoes with spot LNG prices low, adding a new source of demand for global exporters, according to energy consultant FGE.“We can expect more emerging Chinese players to be in the market for spot procurement in the coming months as China continues to open up its LNG receiving facilities,” said Alicia Wee, a senior analyst at FGE in Singapore.Until recently, China imported most of its LNG through the three major state-owned energy giants, which owned pipelines, import terminals and distributed the fuel directly to smaller players. That’s changed with the formation of China Oil & Gas Pipeline Network Corp., known as PipeChina, which has consolidated the infrastructure into a single firm.PipeChina has awarded over ten companies third-party access to its terminals, meaning smaller players can issue tenders directly when the need arises, instead of going through a larger state company, according to traders who requested anonymity to discuss private details.Companies like Dongguan Daosen Natural Gas Co. which bought its first cargo via a direct tender this month, have been operating in domestic markets for years, according to Wood Mackenzie. Shenzhen Energy and Guangzhou Gas are among others to have bought cargoes in recent weeks.While the infrastructure reforms are help diversify the field of importers, the majority of terminal access is still being awarded to the nation’s top buyers, including China National Offshore Oil Corp. and PetroChina Co. Terminal capacity available to third parties offered by PipeChina is 5.7 million tons per year, a fraction of China’s total capacity of 87 million tons per year at the end of 2020, according to Wood Mackenzie.Also read: Asian LNG prices edge higher on Indian, Chinese demandA further drop in Asian LNG prices could prompt another wave of spot cargo purchases by smaller firms this summer, said Beijing-based Wood Mackenzie research director Miaoru Huang.The benchmark Japan-Korea marker fell to $5.56 per million British thermal units on March 2, the lowest level since last October, according to data from S&P Global Platts. Prices have since increased, in part on higher demand from the second-tier importers, and were trading on Monday around $6.70 for April delivery.Smaller buyers are also signing more long-term deals. The firms accounted for 83% of total Chinese contracts signed last year, from a 26% share in 2019, according to BloombergNEF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-lng-buyers-seize-on-reforms-opening-access-to-import-infrastructure-101615859124063.html
16-03-2021||World||US, on mission to rally Asia against China, distracted by North Korea||Top US envoys on a mission to rally Asian allies around a common approach toward China found themselves distracted by a more immediate security concern: North Korea.Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, on their first overseas trip since taking office, meet their counterparts from Japan on Tuesday to start a trip that will also take them to South Korea later in the week. They are seeking cooperation on a united front toward regional security from the countries that host the bulk of US troops in the region and face threats posed by North Korea and China.The meetings are intended to reassure the US allies of Washington’s commitment after the Trump administration accused Japan of being a security freeloader and sought a five-fold increase from Seoul in the money it spends to host American military personnel.But just hours before the start of formal discussions, the Biden administration said North Korea has so far snubbed its requests for talks. “We’ve reached out to the North Korean government through several channels starting in mid-February, including in New York, and to date, we have not received any response from Pyongyang,” State Department spokeswoman Jalina Porter said at a Monday briefing.North Korea’s official media, which during the US presidential campaign called Biden an “imbecile bereft of elementary quality as a human being,” has yet to mention him by name since his election victory.Leader Kim Jong Un turned up the heat on the new administration a few days before Biden was inaugurated by calling the US his “biggest main enemy” and saying he would put North Korea on a path to develop more advanced nuclear technologies and missiles.Also read: In debut overseas trip, Biden's secretary of state visits Japan, KoreaNorth Korea’s official media previously lauded Donald Trump for holding three summits with Kim, celebrating what it called a “special chemistry” between the two. But the talks resulted in no steps to wind down North Korea’s nuclear arsenal. During Trump’s tenure, North Korea built its stockpile of fissile material, developed more powerful atomic weapons and tested new missiles designed to deliver nuclear warheads to all of the US mainland.Before the formal talks began in Tokyo, Kim Yo Jong, the sister of the leader, launched a rhetorical attack on joint military drills involving the US and South Korea that started this month. She warned of possible retaliation, telling leaders in Seoul that they “may find themselves in extreme uneasiness,” according to comments published Tuesday by the state’s official Korean Central News Agency.In comments directed at the Biden administration, she said: “If it wants to sleep in peace for coming four years, it had better refrain from causing a stink at its first step,” according to KCNA, without mentioning the president by name.The trip comes after Biden on Friday held the first virtual summit with so-called Quad partners Australia, India and Japan, all of whom have their own tensions with China. A statement released after the meeting referred to an “open” Indo-Pacific region and shared security interests, leaving little doubt the talks were a show of unity against Beijing.“As countries in the region and beyond know, China in particular is all too willing to use coercion to get its way,” Blinken and Austin wrote in a joint opinion piece in the Washington Post just before their visit. “Here again, we see how working with our allies is critical.”Trump’s White House eschewed collaboration with other nations on trade and the environment, instead opting to confront China on its own with tariffs, sanctions and a beefed up military presence in the Pacific.Biden is set to maintain a hard line on Beijing -- as evidenced by the move to ban the export of 5G components to Huawei Technologies Co. -- but his administration is seeking to avoid the perception it is only interested in engaging Asian nations as part of efforts to confront China.Japan and South Korea both count China as their biggest trading partner and walk a fine line in maintaining a good relationship with both Beijing and Washington.Japan and South Korea host about 80,000 US military personnel between them, the bulk of American presence in the region. The troops are meant to be a front-line defense against North Korea and provide a counterweight to China.Beijing has intensified its campaign to dominate the resource-rich South China Sea and has been challenging Tokyo over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea that both sides claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-on-mission-to-rally-asia-against-china-distracted-by-north-korea-101615859108035.html
16-03-2021||World||Arrest warrant issued after woman rejects mask at Texas bank||An arrest warrant was issued for a woman who refused to wear a mask at a Texas bank, saying to a police officer: “What are you going to do, arrest me?"Police have issued a warrant for the arrest of Terry Wright, 65, of Grants Pass, Oregon. The incident on Thursday at a Bank of America in Galveston was captured by the officer's body camera, The Galveston County Daily News reported.Police say they've obtained an arrest warrant on resisting arrest and criminal trespassing charges.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott on Wednesday ended statewide orders requiring people to wear face masks in public places, declaring that businesses should decide for themselves what Covid-19 precautions to take on their properties. Many businesses have kept their own mask rules in place.Watch: Arrest warrant issued after woman rejects mask at Texas bankPolice said a bank manager called police after Wright refused to wear a mask while inside, and then refused to leave the building when asked.The police department on Friday released the officer's body camera video footage. In the video, Wright can be seen standing in the middle of the bank's lobby, surrounded by other customers, all of whom were wearing masks.Wright told the officer she had come to the bank to make a withdrawal. The officer asked her to go outside or put on a mask. She refused.“What are you going to do, arrest me?” she asked.He replied: “Yes, for intruding on premises.” And then she said: “That's hilarious.”Wright then told the officer the law said she didn't have to wear a mask. As the officer took out handcuffs, she pulled away and began to walk toward the door. The officer stopped her and forced her to the ground. After she was handcuffed, she complained that her foot was injured.“Police brutality right here people,” she said to the other customers at the bank. Replies of “no” and “no, it's not” could be heard.Police said she suffered minor injuries during the struggle and was taken to a hospital for treatment.Wright told The Washington Post that she has never covered her face inside stores, even when the statewide mandate was in place. She said she was in an RV park across the bay from Galveston in Hitchcock, Texas.She told the newspaper she was “attacked” and compared mask requirements to the way that Nazi Germany forced Jewish people to identify themselves with a Star of David. She also said she believed in a “plandemic” in a reference to a documentary-style video in which an anti-vaccine activist promotes a string of questionable, false and potentially dangerous coronavirus theories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/arrest-warrant-issued-after-woman-rejects-mask-at-texas-bank-101615874257533.html
16-03-2021||World||'Everyone here is so tired': 40,000 earthquakes hit part of Iceland in 20 days||Icelanders are yearning for some undisturbed shut-eye after tremors from tens of thousands of earthquakes have rattled their sleep for weeks in what scientists call an unprecedented seismic event, which might well end in a spectacular volcanic eruption."At the moment we're feeling it constantly. It's like you're walking over a fragile suspension bridge," Rannveig Gudmundsdottir, a lifelong resident in the town of Grindavik, told Reuters.Grindavik lies in the southern part of the Reykjanes Peninsula, a volcanic and seismic hot spot, where more than 40,000 earthquakes have occurred since Feb. 24, exceeding the total number of earthquakes registered there last year.Located between the Eurasian and the North American tectonic plates, Iceland frequently experiences earthquakes as the plates slowly drift in opposite directions at a pace of around 2 centimetres each year.The source of the past weeks' earthquakes is a large body of molten rock, known as magma, moving roughly one kilometre (0.6 mile) beneath the peninsula, as it tries to push its way to the surface."We've never seen so much seismic activity," Sara Barsotti, volcanic hazards coordinator at the Icelandic Meteorological Office (IMO) told Reuters.Some of those quakes clocked in at magnitudes as high as 5.7."Everyone here is so tired," Gudmundsdottir, a 5th grade school teacher, said. "When I go to bed at night, all I think about is: Am I going to get any sleep tonight?".Many in Grindavik have visited relatives, spent time in summer houses, or even rented a hotel room in Reykjavik, the capital, just to get a break and a good night's sleep.Authorities in Iceland warned of an imminent volcanic eruption on the peninsula in early March, but said they did not expect it to disturb international air traffic or damage critical infrastructure nearby.Unlike the eruption in 2010 of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano, which halted approximately 900,000 flights and forced hundreds of Icelanders from their homes, the eruption on the peninsula is not expected to spew much ash or smoke into the atmosphere.Experts are expecting lava to erupt from fissures in the ground, possibly resulting in spectacular lava fountains, which could extend 20 to 100 metres in the air.Already last year authorities put an emergency plan in place for Grindavik. One option includes putting locals on boats in the North Atlantic, if an eruption shuts roads to the remote town."I trust the authorities to keep us informed and evacuate us," Gudmundsdottir said. "I'm not scared, just tired."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/everyone-here-is-so-tired-40-000-earthquakes-hit-part-of-iceland-in-20-days-101615874097564.html
16-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine is safe and effective, says Canadian PM Trudeau||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has asserted that AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine is “both safe and effective”. His position on the vaccine’s safety comes even as several countries, including France, Germany and Italy, have suspended its use due to fears of blood clotting and similar side effects.The World Health Organization (WHO) has called upon governments around the world to continue vaccinating people with the Oxford-AstraZeneca jabs since, it insisted, it’s not yet proven that the vaccine indeed causes blood clots.Canada has so far imported 500,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name of Covishield, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Asked about the alarm in Europe during a media interaction in Montreal on Monday, Trudeau said, “Health Canada and our experts have spent an awful lot of time making sure every vaccine approved in Canada is both safe and effective.”He also said that Canadian health authorities were monitoring developments related to a batch of AZ shots in Europe, but added that the “best vaccine for you to take is the very first one that is offered to you”.That viewpoint was echoed by Canada’s chief public health Officer, Theresa Tam. In a statement released by her office, she said Health Canada was aware of the reports of adverse events in Europe following immunisation, but “would like to reassure Canadians that the benefits of the vaccine continue to outweigh its risks. At this time, there is no indication that the vaccine caused these events”.“None of the batches of the vaccine under investigation in Europe were shipped to Canada,” she pointed out, adding the government was working with regulators in Europe, including the European Medicines Agency, “to determine whether there is any need to take action in Canada”.The 500,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine available in Canada now had arrived in Toronto on March 3. A deal has been signed with Greater Toronto Area-based Verity Pharmaceuticals for a total shipment of two million doses.The delivery of the Covishield jabs has already commenced in some parts of Canada. While the national advisory committee on immunisation had originally advised against the use of the vaccine on those over 65 years of age, the news outlet CBC reported that those guidelines are likely to be updated on Tuesday and it will recommend the vaccine also be provided to those over that age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazenecas-covid-19-vaccine-is-safe-and-effective-says-canadian-pm-trudeau-101615871452460.html
16-03-2021||World||China approves fourth Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||China has approved a new Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, one that was developed by the head of its Center for Disease Control, adding to its arsenal.Gao Fu, the head of China's CDC, led the development of a protein subunit vaccine that was approved by regulators last week for emergency use, the Chinese Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Microbiology said in a statement Monday.It is the fourth such vaccine to be given emergency use approval. China has approved four vaccines developed by three Chinese companies for general use.The vaccine was developed jointly by Anhui Zhifei Longcom Biopharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and the Chinese Academy of Sciences. The team finished phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in October of last year and is currently conducting the last phase of trials in Uzbekistan, Pakistan and Indonesia, according to the statement.The vaccine was approved for use in Uzbekistan on March 1.The protein subunit vaccine is similar to many of the other vaccines that have been approved globally in that it trains the body to recognize the spike protein that covers the surface of the coronavirus vaccine, although the difference lies in how it tells the body to recognize the protein. Scientists grow a harmless version of the protein in cells and then purify it, before it is assembled into a vaccine and injected.There is no publicly available information in peer-reviewed scientific journals about the clinical trial data showing efficacy or safety. A spokesperson for the company said that the data could not be shared at this time but that the company was actively providing the information to health authorities.China has been slow in vaccinating its population of 1.4 billion people, despite having four vaccines approved for general use. The latest numbers, according to government officials at a press briefing Monday in Beijing, is that it has administered 64.98 million doses of vaccines.China has targeted what it considers key populations for vaccination thus far, namely health care workers as well as those who work at the border or customs, and specific industries the government has selected. A second group, which has notably been absent thus far in comparison to many other countries, has been the elderly and those with pre-existing conditions.The vaccines have previously been limited to adults 18-59 years old, as officials cited a lack of clinical trial data for those who are older, although the government appears to be signaling the limits are now being set aside. “We will promptly carry out mass vaccination of relevant populations,” Li Bin, a vice chair on the National Health Commission, said Monday.China's official Xinhua News Agency reported over the weekend that in certain neighborhoods in Beijing, local health centers started to offer the vaccines to those aged 60 and older.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-approves-fourth-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101615870262608.html
16-03-2021||World||Signal users in China report difficulty in accessing messaging app||Signal, an encrypted messaging app that competes with the likes of Facebook Inc.’s WhatsApp, appears to have been blocked in China, the latest move by Beijing to crack down on social media platforms.From Monday night, Signal users reported difficulties using the app in China without the help of a virtual private network, or VPN, which allows users to mask their location and access banned foreign communication services like Gmail and Twitter. Previously, no such software was needed to access Signal.It isn’t immediately clear if this is a permanent ban, as Chinese regulators have been known to sometimes ramp up controls as a trial run only to ratchet them down later. The Cyberspace Administration of China didn’t respond immediately to a faxed request for comment Tuesday morning.Signal has been a popular tool among political dissidents and journalists seeking a communication method that minimizes the risk of messages being intercepted by government censors and bad actors. In particular, the app has gained traction among China’s mainly Muslim Uyghur diaspora.Open discussion of sensitive topics is off limits in China, where heavy government censorship is the norm. In February, Beijing blocked red-hot social media platform Clubhouse after it briefly provided an avenue for free-flowing debate on political matters.Signal recently surged in popularity when some WhatsApp users balked at changes in its privacy policies. Tesla Inc.’s Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also gave Signal a boost when he recommended it in a tweet.The iOS version of Signal has been installed close to 510,000 times to date in China, according to Sensor Tower. Globally, the app has recently crossed 100 million installs across Apple Inc.’s App Store and Google Play combined, the industry intelligence firm said.Signal didn’t immediately respond to an emailed request for comment sent after business hours.(Updates with Sensor Tower data from sixth paragraph)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/signal-users-in-china-report-difficulty-in-accessing-messaging-app-101615865888323.html
16-03-2021||World||'If you wish to sleep well for next 4 years...': Kim Jong Un's sister warns Joe Biden as US envoys begin Asia trip||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's influential sister warned the United States against actions that could make it "lose sleep", state media reported Tuesday, as top Biden administration officials began a visit to key allies Tokyo and Seoul.Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin and Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Japan on Monday on their first overseas trip, aimed at rallying military alliances as a bulwark against China and cementing a united front against the nuclear-armed North.The statement by Kim Yo Jong, a key adviser to her brother, was Pyongyang's first explicit reference to the new president in Washington, more than four months after Joe Biden was elected to replace Donald Trump -- although it still did not mention the Democrat by name.The United States and South Korea began joint military exercises last week and Pyongyang's official Rodong Sinmun newspaper carried a statement from her offering "a word of advice to the new administration of the United States that is struggling to spread the smell of gunpowder on our land"."If you wish to sleep well for the next four years, it would be better not to create work from the start that will make you lose sleep," she said.Trump's unorthodox approach to foreign policy saw him trade insults and threats of war with Kim Jong Un before an extraordinary diplomatic bromance that saw a series of headline-grabbing meetings.But ultimately no progress was made towards Washington's declared aim of denuclearising North Korea, which is under multiple international sanctions for its banned weapons programmes.It has isolated itself further, imposing a strict border closure to protect itself against the coronavirus pandemic that first emerged in neighbouring China.Shortly before Biden's January inauguration, leader Kim decried the US as his country's "foremost principal enemy" and Pyongyang unveiled a new submarine-launched ballistic missile at a military parade.- 'March of war' -The talks process was brokered by South Korea's President Moon Jae-in but relations between Seoul and Pyongyang have been in deep freeze since Kim and Trump's summit in Hanoi collapsed in February 2019.Kim Yo Jong is a trusted adviser to her brother and was a key voice when inter-Korean tensions mounted last year, culminating in the North blowing up a liaison office on its side of the border.Shin Beom-chul, a researcher at the Korea Research Institute for National Strategy, pointed out that her announcements have previously represented incremental steps by Pyongyang."North Korea has judged that the US will not offer enough concessions and so has released this statement ahead of Blinken and Austin's visit to Seoul," he told AFP.There was a "high possibility" of a military provocation by the North during or immediately after the Americans' trip, he added.Seoul and Washington are treaty allies, with the United States stationing around 28,500 troops in South Korea to defend it against its neighbour, and they began computer-simulated joint military exercises last week.The North always condemns such drills as preparations for invasion, and in her statement, Kim Yo Jong said: "The South Korean government yet again chose the 'March of War', the 'March of Crisis' rather than a 'warm March' before all the people.""It will not be easy for the warm spring days of three years ago to come back if the South Korean government follows whatever instructions of its master," she added, threatening to scrap a North-South military agreement if Seoul acts "more provocatively".- New York channel -Austin and Blinken arrived in Tokyo on Monday and will be consulting with both it and Seoul on the new administration's review of US policy towards Pyongyang, but China will be the main focus of their discussions.Beijing presents multiple challenges to Washington on trade and diplomatic fronts, and is also the North's key diplomatic backer and main provider of business and aid.Washington has attempted to reach out to Pyongyang "through several channels starting in mid-February, including in New York", state department deputy spokesperson Jalina Porter told reporters on Monday."To date, we've not received any response from Pyongyang," she added.The "New York channel" is a reference to the North's mission to the United Nations, as Pyongyang and Washington do not maintain diplomatic relations.Austin and Blinken are due to arrive in South Korea on Wednesday before the defence secretary heads to India while the diplomat returns to the United States for talks with Chinese officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-you-wish-to-sleep-well-for-next-4-years-kim-jong-un-s-sister-warns-joe-biden-as-us-envoys-begin-asia-trip-101615868188909.html
16-03-2021||World||China donates 300,000 vaccine doses to UN peacekeepers||China's UN ambassador says China is donating 300,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to UN peacekeepers, with priority given to those serving in Africa.Ambassador Zhang Jun sent a letter to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres informing him of the donation, China's UN Mission said Monday. It follows the announcement by China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi of Beijing's intention to donate vaccines at a UN Security Council meeting on Feb. 17.The mission said “China attaches great importance to the safety and security of peacekeepers” and the donation “is a further step to make China's vaccines a global public good, and also a demonstration of China's firm and continuous support to the UN and multilateralism.”Last month, the UN thanked India for offering 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers.The UN currently has a dozen peacekeeping operations, half in Africa with a total of about 100,000 peacekeepers.There was no immediate word on what the UN plans to do with the two offers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-donates-300-000-vaccine-doses-to-un-peacekeepers-101615862197782.html
16-03-2021||World||Australia to proceed with AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine despite halt in Europe||Australia has no plans to halt the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said on Tuesday, as several European countries paused administering the vaccine after reports of possible serious side-effects.Frydenberg said the European medicines regulator and the World Health Organization (WHO) had confirmed that the AstraZeneca PLC vaccine was effective and safe to use."So we will continue to proceed with the vaccine rollout of AstraZeneca," Frydenberg told Sky News.Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus joined several other European nations in temporarily suspending vaccinations with AstraZeneca shots after isolated reports of bleeding, blood clots and low platelet count.WHO said there have been no documented deaths linked to Covid-19 vaccines and that people should not panic.The majority of Australia's 25 million people will be inoculated with the AstraZeneca vaccine and authorities have secured nearly 54 million doses, with 50 million to be produced locally from the end of March.Australian began its nationwide immunisation drive last month, much later than many other countries, and began first vaccinations using the AstraZeneca vaccine last week.The government plans to ramp up national vaccinations to 1 million a week by early April when the locally produced AstraZeneca vaccine becomes available.Authorities aim to have administered a first dose of vaccines to the entire country by October.Australia has reported just over 29,100 Covid-19 cases and 909 deaths, with border closures and speedy tracking systems helping keep numbers relatively low compared with other developed countries.Reuters has sought comments from Australia's health minister on the vaccine rollout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-proceed-with-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-despite-halt-in-europe-101615856868379.html
16-03-2021||World||In debut overseas trip, Biden's secretary of state visits Japan, Korea||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin were set to meet counterparts in Tokyo on Tuesday, highlighting a focus by the new Washington administration on alliances in Indo-Pacific in the face of assertive China.The visit, from March 15 to 18, to Tokyo and Seoul is the first overseas trip by top cabinet members of President Joe Biden's team and follows last week's Quad alliance summit of the leaders of the United States, Japan, Australia and India.Issues on the agenda range from freedom of navigation in the South and East China Seas and semiconductor supply-chain security to the North Korean nuclear issue and a military coup in Myanmar, experts say.North Korea is likely to be in sharp focus after the White House said Pyongyang had so far rebuffed efforts from the United States to engage in dialogue. North Korea warned the new US administration against "causing a stink" if it wants peace, North Korean state media reported on Tuesday.The trip sends an "important signal of resolve to work with allies" at a time when the region faces mounting pressure from China and continued threat from North Korea's nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes, Sung Kim, the Acting Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs told reporters during a briefing ahead of the visit.The Quad summit pledged to work to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific, a major priority for Tokyo, and cooperate on maritime, cyber and economic security in the face of challenges from Beijing."The most important thing that's going to happen on this trip is that Secretary Blinken and Secretary Austin are making Japan and Korea (and India for Secretary Austin) the first steps on their first trip to the region," said Brian Harding, a Southeast Asia expert at the US Institute of Peace."So, by touching down in Tokyo, in a lot of ways, it'll already be successful, and sends an incredibly powerful signal about the priorities of this administration."Analysts also expect Tokyo to seek US support for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics and follow-up talks on other subjects that figured at the Quad summit, such as the commitment to boost Covid-19 vaccine supplies in Asia and climate change.The secretaries are expected to make a courtesy call on Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who is set to visit the White House as the first foreign leader to meet Biden in April.Blinken and Austin will meet Japan's foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi and defence minister Nobuo Kishi in what is known as the 2 2 talks.Blinken will also meet business leaders and Japanese journalists.Both officials will leave Tokyo for Seoul on Wednesday and hold talks with counterparts in the South Korean capital until Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-debut-overseas-trip-biden-s-secretary-of-state-visit-japan-korea-101615855888308.html
16-03-2021||World||Flyers rebuffing masks face extended FAA ‘zero-tolerance’ stance||US aviation regulators will continue what they call a “zero-tolerance” policy against passengers who refuse to wear face masks on airline flights.The Federal Aviation Administration in January announced it was being more aggressive about enforcing existing federal laws that require passengers to follow the crew’s safety instructions, but the policy expired at the end of March.“The policy directs our safety inspectors and attorneys to take strong enforcement action against any passenger who disrupts or threatens the safety of a flight, with penalties ranging from fines to jail time,” FAA Administrator Steve Dickson said in an emailed statement. “The number of cases we’re seeing is still far too high, and it tells us urgent action continues to be required.”The extension of the policy means it will last at least as long as the federal government requires mask use on flights, the agency said in the statement. The FAA has begun about 20 enforcement cases and is reviewing more than 450 cases of reported unruly passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flyers-rebuffing-masks-face-extended-faa-zero-tolerance-stance-101615855581547.html
16-03-2021||World||'Duty to help each other': Kamala Harris makes solo debut, selling relief law, raising her profile||Kamala Harris embarked Monday on her first official trip as vice president to promote the just-signed $1.9 trillion stimulus law, a two-day swing that doubles as a chance to boost her own profile.She traveled to Nevada and later will visit Colorado, both important presidential election states where Democratic senators are defending seats in next year’s midterms. The trip is part of a cross-country blitz planned by President Joe Biden and top administration officials to sell the relief package and ensure Democrats get credit for it from voters.Harris said in a speech at the Culinary Academy in Las Vegas that she and Biden aim to tell voters that the relief bill is an example of what the government should do.“We have a duty to help each other out, especially in times of need,” she said. “It is our responsibility when people are suffering. And you do it understanding the dignity of each person and your fellow human being.”Since taking office in January, Harris has been under scrutiny as she carves out a role for herself as vice president -- an office with few specific responsibilities that a former occupant, John Nance Garner, once called “a spare tire on the automobile of government.” Gaining important duties will be crucial for Harris, 56, should she choose to run for president again in the future.With this week’s trip, Harris is developing a role as a key promoter for the stimulus, the first major legislation Biden signed into law. The White House views the plan as central to defeating the pandemic and engineering a strong economic recovery. Much of Harris’s focus has been on how the rescue package could help small businesses and women in the workforce.A White House official downplayed the notion that the trip is intended to build Harris’s profile. The vice president sees it as a chance to encourage Americans to get a Covid-19 vaccine, the official said, especially people of color who are more likely to be hesitant.The official asked not to be identified discussing Harris’s plans ahead of the trip.Before stopping at the Culinary Academy, Harris visited a mass vaccination site in Las Vegas. “You all are the heroes of this moment,” she said there. “You guys are saving lives.”The Culinary Workers Union, a major labor and political force in the state, is one of the groups that operates the academy.On Tuesday, Harris is scheduled to visit a vaccination clinic in Denver and meet with small business owners to discuss aid that will flow to them under the stimulus law, the official said.Travel LimitationsHarris is eager to travel the country, the official said. The Biden White House has thus far limited official trips because of the ongoing pandemic. One of the vice president’s goals is to hear directly from people about how their lives were affected, and explain how various provisions of the rescue plan may help.“Americans will see what we did here. What you did, Mr. President,” Harris said during a Rose Garden ceremony last week celebrating the bill. “And they will feel the impact of this bill for generations to come.”The trip is part of what the White House is calling the “Help is Here” tour to tout the stimulus plan, which polls show is supported by majorities of Americans, even though it passed the House and Senate with no votes from Republicans.“The tour will make clear that help is here and we are on the path toward crushing the virus and rebuilding our economy,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday at a briefing.Harris will also join Biden during a stop in Georgia on Friday. The president plans his own trip earlier in the week to Pennsylvania, a state that was key to his victory in November. Doug Emhoff, Harris’s husband, is accompanying her to Las Vegas and Denver and will also visit Albuquerque, New Mexico, in his first solo trip as second gentleman.Harris is expected to do more traveling in the coming weeks, the White House official said.Shaping Her RoleAfter more than 50 days in office, her role in the Biden administration hasn’t yet been fully shaped.Biden has included Harris in nearly all of his public appearances, and has said she’s a full partner in his decision making. She’s had solo calls with foreign presidents and prime ministers, including the leaders of France and Israel. But she’s not yet been given a specific policy portfolio, as some of her modern predecessors have had.In his eight years as Barack Obama’s vice president, Biden put his own stamp on the job. One of his first tasks was to oversee implementation of the 2009 Recovery Act that followed the Great Recession, and was passed a month into Obama’s term. He was dubbed “Sheriff Joe” for efforts to enforce against waste, fraud and abuse.Biden appeared to acknowledge both the perks and pitfalls that come with those type of vice presidential responsibilities. He recalled in the Rose Garden last week the “dubious distinction” of implementing the law, an apparent recognition that he would have been blamed for any major problems.But he also suggested being tapped for such a job is a vote of confidence for the second in command.“I know, from experience, when the president turned to me -- like I haven’t done to the vice president yet -- and said ‘take care of it, you take care of implementing the plan,’” he said. “But she can do it.”On Monday, Biden named Gene Sperling, a former White House economic adviser under Obama and President Bill Clinton, to oversee implementation of his stimulus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/duty-to-help-each-other-kamala-harris-makes-solo-debut-selling-relief-law-raising-her-profile-101615855178787.html
16-03-2021||World||Covid-19 is 'most discriminatory crisis' for women: UN Women||The head of UN Women called the Covid-19 pandemic “the most discriminatory crisis” that women and girls have ever experienced on Monday, pointing to women losing jobs far more often than men, a “shadow pandemic” of domestic violence, and 47 million more women being pushed into living on less than $1.90 a day this year.Emerging from the pandemic, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said the world also faces more orphans and child-headed homes, an increase in child marriage, 59 percent of women reporting having to spend more time on domestic work since the pandemic began, and a digital gender gap leaving many women unprepared for the future.She spoke at the opening of the annual meeting of the Commission on the Status of Women whose theme this year is on women's participation and decision-making in public life and combatting violence against women and girls.Mlambo-Ngcuka, the executive director of the UN women’s agency, said the World Health Organization’s latest report shows that the highest rates of intimate partner violence in the past 12 months -- 16% -- was against young women aged 15 to 24.A report for the commission’s session also underlined that “violence against women in public life is a major deterrent to their political participation, and affects women of all ages and ranks, in every part of the world,” she said.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said every month the toll from violence against women rises -- from sexual abuse to child marriage.“The damage is incalculable and will resound down the decades, into future generations,” he said.The UN chief said the fallout from the pandemic “has shown how deeply gender inequality remains embedded in the world’s political, social and economic systems.”Over the past year, Guterres said women leaders are among those who’ve kept Covid-19 transmission rates low and put their countries on tract for recovery while countries with less effective responses to the pandemic “have tended to be those where strongman approaches prevail and women’s rights are under assault.”But the secretary-general said “looking across the world, we see that women’s voices remain missing from the highest levels of leadership.”According to the Inter-Parliamentary Union’s latest report released last week, only 25 percent of lawmakers worldwide are women and only 22 countries have a female head of state or government with Europe topping the list.“At current rates parity among heads of government will not be achieved until 2150,” Guterres said. “That’s right, another 130 years of men making the same kinds of decisions they have made for the past 130 years and more.”While these new numbers are little changed, UN Women’s Mlambo-Ngcuka said there are gains “to celebrate and inspire us.”She pointed to the share of women in government in Lithuania increasing from 8 percent to 43 percent, Rwanda leading the world with the largest share of women ministers at 54.8 percent, and the percentage of women ministers in the United States rising from 17 percent in 2020 under former president Donald Trump to 46 percent in President Joe Biden’s Cabinet, “a historic high.”Despite these positive developments, Guterres said men are dominating decision-making during the pandemic.“A study of 87 countries found that 85 percent of COVID-19 task forces contained mostly men,” the U.N. chief said.Guterres stressed that women have the skills and expertise for top jobs, and in many countries they’re graduating from higher education at higher rates than men.“What we need is not more training for women, but to train those in power on how to build inclusive institutions,” he said. “We need to move beyond fixing women and instead fix our systems.”Mlambo-Ngcuka called for “big, bold steps” and urged global leaders to make space especially for young women to enter public life.“We see them on the streets across the world, leading movements even in the face of lethal threat,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-is-most-discriminatory-crisis-for-women-un-women-101615854090490.html
16-03-2021||World||Soaring migration levels puts pressure on Joe Biden||President Joe Biden faced mounting pressure Monday from Republicans over his handling of a surge in migrants -- including thousands of unaccompanied children -- arriving at the US-Mexican border.While successive administrations have dealt with seasonal spikes in migration, Biden's critics claim he has driven the latest uptick by taking a softer stance on the flashpoint issue than his predecessor Donald Trump.On January 20, his first day in office, Biden scrapped several of Trump's contentious immigration policies, including halting new construction of a border wall and proposing legislation to create a citizenship pathway for the nearly 11 million people living illegally in the US.Republican congressman Kevin McCarthy of California, who leads his party in the House of Representatives, described Biden's policies as having created "more than a crisis.""You can continue to deny it but the only way to solve it is to first admit what he has done, and if he will not reverse action, it takes Congressional action to do it," McCarthy told a press conference on the border in the Texas town of El Paso.Republican congressman Chuck Fleischmann said Biden's administration had "created an environment" that caused an increase in migration. Other Republican lawmakers said human traffickers were profiting from Biden's policies.White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Biden had inherited "a dismantled and unworkable system" from Trump."Like any other problem, we're going to do everything we can to solve it," she said.'No jobs, no money' At a bus terminal in the border town of Brownsville late Sunday, a Guatemalan woman told AFP she had crossed the border illegally after her husband, who is already in the US, told her things may be simpler under Biden."My husband told me to come at this time," said Rubia Tabora, a 25-year-old mother of one."At home there are no jobs, no money."In February, the US Customs and Border Protection agency (CBP) arrested about 100,000 people at the southern border -- including nearly 9,500 unaccompanied children -- a 28 percent jump over January.In line with a pandemic-rooted policy adopted by Trump, who cracked down on immigration both legal and illegal as part of his "America First" doctrine, the Biden administration is deporting most of the undocumented people who arrive at the southern border.But unlike Trump, Biden has opted against expelling minors who show up unaccompanied and are filling shelters set up to hold them, with limited capacity because of the coronavirus crisis.Still, Brownsville mayor Trey Mendez said authorities in his community at the southern tip of Texas were not overwhelmed."I don't feel that it's a crisis for the city of Brownsville," he told reporters.He said about 150 migrants daily are processed in the city, most of whom leave within 24 hours.'Record' levelsThe Biden administration over the weekend ordered the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to support an effort to temporarily house thousands of children who crossed the US-Mexico border alone.While detained migrant adults and families continue to be sent back to Mexico, unaccompanied children are being processed and then get help resettling with US relatives.Dallas County commissioner J.J. Koch said that FEMA had asked the city to lease them a hall at the Kay Bailey Hutchison Convention Center as a "decompression center" to house up to 3,000 teenage boys aged between 15 and 17 for as long as 90 days, "while plans for more permanent sheltering or connection to sponsor families can be arranged."He said FEMA "desires to begin operations as early as this week."Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said Saturday that numbers of unaccompanied child migrants had reached "record" levels, but dated the surge back to April 2020 and blamed ongoing violence, natural disasters, food insecurity and poverty in parts of Central America.The US Department of Health and Human Services is currently holding about 8,800 migrant children.A local activist told AFP about 200 migrants in family groups traveled on from the Brownsville bus terminal on Saturday, after receiving Covid-19 tests.Such scenes are being repeated at towns along the vast border that spans four US states.Most in Brownsville had turned themselves in after crossing the frontier and were given paperwork requiring them to report to immigration authorities later on.Chris Cabrera, a spokesman for a local Border Patrol union in Texas's Rio Grande Valley, told CNN that immigration numbers often surge around the time of an election or new presidency."A part of it is every election cycle, regardless of the political party that takes office. It gets interpreted in the southern countries a little different," he said.The US Congress is this week considering two immigration bills.One of them would grant several categories of migrants, including people brought to the country as children -- so-called "Dreamers" -- an immediate path to permanent residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/soaring-migration-levels-puts-pressure-on-joe-biden-101615849814753.html
16-03-2021||World||Genocide by Pak Army in former east Pakistan needs to be globally recognised||It is matter of shame that the genocide committed by Pakistan in Bangladesh 50 years ago, which killed more than the holocaust and was aimed at changing ethnicity of a group, is yet to be globally recognised, according to a Paris-based think tank.In a report of the Center of Political and Foreign Affairs on East Pakistan Genocide: Still Yearns for Global Acknowledgement, Mario de Gasperi wrote, " The Bangladesh genocide is considered to be the largest and longest since it covers the entire length of the nine-month-long liberation war of Bangladesh. Ironically the Bangladesh genocide remains unrecognised while other genocides in Europe and Africa have been acknowledged."According to the report, three million people were killed, half-a-million girls and women were raped, and entire villages were laid to waste. Men became primary targets (almost 80 per cent male, as reported by the Bangladesh Genocide Archives). The abduction and subsequent rape of women by soldiers took place in camps for months. Many more were subject to "hit and run" rapes. Hit and run rape explains the brutality of forcing male family member-before their own death-view the rape of their female family member by soldiers.Bangladesh is celebrating 50 glorious years of its independence this year. However, the month of March is significant in the valiant struggle in Bangladesh that then East Pakistan people waged against the Pakistani Army.March 25 holds special significance being commemorated as the Genocide Day as on this day 50 years back Pakistan Army launched 'Operation Searchlight' resulting in the worst genocide in human history over a period of nine months till the Army was defeated, Gasperi wrote.Gasperi further said, "The Liberation War in erstwhile East Pakistan marked by the horrific genocide committed by the Pakistani Army and razakars, or collaborators, is not acknowledged widely even to this date.""In national elections held in December 1970 in undivided Pakistan, the Awami League won an overwhelming victory across Bengali territory. On February 22, 1971 the generals in West Pakistan took a decision to crush the Awami League and its supporters. It was recognized from the first that a campaign of genocide would be necessary to eradicate the threat," wrote Gasperi.Bangladesh, erstwhile East Pakistan witnessed almost a full collapse of humanity during the nine months of March to December in 1971. Though atrocities and brutality started well before March 1971, continuation of this barbarism reached its peak on the night of March 25, 1971.Gasperi said, "The carnage by Pakistan Army continued till their shameful surrender in mid-December, 1971. Atrocities and butchery of Pak Army are by now well established and documented not only by Bangladeshis but also international researchers, historians, scholars and news media.""General Agha Mohammed Yahya Khan and his top generals planned to murder Bengali intellectual, cultural, and political elite. They also planned to indiscriminately murder hundreds of thousands of Hindus and drive the rest into India. And they planned to destroy East Pakistan's economic base to ensure that it would be subordinate to West Pakistan for at least a generation to come," Gasperi wrote in the report.Gasperi further said in the report that there is no doubt that the mass killing in Bangladesh was among the most carefully and centrally planned of modern genocides. The genocide and gendercide atrocities were also perpetrated by lower-ranking officers and ordinary soldiers. These "willing executioners" were fuelled by abiding anti-Bengali racism, especially against the Hindu minority. "Bengalis were often compared with monkeys and chickens. Said Pakistan General Niazi, 'It was a low lying land of low lying people.'The goal of the operation was to crush the Bengali nationalist movement through fear; however, the opposite occurred.Highlighting the three phases of genocide by the Pakistan Army, Gasperi wrote, that Operation Searchlight was the first phase, which took place from late March to early May. It began as a massive murder campaign during the night of March 25, 1971."Search and destroy was the second where Pakistani forces methodically slaughtered villages from May to October. This is the longest phase because this is when Bengali forces mobilised and began to fight back. This was also the phase in which the Pakistan army targeted women to rape, abduct, and enslave.""Scorched Earth" was the third phase beginning in early December, and targeted and killed 1,000 intellectuals and professionals such as doctors, lawyers, and engineers in Dhaka. The Pakistani Army surrendered to Indian forces days later, ending the genocide on December 16, 1971," Gasperi wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/genocide-by-pak-army-in-former-east-pakistan-needs-to-be-globally-recognised-101615831615616.html
16-03-2021||World||God ‘cannot bless sin’, so we cannot bless same-sex unions, says Vatican||The Vatican decreed Monday that the Catholic Church cannot bless same-sex unions since God “cannot bless sin.”The Vatican’s orthodoxy office, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, issued a formal response Monday to a question about whether Catholic clergy can bless gay unions.The answer, contained in a two-page explanation published in seven languages and approved by Pope Francis, was “negative.”The decree distinguished between the church’s welcoming and blessing of gay people, which it upheld, but not their unions.The Vatican holds that gays much be treated with dignity and respect, but that gay sex is “intrinsically disordered.” Catholic teaching holds that marriage between a man and woman is part of God’s plan and is intended for the sake of creating new life.Since gay unions are not intended to be part of that plan, they cannot be blessed by the church, the document said.“The presence in such relationships of positive elements, which are in themselves to be valued and appreciated, cannot justify these relationships and render them legitimate objects of an ecclesial blessing, since the positive elements exist within the context of a union not ordered to the Creator’s plan,” the response said.God “does not and cannot bless sin: He blesses sinful man, so that he may recognize that he is part of his plan of love and allow himself to be changed by him,” it said.Francis has endorsed providing gay couples with legal protections in same-sex unions, but that is in reference to the civil sphere, not within the church. His comments were made during an interview with a Mexican television station, Televisa, in 2019, but were cut by the Vatican until they appeared in a documentary last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vatican-excludes-same-sex-union-blessing-as-god-can-t-bless-sin-101615809381792.html
16-03-2021||World||Explained: Why have some countries suspended use of AstraZeneca vaccine?||Amid rising concern over blood clot events, British-Swedish pharmaceuticals company AstraZeneca issued a statement on Monday saying a review of 17 million people who were administered its Covid-19 vaccine suggested that it was entirely safe for use. The statement came after a number of countries suspended the use of the jab after reports of a number of people developing blood clots after receiving the vaccine.“A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and UK with Covid-19 vaccine of AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or thrombocytopenia, in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country,” the company said in a statement.What’s the cause of concern with regards to AstraZeneca vaccine?Across the European Union and Britain, there have been at least 15 events of deep vein thrombosis or blood clot in the veins and 22 events of pulmonary embolism or when blood clot enters the lungs reported among those who were administered the AstraZeneca vaccine, officials said.Which countries have suspended the vaccine’s use?The Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Ireland and Iceland temporarily suspended the use of the vaccine after reports of cases of blood clots. Italy and Romania have banned the use of a similar batch of the vaccine. Austria has also stopped the usage of certain batches of the vaccine and Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and Luxembourg have suspended the same batch which was suspended by Austria.Which countries are still using the vaccine?France and Germany have said that they would continue to use the AstraZeneca jab. The UK's Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said there was no evidence that the vaccine had caused problems. “Blood clots can occur naturally and are not uncommon. More than 11 million doses of the Covid-19 AstraZeneca vaccine have now been administered across the UK,” the agency said.Could the suspension affect the vaccination programme in these countries?The decision to temporarily suspend the use of AstraZeneca vaccine comes as a setback to the European vaccination programme. However, the gaps in the vaccination programme could be filled as the single-shot Johnson & Johnson (J&J) vaccine has also been approved in the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-have-some-countries-suspended-use-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-101615801709933.html
16-03-2021||India||Dasgupta resigns from RS before Bengal polls||New Delhi: Swapan Dasgupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party‘s (BJP) candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly constituency in West Bengal, tendered his resignation to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday, after both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress raised the issue of a nominated and unaffiliated member of the Upper House contesting the assembly elections as a candidate of a party.Officials from the Rajya Sabha secretariat said they received Dasgupta’s letter on Tuesday. “I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly seat in the next few days,” Dasgupta tweeted on Tuesday morning.Dasgupta was nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the President in April 2016. According to the 10th Schedule that deals with disqualification of MPs: “A nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of Article 99 or, as the case may be, Article 188.”Articles 99 and 188 of the Indian Constitution relate to oath-taking of lawmakers.Dasgupta did not declare his affiliation with the BJP within six months. His name on the Rajya Sabha website is listed in the category of nominated members, unlike some other nominated MPs such as Rakesh Sinha, Subramaniam Swami and Roopa Ganguly who, after being nominated, aligned with the BJP.On March 13, the BJP named him its candidate for the Tarakeshwar seat in Bengal’s Hoogly district. On Monday, Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party after expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP.”On Tuesday, Congress MP, Jairam Ramesh raised the issue of Dasgupta’s candidature with Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. He sought to know if Dasgupta has resigned.Ramesh said that he personally met Naidu after sending a letter on Dasgupta. “The chairman told me that he had resigned.”A person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named said Dasgupta “has time till March 19 to file his nomination papers for contesting the polls. Had he not resigned from the Rajya Sabha, he could have faced disqualification from the House.” The person added that Dasgupta’s resignation is subject to approval of the chair.Shortly after his nomination on Sunday, several party leaders said they were not sure whether Dasgupta has become a member of the party. One leader said he can become a member after being named as a candidate.Dasgupta has not tried to hide his association with the party. He was a member of the BJP’s delegations to the election commission, and also met President Ramnath Kovind regarding the death of a BJP MLA in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dasgupta-resigns-from-rs-before-bengal-polls-101615919042247.html
16-03-2021||India||British PM to visit India in April||New DelhiBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India in April as part of his government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific under a comprehensive revamp of foreign and security policies in order to unlock new opportunities across the region.The UK on Tuesday unveiled its widely anticipated integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, first announced after the 2019 election as “the most radical assessment of the UK’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War”.The integrated review set out several shifts in foreign policy, including a tilt to the Indo-Pacific, and Johnson will visit India at the end of April to “unlock opportunities in the region”, an official statement said. Presenting the review in Parliament, Johnson said he will travel to India to “strengthen our ties with the world’s largest democracy”. This will be Johnson’s first major international visit following Britain’s exit from the European Union (EU). Johnson was earlier set to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations in January, but called off the trip to remain in Britain to focus on the response to a new coronavirus variant. At the time, the UK announced Johnson hoped to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit in June that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to attend as a guest.The British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, played a key part in drafting the integrated review in his previous role as deputy national security advisor. The document described India-UK relations as “already strong” and said Britain will “seek transformation in our cooperation across the full range of our shared interests” over the next decade. It referred to India as an “international actor of growing importance” and spoke of the strong cultural links between the two sides, including 1.5 million British nationals of Indian origin. India-UK trade more than doubled between 2007 and 2019, and the investment relationship supports more than half a million jobs in each other’s economies. “The ability to strike our own trade deals will allow us to grow our economic relationship further, including through increased bilateral investment flows,” the integrated review said. “Our vision is for re-energised trade and investment, rooted in S&T and supporting levelling up in the UK and India alike; enhanced defence cooperation that brings a more secure Indian Ocean Region, building on the existing biannual Ministerial Defence Dialogues; and UK-India leadership to tackle global challenges like climate change, clean energy and global health,” it said. A major step towards boosting ties will be the launch this year of the “Enhanced Trade Partnership”, which will act as a road map to a potential comprehensive trade deal.With Britain looking at the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world”, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will undertake its first operational deployment to the region this year. The UK is also applying for partner status at the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) as part of its foreign policy shift. The deployment of Queen Elizabeth, the UK’s largest warship, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean has been described by officials as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The reset of Britain’s international priorities with deeper engagement with the Indo-Pacific is also aimed at creating a democratic counterweight to China. “China’s military modernisation and growing international assertiveness within the Indo-Pacific region and beyond will pose an increasing risk to UK interests,” the integrated review said. The UK will “do more to adapt to China’s growing impact on many aspects of our lives as it becomes more powerful”, and this includes investing in “enhanced China-facing capabilities” and improving Britain’s “ability to respond to the systemic challenge that [China] poses to our security, prosperity and values – and those of our allies and partners”, the document said. The 114-page integrated review, which addressed issues related to national security, foreign policy and the global economy, is meant to implement Johnson’s “Global Britain” agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-pm-to-visit-india-in-april-101615918562315.html
16-03-2021||India||Ex-Telangana MP, industrialist Konda Vishweshwar Reddy quits Cong||Prominent industrialist and former parliamentarian from Telangana, Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, resigned from the Congress late on Monday night.Reddy, who represented Chevella parliamentary constituency in Ranga Reddy district close to Hyderabad, sent his resignation letter to Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, after informing him telephonically about his decision in the evening.Reddy was the richest MP from Telangana between 2014 and 2019 with declared assets of ₹528 crore. He is the son-in-law of Apollo Hospitals Group chairman Pratap C Reddy and his wife is Sangita Reddy, managing director of Apollo Hospitals.Also read: 12 teachers of a school in Telangana found positive for Covid-19While thanking all the Congress workers in his constituency who had given him tremendous support, he said he remained committed to the people of Telangana and the development of his constituency and the state. “And so, my fight continues,” he said.Reddy said he would take a break for a few months and concentrate on his business activities before returning to active politics. He did not disclose which party he would be joining later to continue his political journey.A Congress leader close to Reddy said the latter might join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) soon, as he had been in touch with the BJP leadership for quite some time. During the recent elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, the BJP leadership attempted to bring Reddy into the party. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who was appointed the party in-charge for the GHMC polls, went to Reddy’s residence and held parleys. However, the former MP issued a statement stating that he would continue in the Congress party and the meeting with Bhupendra Yadav had no political significance.Reddy entered active politics before the 2014 elections by joining the Telangana Rashtra Samithi. He won the Chevella Lok Sabha seat on a TRS ticket but could not adjust to the party for long. He quit the party in early 2018. He later joined the Congress and contested the elections from Chevella again but lost to another industrialist G Ranjith Reddy of TRS by a slim margin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extelangana-mp-industrialist-konda-vishweshwar-reddy-quits-cong-101615918022699.html
16-03-2021||India||Indian Railways will never be be privatised: Piyush Goyal||New Delhi Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said that the Indian Railways will never be privatized, even as he said that private investment in the sector should be encouraged to enhance infrastructure and passenger services.During a discussion on demands for grants for railways in the Lok Sabha, Goyal said, “Let me make it clear, the Indian Railways will never be privatised, Indian railways is India’s asset and will continue to remain so and belong to the people.” The Lok Sabha later passed the Demands for Grants for Railways for 2021-22.“If a railway line is installed should there not be the need to ensure good services to the passengers and higher speed trains? And in that if any private investment comes, I feel it should be welcomed,” the minister said, adding that the condition of railway stations across the country has improved tremendously. “There are toilets installed across all stations with separate facilities for women. We are also installing toilets for specially-abled as well.”“If we have to make our stations at level with international standards, you can imagine how much investment that would require. We have begun the redevelopment of the Amritsar railway station at a cost of ₹230 crore which will be at par with international standards. We have selected 50 stations for redevelopment… I feel in that if private investment comes for that, it is in the best interest of the country,” Goyal said. There have been no passenger deaths in rail accidents in the past two years, and the railways has put focus on passenger safety, Goyal said. To be clear, rail accidents refer to only train-related accidents such as train derailment while deaths due to trespassing are counted as human error. In 2019, the railways allowed private companies to operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), is expected to help significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system. In October 2019, the government decided to set up a committee to draft a blueprint for transferring the operations of 150 trains and 50 railway stations to private firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-will-never-be-be-privatised-piyush-goyal-101615917602038.html
16-03-2021||India||Four Maoists killed in encounter in Bihar’s Gaya district||Security forces killed at least four Maoists in an encounter on Tuesday noon in forests in Chakarbandha Hill of Gaya district in Bihar, police said. Three AK-47 assault rifles and an INSAS rifle have been recovered from the site of the encounter.The deceased Maoists have been identified as - zonal commander Amresh Singh alias Tuntun Bhokta (Gaya), sub-zonal commanders Shivpujan Yadav alias Pramod, Uday Paswan and Sita Bhuiyan (all from Aurangabad district). ADG (Operation) S M Khopde said the anti-Maoist operation in forests of Chakarbandha Hill was led by the CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) when an encounter broke out at Monwar village.“The encounter started when the CoBRA team reached the jungles. After the firing stopped, the bodies of Maoist were recovered,” said Khopde. He said the gun-battle lasted for about half an hour and forced the rebels to retreat into the forests. Some other Maoists are suspected to have received bullet injuries. There was no report of any casualty or injury among the security forces. Bodies of the four Maoists were found at the site of the encounter along with four weapons including AK-47 and INSAS rifles. The security forces had begun a combing operation on Monday evening following a tip-off that around 15 Maoists were hiding in the forest. The CRPF’s 159 battalion was also involved in the operation.The ADG said that such operations would continue and pressure would be built upon Maoists even more. He also said that local intelligence was also being strengthened.Earlier on February 11, a Maoist was gunned down in an encounter with the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in Lakhisarai district while a search operation was being conducted in Chehrone-Kopdashi forest areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-bihar-s-gaya-district-101615917182665.html
16-03-2021||India||PM in B’desh on March 26, 1st foreign visit since Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make his first foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak last year to Bangladesh during March 26-27, highlighting the priority attached by India to the country in its “Neighbourhood First” policy. Modi, who is visiting at the invitation of his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina, will participate in the commemoration of what the external affairs ministry described as “three epochal events” – Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Bnagladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 50 years of diplomatic ties, and 50 years of Bangladesh’s war of liberation. The prime minister last visited Bangladesh in 2015 though Modi and Hasina have interacted virtually several times during the pandemic. During the visit, Modi will attend the national day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour. Besides holding bilateral consultations with Hasina, Modi will also hold talks with President Mohammad Abdul Hamid and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen. “The visit of the prime minister to Bangladesh will be the first visit to a foreign country since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic. This highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh,” the external affairs ministry said. The two countries have launched several initiatives amid the pandemic to boost connectivity, including a new cross-border bridge over Feni river that was opened earlier this month to make Agartala, the capital of the northeastern state of Tripura, the Indian city closest to an international sea port. Bangladesh is the largest recipient of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines, having received nine million doses so far, including two million doses provided as a grant in January. External affairs minister S Jaishankar travelled to Dhaka on March 4 to prepare the grounds for Modi’s visit. Jaishankar held talks with Momen and met Hasina, and the two foreign ministers reviewed the overall relationship and India-backed development projects. Connectivity initiatives between the two sides continued despite the pandemic. The two countries conducted the trial run of container cargo through Chattogram port to Agartala, added two new routes to link Tripura to Bangladesh’s waterways, and India provided 10 railway locomotives and began the movement of container and parcel trains last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-in-b-desh-on-march-26-1st-foreign-visit-since-covid-101615916882097.html
16-03-2021||India||'My mic was switched off in Parliament': Rahul Gandhi on 'assault on India'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said all institutions of India are under constant assault. Interacting with Prof Ashutosh Varshney, a faculty of Brown University, Rahul said, "To me, India is many different, diverse viewpoints...Modern India to me is essentially an ongoing negotiation between those ideas and cultures. Our founding fathers created an architecture of that negotiation through various institutions.""What I see is a determined attack on these institutions," he said, as he was asked to explain his earlier comment which he had made during his conversation with Cornell University professKaushik Basu when he said "electoral politics in India is no longer a fight for power, it's a fight for India".Live: My interaction with Prof Ashutosh Varshney, faculty & students of Brown University. https://t.co/1goKjIgp9HElaborating on that, Rahul said, "There is not a single institution which is not under attack. To give you a more nuanced answer, my mic was switched off in Parliament. The essence of Parliament is that I am allowed to speak. But the television doesn't show what is going on in Parliament. BJP MPs can not have an open discussion, they have told me. It is a straightforward top-down thing. Same with the judiciary, press. It's a constant onslaught.""Before 2014, there was an assault on institutions but it was subversive. It was not out in the open. But after 2014, it is legitimised. That's why it's an attack on India," he said.Talking about the 'shrinking' space for debate in India's politics, Rahul said, "Congress represents 20 per cent of our population. Other opposition parties together represent much bigger than what PM Modi and his party represent, but there is no room for negotiation, no room for conversation. But as a politician, I require institutional support."On being asked to comment on the status of 'electoral autocracy' given to India by a US-based organisation recently, Rahul said, "We don't need a stamp from them. The situation is much worse than they imagine."Explaining his point, he said electoral democracy can not be separated from the institutional framework. "Election is not only about people going to vote and pressing a button. It is about narrative, it is about institutions that make sure that the framework of the country is working properly. It is about a judiciary being fair...Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. They were actually voting. It's not like that there was no voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-mic-was-switched-off-in-parliament-rahul-gandhi-on-assault-on-india-101615915872787.html
16-03-2021||India||Opposition MPs highlight digital divide among students during Covid-19 pandemic||Members in Lok Sabha on Tuesday pointed out that the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed serious digital divide in the country with a section of students not having access either to the internet or even medium of learning aids like tablets and smartphones.Taking part in a discussion on demands for grants of the education ministry, Congress member Shashi Tharoor said as classes shifted online, not only were teachers, who are underpaid, as they were ill-equipped to handle such a significant change and the experience only demonstrated that online learning in its current form is exclusionary and discriminatory."It should be a matter of great shame for us and even in my own state of Kerala, which is supposed to be an education beacon for the country, we had incidents like that of the death of a school topper, a class 10 student who hailed from a Dalit family in dire economic conditions."When classes were shifted online, her father was a daily wager and he had no wages coming in during the pandemic and the lockdown. They were unable to give her a smartphone to follow online classes," Tharoor said.He also pointed out the case of a Lady Shri Ram College student in Delhi who apparently died by suicide as she did not have resources to buy a laptop."She felt she did not wanted to be a financial burden for the family. These are crucial issues. I am sure that the finance ministry will be listening. These two young women were not just bright sparks in their own right but in many ways, represent the future of our country."A future in their cases was destroyed by the inability to provide sufficient safeguards against the disturbances causes by online classes," he said.Tharoor stressed the need both in the new National Education Policy (NEP) and any other government schemes to do better to rise to the challenge of this digital divide.Highlighting the issues faced by students in his constituency, NCP leader Fazil Mohammed said internet connectivity in the Lakshadweep archipelago was very feeble when students took online classes. He said there were many who were deprived of tablets, smartphones and laptops.Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant said while learning moved from classroom to homes, many had issues with the internet, power connections and non-availability of essential learning aids like phones, laptops and tablets.Congress MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary said due to the pandemic, digital education has been introduced but children of poor people like rickshaw pullers and labourers do not have laptops and computers.Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel suggested that the government should ensure that every child in rural areas have access to smartphone so that their education is not impacted.YSRCP MP Sri Krishna Devarayalu Lavu said that the reduction in education budget is "very worrying" and suggested that all efforts should be made by the government to bridge the digital divide in education.BSP leader Danish Ali also said the government should look at issues to bridge the digital divide in education while National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi asked how many students have access to digital education.Today, there is inadequate infrastructure for the education sector, he said, adding that drop out rates today are increasing and enrolment rate is also coming down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-mps-highlight-digital-divide-among-students-during-covid-19-pandemic-101615914506933.html
16-03-2021||India||Karnataka records over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases, 1st time in 2021 | Key points||Karnataka records over 1,000 new Covid-19 infections, 1st time in 2021 | Key pointsA day after experts warned of a second wave of Covid-19 waiting to strike Karnataka, the state on Tuesday recorded 1,135 new Covid-19 infections for the first time in 2021. The last time the state had cases over 1,000 was in December — 1,005 fresh cases were recorded on December 24.Given the overall surge of new infections across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the chief ministers/heads of all states/UTs.Here is all you need to know about Karnataka's Covid-19 surge> After Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka is the fourth state that is contributing the highest to India's daily Covid-19 caseload.> According to the Union health ministry's bulletin on Tuesday, Karnataka contributed 3.97 per cent to India's active caseload.> Bengaluru Urban is reporting the maximum number of fresh infections in the state. On Tuesday, 710 new cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban alone.> Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa recently chaired a meeting with senior officials and members of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee. Experts in that meeting opined that the surge is an indication of a second wave.> Positivity rate has increased in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Udupi Tumakuru and Dakshina Kannada.> The chief minister has also urged people to abide by Covid-19 rules if they do not want a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-over-1-000-new-covid-19-cases-1st-time-in-2021-key-points-101615913541288.html
16-03-2021||India||3 teenagers among 5 killed in Agra as septic tank caves in||Three teenagers and their uncle were among five people who were killed when a septic tank they were digging in Pratap Pura village of Agra district caved in on Tuesday evening, the district magistrate said.The fifth person was a neighbour. “The five deceased were involved in digging of septic tank when mud collapsed into the pit that had been dug. One person died on spot while four others were rushed to Emergency Ward of SN Medical College in Agra but were declared dead on arrival,” said District Magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh. “The deceased were identified as brothers Hari Mohan (17), Anurag (14) and Avinash (16). All three were sons of Surendra Sharma. Their uncle Sonu Sharma (32) tried to save these three but died in the process. Yogesh Baghel (20) living in neighbourhood too died after being caught in the pit,” Singh said.“The pit was being dug in house of Surendra Sharma who lost three of his sons and a brother in incident,” he said.Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath has expressed grief over the tragedy and declared relief of ₹2 lakh to next kin of each of the deceased. “After instructions from Chief Minister, compensation of ₹2 lakh is declared to next of kin of each of five deceased. The family of Sonu Sharma is to receive 5 lakhs under Kisan Durghatna Bima Yojna because land exists in his name,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-teenagers-among-5-killed-in-agra-as-septic-tank-caves-in-101615913342238.html
16-03-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Bangladesh next week, 1st foreign trip since Covid-19 outbreak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make his first foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak last year to Bangladesh during March 26-27, highlighting the priority attached by India to the country in its “Neighbourhood First” policy. Modi, who is visiting at the invitation of his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina, will participate in the commemoration of what the external affairs ministry described as “three epochal events” – Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Bnagladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, 50 years of diplomatic ties, and 50 years of Bangladesh’s war of liberation. The Prime Minister last visited Bangladesh in 2015 though Modi and Hasina have interacted virtually several times during the pandemic. During the visit, Modi will attend the national day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour. Besides holding bilateral consultations with Hasina, Modi will also hold talks with President Mohammad Abdul Hamid and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen. “The visit of the prime minister to Bangladesh will be the first visit to a foreign country since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic. This highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh,” the external affairs ministry said. The two countries have launched several initiatives amid the pandemic to boost connectivity, including a new cross-border bridge over Feni river that was opened earlier this month to make Agartala, the capital of the northeastern state of Tripura, the Indian city closest to an international sea port. Bangladesh is the largest recipient of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines, having received nine million doses so far, including two million doses provided as a grant in January. External affairs minister S Jaishankar travelled to Dhaka on March 4 to prepare the grounds for Modi’s visit. Jaishankar held talks with Momen and met Hasina, and the two foreign ministers reviewed the overall relationship and India-backed development projects. Connectivity initiatives between the two sides continued despite the pandemic. The two countries conducted the trial run of container cargo through Chattogram port to Agartala, added two new routes to link Tripura to Bangladesh’s waterways, and India provided 10 railway locomotives and began the movement of container and parcel trains last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-bangladesh-next-week-1st-foreign-trip-since-covid-19-outbreak-101615911181976.html
16-03-2021||India||Focus on 6G, quantum computing as India and Finland launch digital partnership||India and Finland on Tuesday launched a digital partnership that will focus on collaboration in developing future ICT (Information and Communications Technology) and mobile technologies, including research and development in 6G, and the use of digital tools to transform education. The partnership was announced during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Finnish counterpart Sanna Marin.Both leaders pledged to work together on bolstering multilateralism and a rules-based international order, promoting sustainable development and tackling climate change.The two leaders also launched a sustainability partnership involving renewable and clean energy, circular economy, and sustainable mobility, and said green growth is an essential element of bilateral cooperation.Also read: PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow amid rise in Covid cases - Key pointsFinnish firms such as Nokia are among world leaders in the development of mobile technologies and the digital partnership will see the two sides working together in three key areas – future ICT, with a focus on quantum technologies and computing; future mobile technologies, with a focus on 6G research and development; and future education based on the digital transformation of learning, said a joint statement.“Both Finland and India believe in a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and democratic global order. We have strong cooperation in areas such as technology, innovation, clean energy, environment and education. In the post-Covid period, all these sectors will be very important for global economic recovery,” Modi said in his opening remarks at the summit, speaking in Hindi.Marin called for cooperation in post-pandemic recovery, achieving a rules-based international system, and tackling climate change. “Finland and India are natural partners in the field of new technologies. Mobile technology revolutions such as 3G, 4G and 5G were sparked partially with Finnish know-how and digitalisation is a great opportunity for us,” she said.The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research at Pune and Finland’s Aalto University are already working on jointly developing a quantum computer with the use of artificial intelligence and 5G technology is an important area of collaboration, said Neeta Bhushan, joint secretary (Central Europe), external affairs ministry.“Nokia is working in rural areas for expansion of 5G applications, and Wipro and Tech Mahindra are working with Finnish firms for expansion of 5G and evolution of 6G,” she told a news briefing after the summit.During the virtual summit, which lasted about an hour, the two prime ministers also unveiled a high-level dialogue between the education ministries of both sides and looked forward to the renewal of a memorandum of understanding between a consortium of 10 Finnish universities and 23 IITs for cooperation in higher education.The two leaders also discussed global efforts to speed up development and scaling up of manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines and the need to promote equitable access to all countries, Bhushan said. They also discussed cooperation at the WTO and backed an open, inclusive and rules-based multilateral trading system. The situation in Myanmar following the February 1 military coup also figured in the discussions.“Both prime ministers expressed concern over recent developments in Myanmar and mentioned that rule of law must be upheld. As a country that shares land and maritime borders with Myanmar, we have the highest stakes in peace and stability in the country. We have traditionally strong cultural, religious and people-to-people ties with Myanmar and the safety of the people remains our top priority,” Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-6g-quantum-computing-as-india-and-finland-launch-digital-partnership-101615911062193.html
16-03-2021||India||Pakistani intruder shot dead in Ramgarh in J-K’s Samba district||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead a Pakistani intruder in Ramgarh sub sector along the Indo-Pak international border in Samba district on Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday evening, an official said. “After the intruder repeatedly ignored warnings by the BSF, he was shot dead near Malluchak post of the BSF in Ramgarh sub sector,” the official said on condition of anonymity. A sum of ₹200 in Pakistani currency was found in possession of the intruder.It was not immediately known if the man was armed or not.His body has been shifted to community health centre in Ramgarh. In another development, an aeroplane shaped balloon with ‘PIA’ written on it was recovered by Jammu and Kashmir Police in the Bhalwal area on the outskirts of Jammu district on Tuesday, officials said. Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) is the national airliner of Pakistan. An investigation has been initiated, said the officials. Earlier on March 10, a similar balloon was recovered by the police from Sotra Chak village of Hiranagar sector in Kathua district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-in-ramgarh-in-j-k-s-samba-district-101615909501288.html
16-03-2021||India||3 new Covid-19 variants reported in India: Government||Three new variants of Covid-19, from the UK, South Africa and Brazil, have been reported so far in India, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.As on March 4, 2021, a total 242 samples have tested positive for different variants in India, Choubey said in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha query regarding the total number of people who have been infected with the new strains.On whether the people who have been infected once could get re-infected by the new virus strain,Choubey said as per World Health Organization, in the three countries where the pandemic is being driven by the variant mutants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, namely United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, the South African and Brazilian variants have the potential to reinfect persons who have been previously infected with SARS-CoV-2.Recognizing that the mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 are driving the pandemic in countries of their origin, namely United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, Government of India has revised its guidelines for international travel to minimize the risk of importation and further spread of these mutant variants in India, he said.A genomic consortium of 10 regional laboratories with National Center for Disease Control as the apex laboratory has been established to perform genomic sequencing of the samples from positive travellers and 5 per cent of the positive test samples from the community.Such international travellers who test positive are kept in special isolation ward, till such time they test negative. The contacts of such cases are also kept under institutional quarantine, till such time they test negative."No case of re-infection by mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus has been reported from India so far," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-new-covid-19-variants-reported-in-india-government-101615908559722.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: JP Nadda's jab at Mamata Banerjee over Batla House case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'When are you quitting politics?': Nadda’s jab on Mamata over Batla House caseBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Tuesday asked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee when she will be quiting politics as she had earlier said that she would quit politics if the Batla House encounter is proved to be true. Read more'One of the harshest things I have ever seen': Former cricketers express surprise at Suryakumar Yadav's omissionYou’ve got to feel for Suryakumar Yadav. After finally getting to make his India debut in the second T20I against England on Sunday, the batsman was left out of the Playing XI for the third match of the series. Read moreVicky Kaushal on the impact fame has had on his personal life: 'Inauthentic things are written'Actor Vicky Kushal has opened up about the impact fame and stardom have had on his personal life. The actor revealed that fame has changed him in more ways than one. Read moreGiant snake tries to attack zookeeper in video that may leave you shudderingVideos of zoo keepers and snake handlers dealing with scary animals like it’s no big deal are usually incredible to watch. This video, however, may leave you shuddering. Read more‘Hindutva isn’t Hindi’: Tejasvi Surya slams DMK, says BJP promotes all languagesBJP MP Tejasvi Surya lashed out at the DMK while defending the National Education policy in Lok Sabha. Tejasvi Surya said that ‘Hindutva is not Hindi’ and added that no other government has made such effort to promote regional languages. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jp-nadda-s-jab-at-mamata-banerjee-over-batla-house-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101615907008071.html
16-03-2021||India||Pollution in trans-boundary rivers in India-Bangladesh talks on water-sharing||Top officials of the water resources ministries of India and Bangladesh met here on Tuesday to discuss issues related to river water-sharing and flood forecasting and to enhance cooperation on controlling pollution in trans-boundary water bodies, sources said.The Indian delegation was headed by Jal Shakti Ministry secretary Pankaj Kumar, while senior secretary Kabir Bin Anwar led the Bangladeshi side.The meeting took place ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh later this month.Sources said the two sides discussed sharing of waters of the Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dudhkumar and Dharla rivers.Discussions also took place to further cooperation in the area of flood forecasting, they added. It included talks on cooperation over flood forecasting of the Atrai, Punarbhaba and Tangon rivers that enter India from Bangladesh.A system of transmission of flood forecasting data on major rivers like the Ganga, Teesta, Brahmaputra and the Barak during the monsoon season from India to Bangladesh already exists."Discussions also took place on controlling pollution of trans-boundary rivers. On its part, Bangladesh pointed out the issue of pollution in Akhaura canal," a source added.The Akhura canal takes waste from Agartala city and flows into Bangladesh, sources said.They added that discussions also took place on drawing of water from the Feni river for Sabroom town in Tripura.India and Bangladesh have a robust mechanism in place to address water issues at different levels. An Indo-Bangladesh Joint Rivers Commission (JRC) is functioning since 1972. It was established with a view to maintain liaison in order to ensure the most effective joint effort in maximising the benefits from common river systems.This enables meetings at the levels of ministers, secretaries and technical experts.The next meeting will take place in Dhaka, sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-in-trans-boundary-rivers-in-india-bangladesh-talks-on-watersharing-101615907390644.html
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid-19 'second wave': What state ministers have said on lockdown||The report on the rise of Maharashtra Covid-19 prepared by a central team has highlighted serious lapses in testing, tracking and isolating cases. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the state asking it to plan for a "worst-case scenario with sufficient lead time". Several districts have imposed night curfews, lockdown as a measure against the rapid spread of the infection after it appeared to have receded in December-January.The state government is not in favour of imposing a lockdown. But it has not stopped district authorities from taking necessary action to contain the spread, as and when required.Several ministers, including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, have debated on the scope of a second lockdown in the state in the past few weeks.Here is what ministers have saidChief Minister Uddhav ThackerayUddhav Thackeray has reiterated that he is not in favour of lockdown, but he also dropped hints that in some areas of the state, strict lockdown might be imposed because of 'majboori'. While the decision in this regard remains pending, the chief minister last week believed to have given hotels and restaurants the last waring. "Do not force us to impose a strict lockdown. Consider this as the last warning. Follow all the rules. Everyone has to realise there is a difference between self-discipline and restrictions," Thackeray said.Health minister Rajesh TopeMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said lockdown is not an answer to the rising Covid-19 cases. "Lockdown is not an option but restrictions will be made more strict," Tope said.Mumbai guardian minister Aslam ShaikhTalking specifically about Mumbai, guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said in the second week of March that night curfew, shutting down of sea beaches, night clubs and other crowded places in Mumbai can't be ruled out.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay WadettiwarIn February, the minister said that the government was considering imposing restrictions on local train timing. “We will not completely restrict the general public from commuting on the train, but will reschedule the timings,” he said. Mumbai locals resumed services for the general public from February 1 and the cases started skyrocketing since the middle of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-second-wave-what-state-ministers-have-said-on-lockdown-101615906470411.html
16-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases showing upward trajectory after February 2, 2021: Government||After peak of the epi-curve was witnessed in mid-September 2020, Covid-19 cases continued to decline till February 2, 2021, after which the trajectory showed an upward trend, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.In a written reply, Choubey said an epidemiological comparison is always made for the corresponding period of previous years. Since the pandemic was only evolving in the first quarter of 2020 and that there were stringent point of entry measures, lockdown imposed by Government of India etc, the first quarter of 2021 has more cases compared to the same period of 2020, he said. "Government of India is actively monitoring the resurgence of Covid-19 cases after a sustained decline that was witnessed since mid-September 2020," Choubey said.On the measures taken to combat the reported second spike of Covid-19 all over India, Choubey said any surge in cases reported and the need for institutionalizing necessary public health measures is taken up with the states concerned through formal communication, video conferences and the deployment of central team. States have been advised to put in place stringent containment measures, on a mission mode, in coordination with all stakeholders, upscale surveillance, contact tracing and testing, further intensify IEC campaign to ensure adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour, ensure adequate hospital infrastructure, focus on minimising mortality by ensuring timely referral and appropriate clinical management, and increase the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, he said.Recognizing that the mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 are driving the pandemic in countries of their origin, namely the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, Government of India has revised its guidelines for international travel to minimize the risk of importation and further spread of these mutant variants in India. A genomic consortium of 10 regional laboratories with the National Center for Disease Control as the apex laboratory has been established to perform genomic sequencing of the samples from positive travellers and 5 per cent of the positive test samples from the community. Such international travellers who test positive are kept in a special isolation ward, till such time they test negative. The contacts of such cases are also kept under institutional quarantine, till such time they test negative, he said. Government of India adopted a proactive, pre-emptive and graded response to deal with the unprecedented global crisis of Covid-19 pandemic and issued various guidelines to contain its spread in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-showing-upward-trajectory-after-february-2-2021-government-101615904935646.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel expresses concerns over vacancies in high courts||A parliamentary panel on Tuesday expressed concerns over rising vacancies in high courts and strongly recommended that vacant posts of judges be filled up immediately."The committee is of the view that justice delivery system in the country is moving towards a stage where both vacancy positions of judges and pendency of cases are increasing year after year, and this state of affairs may erode the trust of public on the justice delivery system," the department-related standing committee on law and personnel said in its report on demands for grants for the law ministry.It was tabled in Parliament on Tuesday.The committee said there are still a large number of vacancies of judges in the high courts, and it "strongly recommends" that the vacant positions be filled up immediately.Vacancies arising in the future should be filled strictly as per the extant guidelines, it added.The committee also suggested the Department of Justice in the law ministry to request all stakeholders, including high court collegiums, to expedite the process of initiation of recommendations so that appointments are not delayed.According to the Department of Justice website, as on March 1, there are 419 vacancies in 25 high courts. While the approved strength of judges is 1,080, the working strength is 661.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-expresses-concerns-over-vacancies-in-high-courts-101615905880704.html
16-03-2021||India||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 case tally nears 2k-mark, Maharashtra sees 17,864 cases||A day after Mumbai's daily infection tally dropped to 1,712, the city on Tuesday again recorded as many cases as 1,922 — the second-highest single-day spike of the year. According to the bulletin of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 246 buildings in the city are sealed as there are more than five positive cases in these buildings, while 34 areas have been identified as containment zones. On March 14, the city recorded its highest spike of the year with 1,963 fresh infections.The BMC has asked schools under its jurisdiction to switch to online classes from March 17.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded a spike of 17,864 fresh Civid-19 infection, which is an increase of over 2,000 cases recorded on Monday when the state reported 15,051 new cases. The state reported 87 new deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the overall toll to 52,996.The Nagpur district added 2,587 fresh infections in the last 24 hours after a strict lockdown was imposed in the district on March 15.The central team which probed into the sudden spike of Maharashtra cases has, in its report, pointed out massive laxity in tracking and testing of cases. Based on the report, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote a letter to the state, asking it to plan for "a worst-case scenario with sufficient lead time".#CoronavirusUpdates16-Mar, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/sDuzcTYl2RAs several districts of Maharashtra are already under restrictions and the state government is balking at imposing statewide restrictions, cinema halls, hotels, restaurants have been given a warning. Seating arrangement in theatres, hotels has again been capped at 50 per cent of the total capacity.Despite this continuous spike in the number of cases, instances of social distancing rules being flouted abound in Mumbai and elsewhere. For example, a massive crowd was reported in Mumbai's Dadar market on Tuesday. On the first day of the week-long lockdown in Nagpur , hundreds were fined for violating social distancing norms.The central team found similar instances and observed that the administration did not trace the high-risk contacts of one infected person with due diligence which resulted in the sudden surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-daily-covid-19-case-tally-nears-2-000-mark-246-buildings-sealed-101615903485211.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliament passes bill to raise upper limit for abortions to 24 weeks in special cases||Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill to raise the upper limit for permitting abortions from the present 20 weeks to 24 weeks for "special categories of women" including rape survivors, victims of incest, minors and the differently-abled.The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to amend the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 was passed by voice vote. The bill was passed by Lok Sabha about a year ago.A demand to send the bill to a select committee of Rajya Sabha was defeated by voice vote, along with some other amendments proposed by members."The bill as amended is passed," Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the amendments in the bill have been made after studying global practices and wide consultation within the country."Under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we will not frame any law which harms women. This is to preserve and protect dignity of women," he said.The minister said the suggestions and objections made to the bill by some members were symbolic in nature and aligned with their party ideology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-raise-upper-limit-for-abortions-to-24-weeks-in-special-cases-101615904183709.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel asks Centre to explore feasibility of amending Lokpal Act||A parliamentary committee on Tuesday asked the government to explore the feasibility of amending relevant laws so as to confer powers on the Lokpal to reconsider and review its orders.The Lokpal has informed the committee that it received requests for reconsideration of its orders, but the same were not considered as it does not have statutory powers to review an order passed by it, the panel said.Further, the Lokpal has also apprised the committee that it has requested the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to take necessary action to amend the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act at an appropriate stage for including the power to review the orders passed by it, the panel said in a report tabled in Parliament on Tuesday."The Committee recommends DoPT to explore the feasibility of amending the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act so as to confer on Lokpal the Power to reconsider and review its orders. The Committee recommends DoPT to apprise its views on the proposed amendment in three months," the report said.The recommendation was made by the Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice in its 106th report on Demands for Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions.A committee comprising three Lokpal members -- Justice Abhilasha Kumari, D K Jain and I P Gautam -- was constituted to look into the aspect of recommending a policy regarding requests for a review of an order passed by the bench.The committee, which was formed by Lokpal chairperson Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose, submitted its report on October 6, 2020.In its report, the committee had said that the central government may be requested to consider the inclusion of power of review in the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act.The institution of Lokpal and Lokayuktas has been established under the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain public functionaries.The three-member committee, in its report, had said that it is a settled position of law that the power of review cannot be exercised by a statutory body unless the statute specifically confers such power."The Act, as it stands, does not confer the power of review. In the absence of any statutory provision in the Act empowering the Lokpal of India to entertain an application for review, any such exercise under the garb of reconsideration/ clarification/ modification/correction of the order, would not be permissible in law,” it had said.The jurisdiction of review can only be derived from the statute and thus, if any order of review is passed, in the absence of any statutory provision empowering the same, it would be a nullity, being without jurisdiction, the panel had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-asks-centre-to-explore-feasibility-of-amending-lokpal-act-101615903078674.html
16-03-2021||India||By-polls to 2 Lok Sabha seats, 14 assembly seats across various states on April 17||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced that the by-elections for the Tirupati parliamentary constituency in Andhra Pradesh and Belgaum in Karnataka would be conducted on April 17, 2021. The by-elections for 14 assembly constituencies in various states would also be conducted on the same date.The 14 legislative assembly constituencies are Sahara, Sujangarh and Rajsamand in Rajasthan, Basavakalyan and Maski in Karnataka, Morva Hadaf in Gujarat, Jharkhand’s Madhupur, Damoh in Madhya Pradesh, Pandharpur in Maharashtra, Serchhip in Mizoram, Noksen in Nagaland, Pipili in Odisha, Salt in Uttarakhand and Nagarjuna Sagar in Telangana.Also read | BJP to contest by-polls to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Jana Sena drops outOf these, the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency and the Sujangarh assembly constituency are reserved seats for scheduled castes. Also, Noksen, Serchhip, Maski and Morva Hadaf assembly constituencies are reserved for the scheduled tribes.According to the announcement, the last date for filing nominations for all the by-polls is March 30, 2021, while the counting of votes would be done on May 2, 2021. The ECI also said that the dates have been finalised “after taking into consideration various factors like local festivals, electoral rolls, weather conditions, movement of forces, pandemic etc.,” in its statement announcing the dates.Balli Durga Prasad of the YSR Congress party and Suresh Angadi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won from the Tirupati and Belgaum seats, respectively, in the 2019 parliamentary elections. However, in September 2020, both the MPs died of the Covid-19 disease leaving their seats vacant.Also read | Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Which way will Dravidian politics swing in 2021?Earlier on March 12, Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan announced that a BJP candidate backed by the Jana Sena Party would contest in the Tirupati by-poll, after meeting with Jana Sena Party leader and actor turned politician Pawan Kalyan. “@BJP4India's victory march will begin from TPTY. @BJP4Andhra & @JanaSenaParty will expose the shady designs of @YSRCParty & @JaiTDP that undermine the beliefs of devotees. These satraps self-serving & partisan approach deprived people of TPTY. Time to put an end to such trends,” Muraleedharan tweeted. However, the BJP is yet to announce its candidate for the Belgaum seat, which has been a stronghold of the party.(With inputs from Srinivasa Rao Apparasu and Sharan Poovanna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-2-lok-sabha-seats-14-assembly-seats-across-various-states-on-april-17-101615902152730.html
16-03-2021||India||No conclusive data shows direct correlation of death from air pollution: Govt||There is no conclusive data available to establish a direct correlation of death and disease exclusively due to air pollution, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.He was responding to a question on whether the government has undertaken any study about the ill effects caused by pollution on asthma patients, lungs of children and pregnant women in the country during the last three months of year 2019.In a written reply, Choubey said air pollution is one of the many factors affecting respiratory ailments and associated diseases. Health is impacted by a number of factors which includes food habits, occupational habits, socio-economic status, medical history, immunity, heredity of the individuals apart from the environment, he said. "There is no conclusive data available to establish a direct correlation of death/disease exclusively due to air pollution," he said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) under the Ministry of Health along with Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) has conducted the study 'India State-level Disease Burden Initiative'. The report, titled 'India: Health of the Nation's States- The India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative' was published in 2017. "The study report provided the distribution of diseases and risk factors across all states of the country from 1990 to 2016. The five leading risk factors for Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) in 2016 includes child and maternal malnutrition, air pollution, dietary risks, high systolic blood pressure, and high fasting plasma glucose. "The study reported that the DALYs due to air pollution decreased by 23.6% in India from 1990 to 2016," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-conclusive-data-shows-direct-correlation-of-death-from-air-pollution-govt-101615902049111.html
16-03-2021||India||Ambani security scare: NIA searches Vaze's office at crime branch||The NIA which is probing the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house has searched the Crime Intelligence Unit's (CIU) office here, a police official said on Tuesday.It is also questioning a police official attached to the CIU, he said.Suspended police official Sachin Vaze, arrested in the case on March 13, was attached to the CIU of city police's crime branch. The office is located in the police commissioner's office compound in south Mumbai.The National Investigation Agency team recovered some "incriminating" documents and electronic evidence such as laptop, I-pad and mobile phones from Vaze's office there, the official said.The searches started around 8 pm on Monday and were going on till 4 am on Tuesday, he said.The NIA has so far recorded statements of seven officials of Crime Branch including an Assistant Commissioner of Police, the official said.The agency also questioned, on the third consecutive day, CIU unit Assistant Police Inspector (API) Riyazuddin Kazi, he added.Kazi had collected Digital Video Record (DVR) of CCTVs from the housing society in Saket area of Thane where Vaze lived on February 27, two days after the explosives-laden Scorpio was found on Carmichael Road near Ambani's house.The DVR was not mentioned in the list of Muddemal' (seized evidence), and the probe agency suspects that it was collected to destroy evidence which could implicate Vaze himself, the official said.The wife of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed the Scorpio was stolen from his possession and who died mysteriously, has alleged that the SUV was being used by Vaze for some time.API Kazi had also allegedly procured fake number plates found in the SUV, the police official claimed.His presence at many places related to the crime brought him on the NIA's radar and his questioning was underway, the official said.The person seen in the CCTV footage of Carmichael Road on February 25 was also the "police official" involved in the crime and it will be further ascertained by forensic analysis, the official added.The Innova car used in the crime was assigned to a CIU unit and was found with Motor Transport section of Mumbai police the day after Vaze's arrest on March 13. It was parked in the MT section for two days and before that at the police commissioner's office compound, the official said.The SUV case was taken over by the NIA following Mansukh Hiran's death. A special court has remanded Vaze in the custody of the central agency till March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-security-scare-nia-searches-vaze-s-office-at-crime-branch-101615901674136.html
16-03-2021||India||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal tests positive for Covid-19||Punjab's Shiromani Akali Dal president, Sukhbir Singh Badal tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the senior opposition leader announced on Twitter. Badal said he has isolated himself according to government-mandated protocol."I would like to inform everyone that I have tested Covid positive. My health is fine and as per protocol, I have isolated myself. I request those who came in contact with me during the last few days to isolate themselves & get tested for Covid - 19," Badal wrote on the micro-blogging site.Badal is the second senior Punjab politician to have tested positive over the last week. In a tweet on Friday, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal had announced on Twitter that he had tested negative before the Punjab assembly session but appeared to have contracted the infection subsequently.On March 15, the SAD chief addressed a rally in Jalalabad town in the Fazilka district and launched a political programme "Punjab Mangda Jawab". During the rally, Badal announced that he will contest the forthcoming state elections from the Jalalabad constituency. It was the first major political programme after Punjab witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases.During the event, people were seen flouting pandemic norms as hardly any leader or people in the audience were seen wearing a face mask. Social distancing rules were also seen flouted during the event.In August last year, Badal's residence at Badal village was declared a macro containment zone after a large number of his security officials and personal staff tested positive for the Covid-19. Badal, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, their daughter Gurleen Kaur and son Anantveer Singh had tested negative.Punjab is one of the six states that are accounting for 78.41 per cent of the new cases in India, the other five being Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. India's cumulative Covid-19 tally on Tuesday was pushed above 11,409,800 after 24,492 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The death toll was increased to 158,856 after 131 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours. The country's total active caseload has reached 2,19,262 comprising 1.93 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-test-positive-for-covid19-101615897251111.html
16-03-2021||India||Simultaneous elections will reduce voters apathy of frequent polls: Parl panel||Batting for holding of simultaneous elections in the country, a parliamentary committee on Tuesday said this will reduce the burden on the exchequer, expenditure of political parties and also ensure that human resources are optimally utilised."The committee also believes that simultaneous elections will reduce voters apathy of frequent elections and will enthuse general population and voters in particular which will ultimately enhance voters participation in the electoral process," the department-related standing committee on law and justice, and personnel ministries said in its report on demands for grants for the law ministry.The report was tabled in both Houses on Tuesday.The committee said it is of the view that the idea of 'One Nation, One Election' or simultaneous elections is not new to the country as the first three Lok Sabha elections in 1952, 1957 and 1962 were held simultaneously only and it can be brought into the mainstream with suitable amendments to the Constitution."In view of this, certain provisions of the Constitution may be amended to have fixed terms for local bodies, legislative assemblies and the Lok Sabha for holding simultaneous elections. The terms of legislative assemblies and Lok Sabha are also required to be synchronised with one another and the mechanism in this regard requires to be evolved with political consensus as the term of the respective state assemblies need to be reduced or increased," the report said.It said having continuous elections around the year whether it is for local bodies, state assemblies or Lok Sabha, put a big strain on the state machinery which further causes hurdles in governance."Our country remains in election mode throughout the year," the report observed.The first, second and third elections after promulgation of the Constitution were held simultaneously. However, premature dissolution of some legislative assemblies in 1968 and 1969 caused discontinuation of holding simultaneous elections, it noted."The renewed emphasis on the concept of simultaneous elections was made in 1983 when the Election Commission brought out its first annual report and recommended for holding simultaneous elections for Lok Sabha and state legislative assemblies as it will reduce expenditure and ensure effective use of manpower and human resources," the report noted.The then Law Commission headed by Justice B P Jeevan Reddi in its 170th Report in 1999 on Reform of Electoral Laws also favoured holding of simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state legislative assemblies as it will ensure stability in governance, the panel said.A couple of years ago, the Law Commission, this time under Justice B S Chauhan (retd), had recommended holding simultaneous elections to Lok Sabha and state assemblies to save public money.The draft submitted to the law ministry had, however, cautioned that holding simultaneous elections is not possible within the existing framework of the Constitution.It had recommended amendment to the Constitution and electoral laws.The Centre has been toying with the idea for quite some time now. The government think-tank, NITI Aayog, had suggested synchronised two-phase Lok Sabha and assembly polls from 2024 to ensure minimum campaign-mode disruption to governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/simultaneous-elections-will-reduce-voters-apathy-of-frequent-polls-parl-panel-101615897458937.html
16-03-2021||India||TN chief secretary asks officials to 'strictly implement' Covid-19 SOPs as cases surge||With a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases of late, Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan on Tuesday instructed various government department officials to ensure that Covid-19 standard operating procedures were strictly implemented.At a review meeting, the chief secretary also instructed officials to fine those violating the guidelines.An official release said the spread of virus has been increasing once again in various states including Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat, New Delhi and Punjab. The release said though Tamil Nadu was able to bring down daily fresh cases below the 500 mark in January and February, since March it has witnessed an upward trend, registering over 800 new infections a day.The Covid-19 virus positivity rate has increased to two per cent in places like Chennai and Coimbatore while in districts like Chengalpet, Thiruvallur, Tiruppur,Kancheepuram, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam it is over one per cent.Noting that the active cases, which was below 4,000 cases in the first week of March, has also increased, the release said the meeting discussed steps to be taken to control the virus spread.A major reason for the the rise in new cases was attributed to the non-wearing of masks by members of the public and not following the Covid-19 protocol while taking part in functions, the release said.People who were either 'asymptomatic' or with 'mild' symptoms were not following the home quarantine norms, thereby spreading it to other members of the family.New cases have been reported in places like banks and other financial and educational institutions which have not adhered to the protocol laid down by the government, the release said.Ranjan asked officials to ensure that the norms were strictly followed and also collect fines from those individuals who violate the regulations.Proper sanitation should also be done at places like offices, companies and industries and where people throng in large numbers like public water taps and at public toilets.An officer may be nominated to monitor places which has cluster formation of the virus besides stepping up the number of fever camps, he said.Adequate steps should be taken to ensure eligible individuals receive their vaccine shots.Patients who are in home quarantine should be monitored regularly similar to the practice followed last year, while departments concerned must give approval with the condition that the protocol should be strictly followed to hold any election campaign or religious and cultural events.District collectors and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner should strive to ensure that the virus sread is curtailed to ensure smooth conduct of election related works.People should wear masks and maintain social distancing while going out and sanitise their hands regularly. If they have any virus symptoms, they should visit the nearest government hospital, the release added. Officials of revenue department, health and family welfare, Greater Chennai Corporation, DGP, district collectors and Greater Chennai police commissioner, among others, took part in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-chief-secretary-asks-officials-to-strictly-implement-covid-19-sops-as-cases-surge-101615896171007.html
16-03-2021||India||Two Chinese nationals caught with ‘fake’ Aadhaar card at Bagdogra airport||Two Chinese nationals, who were allegedly travelling with fake Aadhaar cards, were detained at Bagdogra Airport in West Bengal’s Siliguri on Tuesday morning, police said.The Aadhaar cards had Uttar Pradesh addresses. The two men who were detained by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel said they were going to Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Officials did not say which flight they were trying to board. The men were identified as Zhang Jun (39) and Kaileng (42). Officials who checked the travel documents said they had travelled between Karachi from Kathmandu on March 3 and March 14. Kunwar Bhusan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (west), Siliguri, said, “Two Chinese nationals have been detained as there were discrepancies in their documents. We are verifying the documents. After a thorough enquiry we will start a case under relevant sections of the law.” The men reached Kathmandu on March 14. They came to Siliguri on Monday (March 15) where they checked into a hotel. The hotel rooms were reserved in the names of two Nepali nationals who were travelling with them, officials said. The Nepalese nationals, however, left for their country. The CISF handed the Chinese men to the local police. They are being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-chinese-nationals-caught-with-fake-aadhaar-card-at-bagdogra-airport-101615894192957.html
16-03-2021||India||'His daadi would...': Nirmala Sitharaman slams Rahul's 'spit-and-run technique', mentions Indira Gandhi||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday criticised Rahul Gandhi for his Twitter two-liners and said this does not behove the leader of the opposition party. Replying to Rahul Gandhi's accusation that the government is privatising profit and nationalising loss, Sitharaman said, "I would want him to engage in serious discussions rather than throw these two-liners every now and then.""Why is he suddenly concerned about loss and profit? Over the decades, his government tried to privatise tax payerss' money. You all know how. This is what the UPA government did, privatising tax payers' money for the betterment of one family," Sitharaman said.Terming Rahul Gandhi's technique as 'spit-and-run', Sitharaman said, "His daadi would have nationalised banks but nationalising of loss in banks took place during the UPA time. And nationalising corruption in what they did."There should be some more intense homework before Rahul Gandhi speaks up, the minister said, adding, "What is this spit-and-run? Stand there and be ready for discussion."Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in solidarity with the bank employees who are observing a two-day nationwide strike under the banner of the United Forum of Bank Unions, protesting the government's policy to privatise lenders. "GOI is privatising profit & nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India’s financial security. I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he tweeted.Assuring that this move is only to ensure that these banks continue contributing to the country's economy, Sitharaman said the interest of the workers will remain fully protected.Referring to Indira Gandhi's decision of nationalising banks in the '70s, Sitharaman said, "Yes, Indira Gandhiji nationalised banks. There was a purpose. I am not getting into whether it was served — fully or partially."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-daadi-would-nirmala-sitharaman-slams-rahul-gandhi-s-spit-and-run-mentions-indira-gandhi-101615893267945.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's air quality improved in 2020, says report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's air quality improved in 2020, says reportAir quality improved in India last year as compared to the previous years owing to the coronavirus induced lockdown, a report said on Tuesday. Air quality improved in major cities in India but 22 cities featured among the top 30 most polluted cities in the world, showed new data from IQAir’s global air quality data platform in its World Air Quality Report 2020. Read morePM’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, steps downThe Prime Minister’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, stepped down from his position on Monday. His office confirmed that Sinha had submitted his resignation,but there were no immediate details behind the reason for his exit from the country’s top office. Read moreBank employees' salary, pension will be protected in case of privatisation, says Nirmala SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said the merging of banks or privatisation of financial institutions will not hurt the interest of the employees as these are not rushed decisions and the Centre is committed to taking care of the workers. Read more'It’s Rahul now, could be Ishan or Pant next': Chopra slams KL Rahul's criticsIndian wicketkeeper-batsman KL Rahul has been subjected to heavy criticism after returning with scores of one and zero in the first two T20Is against England, respectively. The right-hander, who occupied the 2nd position in the ICC T20I batsmen's rankings before the start of the series, has now slipped to the third. Read moreCitroen C5 Aircross SUV India launch date revealedCitroen India has announced that it will launch its maiden C5 Aircross SUV in the country on April 7. The pre-bookings on the SUV have already commenced since last month and interested customers can get their car booked for a token amount of ₹50,000 at the company's new La Maison dealership or the official website. Read moreSonu Sood has a witty response for man asking him to sponsor his wedding: 'Mantra bhi padh dunga'Sonu Sood gets hundreds of requests from people across the country to sponsor their medical bills, their education fees, their house rent, among many other things. Read more6-year-old kid’s gesture to calm down his 4-year-old brother is incredibleA video involving two siblings is Twitter’s new love and there is a chance that the clip will win you over too. It shows how a 6-year-old kid helped his 4-year-old brother to calm down and stopped him from throwing a tantrum. Read moreWatch: ‘Mamata accusing BJP for her leg injury out of desperation…’: Rajnath SinghDefence Minister Rajnath Singh said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s leg injury occurred due to security lapse. Singh said Banerjee in her desperation to win the upcoming Assembly elections in the state is blaming the BJP for her leg injury. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-air-quality-improved-in-2020-says-report-and-all-the-latest-news-101615891070047.html
16-03-2021||India||Gland Pharma inks pact to supply 252 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine||Drug firm Gland Pharma on Tuesday said it has entered into an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to supply up to 252 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine.The company "will be leveraging its manufacturing capabilities for the production of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine," Gland Pharma said in a regulatory filing.The agreement will see the company utilising its Drug Substance and Drug Product facilities at its sites in Hyderabad. The production is expected to commence from the third quarter of 2021 for estimated delivery starting from the fourth quarter of 2021, it added."Under the terms of the agreement, Gland Pharma will first undertake technology transfer of the drug substance to its manufacturing facilities," the filing said.After successful technology transfer, the company will then undertake manufacturing of drug substance and drug product filling into vials under aseptic conditions, it added.The company's expertise in manufacturing sterile injectables at a significant scale will support in establishing a stable supply of Covid-19 vaccine, Gland Pharma said.Earlier in November 2020, Russia's sovereign wealth fund had said in a statement that RDIF and pharma firm Hetero have agreed to produce over 100 million doses per year in India of the Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19.Pharma major Dr Reddy's Laboratories in February this year had said that it has approached Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V.Shares of Gland Pharma closed at Rs 2,718.65 per scrip on BSE, up 6.95 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gland-pharma-inks-pact-to-supply-252-million-doses-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-101615892937605.html
16-03-2021||India||Guilty in Antilia bomb scare case will be punished, says Ajit Pawar||Under fire from the opposition BJP in the Antilia bomb scare case and the death of Mansukh Hiran, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday that the state government would not shield anyone involved in the case and the guilty would be punished.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government also distanced itself from the controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as Pawar insisted that that the state government took action against Vaze immediately after his name appeared in the case.Pawar’s comments came after a meeting of senior ministers from all three coalition partners — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — held by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence, ‘Varsha’ in South Mumbai. “Since the beginning the government took a stand that the investigation should be completed and the guilty will have to face the consequences. No one is going to be shielded and there is no reason to take any such step. I want to make it clear as the deputy chief minister,” Pawar told reporters.“The law and order of Maharashtra has to be the best. Whoever is found guilty will have to face action, irrespective of the party he belongs to. If there is a mistake then action will be initiated… The chief minister and all of us are of the same opinion… No interference was made in the ongoing investigation,” he added.The change in the MVA stand is being seen as an attempt to control the damage done over the past week in the case that has dented the government’s image.“The MVA government took action in the case without any delay and Vaze was removed as soon as his name appeared in the case. The case was also transferred to the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) immediately. NIA came in picture because of explosives found in the car… Now both the investigation agencies — NIA and ATS — are probing the case at their own level,” the deputy chief minister said. Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was suspended by Mumbai police on Monday following his arrest by the NIA in connection with the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month.His brother Sudharm Vazehas filed a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay high court against the arrest, claiming that Vaze was being made a “scapegoat” by “certain political powers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guilty-in-antilia-bomb-scare-case-will-be-punished-says-ajit-pawar-101615891615377.html
16-03-2021||India||PM’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, steps down||The Prime Minister’s principal adviser, PK Sinha, stepped down from his position on Monday. His office confirmed that Sinha had submitted his resignation, but there were no immediate details behind the reason for his exit.“He has relinquished charge on March 15,’’ said a top official, not wanting to be named.Another top official said the reason for Sinha’s exit is his health. “He’s having some issues and it was considered that it was better to be away from such a high-pressure job that he is in now. Mr Sinha has been an exemplary officer who is a top performer.”Sinha’s exit is the latest in a series of changes at the top level PMO. In April last year, Tarun Bajaj moved out to join North block as economic affairs secretary. He was later also given charge of the revenue ministry. Another senior officer, AK Sharma, who had been with the Prime Minister since 2001 in Gujarat, moved to the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises before voluntary retirement in January. Two officials who retired, Bhaskar Khulbe and Amarjeet Sinha, have now been appointed advisers to the Prime Minister.“We can perhaps expect some major changes and fresh blood in the PMO,’’ said another official on the condition of anonymity.Also Read | PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow amid rise in Covid cases: Key pointsSinha is a former 1977 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre. In the first tenure of the Narendra Modi government, he served as the cabinet secretary, taking over from Ajit Seth. Before that, he was secretary in the ministry of power and shipping. When he retired in 2019, a special post was created for him at the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) as Officer on Special Duty.After Nripendra Misra moved out of the PMO, Sinha was appointed the principal adviser. According to a September 2019 order, Sinha oversaw policy issues and matters relating to all ministries, departments, agencies and bodies.There is no official comment from the government on Sinha’s exit so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-principal-adviser-pk-sinha-steps-down-101615890532896.html
16-03-2021||India||India surpasses single day record with over 3 million Covid-19 vaccinations in one day||As the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway in the country, India has administered a total of 3,29,47,432 vaccinations so far, informed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday.A total of 30,39,394 vaccine doses were administered during the last 24 hours in the country making it the highest coverage in a single day.More than 1 crore beneficiaries aged over 60 years have been covered in the vaccination drive in just 15 days.A total of 3,29,47,432 vaccine doses have been administered through 5,55,984 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today, the Health Ministry informed."These include 74,46,983 healthcare workers who received their 1st dose, 44,58,616 health care workers who received their 2nd dose, 74,74,406 Front Line Workers (1st dose) and 14,09,332 Front Line Workers (2nd Dose), 18,88,727 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,02,69,368 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," read the statement."As on Day 59 of the vaccination drive on March 15, a total of 30,39,394 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 26,27,099 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 42,919 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,12,295 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of the vaccine," said the ministryAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,82,80,763 samples have been tested up to March 15, including 8,73,350 samples tested on March 15.As many as 24,492 new Covid-19 cases and 131 deaths were reported in India in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of active cases in the country to 2,23,432, stated the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surpasses-single-day-record-with-over-3-million-covid-19-vaccinations-in-one-day-101615889649139.html
16-03-2021||India||Gujarat imposes night curfew in 4 cities till March 31 as Covid-19 cases surge||Gujarat extended the night curfew in four major cities of the state by two hours and said it will be in place till the end of this month in an attempt to stop the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The government said in a statement the curfew will now remain in force in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot between 10pm and 6am from March 17 to March 31. The night curfew was in place in these cities till March 15 but the restrictions on people’s movement were between 12pm to 6am.The government also said that a ‘pre-night curfew’ system will be maintained in these four metros till March 16 from 12pm to 6am. The decision to impose the curfew was taken in the core committee meeting of the state’s coronavirus task force which is headed by chief minister Vijay Rupani. "The state government has decided to impose a curfew from 10 pm to 6 am in view of the increasing cases of coronavirus," the government said in the statement.Under the new rules, markets, restaurants, shops, malls, showrooms will have to shut down after 10pm. This is the sixth extension of the night curfew, which came into force in November last year after a spike in Covid cases in these cities after Diwali.On Monday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation also asked eateries, restaurants and malls in eight wards of the city to close down at 10pm. Commercial establishments in the wards of Jodhpur, Navrangpura, Bodakdev, Gota, Paldi, Thaltej, Maninagar, and Ghatlodia will have to follow these new rules.Among the major cities, Surat has been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, followed by Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot. Gujarat reported 890 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which took the state’s tally to 279,097. The recovery count in the state is at 269,955 and the death toll stands at 4,425.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-imposes-night-curfew-in-4-cities-till-march-31-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101615888595979.html
16-03-2021||India||Congress, government engage in war of words in Lok Sabha over sedition cases||The Congress and the government engaged in a war of words in Lok Sabha on Tuesday over sedition cases with the opposition party alleging the stringent law is being misused, drawing a sharp retort from Union minister G Kishan Reddy who asked it not to lecture others on democracy.During the Question Hour, Congress member from Telangana Anumula Revanth Reddy sought the number of cases registered under the offence of sedition across the country during the last 10 years, the conviction rate and the steps taken for their speedy trial.The focus of his question was on climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested in the farmer protest toolkit case earlier this year and later granted bail, and cases registered against farmer union leaders after the January 26 violence in the national capital.Reddy, the minister of state in the home ministry, tabled a written response to the question in the House.The minister said 47 cases of sedition were registered in 2014; 30 in 2015; 35 in 2016; 51 in 2017; 70 in 2018 and 93 in 2019."There is no direct involvement of the Centre in sedition cases," the minister said.However, Anumula was not satisfied with the response. He said he had sought details for 10 years but the information was provided only from 2014-2019.Anumala said, "Giving half information is taking the house towards a wrong direction."He added that after 2014, anyone who criticises the government's policy, the person is charged with sedition."In 2019, the conviction rate (for sedition) was 3.3 per cent. This means these are politically motivated cases. If a youth leader is booked for sedition and the cases drags for 4-5 year, he/she is not in a position, they won't get a job, passport, visa. Activists like Disha Ravi are charged, but they are not able to prove anything in the court," Anumala said.He also asked whether there is a proposal to drop the "false charges" against farmer union leaders protesting against the Centre's three farm laws.In response, the minister said the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data is based on the information received from all the states.Attacking the Congress, the minister said, "The member (Anumala) asked as to why the information was not provided before 2014. In case of sedition cases, when the Congress was in power it did not maintain any separate data on this. They clubbed it with all the IPC crimes," he said.The minister added that after the Modi government took charge, it started presenting a separate data on the sedition charges."...After the rise of social media, after the media awareness...they also give big speeches on democracy. But even after that the cases of sedition are very less," the minister said.Manish Tewari, another Congress member, had questions on similar lines. He said Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code which deals with sedition was being misused and used to suppress freedom of expression.Hitting back, the minister said the Congress need not lecture on misuse as it had used the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) against opposition leaders such as Jayaprakash Narayan and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Anumala and Tewari also asked whether the government was planning to narrow the scope of sedition. The minister said a committee on Criminal Law Reforms under the chairmanship of the vice-chancellor, National Law University, Delhi was formed in February 2020.Home Minister Amit Shah has written to the chief ministers of all states, judicial officers, various varsities and law universities, law institutes seeking suggestions on the proposed amendments.After the report is prepared, it will be discussed in Parliament, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-government-engage-in-war-of-words-in-lok-sabha-over-sedition-cases-101615887886105.html
16-03-2021||India||Privatisation of public sector banks another way to benefit few people: Kharge||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Tuesday alleged that privatisation of public sector banks is another attempt by the government to benefit a few people."Indira Gandhi nationalised 14 banks. It was intended that the poor should get benefits from the bank. But today these banks are merging one by one. The private sector is being admitted into it. This is another attempt to benefit a few people," said Kharge."We always helped the poor. We brought MGNREGA, nationalised banks, carried out land reforms," he added.Congress leader has also given a zero hour notice in the Upper House over the strike and agitation of bank employees against the proposed privatisation."Around 13 lakh employees are associated with the 9 bank unions that are going on strike. There is also a strike on the 18. It is not a good sign for such a large number of workers to go on strike. Around 75 lakh people who are accountable will also be troubled," said Kharge."People are upset with the unilateral policy of the government. When there was an economic crisis in the world, India did not get affected because the national banks were doing great work. They were also giving loans to the poor," he added.United Forum of Bank Union which is an umbrella body of nine bank unions, with over 10 lakh bank employees and officers called a two-day nationwide strike on March 15 and 16, against the privatisation of Public Sector Banks and 'retrograde banking reforms'.The strike came after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's Budget announcement where she announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (apart from IDBI Bank) as part of the government's disinvestment drive to generate ₹1.75 lakh crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/privatisation-of-public-sector-banks-another-way-to-benefit-few-people-kharge-101615886777012.html
16-03-2021||India||Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane have highest active Covid-19 cases, says health ministry||The districts of Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai have over 12,000 active Covid-19 cases each, contributing the maximum to the active caseload tally of the country, which on Tuesday crossed 2.2 lakh. In the last week of February, India's active caseload was below 1.5 lakh.According to Union health ministry data released on Tuesday, 77 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases in India in the last 24 hours came from Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana. Karnataka, which is also seeing a steady spike in daily Covid-19 infections, contributed 3.97 per cent to active cases, while Tamil Nadu contributes 2.30 per cent.The ministry has given a district-wise break-up of the number of active Covid-19 cases.With 26,468 active Covid-19 cases, Pune tops the chart, followed by Nagpur (18,114), Mumbai (13,309), Thane (12,680) and Nashik (8,035). About 59 per cent of active cases are from Maharashtra. The numbers of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra districts portray a sharp spike in a short span of time. According to the health ministry's March 11 data, Pune had 18,474 active cases, while Mumbai had 9,973 and Nagpur had 12,724.Kerala's contribution to India's active cases is 12.24 per cent. The top five districts with the maximum caseload are Ernakulam (3,282), Pathanamthitta (2,564), Kannur (2,483), Thrissur (2,299) and Kozhikode (2,205).In the last few days, Punjab has emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 infections, with the state reporting over 1,000 infections daily. While the state's contribution to India's active case tally is 5.34 per cent, the worst-hit districts are Jalandhar (1,585), SAS Nagar (1,338), Hoshiarpur (1,301), Patiala (1,201) and SBS Nagar (1,173).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-nagpur-mumbai-thane-have-highest-active-covid-19-cases-says-health-ministry-101615887422877.html
16-03-2021||India||RBI strengthening institutional mechanism to prevent bank frauds: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday informed Parliament that the Reserve Bank of India is taking measures to strengthen its regulatory and supervisory capacity, and expressed hope that these steps will ensure no regulatory mishaps take place in the future."We have been engaging with the RBI to ensure that the regulatory functions and supervisory function of the RBI are strengthened. I am assured by the RBI Governor that internally an institutional mechanism is being further strengthened," Sitharaman said during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha.She was responding to a query asked by SAD leader Naresh Gujral that if the government is contemplating taking additional steps to strengthen the regulatory regime if banks have to thrive and people to be protected, given the recent banking frauds.The finance minister said the capacity of the RBI's regulatory and supervisory staff is being strengthened with specially tailored courses."I hope this will make a difference in order that no such further regulatory mishaps happen," she said.Responding to another query addressing gaps in bank guarantees, the minister said this aspect will be looked into as the RBI is engaging with the ministry on this matter also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-strengthening-institutional-mechanism-to-prevent-bank-frauds-fm-101615887634147.html
16-03-2021||India||UK PM Boris Johnson to visit India in April as part of tilt towards Indo-Pacific||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set to visit India in April as part of his government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific in order to unlock new opportunities in the region, his office announced on Tuesday. London will on Tuesday unveil its widely anticipated integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, which was first announced after the 2019 election in Britain as “the most radical assessment of the UK’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War”. A statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in London said the integrated review will set out some shifts in foreign policy, including a “tilt to the Indo-Pacific”, and that Johnson will visit India at the end of April to “unlock opportunities in the region”. This will be Johnson’s first major international visit following Britain’s departure from the European Union (EU). Johnson was earlier set to be the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in January, but called off the visit to remain in Britain to focus on the response to a new Coronavirus variant. At the time, the UK had announced that Johnson hoped to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit in June that Modi is due to attend as a guest. Also Read | Johnson says UK will become a global activist after BrexitThe British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, played a key role in drafting the integrated review in his previous role as deputy national security advisor. The statement described the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world”, and noted that aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will undertake its first operational deployment to the region this year. The UK is also applying for partner status at the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) as part of this foreign policy shift. The deployment of the HMS Queen Elizabeth, the UK’s largest warship, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean has been described by officials as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The 100-page integrated review, which addresses issues related to national security, foreign policy and the global economy, is meant to implement Johnson’s “Global Britain” agenda. It will also set out his vision for the UK in 2030 and how international policy can be shaped to achieve this. The reset of Britain’s international priorities with a tilt to the Indo-Pacific is also aimed at creating a democratic counterweight to China, The Guardian reported last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-to-visit-india-in-april-as-part-of-tilt-towards-indopacific-101615887893029.html
16-03-2021||India||India’s air quality improved in 2020 amid coronavirus pandemic: Report||Air quality improved in India last year as compared to the previous years owing to the coronavirus induced lockdown, a report said on Tuesday. Air quality improved in major cities in India but 22 cities featured among the top 30 most polluted cities in the world, showed new data from IQAir’s global air quality data platform in its World Air Quality Report 2020."The year 2020 brought an unexpected dip in air pollution. In 2021, we will likely see an increase in air pollution due to human activity, again. We hope this report will highlight that urgent action is both possible and necessary to combat air pollution, which remains the world's greatest environmental health threat," said Frank Hammes, CEO of IQAir.Read more: Air pollution caused 12,000 deaths, ₹12,000 crore loss in Bengaluru: ReportThe report is based on PM2.5 data from 106 countries and uses ground-based monitoring stations operated by governmental agencies, local residents, non-profit organisations and companies.Here are the key findings of the report:1. In 2020, all Indian cities which were monitored observed air quality improvements of 63 per cent compared to 2019.2. The most polluted capital cities in 2020 were New Delhi (84 mcg/m3) and Dhaka (77). Jakarta, Kathmandu, Islamabad, Hanoi and Beijing and were all ranked in the top 20.Read more: Rising air pollution led to 41,090 deaths in Punjab in 2019: Report3. Air quality in 84 per cent of all the monitored countries improved largely due to the measures taken to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.4. Major cities in the world in 2020 saw improvements compared to 2019. The concentration of life-shortening particles decreased by 15 per cent in New Delhi while Beijing witnessed 11 per cent less pollution. Other major cities like Chicago, London, Paris and Seoul also saw 13%, 16%, 17% and 16% less pollution, respectively.5. South Asia remained the most polluted region of the world with Bangladesh, India and Pakistan sharing 42 of the 50 most polluted cities worldwide. Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Mongolia and Afghanistan had average annual PM2.5 concentrations between 77 and 47 microgrammes per cubic metre (mcg/m3) of air.Read more: India, UK to host global meet on disaster risk, resilience this week6. In 2020, 86 per cent of the cities in China experienced cleaner air and Hotan in northwestern China was ranked as the world's most polluted city.7. Half of all European cities in 2020 exceeded the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) target of annual PM2.5 pollution. The highest levels were found in eastern and southern Europe.8. In the United States, average particle pollution increased by 6.7 per cent despite the coronavirus pandemic due to wildfires in US cities. 38 per cent of cities in the US did not meet the WHO guidelines in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-air-quality-improved-in-2020-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-report-101615878183571.html
16-03-2021||India||INS Dhruv that can track satellites, strategic missiles, to join navy soon||With India at the centre of the Indo-Pacific pushback to China’s rapidly-expanding People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN), India is set to commission INS Dhruv to track satellites, strategic missiles and map the Indian Ocean bed later this year, people aware of the developments said on Wednesday.The 15,000-tonne ship, part of a classified project, will not only create maritime domain awareness for India in the Indian Ocean but also act as an early warning system for adversary missiles headed towards Indian cities and military establishments. “Final checks are going on the vessel at Vizag before the commissioning, which is expected in the first half of 2021 but neither the date nor the month is decided,” said a senior official familiar with the strategic project.INS Dhruv has been developed with the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Navy with India’s Strategic Force Command and National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) as main intelligence consumers. The indigenously-developed surveillance ship has been built by Hindustan Shipyard Ltd at its Visakhapatnam facility under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan initiative.INS Dhruv is equipped with the active electronically scanned array radars, or AESA, considered a game-changer in radar technology, and can scan various spectrums to monitor satellites of adversaries that are watching over India. It can also, as one official in South Block put it, understand the range and true missile capability of adversary nations that it finds in the Indo-Pacific.Once the vessel is commissioned, India will be the only country outside the P-5 - the US, the UK, China, Russia and France - to have this capabilityOfficials said INS Dhruv will act as a major force multiplier to India’s ocean surveillance capabilities. The Indian Navy already monitors the region from the Gulf of Aden to all the ingress routes from the South China Sea with long-range unmanned aerial vehicles, surveillance aircraft and Boeing P8I anti-submarine warfare.Also Read: The rationale and future of QuadIt will be able to provide the Indian Navy with an “ECG of the Indian Ocean”, a defence ministry official said, a reference to the electrocardiogram that is used to diagnose problems in the heart. INS Dhruv will help Indian Navy plan better offensive operations in all three dimensions — sub-surface, surface and aerial.Strengthening the Indian Navy’s capabilities is key to countering China’s influence in the Indian Ocean given how Beijing’s sea doctrine has taken priority over its land forces. Experts believe the Indo-Pacific will be the front-line of the future as PLAN’s nuclear submarines try to avoid detection before crossing the first island chain in the South China Sea.Although China has claimed that the Quad will never have tangible deliveries - in 2018, China had even called it a seafoam before describing it a security threat two years later - the security grouping is already monitoring the Indo-Pacific and sharing real-time intelligence to check Beijing creation of military leverage over the busiest shipping lanes in the world and carrying billions of dollar worth of cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballistic-missile-tracking-ins-dhruv-to-join-india-s-strategic-assets-in-2021-101615886801327.html
16-03-2021||India||Maharashtra in beginning of second wave, need to step up contact tracing: Centre||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Maharashtra Chief Secretary after the central team's visit last week and observed that the state is undergoing the second wave of Covid-19 while urging for focus on containment strategies."Maharashtra is in the beginning of a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Efforts to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts are limited there with no adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among people both in rural and urban areas," Bhushan wrote in the letter.Pointing towards contact tracing, the Health Secretary's letter mentioned that the case-contact ratio is more than 1:20 in the state."Though it appears high, a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by the field level staff, who were mainly listing the immediate family and neighborhood contacts," he added.The Health Ministry Central team in its observation had written that night curfew, partial lockdowns and weekend lockdowns have a limited impact on curbing the virus transmission.According to the Central team, some districts were found implementing/contemplating to implement measures such as night curfew, partial lockdowns, weekend lockdowns etc. (Aurangabad, Nashik and Jalgaon)."These measures may have only very limited impact on containing/suppressing the transmission. Hence, the District Administration should focus on containment strategy as per the guidelines laid out by the Centre," the letter said, expressing its views on covid management.While the positivity rate in Maharashtra stands at 13.21 per cent, the recovery rate is 92.21 per cent. The fatality rate in the state is 2.28 per cent.The Latur district administration has already imposed a night curfew between 8 pm and 5 am to contain the spread of the virus in the district. According to the order released by the officials, all weekly markets will remain shut till March 31. However, emergency services have been exempted.A complete lockdown has already been announced in the Nagpur city area from March 15 to March 21 in view of the rising infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-in-beginning-of-second-wave-need-to-step-up-contact-tracing-centre-101615886184012.html
16-03-2021||India||No information on leaked Arnab chats in TRP scam, MHA tells Parliament||The Centre has no information on the purported WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami related to confidential and sensitive information, which surfaced during the investigation into the television rating point (TRP) scam by the Mumbai Police, minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.Reddy’s written response to at least six members of Parliament seeking details on the leaks said, “No such information has come to the notice of the government.”Ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi have demanded a probe in the purported chats between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta, saying that the leak of sensitive information was a breach of the country’s security.The 500-page plus transcript of the purported WhatsApp conversations – containing details of the Balakot airstrike in retaliation to the February 2019 Pulwama attack and the Centre’s move to strip of Jammu & Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status – was part of the charge sheet the Mumbai police submitted in January before a court in the TRP scam. The leak created a political storm.The Congress Working Committee sought a joint parliamentary committee probe into what it called a breach of national security.Gandhi has said that leaking such top secret information is a criminal act and those responsible for it as well as the recipient should both be booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-information-on-leaked-arnab-chats-in-trp-scam-mha-tells-parliament-101615886332835.html
16-03-2021||India||MHA cites protocol for denying Sikhs permission to visit Nankana Sahib in Pak||The Union home ministry on Tuesday said it last month denied permission to a group or Jatha of 600 Sikh pilgrims to travel to Pakistan for the 100th anniversary of the 1920 Nankana Sahib massacre as it was not covered under the 1974 Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines between the two countries. It earlier refused permission for the visit on February 17 citing security concerns and a threat to Indians visiting Pakistan.Around 200 people were in February 1920 killed in Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Sikhism’s founder, Guru Nanak Dev, during agitation to take control of gurdwaras from British-backed mahants.The ministry said under the Protocol, Sikh Jathas visit Pakistan annually on four occasions--Baisakhi, Martyrdom’s Day of Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Barsi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Ji, and Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. It added that “no such Jatha had gone to Pakistan in the past on such occasion”.In a written reply in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy also reiterated the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Pakistan was also one of the reasons for the denial of permission.“Keeping in view the increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in Pakistan, [the] threat to the safety and security of [a] large number of Indian citizens during the visit and the ongoing suspension of cross-border traffic due to Covid-19 pandemic, permission was not accorded to the said Jatha,” Reddy said.Also Read | Highlight Centre’s denial of permission to Jatha to Nankana Sahib, Akal Takht tells SikhsIn response to Congress member Jasbir Singh Gill’s question on why permission was granted to last Jatha to travel to Pakistan in November when the pandemic was at its peak, Reddy said: “...from November 28, 2020, till December 1, 2020, ... a Jatha of Sikh pilgrims visited Nankana Sahib on [the] 551st birth anniversary of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji... [the travel] was allowed under 1974 Bilateral Protocol. However, due to [the] Covid-19 pandemic, the number of pilgrims was restricted.”Sikh religious organisations and politicians have condemned the Centre’s denial of permission.In a video message last month, Giani Harpreet Singh, a top Sikh priest, said: “The Indian government is extremely wrong in denying the Sikh Jatha permission to attend the main event in Pakistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-cites-protocol-for-denying-sikhs-permission-to-visit-nankana-sahib-in-pak-101615886093264.html
16-03-2021||India||'Property of every Indian': Piyush Goyal says no plan to privatise railways||Railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday the government does not plan to hand over the railways sector to private players and said that Indian Railways will never be privatised, adding private investment should be encouraged for more efficient functioning. The country, Goyal said, can progress towards high growth and create more employment opportunities only when the public and private sectors work together."Indian Railways will never be privatised. It is a property of every Indian and will remain so,” the minister said while addressing the ongoing Parliament session in the Lok Sabha, adding that it will remain with the government of India.The railways minister also said no passenger has died in any rail accident after March 2019. "We are focusing on passenger safety. I am happy to say that there has been no passenger death in the past two years (2019-2021). The last death due to train accident happened in March 2019," the minister told the Lok Sabha, reported PTI.Goyal said the central government has hiked investment in railways to ₹2.15 lakh crore in 2021-22 fiscal, from ₹1.5 lakh crore in 2019-20 fiscal.Last week, HT reported that the railways is considering having private companies operate 90 train stations and is exploring several options – including looking at the arrangements at India’s privately-run airports – to determine how best to set up the security infrastructure at these.Railways, which runs the fourth-largest such network in the world, set the ball rolling in 2019 on letting private companies run and operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) is expected to help significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system.The Railway Board, in a letter reviewed by HT, sought the opinion from all principal chief security commissioners of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and all zonal railways on how the security infrastructure for the 90 stations should be set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/property-of-every-indian-piyush-goyal-says-no-plan-to-privatise-railways-101615883272440.html
16-03-2021||India||TN assembly polls: Movable assets of O Panneerselvam, TTV Dhinakaran go up||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam has declared total assets valued at ₹61.19 lakh, up from the ₹33.20 lakh in 2016, according to his election affidavit submitted as part of the nomination for the April 6 Assembly polls in the state. Panneerselvam, AIADMK Coordinator, is seeking a third term from Bodinayakkanur in Theni district. All of the assets were movable and he had no immovable assets in his name, which was the case in 2016 as well, Panneerselvam said. The assets included three four-wheelers and he declared his source of income as salary earned as deputy CM and from his wife's agricultural income. His liabilities were ₹65,55,411 he owed to his wife. His wife's immovable assets were valued at ₹4.57 crore while the immovable property was ₹2.63 crore, he stated in his affidavit. Similarly, the assets of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran also went up, from the ₹16.73 lakh in 2017 to ₹19.18 lakh in 2021. The AMMK leader had fought and won the December 2017 Radhakrishnan Nagar bypoll here as an independent, upsetting the ruling AIADMK which had earlier expelled him along with his aunt and late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's confidante VK Sasikala. Dhinakaran has shifted to Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district this time, taking on ruling AIADMK Minister and local strongman Kadmabur Raju. According to Dhinakaran's poll affidavit, the value of his immovable assets remained at ₹57.44 lakh which he had declared in 2017. His dues included ₹28 lakh to the central government on account of imposition of penalty under FERA and liabilities in dispute included ₹34.46 crore from AY 1989-96 pending before the IT Appellate Tribunal here. His liabilities were ₹14.25 lakh. The movable and immovable assets of his wife were ₹7.66 crore and ₹2.43 crore, respectively while her liabilities stood at ₹5.82 crore, Dhinakaran stated in the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-assembly-polls-movable-assets-of-o-panneerselvam-ttv-dhinakaran-go-up-101615884173615.html
16-03-2021||India||8 states contributing the most Covid-19 cases to India's surging tally||Eight states have been 'displaying an upward trajectory' in the daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday, even as the country reported more than 20,000 infections for the sixth day in a row. The health ministry said that Maharashtra remained the biggest contributor of Covid-19 cases in the tally followed by Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana.Here’s a look at the eight states which were the biggest contributors to India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday:Maharashtra: Maharashtra on Monday recorded 15,051 new Covid-19 infections which took the state’s tally to 2,329,464, while active cases rose to 130,547. The surge in Covid-19 cases has led the government to impose lockdown or partial lockdown in several districts and cities of the state.Punjab: Punjab added 1,843 fresh infections on Monday which pushed the tally to 199,573, while the death toll rose to 6,099 with 27 more fatalities. The number of active cases in the state also increased from 11,550 on Sunday to 11,942 on Monday.Read more: '50 people for weddings, 20 for funerals': BMC revises Covid-19 restrictionsKarnataka: The state logged 932 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven related fatalities which took the number of infections to 9.61 lakh and the toll to 12,397.Gujarat: The number of coronavirus disease cases in Gujarat rose to 279,097 with 890 new infections on Monday. The death toll in the state stands at 4,425 and the active cases in the state are at 4,717.Tamil Nadu: The state logged 836 fresh Covid-19 infections on Monday which took the caseload to 8.60 lakh, while four more fatalities took the death toll to 12,551.Read more: Allowed limited Covid vaccine export: GovtChhattisgarh: Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 count rose to 317,974 on Monday as the state added 645 new cases, while the death toll mounted by seven to reach 3,897.Madhya Pradesh: The state reported 797 Covid-19 cases on Monday which took its tally to 269,391, while the death toll rose to 3,890 after three deaths.Haryana: There were 420 new cases of Covid-19 in Haryana, which took its tally to 275,557 on Monday. Three coronavirus-related deaths pushed the northern state's death toll to 3,077.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-contributing-the-most-covid-19-cases-to-india-s-surging-tally-101615883553631.html
16-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines not being exported at the expense of Indians: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that the central government is not exporting vaccines to foreign nations at the expense of the people of India. This comes after Congress opposed the Centre's move to export the coronavirus vaccines, reasoning that the government should not export vaccines without immunising the entire population of the country.At the Rajya Sabha today, the Union health minister said that "experts at the highest level" and a "committee of the government" are keeping a check on vaccine requirement in the country."Vaccines aren't being sent to other countries at the expense of the people of India. Experts at the highest level and a committee of the government are maintaining a sensible balance about it. 30,39,394 people were vaccinated yesterday. We have touched a total vaccination figure of Rs. 3 crore," news agency ANI quoted Union minister Harsh Vardhan as saying.Congress has been urging the central government to accelerate the vaccine drive in the country for a while now. Yesterday, the party demanded that the government must disclose if it has a clear roadmap to complete the nationwide vaccination process in the span of one year.Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil raised concerns yesterday over the rising coronavirus cases and said experts have stated that another wave of Covid-19 is starting. Citing Chhattisgarh's demand for more Covishield doses, the party urged the government to decentralise the vaccination drive and provide adequate vaccines to the states.Gohil also accused the government of "hiding facts" by providing a 'maze' of vaccination figures."If you look at the 11 days of March, it [the total number of vaccinations] is 95,90,594. Of the over 135 crore people in the country, only 1.5 per cent have got vaccines, including those who have got just the first dose," news agency PTI quoted Gohil as saying.According to the Union health ministry, the number of people who have recuperated from the disease in India has surged to 1,10,27,543, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.39 per cent.India recorded 24,492 new COVID-19 cases today, registering more than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, taking the infection tally past 1.14 crore. The total cases in the country rose to 1,14,09,831, while the death toll increased to 1,58,856 with 131 fresh fatalities.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-not-being-exported-at-the-expense-of-indians-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101615882065095.html
16-03-2021||India||Bihar govt working on ₹866 crore integrated campus for ministers, officials||The Bihar government was working on the integrated residential campus for ministers, officers and staff in Gardanibagh to ensure vertical growth to free land for use in other projects of public importance, said state building construction minister Ashok Choudhary on Monday. The campus would cost ₹866.71-crore.The minister said it was chief minister Nitish Kumar who thought about inclusive growth and translated his vision into reality with a slew of measures through well-crafted 7-Resolves.Replying to his government’s budgetary demand of ₹5321.40-crore, which was passed by the Bihar assembly amid Opposition walkout, Choudhary said work on some mega projects, including construction of ₹633-crore international cricket stadium-cum-sports academy in Rajgir, ₹145-crore Mahabodhi Cultural Centre, ₹397-crore APJ Abdul Kalam Science City in Patna and ₹301-crore Budha museum in Vaishali, etc, is underway.Besides, he said the work on ₹186.42-crore new Collectorate building, ₹158-crore project for expansion and development of Patna museum and campus of animal science university has also started.“The government plans to have engineering colleges in 31 districts. While 13 of them have their buildings now, the work on another 16 would be completed by December 2021. The 31 polytechnics have also been completed. The work on industrial training centres are also underway and a large chunk of work has been completed.The minister said that the Bihar state building construction corporation limited had so far got 2770 schemes with administrative approval of ₹7509 crore from 35 departments of the government and 2080 (82%) had already been completed. Along with the budget of the building construction department, the budgets of ₹8159.14-crore of social welfare department, ₹2970-25-crore of the public health engineering department and ₹406.41-crore of the transport department were also passed applying guillotine, which allows demands for grants to be put to vote at once whether they have been discussed or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-working-on-rs-866-crore-integrated-campus-for-ministers-officials-101615882252920.html
16-03-2021||India||India hands over training aids to Lankan Navy for capacity building||India's envoy in Sri Lanka has underlined the importance of close cooperation between the navies of the two countries as an essential part of the overall bilateral engagement, as he handed over training aids worth 22 million LKR (about ₹81,00,000) to the island nation's Navy for capacity building.High Commissioner Gopal Baglay, during a visit to the Northern and Eastern Provinces of Sri Lanka, formally handed over the training aids to the Commander Eastern Naval Area of the Sri Lanka Navy at a ceremony held on Sunday at the prestigious Naval and Maritime Academy (NMA) Trincomalee.Pursuing the commitment of the Indian Navy in assisting the regional navies in capacity building, during his visit in December 2019, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh had committed to providing a number of training items to the Sri Lankan Navy, the Indian High Commission in Colombo said in a statement.With a focus on supporting specialisation courses being conducted at NMA, Sri Lanka Navy model of indigenously developed Varunastra heavy-weight torpedo, working model of Light Weight Torpedo, Underwater Telephone, Gas Turbine cut Model, a model of HMS Trincomalee and Bathythermograph were delivered in Sri Lanka in 2020 and were operationalised with joint efforts of Indian Navy, Sri Lankan Navy and the OEMs from India.While formally handing over the training aids, the High Commissioner reiterated the importance of close cooperation between the two navies as an essential part of the overall bilateral engagement. He also handed over Kindle e-book readers and books to the library of the Naval and Maritime Academy.The Indian Navy and the Sri Lankan Navy have always maintained a functional relationship and several training facilities of the Indian Navy are availed by the Sri Lankan Navy, the High Commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hands-over-training-aids-to-lankan-navy-for-capacity-building-101615877834039.html
16-03-2021||India||Amid furore over his candidature, Swapan Dasgupta resigns from Rajya Sabha||Swapan Dasgupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party‘s candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly constituency in West Bengal, has tendered his resignation letter to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu.Officials from the Rajya Sabha secretariat told HT that they have received Dasgupta’s letter. A senior BJP leader also confirmed that Dasgupta has resigned.Dasgupta tweeted, “I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days.”I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days.A person aware of the details said, “He has time till March 19 to file his nomination papers for contesting the polls. Had he not resigned from the Rajya Sabha, he could have faced disqualification from the House.” The person said Dasgupta’s resignation is subject to approval of the chair.Dasgupta was nominated to Rajya Sabha by President of India in April 2016. According to the 10th Schedule that deals with disqualification of MPs, “A nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188.”Also Read | In BJP’s list of candidates, 5 key Bengal constituencies to look out forArticles 99 and 188 of the Indian Constitution relate to oath-taking of lawmakers.Dasgupta, BJP’s candidate for the Tarakeshwar seat in Bengal’s Hoogly district, faced scrutiny from two Opposition leaders after his name was announced as a candidate.On Monday, Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra had tweeted, “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP.”Earlier today, Congress MP, Jairam Ramesh raised the issue of Dasgupta’s candidature with Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. He sought to know if Dasgupta has resigned.Dasgupta’s name on the Rajya Sabha website is listed in the category of nominated members, unlike some others nominated MPs such as Rakesh Sinha, Subramaniam Swami and Roopa Ganguly who, after being nominated, aligned with the BJP.Jairam Ramesh told HT that he personally met Naidu after sending a letter on Dasgupta. “The chairman told me that he had resigned.”Shortly after his nomination on Sunday, several party leaders who spoke to HT said they were not sure whether Dasgupta has taken formal membership of the party. One leader said he can become a member after being named as a candidate.Even as Dasgupta did not join the BJP formally, he has continued to associate with the party. He was a member of the BJP’s delegations to the election commission and also met then President Pranab Mukherjee to seek a probe into the death of a BJP MLA from Hemtabad, Debnath Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-furore-over-his-candidature-swapan-dasgupta-resigns-from-rajya-sabha-101615879793801.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi extends support to bank employees' strike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi extends support to bank employees' strikeCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the government of selling public sector banks to "cronies”, which he said is compromising the country's financial security, as employees of public sector banks (PSBs) held protests against the Centre’s proposal to privatise two lenders. Gandhi also backed the protesting bank employees, who are on their second day of the strike. Read moreRuckus in Odisha assembly, politicians spar over BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt'The Odisha assembly once again witnessed unruly scenes on Tuesday, as opposition parties, both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, created a ruckus in the House over the alleged non-procurement of paddy in the state. Read moreAmit Shah, Nadda hold meetings as protests break out in BJP over candidate listUnion home minister Amit Shah and BJP’s national president JP Nadda have meetings since Monday evening as hundreds of party workers protested against the fielding of a large number of former TMC leaders as party candidate. Read moreControversy around AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine explained. What WHO saysThe World Health Organization (WHO) has ruled out any link between AstraZeneca’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and reported blood clots even as several European countries, including France, Germany, and Italy, suspended its use. Read more'He's a star player': Jason Roy says he was not surprised to see Ishan Kishan's exploits on debutEngland opener Jason Roy said that he was not surprised to see Ishan Kishan taking the game away from the visitors in the 2nd T20I at Motera in Ahmedabad on Sunday. Kishan made his debut in India jersey, and smashed 56 runs in 32 balls despite his opening partner KL Rahul getting out for 0 in the first over. Read moreThe Big Bull teaser: Abhishek Bachchan's film will give you Scam 1992 flashbacks. WatchAbhishek Bachchan has shared the first teaser for his upcoming film, The Big Bull. The film is set in the late 1980s-early 1990s and stars Abhishek as a stock broker who rocks the Dalal Street like no one before. Read moreHyundai Alcazar 7-seater SUV to break cover soonHyundai Motor is all set to take the covers off its new 7-seater SUV for the Indian market soon. According to reports, the global debut of the Creta-inspired SUV will take place on April 6. Read moreRakul Preet Singh serves perfect fitspiration to ‘kick a**’ of Tuesday bluesFor all those lazy bones who want to whip up in shape but procrastinate hitting the grind, Rakul Preet Singh’s kickboxing video serves as the perfect Tuesday fitspiration to kick some ass. Read moreWatch: India urges UNHRC to pay attention to Pakistan's deplorable human rights recordIndia said on Monday that it is high-time that Pakistan is held accountable for its state-sponsored terrorism. India urged the UN Human Rights Council to pay urgent attention to its deplorable human rights records and discriminatory treatment of its ethnic and religious minorities. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-extends-support-to-bank-employees-strike-and-all-the-latest-news-101615876983364.html
16-03-2021||India||To fight for a better Bengal, says Swapan Dasgupta after quitting Rajya Sabha||Swapan Dasgupta, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate for the Tarakeshwar assembly constituency in West Bengal, said on Tuesday he resigned from the Rajya Sabha to work for the state. The Rajya Sabha lawmaker sent his resignation letter to chairman M Venkaiah Naidu’s office, secretariat officials confirmed on Tuesday after a row broke out over the BJP naming him as a candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections to be held in eight phases from March 27.“I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days,” Dasgupta, whose name was announced as the BJP candidate from the assembly constituency on Sunday, said in a tweet.I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days.Also read | Congress seeks clarification on Swapan Dasgupta’s candidature for assembly pollsEarlier, the Congress party wrote to Naidu seeking clarification about nominated MP Dasgupta contesting in the March-April West Bengal assembly polls. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh pointed out that Dasgupta has neither resigned from the House before contesting the election nor has he joined any party.“Can a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha who has not formally joined a political party within six months of nomination and continues as a non-party, nominated member contest elections to Parliament or the assembly without first resigning as a nominated member?” Jairam asked in his letter.Also read | Union minister and 3 sitting MPs mark BJP’s Bengal nominees for 3rd, 4th phasesThe Congress’ letter came after Trinamool Congress lawmaker Mohua Moitra alleged that Dasgupta has violated the 10th Schedule of the Indian Constitution and called for his disqualification from the Upper House. The name of Dasgupta, a senior journalist who was nominated to the Upper House in April 2016, is listed under the category of nominated members on the Rajya Sabha website, unlike some others nominated MPs such as Rakesh Sinha, Subramaniam Swami and Roopa Ganguly who after being nominated aligned with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-fight-for-a-better-bengal-says-swapan-dasgupta-after-quitting-rajya-sabha-101615878314115.html
16-03-2021||India||Centre plans mechanism to address cyber bullying of women, children||Union minister Smriti Irani has said the Centre is planning a mechanism for targeted and customised responses to cyber bullying in each district by mapping police stations and providing each with forensic kits as part of measures to ensure the safety and security of women and children.“We will conduct a mapping of the police stations in the country and identify the ones that require forensic kits. These can be provided under the Nirbhaya Fund,” the women and child development minister said on Monday.The Nirbhaya Fund was created in 2013 to ensure women’s safety after the rape and murder of a Delhi woman on a moving bus in December 2012 that sparked protests across the country.Irani said among the suggestions they have received included the expediting of investigations.Her comments came after a seminar for representatives from districts including 100 with the highest rates of crimes against women and children. Officials from Union home, education, and skill ministries were among others who attended the seminar.Irani said financial assistance will also be provided to women victims of cybercrimes along with legal fees.Another major project could include the setting up of digital One Stop Centres (OSCs) as part of the ministry’s flagship scheme to provide support to the women affected by violence, in private and public spaces, within the family and community. Irani said OSCs have assisted over 30,00,00 women and 1.4 million have used helplines.The government is also planning to integrate emergency helpline numbers 112 and 181 to bring them under law enforcement agencies. “...the helpline numbers are answered by NGOs [non-governmental organisations], but under the new system, police will directly answer,” Irani said. “It will reduce the response time.”Ram Mohan Mishra, the women and child development ministry secretary, said they were working to institutionalise a review system to ensure last-mile delivery of services. “We have to leverage technology to create a grid at the district level where crucial gaps in the scheme can be identified and corrected.” Mishra added an appraisal system was required to ensure the schemes are implemented.VS Kaumudi, special secretary, home ministry, said training has been provided to police officers to effectively collect forensic evidence. “Last year, we sent out 4,000 forensic evidence kits for training and further sent 11,000 kits to police stations for use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-mechanism-to-address-cyber-bullying-of-women-children-101615878592648.html
16-03-2021||India||'Nationalising loss': Rahul Gandhi backs bank employees' strike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the government of selling public sector banks to "cronies”, which he said is compromising the country's financial security, as employees of public sector banks (PSBs) held protests against the Centre’s proposal to privatise two lenders. Gandhi also backed the protesting bank employees, who are on their second day of the strike."Government of India (GOI) is privatising profit and nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India's financial security," Gandhi said in a tweet. "I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he said.Several banking services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearances, remittance services have been hit during the two-day strike. Government transactions related to the treasury as well as business transactions have also been impacted.Unions claimed about 20 million cheques/instruments worth about ₹16,500 crore were not cleared across the country. Many ATMs were also out of cash on the first day itself.The two-day nationwide strike of bank employees and officers, which started on March 15, has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, to protest against the government's decision to privatise two more state-run banks.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcement last month of privatisation of two public sector banks as part of the government's disinvestment plan in the Union Budget for the next fiscal has provoked discontentment among the bank employees.Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI). Others are the Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationalising-loss-rahul-gandhi-backs-bank-employees-strike-101615875181703.html
16-03-2021||India||Centre tells Maharashtra to ramp up testing amid second Covid-19 wave||Maharashtra is beginning to see a second wave of the pandemic and limited efforts have been made to actively track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts, said the central team sent to study the Covid-19 situation in the state. The team has suggested that at least 20 to 30 close contact – family members, friends, colleagues – need to be tracked for every positive case.“There is no adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour among people both in rural and urban areas. The central team inferred that the administrative mechanism should be reinstated to the level witnessed in August-September 2020 to contain or suppress the Covid transmission,” the team said in its report, a copy of which HT has seen.In a letter to the state, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said the high case fatality ratio – the proportion of deaths among total positive cases– among those admitted at Nashik’s Vasant Rao Pawar Medical College needs to be investigated and that their samples be sent for genome sequencing.Also Read | Covid-19: First patient with S Africa variant confirmed in DelhiEarlier researchers from Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia found the E484K mutations in less than 10% of samples from the state. The mutation helps the Sars-CoV-2 virus in dodging the body’s immune response.The letter also said night curfews and weekend lockdowns have a limited impact on transmission. “Containment strategy needs to be reintroduced; containment zones must be better defined based on contact listing, digital mapping of cases and contacts...”The state has also been asked to ramp up testing, especially the more accurate RT PCR.There was no immediate response from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramp-up-testing-centre-tells-maharashtra-as-state-begins-to-see-a-second-covid-19-wave-101615878352915.html
16-03-2021||India||Karnataka-Maharashtra border row: Shiv Sena wants Belgaum to be declared Union Territory||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said Belgaum should be declared as a Union Territory, alleging that atrocities on Marathi-speaking people by pro-Kannada outfits were continuing there.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' alleged that a pro-Kannada organisation recently beat up Marathi people in Belgaum, removed Marathi boards from shops there and also targeted pro-Marathi social media users.The Karnataka police were also harassing Marathi people, it claimed."If the atrocities are not going to stop, then the Centre should declare Belgaum as a Union Territory," it said.Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of the population in these areas is Marathi-speaking.The dispute between the two states over Belgaum and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years.The editorial in 'Saamana' requested Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis to take up the issue with the Centre and Karnataka chief minister.There are Marathi people in Indore (Madhya Pradesh) and Vadodara (Gujarat) also. But, they never had any clashes with locals, the publication said.It also said people speaking different languages have been residing in Maharashtra for so many years and that Marathi people never treated them badly."The way the BJP government in Karnataka is handling the atrocities committed on the Marathi community by locals, it seems to be encouraging such miscreants," the Sena alleged.It is "illegal" to treat Marathi-speaking people in such a way when the boundary dispute issue is pending before the Supreme Court, the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakamaharashtra-border-row-shiv-sena-wants-belgaum-to-be-declared-union-territory-101615877238045.html
16-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh begins use of Covaxin, month after voicing concern over efficacy||Chhattisgarh has begun administering Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin from Monday, this comes after the state health minister TS Singh Deo had requested the Centre in February to halt the vaccine’s supply over inhibitions regarding its incomplete third phase trials.Two days ago, the minister had said that the government is seriously considering using Covaxin.“From Monday after withdrawal of clinical experiment mode, the government started using Covaxin in the state,” said TS Singh Deo.Total 80 people were vaccinated with Covaxin on Monday in Raipur and from Tuesday it will start at other medical colleges of the state, said an official.The official claimed that Covaxin is voluntary and will be administered to only those who are willing.Last month, Chhattisgarh asked the Centre to halt the supply of the Covaxin to the state till its efficacy was proven and claimed that that the vaccine’s final data of third phase trial was yet to be published. The minister on Saturday said, “We are proud of our indigenous vaccine but strictly believe that due process as per international norms need to be adhered to before bringing it into general use. Our primary concern is the well being of our citizens and only implement any vaccine once its efficacy is proven.” “At no point has there been any shortage in supply of vaccines for our people in the state. As a matter of fact, Chhattisgarh has constantly been performing among the top 5 states of the country in terms of vaccination,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-begins-use-of-covaxin-month-after-voicing-concern-over-efficacy-101615877992884.html
16-03-2021||India||WATCH: Ruckus in Odisha assembly, politicians spar over BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt'||WATCH: Ruckus in Odisha assembly, politicians spar over BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt'The Odisha assembly once again witnessed unruly scenes on Tuesday, as opposition parties, both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, created a ruckus in the House over the alleged non-procurement of paddy in the state. Shortly after, ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) legislators demanded an apology over a BJP MLA's 'suicide attempt' inside the assembly.In a video posted by news agency ANI, legislators could be seen huddling around the podium of the Odisha Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Surjya Narayan Patro, as he requests the House to calm down. The Question Hour session, for which the House assembled at 10:30am, was overrun with MLAs leaving their designated seats and lodging protests before the Speaker. Both the Treasury and Opposition benches shouted slogans in the well of the House.#WATCH Odisha: BJP & Congress MLAs create ruckus in Assembly over pending paddy procurement by the govt It was followed by BJD MLAs demanding apology from BJP MLA Subash Panigrahi, who earlier attempted suicide in State Assembly by consuming sanitiser(Source: Odisha Assembly) pic.twitter.com/XeqU4mT6PSThe BJP and Congress legislators demanded that the state government provide concrete assurance regarding paddy procurement from all farmers. The BJP has also demanded that Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik expresses regret for his government's "inability" to ensure smooth procurement of paddy from farmers despite assurances.BJD members, on the other hand, demanded an apology from Subash Panigrahi, the BJP MLA who tried to ingest sanitiser in protest over the issue last Friday. Panigrahi had tried to take his life by consuming sanitiser in the House while protesting against the state government's alleged apathy towards farmers who are reportedly not being able to sell their paddy in mandis across the state.The BJD members led by party general secretary (organisation) P P Das are demanding an apology from the Deogarh lawmaker for setting a bad precedent by attempting suicide inside the House.This is the fourth consecutive day that the Odisha assembly faced difficulty in transacting any business over ensuing chaos regarding the issue. The House faced turmoil on Monday as well and Patro was unable to conduct the proceedings of the day. He announced five adjournments in the wake of noisy protests by the legislators of the ruling BJD and opposition Congress and BJP.Patro had said outside the House on Sunday that the BJP MLA should tender an apology for committing a mistake by making a suicide bid in the House. He had also said that Panigrahi should apologise to bring back normalcy in the House.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-ruckus-in-odisha-assembly-politicians-spar-over-bjp-mla-s-suicide-attempt-101615872839908.html
16-03-2021||India||China says it will issue visas in India, makes it impossible to get||Beijing will start issuing visas to foreigners who need to travel to China but only after they have taken a Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccine, a statement by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said on Tuesday. The rule, however, will not make it any easier for Indians to get visas since New Delhi has not approved use of China-made vaccines in the country. Also, there are no direct flights between the two countries.The statement suggested the Chinese-vaccine rule - the embassy called it “facilitating measures” - was applicable for people intending to travel to China for business, work or to meet relatives.The Chinese embassy statement did not specify whether the easing of the process applies to students: The largest chunk of Indians – more than 22,000 students – are stranded in their home country as China is yet to allow foreign students back into the country. Or if Beijing is in talks with New Delhi to make its vaccines available as the Chinese embassy or consulates cannot offer the vaccines in India without authorisation from the Indian government.Also Watch: PM Modi’s QUAD gambit and why China is rattledThe new provisions come at a time China has been promoting its vaccine shots across the world. It has administered 65 million vaccine doses at home and has been pushing its vaccine in emerging economies.But given the lack of transparency about the clinical trial data of its vaccines, Beijing has found the response from many countries to be less than enthusiastic. China has, however, been more successful in introducing its vaccines in Africa and Latin America, a Bloomberg report said.Asked if China would consider accepting WHO-approved vaccines also, foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told reporters on Monday that foreign vaccine producers could file a request with the authorities concerned in China for a decision. So far, China has not allowed vaccines made in other countries to be used in the country.The China-made vaccine provision in the visa regulations comes against the backdrop of the United States, India, Australia and Japan announcing an ambitious plan to distribute vaccines in Asia under the Vaccine Initiative signed off by leaders of the four countries under the aegis of Quad, or Quadrilateral Security Dialogue.The four Quad countries on Friday decided to pool their financial resources, manufacturing capacities and logistical strengths to ramp up manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines across the region as part of efforts to boost post-pandemic recovery.The US development bank will assist India’s Biological E to produce one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to be rolled out by the end of 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-it-will-issue-travel-visas-in-india-makes-it-impossible-to-get-101615874453725.html
16-03-2021||India||Covid-19: First patient with S Africa variant confirmed in Delhi||A 33-year-old man from Kerala has become the first person with the South African variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, to be admitted to a city hospital. He is currently the only person admitted to the special ward at Lok Nayak Hospital. He is asymptomatic and does not need any medical care at the moment.The person was brought to the Delhi government-run hospital after his RT-PCR test came positive at the airport. As he was travelling from South Africa, the officials suspected that it could be the new variant.“He was brought to the special ward created for people suspected to have the South Africa variant. His genetic sequencing report came back positive... for the new variant. He does not need any oxygen support, he is asymptomatic. He will be kept in isolation to ensure that the infection does not spread to others,” said a doctor.Several people with travel history were found to have the UK variant earlier in the city. The Brazil variant has also been reported in at least one traveller in India.All three variants of the virus have mutations in the spike protein – used by the virus to enter the human cells – and are more infectious. The N501Y mutation that is found in all three variants helps the virus spread easily, whereas the E484K mutation in the South African and Brazilian variants helps the virus evade the body’s antibody response that can lead to more infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-first-patient-with-s-africa-variant-confirmed-indelhi-101615873672590.html
16-03-2021||India||India’s arms imports drop 33%: All you need to know about Sipri report||India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) on Monday. Here is all you need to know about the report:• It has come at a time the country has taken measures to cut dependence on imported military hardware.• The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes. • “Russia was the most affected supplier, although India’s imports of US arms also fell 46%,” the report said.• It added India is planning large-scale arms imports in the coming years. • India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%), the report said.• According to Sipri, India accounted for 0.2% of the share of global arms exports during 2016-20, making the country the world’s 24th largest exporter of major arms.Also Read | 5 Lt Colonels among 17 Army personnel booked by CBI in recruitment scam• This represents an increase of 228% over India’s export share of 0.1% during the previous five-year period - 2011-15. • Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius were the top recipients of Indian military hardware, the report said.• Arms exports by Russia, which accounted for 20% of all exports of major arms in 2016–20, dropped by 22%, the report said. • “The bulk -- around 90% -- of this decrease was attributable to a 53% fall in its arms exports to India,” Sipri said. • India was the biggest importer of Russian military hardware during the last five years, accounting for 23% of Russia’s total exports.• The report also said that exports by China, the world’s fifth-largest arms exporter in 2016-20, fell 7.8% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. • China accounted for 74% of Pakistan’s military imports during the last five years, up from 61% in 2011-15. • But the US, the world’s largest arms exporter, saw its exports rise. Its global share of arms exports went up from 32% to 37% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. • The five largest arms exporters in 2016-20 were the US, Russia, France, Germany and China, while the top importers were Saudi Arabia, India, Egypt, Australia and China.• India has set aside ₹70,221 crore - 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 - for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation.• Sipri said India’s military imports are likely to grow over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-arms-imports-drop-33-all-you-need-to-know-about-sipri-report-101615871392473.html
16-03-2021||India||Kerala HC says transpersons entitled to be admitted to NCC: Key points||The Kerala high court on Monday ruled that a transgender person is entitled to be admitted to the National Cadet Corps (NCC). Here is all you need to know about the order:• It directed the Union government to amend section 6 of the National Cadet Corps Act, 1948, which effectively allowed only “males” or “females” to enrol as cadets with the youth wing of the armed forces.• The judgment came on a plea by Hina Haneefa, a 23-year-old transgender person, who wanted to join the NCC but was rejected due to her gender.• Justice Anu Sivaraman ruled that Haneefa was entitled to enrolment in the senior girl’s division of the NCC in accordance with her self-perceived gender identity and that the rejection of her request was unsustainable.Also Read | ‘Over 1,100 schools identified for NCC training in border, coastal areas’• The court said that the Nalsa judgment of 2014 and the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, overrides the argument of the defence ministry that there were no provisions to enrol transgender persons.• The Supreme Court in the National Legal Services (Nalsa) judgment declared transgender people as the third gender and affirmed that the fundamental rights granted under the Constitution will be equally applicable to them. • The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act recognises their right to a life of dignity and prohibits discrimination.• In her plea, Haneefa contended that she had joined the NCC at the age of 13 when she was in school. At that time, she was enrolled as a boy cadet. • Two years back, she had undergone gender affirmation sex transformation surgery. She tried to enrol in the NCC but was denied admission saying it was against the NCC Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-says-transpersons-entitled-to-be-admitted-to-ncc-key-points-101615870612681.html
16-03-2021||India||Bill in Lok Sabha to give Delhi L-G more power: Here’s what it means||The Union government on Monday introduced in Parliament a bill that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G). Here is all you need to know about the bill and why it has prompted protests from the Delhi government and revived the power tussle for control of the Capital:• Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lower House, where the government has a comfortable majority. • The bill says the “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly.• It makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.Also Read | NCT Bill to have ‘dangerous’ consequences on India’s federal structure: Sisodia• “The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” read a statement of objects and reasons, attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.• Shortly after the bill was introduced, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of seeking to drastically curtail the powers of an elected city government.• “After being rejected by people of Delhi (8 seats in assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected government through a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move,” he said.• On July 4, 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that the L-G could not interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and must act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers.• Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia called the bill unconstitutional and undemocratic. “After this bill is implemented, the elected government of Delhi will mean nothing. This is a dangerous amendment.”• Delhi holds a unique position in India’s administrative framework. • As a Union Territory, it is governed by the 1991 Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act that provides for both an elected assembly and an L-G appointed by the Union home ministry. • But unlike full states, many important departments such as land, police, and personnel appointments do not come under the purview of the city government and report directly to the L-G. • In July 2018, the top court ruled the L-G was bound to listen to the city’s elected government and could not act independently, prompting the Aam Aadmi Party government to claim victory. • All decisions by Delhi’s council of ministers must be communicated to the L-G but his concurrence was not required, the five-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra ruled.• The amendment introduced on Monday decisively tilts the balance of power in favour of the L-G. It bars the Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. • Any rule made till this act comes into effect will be void, according to the bill. It further says that the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating, its procedure and the conduct of its business which are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Parliament. • According to the Centre, the amendments seek to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-in-lok-sabha-to-give-delhi-l-g-more-power-here-s-what-it-means-101615868932401.html
16-03-2021||India||Congress seeks clarification on Swapan Dasgupta’s candidature for assembly polls||The Indian National Congress—the largest Opposition party in the Rajya Sabha—has sought clarification from chairman Venkaiah Naidu about nominated MP Swapan Dasgupta contesting in West Bengal assembly polls. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairman, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh pointed out that Dasgupta has neither resigned from the House before contesting election nor has he joined any party. Dasgupta’s name was announced as the BJP candidate from Tarakeshwar assembly constituency on Sunday. The Congress’ move comes after Trinamool MP Mohua Moitra alleged that Dasgupta has violated the 10th Schedule of the Indian Constitution. Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh’s letter to Naidu said, “Can a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha who has not formally joined a political party within six months of nomination and continues as a non-party, nominated member contest elections to Parliament or the assembly without first resigning as a nominated member?” Also Read | Don’t try to stifle me: Mamata fires fresh salvo against BJPHe added, “You did not announce any such resignation in these past few days. I need not say any more”. Dasgupta was nominated to Rajya Sabha by President of India in April 2016. According to the 10th Schedule that deals with disqualification of MPs, “A nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of article 99 or, as the case may be, article 188.” Articles 99 and 188 of the Indian Constitution relate to oath-taking of lawmakers. On Monday, Moitra had tweeted, “Swapan Dasgupta is BJP candidate for WB polls. 10th Schedule of Constitution says nominated RS member to be disqualified if he joins any political party AFTER expiry of 6 months from oath. He was sworn in April 2016, remains unallied. Must be disqualified NOW for joining BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-clarification-on-swapan-dasgupta-s-candidature-for-assembly-polls-101615868812871.html
16-03-2021||India||PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow amid rise in Covid cases: Key points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a meeting of all chief ministers on Wednesday to discuss a spike in Covid-19 infections. Here is all you need to know about the meeting and what prompted it:• The meeting has been called as the daily cases crossed the 26,000-mark on Sunday for the first time since December 19 and sparked fears of a new wave of Covid-19.• On Monday, India reported 24,434 cases.• The meeting will be the first such since India launched the world’s largest immunisation drive against the disease on January 16. Also Read | India saw 24,492 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, tally soars past 11.4 million• It will be held virtually from noon on Wednesday. • Modi is also expected to reiterate that the states must ensure strict adherence to health protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks.• The meeting assumes significance as some parts of the country have resorted to local lockdowns and travel restrictions. • Cinema halls, hotels, restaurants, and offices in Maharashtra will function at 50% capacity till March 31, the state government said on Monday.• Modi is also expected to discuss the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-cms-tomorrow-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-key-points-101615867132477.html
16-03-2021||India||Delhi airport: New terminal, runaway to increase passenger handling capacity||The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in Delhi, the 17th busiest in the world and the sixth busiest in Asia, is all set for a major expansion. The expansion plans include a new terminal, additional runway, state-of-the-art facilities and enhanced passenger handling capacity. Once the expansion project is completed, the Delhi airport will become the first one in India to have four runways. The expansion program is set to increase the airport’s passenger traffic handling capacity as well from 20 million passengers a year to 40 million.Here’s everything you need to know about Delhi airport’s expansion plans:1. The expansion plan includes the development of a new terminal, T4, which is expected to be completed by 2025, according to a report in Live Hindustan. The terminal will be used only for international travellers and will help in the reduction of traffic at the airport.2. New taxiways will also be added to the existing T1 and T3 terminals.3. The plan also incorporates the construction of a fourth runway by 2022. The fourth runway is expected to increase the per hour flight handling capacity of the airport and also cut down the waiting time for approaching as well as departing flights.4. The airport will also have a first of its kind ‘dual elevated cross taxiway’ which is aimed at reducing the taxiing time of the aircraft.5. Terminal 1 will also be expanded under the plan to increase its total area after which additional lanes will be added to the departure ramp of T1 which will help in improving traffic circulation. A corridor for cargo movement in and out of the airport will also be constructed to segregate heavy vehicle movement from passenger vehicles.6. The international transfer area of T3 will also be increased and a seventh check-in island will be added in the terminal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-new-terminal-runaway-to-increase-passenger-handling-capacity-101615866787067.html
16-03-2021||India||With 24,492 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, India’s tally over 11.4 million||India on Tuesday recorded 24,492 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the cumulative tally past 11,409,831, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Witnessing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases after a relatively controlled January and February, India has recorded more than 20,000 infections for the sixth day in a row.The fatalities due to the viral disease also increased to 158,856 after 131 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, data updated by the health ministry at 8am showed.The active cases also soared to 223,432 after a downward trend since January 20, as 4,170 new infections were added between Sunday and Monday morning, comprising 1.93% of the total cases seen so far. The health ministry data also showed that 11,027,543 patients were discharged as 20,191 recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, it also showed. The national recovery rate stands at 96.64 per cent.In what has been termed as India's second wave amid the spike in positivity rate and active cases this month, the surge in the country's tally is being driven by five states which account for 78.41 per cent of the cases, the health ministry said on Monday. These five states include Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 63.21 per cent of the cases.A rising trajectory of daily new cases has also been observed in eight states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana - the health ministry also said.Additionally, authorities in India marked a feat with vaccination coverage of 3.17 crore, data on Monday showed as 3,17,71,661 vaccine doses were given, as per the provisional report till 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-saw-24-492-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-tally-soars-past-11-4-million-101615865206149.html
16-03-2021||India||Ladakh hamlet gets satellite phone for connectivity||Authorities in the Union Territory of Ladakh have handed over a satellite phone to the villagers of Hanamure-Zangla to address the problems communication in the far-flung areas of Zanskar, an official spokesman said on Monday.Zanskar Sub-Divisional Magistrate Sonam Dorjay took a hard trek of five hours to reach the remote village on Sunday and handed over the satellite phone to local resident Tsewang Rangdol to connect the village through telecommunication services especially in case of any emergency, the spokesman said.He said Rangdol was explained how to use the phone and its recharging process.The people of Hanamure expressed immense happiness and conveyed their heartfelt thanks to the government for sanctioning a satellite phone for their convenience, the spokesman said.He said the SDM Zanskar took an on-spot appraisal of the grievances and issues raised by the villagers. PTI TAS AB TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-hamlet-gets-satellite-phone-for-connectivity-101615861041575.html
16-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Isro to attempt solar mission by end of 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Isro to attempt solar mission by end of 2021India is likely to attempt its first solar mission at the end of the year after the Covid-19 pandemic delayed the launch of the Aditya L-1 mission, earlier slated for the first half of 2020, according to people in the national space agency. Read moreParliament panel questions new OTT guidelinesThe Parliamentary panel on information technology on Monday quizzed officials from the ministry of information and broadcasting on the new digital media rules for intermediaries, online news entities and over the top platforms, a person familiar with the matter said. Read moreIn Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray’s repeated encounters with crisesIn November 2019, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray formed a coalition government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress after parting ways with long-time ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read more'He doesn't repeat his mistakes, he learns from them': VVS Laxman on Virat Kohli's match-winning knock in 2nd T20IIn the first T20I against England, Virat Kohli was dismissed for a duck after playing 5 balls. In the 2nd T20I, he played till the end as he hammered an unbeaten 73 runs in 48 balls to help his side chase down the total of 165 in 17.5 overs with 7 wickets still in hand. Read moreAlia Bhatt thanks everyone for their love on her birthday, Neetu Kapoor gives her a hug in new picActor Alia Bhatt, who celebrated her birthday on Monday, took to Instagram to share a picture of herself, and also thank fans for all the love they showered on her. Read moreIn debut overseas trip, Biden's secretary of state visits Japan, KoreaUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin were set to meet counterparts in Tokyo on Tuesday, highlighting a focus by the new Washington administration on alliances in Indo-Pacific in the face of assertive China. Read moreAustralia to proceed with AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine despite halt in EuropeAustralia has no plans to halt the use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said on Tuesday, as several European countries paused administering the vaccine after reports of possible serious side-effects. Read moreDeepika Padukone’s bold look in one-shoulder bodycon dress sets Internet ablazeHighlighting her curves in a flattering manner, Bollywood diva Deepika Padukone left the Internet heart-eyed as she flaunted a monochromic look in a one-shoulder bodycon dress. Read more8-year-old from Bengaluru solves 3 Rubik’s Cubes using his hands and feet. WatchA video showing an eight-year-old from Bengaluru creating an incredible record with a Rubik’s Cube has left people in awe. A video shows Atharva R Bhat using his hands and feet to solve three cubes in a little over a minute. Read moreAlso watch: Batla house verdict: Javadekar demands apology from Sonia, Mamata, Kejriwal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-isro-to-attempt-solar-mission-by-end-of-2021-and-all-the-latest-news-101615862813876.html
16-03-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas during next 5 days: IMD||Rain and thunderstorms are likely to impact the western Himalayan region, including parts of the northwestern plains during the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies is affecting the western Himalayan region. Isolated rainfall is likely over the western Himalayan region during the next five days except over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad where scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is likely on March 16 and 17. Very light rainfall is likely over the northwestern plains during March 18 to 19 and isolated thunderstorms with lightning are likely over the region on March 18. Also Read | India only G-20 country implementing Paris accord commitments: JavadekarDue to the interaction of mid-level westerlies and lower level easterlies, thunderstorm and hailstorm activity is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha during March 18 to 20.Widespread rainfall is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh during the next three days which will decrease thereafter; isolated rain or thundershower is likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya during March 15 to 19.Saurashtra qnd Kutch are likely to record heatwave conditions during the next two days.Meanwhile, Delhi weather has been warm. On Monday, the maximum temperature in the national Capital settled three notches above the season’s average at 32 degrees Celsius (°C), IMD said.IMD also predicted a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday and the maximum and minimum temperatures to hover around 33°C and 16°C respectively. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayas-during-next-5-daysimd-101615864012263.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliament panel questions new OTT guidelines||The Parliamentary panel on information technology on Monday quizzed officials from the ministry of information and broadcasting on the new digital media rules for intermediaries, online news entities and over the top platforms, a person familiar with the matter said.The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, asked the officials several questions regarding the new guidelines and their implementation, this person added, asking not to be named. The government, on February 25 notified an expansive framework to govern online content , titled Information Technology (Guidelines for intermediaries and digital media ethics code) Rules, 2021. It gave online content providers between 30 to 90 days to comply with the same.“It was a good meeting between the Parliamentarians and the officials,” the person mentioned above said. “The officials assured the MPs that a process was followed before the new rules were implemented.”Among the questions asked were whether the ministry consulted stakeholders before rolling out the guidelines.Another key point raised was whether the rules are in conformity with the existing framework. Experts have flagged that extending the ambit of takedown powers under section 69(A) of the Information Technology to news and over the top platforms goes against the parent act, which only covers only intermediaries. NS Nappinai, Supreme Court Advocate and founder of Cyber Saathi, had earlier told HT that the proposed rules have to be evaluated for sustainability under the parent Act ie the IT Act. “A rule can only be framed within the ambit of the parent provision,” she said. “In case 69(A) is extended to cover online news agencies then the rule will have to be analyzed in context of the law enacted by Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-panel-questions-new-ott-guidelines-101615860398633.html
16-03-2021||India||Boris Johnson to visit India in April-end, Indo-Pacific ties in focus||Marking his first major international trip after Brexit, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India at the end of April as part of efforts to boost the UK’s opportunities in the region, Reuters reported citing his office on Tuesday.The confirmation from the UK PM comes two months after he had to cancel his visit to India due to rising Covid-19 infections in his country. Johnson, who was invited by India as a Republic Day chief guest, had planned the trip in January as part of efforts to speed up trade talks between the two nations.Downing Street had announced that Johnson will travel to India in January 2021 to strengthen a key strategic relationship that supports jobs and investment across the United Kingdom as part of his first major bilateral visit since taking office, and the first since the UK’s departure from the European Union.Also read: India makes its move, invites Boris Johnson to be Republic Day chief guestOn the upcoming visit, Johnson's office said, "...it would 'tilt' its focus towards the Indo-Pacific region as part of its Integrated Review of government policy for the coming years, saying the area increasingly represented the geopolitical centre of the world."Britain made a formal request to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) last month, seeking membership of the 11-country bloc to open new avenues for post-Brexit trade and influence. The country has also applied to become a dialogue partner of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). "We are pursuing trade deals from Australia to the US and around the world – particularly in the Indo-Pacific region, a huge growth market for the future," foreign minister Dominic Raab wrote in December.Also read: India will take up incidents of racism with UK, says S JaishankarThe UK and India are significant investors and markets for each other’s economies with growing trade and investment relationship worth around £24 billion a year, supporting more than half a million jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boris-johnson-to-visit-india-in-april-end-to-mark-his-1st-major-foreign-trip-101615857765008.html
16-03-2021||India||Replace judge in coal scam: SC to Delhi HC||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to replace the special judge in Delhi trying the coal block allocation scam cases over delay in deciding the matters.The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, took note of a letter received by the registrar general of the Delhi high court last month to appoint some other judge in place of Bharat Parashar who was designated as a special judge by the apex court in 2014.The registrar general sought permission of the SC to nominate another suitable officer as special judge in place of Bharat Parashar, “in the matter which is pending for about six years when the law contemplates the disposal of such matters in two years, which may be extended up to 4 times by periods of six months each”.“We find that Mr Bharat Parashar, who has acted as a special judge, Patiala House Court, New Delhi, needs to be replaced, as he has now completed more than 6 years in the post after having been posted as special judge in the above mentioned court since August 19, 2014,” said the court.The CAG’s report tabled in Parliament in August 2012 had pegged the losses due to irregularities in allocation of coal blocks at ₹1.8 lakh crore.Subsequently, the SC ordered a CBI probe into the case and designated a special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/replace-judge-in-coal-scam-sc-to-delhi-hc-101615859137936.html
16-03-2021||India||Taj Mahal ticket prices likely to increase for tourists||Agra administration has decided to raise the entry ticket prices for both domestic and foreign tourists.The Indian tourists, who are currently paying Rs. 50 to enter the monument, will now have to pay Rs. 80, while foreign tourists will have to shell out Rs. 1200, instead of Rs.1100 to enter the Taj.Apart from that, the ADA will also charge Rs. 200 from tourists who wish to enter the main dome, which is separate from the Rs. 200 already being charged by the ASI.Agra Divisional Commissioner Amit Gupta told ANI, "Agra Development Authority (ADA) has proposed to charge ₹200 to enter the main dome, separate to ₹200 already charged by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI)."With the new charges in place, domestic tourists wishing to enter the main dome will have to pay Rs. 480, while foreign tourists will be charged Rs. 1600.Responding to the new proposal of hiking entry tickets to the Taj, a tourist Saurabh Mishra said, "If prices surge, it would cause inconvenience to Indian tourists to see their own heritage. We used to pay ₹50 to visit the main dome. If it increases again, footfall of Indian tourists will decrease."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-ticket-prices-likely-to-increase-for-tourists-101615857101527.html
16-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel questions legality of new OTT, social media guidelines||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology (IT) on Monday headed by Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor questioned the legality of new rules framed by the government to regulate OTT (Over the top) and social media platforms.Articulated by the central government to regulate OTT and social media platforms, certain members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee questioned the officials whether these rules are in conformity with the legal framework.The panel held a meeting on Monday under the chairmanship of Tharoor in which committee members grilled officials of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology."Who were consulted before making guidelines for OTT, from where the opinions were taken, whether the judiciary, intellectual people, civic society and the professionals were contacted, or are these rules made by bureaucrats only," the committee members asked the officials of Information and Broadcasting Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, a committee member told ANI.Briefing the members of the panel, government officials justified the need for such rules in changing times and also explained the rationale behind them.On February 25, Union minister Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad announced the new policies for the OTT platform and digital media.This comes as the content on OTT platforms had recently fuelled controversy, leading to public outcry and the booking of makers of some programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-questions-legality-of-new-ott-social-media-guidelines-101615854725535.html
16-03-2021||India||Split in OBC quota may help most backward from next year||Reservations for people from other backward classes (OBCs) in central government jobs and educational institutions may start including a component for the most backward among these as early as 2022 should the government accept proposals being evaluated by the Justice Rohini Commission, which hoped to submit its findings by July. It was recently granted an extension till July 31.“We submit it as soon as we return from our state consultations and if accepted, it could be implemented within the year. The President of India also has to issue the gazetted list of OBC castes that has been pending for a while,” said Jatinder K Bajaj, member of the commission.Two members of the commission confirmed that they will recommend that the current 27% quota for OBCs be broken up into four, even five sub-categories, so that the most deprived comprising 983 sub-castes of the total 2,633 castes have a quota of at least 2%. “It is a game-changing idea,’’ said JK Bajaj, member of the commission, explaining the plan to split the 27% into a combination of 2%, 6%, 9% and 10%, or a similar combination split into five categories with 2-4% for the most deprived who were not getting any benefits till now and the most empowered sub-castes like the Yadavs being limited to just 10%. “The lowest category will start getting four to five times what they have got in Central government jobs, and admissions in central educational institutions... .’’Bajaj’s reference is to the number of people from the lowest strata who currently make it to these institutions or qualify for jobs through UPSC examinations. It has found, for instance, that most beneficiaries in the last three years, belong to just 10 sub-castes .“There is a high level of inequity in the distribution of the benefits across different communities,” a consultation paper by the commission said. “The inequity across different States and UTs is almost as acute as across different castes and communities in the central list.”The commission was appointed by the President of India in October 2017. If accepted, the recommendations are also likely to have a major impact on politics, especially in north India where the rise of powerful OBC groups such as Yadavs defined the 1990s.“BJP has seen maximum expansion in the OBCs. That’s where hindutva-isation has maximum scope. That’s the space that the BJP has got maximum dividends... The OBCs also look upward as a process of sanskritisation and so politically it makes sense for the party to cultivate them,’’ said SS Jodhka, sociology professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University.The commission is also recommending a complete digitisation of all OBC records and a standardised system of issuing OBC certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/split-in-obc-quota-may-help-most-backward-from-next-year-101615851402456.html
16-03-2021||India||‘Ready for more talks’: Rajnath on farmers’ stir||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday urged a dialogue between protesting farmers and the Centre, after the inauguration of the day-long state working committee meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here.Making an appeal to farmers upset over the new agri-marketing laws, Singh said any problem can be resolved through talks and the government was ready to hold as many rounds of talks with the farmers. “These agitations must end. We want to double income of farmers. The minimum support price (MSP) won’t end. No question about it. I too am from farmers’ family. If any amendment is required in those laws, we will do that too. We are ready to hold as many rounds of talks as they want in order to find a solution,” he said.Rajnath’s comments came shortly after Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati reiterated her demand for recall of three farm laws and kisan mahapanchayats being held across the state in which several top opposition leaders have been participating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-more-talks-rajnath-on-farmers-stir-101615850798371.html
16-03-2021||India||Modi to meet all CMs again amid rise in Covid infections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a meeting of all chief ministers on Wednesday to discuss a spike in Covid-19 infections in several parts of the country, and is expected to review India’s vaccination drive that began two months back, people aware of the matter said on Monday.The move comes at a time when new infections have been rising, with daily cases crossing the 26,000 mark on Sunday, the first time since December 19, sparking fears of the start of a new wave of Covid-19 cases.On Monday, India reported 24,434 cases.Wednesday’s meeting will be the first such discussion between the PM and the CMs since India launched the world’s largest immunisation drive against the infectious disease on January 16. An official said the meeting will be held virtually from noon on Wednesday. The PM is expected to discuss the vaccination drive and rising Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, the official added on condition of anonymity. Modi is also expected to reiterate that the states must ensure strict adherence of health protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks, another official said.The scheduled meeting assumes significance as some parts of the country have resorted to local lockdowns and travel restrictions. Cinema halls, hotels, restaurants and offices in Maharashtra will function at 50% capacity till March 31, the state government said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-meet-all-cms-again-amid-rise-in-covid-infections-101615845615696.html
16-03-2021||India||Congress leader denied ticket to go it alone||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash on Monday said she will contest in the upcoming assembly polls as an independent candidate, a day after she tonsured her head in protest against the denial of a ticket, even as dissent over candidate lists brewed among major parties in the state. Subhash announced her candidature from Ettumanoor constituency in Kottayam district, saying that she took the decision respecting the sentiments of her followers. Her decision invited the ire of senior party leaders, who said that the 56-year-old leader closed all avenues for discussion. “We have sympathy for her. But she should have taken it to the party forum instead of an open defiance. Her action was in bad taste and it damaged the party’s image,” said PCC vice-president Lali Vincent. Reacting to reports that the party might initiate action against her, Subhash said, “I have cut all my ties with the party. Let leaders take any action, I am least bothered. I will go by the decision of my followers.” She said she will file her papers on Tuesday. Leaders in other parts of the state also protested against the candidates list. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala rushed to Kalpetta in Wayanad on Monday to quell dissent among local leaders who opposed the candidature of T Siddique. In Kannur, senior party leader K Sudhakaran said seats were distributed on factional lines and winnability criteria was not considered. Disgruntled Congress leaders have called a convention in Kannur on Tuesday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered a setback after tribal candidate, C Manikandan, said his name was announced without his consent. “Even if I am hanged upside down, I will not betray my people,” Manikandan wrote in a Facebook post, quoting BR Ambedkar. In Kuttiyadi in north Kerala, the CPI(M) has announced it will field party leader Kunahamad Kutty after party workers took to streets protesting the party’s decision to hand over the seat to the Kerala Congress (Mani).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-denied-ticket-to-go-it-alone-101615833051636.html
16-03-2021||India||33% dip in India’s weapon imports: Sipri||India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) on Monday, at a time the country has taken a raft of measures to cut dependence on imported military hardware.The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes. “Russia was the most affected supplier, although India’s imports of US arms also fell 46%,” the report said, adding that India is planning large-scale arms imports in the coming years. India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%), the report said.According to Sipri, India accounted for 0.2% of the share of global arms exports during 2016-20, making the country the world’s 24th largest exporter of major arms. This represents an increase of 228% over India’s export share of 0.1% during the previous five-year period - 2011-15. Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Mauritius were the top recipients of Indian military hardware, the report said.The latest import data is a clear indicator that the country’s drive towards atmanirbharta (self-reliance) is showing results, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “India is finally at an inflection point and the Indian defence industry is coming of age,” he said.Arms exports by Russia, which accounted for 20% of all exports of major arms in 2016–20, dropped by 22%, the report said. “The bulk -- around 90% -- of this decrease was attributable to a 53% fall in its arms exports to India,” Sipri said. India was the biggest importer of Russian military hardware during the last five years, accounting for 23% of Russia’s total exports.The report also said that exports by China, the world’s fifth largest arms exporter in 2016-20, fell 7.8% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. China accounted for 74% of Pakistan’s military imports during the last five years, up from 61% in 2011-15. “Pakistan is now firmly in China’s hold for its arms requirements,” Chopra said.But the US, the world’s largest arms exporter, saw its exports rise. Its global share of arms exports went up from 32% to 37% between 2011-15 and 2016-20. The five largest arms exporters in 2016-20 were the US, Russia, France, Germany and China, while the top importers were Saudi Arabia, India, Egypt, Australia and China.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore - 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 - for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation.But Sipri said India’s military imports are likely to grow over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-dip-in-india-s-weapon-imports-sipri-101615832811050.html
16-03-2021||India||Six new bills introduced as parliament gets back to business||As many as six legislations were introduced in Parliament on Monday as normalcy returned in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha after last week’s spell of disruption over rising fuel prices and the three agricultural laws.A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act was introduced in Lok Sabha by Union minister of women and child development Smriti Irani. The bill allowed district magistrates and additional district magistrates to authorize adoption orders which are at present only done by the courts.The bill was opposed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor who said it violated the constitutional principle of separation of powers and resulted in a disproportionate dependence on a single authority for the protection of children.Irani told the Thiruvanthapuram MP that several states, including Kerala, were in favour of the bill.The other bills that were introduced today included the NCT of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, giving more power to the Lieutenant Governor.The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill was introduced by mines minister Prahlad Joshi to bring mega reforms in the mines sector with resolution of legacy issues, and making a large number of mines available for auctions.Besides these, the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021 were also introduced in Parliament today.The Rajya Sabha approved the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill to declare two institutes of the sector as institutions of national importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-new-bills-introduced-as-parliament-gets-back-to-business-101615830890845.html
16-03-2021||India||UK minister on India visit may raise Michel detention||UK minister Tariq Ahmad is expected to raise the issue of Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, during his ongoing visit to India, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.Ahmad, the minister of state in the foreign office responsible for South Asia, the Commonwealth and the UN, began a five-day visit of India on Monday, days after a panel of UN experts called on India to immediately release Michel as his detention was arbitrary and violated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.A British official was granted consular access to Michel, who is a UK citizen, at Delhi’s Tihar Jail on March 10 after a gap of almost a year, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Ahmad, who is seen as the lead UK minister for Michel’s case, is expected to raise the matter during his meetings with interlocutors in New Delhi, the people said. The UK side is also expected to discuss Michel’s case at an upcoming dialogue of senior officials of the two countries, the people added.There was no official word from Indian or British officials on the development. At his maiden news briefing earlier this month, UK’s new high commissioner Alex Ellis said Britain acknowledged that a final decision in Michel’s case depends on the Indian judicial process, though Britain is hoping the matter will be resolved as speedily as possible. “We hope and want to have...a swift resolution of the case. It’s for the Indian judicial process to work out what should happen. That’s not our business, but obviously we want things to move as quickly as they can,” Ellis said.Michel has been held in India since December 2018 after he was extradited from the UAE.The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights, was very critical in its evaluation of the handling of Michel’s case by the governments of the UAE and India in findings formally released in Geneva on Friday. Besides calling for Michel’s release, the WGAD said India and the UAE should “accord him an enforceable right to compensation and other reparations, in accordance with international law”.Michel was living in Dubai when India sought his extradition for involvement in alleged irregularities in the 2010 deal to acquire 12 helicopters worth 556.2 million euros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-minister-on-india-visit-may-raise-michel-detention-101615830890343.html
16-03-2021||India||‘Will discuss racism issue with UK when required’: Jaishankar||India will take up incidents of racism in the UK with the country’s government when required, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday against the backdrop of strains caused by a debate on the farmers’ protest in the British parliament.Jaishankar made the remarks while responding to concerns raised in the Rajya Sabha by BJP lawmaker Ashwini Vaishnaw, who contended that racism and cyberbullying forced Rashmi Samant, the first Indian woman elected president of the Oxford University Student Union, to quit her post.“What I do want to say is that we have strong ties with the UK, we will take up such matters with great candour when required. We will monitor these developments very, very closely,” Jaishankar said in his response after Vaishnaw brought up the matter through a zero hour mention.“We will raise it when required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance,” Jaishankar said.He further said: “I do want to say that as the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism, wherever it is, particularly when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. As a friend of the UK, we also have concerns about its reputational impact.”Vaishnaw also referred to the issue of alleged racism within the UK royal family that was brought up in a recent interview by Meghan Markle, the wife of Prince Harry. Noting that the behaviour of a society is a reflection of its beliefs and value systems, Vaishnaw said: “If such practices of racial discrimination are followed at the highest level in a society, what would be the following at the lower levels?” He also contended migrants were poorly treated and segregated in the UK and this was a matter of concern in India because of the large diaspora in Britain.Vaishnaw also claimed a recent report had said the death rate among people of Asian origin because of Covid-19 was higher than the death rate of other communities in the UK.Samant quit as president of the Oxford University Student Union after the emergence of old social media posts that were deemed to be “racist” and “insensitive” by groups representing Asian and Jewish students. She also upset others by comparing imperialist Cecil Rhodes to Adolf Hitler in a student union debate and separating “women” and “transwomen” in an Instagram caption.She initially offered an apology for the social media posts, some dating back to 2017, but later stepped down as president-elect after facing continued criticism. Since returning to India, Samant has claimed she was unfairly targeted.The remarks in the Rajya Sabha came about a week after the foreign secretary summoned British envoy Alex Ellis to protest against what it said was an “unwarranted and tendentious” debate in the UK Parliament that saw lawmakers criticising the Indian government’s handling of the farmers’ protest.Efforts on to send back citizens abroad: GovtIndia has been working with countries around the world, especially in West Asia, to facilitate the return of citizens working or studying there and more than a million people have travelled abroad on Air India flights, Jaishankar said on Monday. The process of facilitating the return of Indians to their jobs or studies abroad was part of post-pandemic recovery efforts, and India has been actively urging “partner governments to look sympathetically at the employment of our citizens as they chart their own recovery pathway”, the minister said in similar statements in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-racism-issue-with-uk-when-required-jaishankar-101615830770390.html
16-03-2021||India||3 feet just as safe as 6 for physical distancing: Study||Maintaining six feet of social distancing is unlikely to be more or less safe than keeping a distance of 3 feet, especially in schools, according to a study covering over 500,000 students and close to 100,000 staff in the United States, which recommends that the lower requirement could help bring more children back to school.In a study published in the Clinical Infectious Diseases last week, researchers from Boston-based medical research institutes compared infection trends in 251 school districts in Massachusetts. They found that the risk of being infected with Covid-19 did not show any statistical difference when rules mandated three-feet social distancing or six-feet social distancing.“Increasing physical distancing requirements from 3 to 6 feet in school settings is not associated with a reduction in SARS-CoV-2 cases among students or staff, provided other mitigation measures, such as universal masking, are implemented,” said the study, published on March 10. The findings are significant in a country like India where authorities are slowly opening up schools. Schools in India were shut for one of the longest stretches of time compared to anywhere in the world, with learning moving online for those who had the means and access.“Our study adds to the literature as we were able to directly compare the impact of different physical distancing policies while controlling for other important mitigation measures, notably universal masking among staff and near universal masking among students, including close in younger grades,” said the study, while adding that “lower physical distancing recommendation can be adopted in school settings without negatively impacting safety”.The authors also noted that this could help where school infrastructure is not adequate to ensure 6 feet distancing. “The practical implication of a 6 feet of distancing recommendation is that many schools are unable to open for full-in person learning, or at all, due to physical limitations of school infrastructure. This is particularly true in public school districts, which are unable to limit the number of students enrolled, compared to private schools, which have been able to more successfully open with 6 feet of distance between individuals,” they said.While there were large differences in the absolute numbers of infections seen in the two different types of social distancing settings, they were not statistically significant when the researchers adjusted for community transmission levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-feet-just-as-safe-as-6-for-physical-distancing-study-101615830470354.html
16-03-2021||India||'Blood clotting events not related to vaccine': Astrazeneca||Following concerns over thrombotic (blood clotting) events in certain beneficiaries after receiving vaccine shots, pharmaceutical major AstraZeneca said Monday that a review of at least 17 million individuals, who have been administered its Covid-19 vaccine, suggested that the vaccine was safe for use.In a statement, the company said that the blood clotting events were not related to the vaccine, AZD1222.“AstraZeneca would like to offer its reassurance on the safety of its Covid-19 vaccine based on clear scientific evidence. Safety is of paramount importance and the Company is continually monitoring the safety of its vaccine,” the statement said.After blood clotting events and one death were reported in Denmark, eight countries — Norway, Iceland, Austria, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Italy, and Latvia —temporarily suspended use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine as a precautionary measure.“A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and UK with Covid-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism (pulmonary artery blockage due to blood clotting, deep vein thrombosis (blood clot in vein) or thrombocytopenia (low platelets), in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country,” the company statement said.According to the data reported to the company as on March 8, across the EU and the UK, there have been 15 events of deep vein thrombosis and 22 events of pulmonary embolism among those administered the vaccine. According to AstraZeneca, this is much lower than the expected occurrence in a population of this size and is similar across other licensed vaccines.“Around 17 million people in the EU and UK have now received our vaccine, and the number of cases of blood clots reported in this group is lower than the hundreds of cases that would be expected among the general population...,” said the AstraZeneca’s chief medical officer Ann Taylor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-clotting-events-not-related-to-vaccine-astrazeneca-101615830410357.html
16-03-2021||India||Allowed limited Covid vaccine export: Govt||Only such quantity of Covid-19 vaccines that is beyond the manpower and infrastructural facilities available in India for the administration of doses was being sent to foreign countries, the Union government submitted in the Supreme Court on Monday.The government also defended its decision to vaccinate those above 60, and between 45 and 59 with 20 identified comorbidities, holding that the prioritisation was based on a legitimate pandemic response system and to minimise mortality in the most vulnerable groups. The simultaneous vaccination of all the citizens without any priority classification, the government told SC, would lead to “commotion” and “flouting of the social distancing guidelines” which would defeat the purpose of the entire exercise.In an affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation (PIL), the government said that the vaccination drive needed sufficient number of medical staff, as well as infrastructural facilities such as hospitals and primary health centres across various states.Maintaining that number of vaccines at India’s disposal would never be equal or proportionate to the available manpower and infrastructural facilities in the country, the affidavit stated: “The produced vaccine, which is beyond the manpower and infrastructural facilities available, is exported.”It highlighted that “the Government of India has allowed only limited export of vaccines while according high priority to domestic needs”, in response to a contention in the PIL that vaccines were being sent to other countries while restricting the jabs for the citizens of India by creating subgroups.A total of 7.6 crore vaccines have been provided by the Centre to states and UTs till date.Stressing that any subclassification based on profession or trade would not be in the interest of the nation and the vaccination drive, the government rejected a demand by petitioner Arvind Singh to include judges, judicial staff, and lawyers, in the priority category for the administration of Covid-19 vaccines.It noted that lawyers could not be classified as “frontline workers” only because they work for others because there were several other classes of citizens who could also be contributing to the society in similar ways. About 2.1 crore people have been vaccinated in India between January 16 and March 6.On February 16, the court had issued a notice to the Centre on Singh’s petition.Transfer all cases to SC: SII and Bharat BiotechSenior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi also appeared in the matter on behalf of the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech Ltd respectively, to complain against a similar case being heard by the Delhi high court.Salve told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that the high court had been seeking various details as regards to production of the vaccines etc. He said that it would be in the fitness of things that the SC transferred to itself the proceedings pending before the high court so that the issues could be examined at one forum. Fixing the matter on March 18, the bench said that it would also consider the transfer petitions by the vaccine manufacturers on that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allowed-limited-covid-vaccine-export-govt-101615830351632.html
16-03-2021||India||In Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray’s repeated encounters with crises||In November 2019, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray formed a coalition government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress after parting ways with long-time ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In his 15-month tenure as chief minister of Maharashtra, Thackeray has faced many crises, the latest being the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with an explosive-laden SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house last month. The case, which is also related to the mysterious death of a Thane-based businessman linked to the SUV, led to ruckus in the House while it was in session with leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis seeking Vaze’s arrest. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Authority (NIA), a central agency that falls under the Union home ministry, took over the investigation of the explosives case. This situation follows close on the heels of the Covid-19 healthcare crisis.Here’s a look at some of the fires that Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government has had to face:Covid-19 pandemicBarely four months after he took over as chief minister, Thackeray had to face an unprecedented health crisis in the form of the Covid-19 pandemic. With international travellers coming in large numbers through Mumbai airport, it did not take much time for Mumbai to see a significant rise of Covid-19 cases. By May 2020, Mumbai and Maharashtra emerged as major hot spots of Covid-19. With limited administrative experience and limited resources at his disposal, Thackeray faced an uphill task.The first few months of the pandemic saw the situation worsen as droves of migrant workers left the city despite a nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre on March 25. Inadequate health infrastructure meant that the sharp spike in cases began to stretch the hospitals and the healthcare workers to their limit. The Covid-19 trajectory in the city peaked at an average of 2,268 new cases a day for the week ending October 3, but by then, the city and the state had a game plan in place. Jumbo Covid centres were built; a three-tier system of hospitals and care was created; testing numbers increased and remained consistently high at a state-level. Mumbai gradually began to lift curbs since June 2020 under its “Mission Begin Again”, even amid the first wave. On February 1, Mumbai resumed local train services for all, its biggest unlock measure, but since then, fresh cases have been on the rise, causing authorities to bring back a slew of measures, including sealing buildings and tightening quarantine norms.Thackeray’s election to state legislatureIt was something never seen in state politics. Thackeray, who was not a member of either House of the state legislature, needed to get elected to the assembly or the council within six months of taking oath as chief minister. When he took over, Thackeray had planned to enter the upper house of state legislature by way of election in which legislators were to elect nine members of the council. Since the election could not be held due to Covid lockdown and Thackeray had to get elected by May 27, 2020, the state cabinet requested Governor BS Koshyari to nominate the chief minister as a member to legislative council as one such position was vacant. Koshyari, however, did not accept the recommendation despite two requests by the state cabinet. Failure to get elected could have become a political crisis for Thackeray.Finally, he had to put in a request with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after which Koshyari asked the Election Commission to hold pending election for nine vacant posts in the upper house. Thackeray was elected unopposed along with others on May 14, 2020.Run-ins with the GovernorFriction between Raj Bhavan and the Thackeray government has been a constant feature of this government’s tenure. It began with Koshyari’s position on Thackeray’s election. In the past year, Koshyari has publicly expressed his unhappiness over the state’s action against journalist Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut. There was also a bitter exchange of letters between Thackeray and him over a delay in reopening temples in the state. The Governor wrote to the CM on October 12, asking why temples were not being reopened and even asked him: “Have your turned secular?” Thackeray wrote back saying he would do what was in the interest of the people. The state government allowed reopening of temples after a little over a month, from November 16.Also Read | Maharashtra CM announces a memorial at August Kranti MaidanKoshyari also rejected state government’s decision not to hold university examinations due to Covid-19. Last month, Thackeray’s office did not give Koshyari permission to use state government’s plane to fly to Uttarakhand. Koshyari had to take a commercial flight. The Governor has still not cleared a list of 12 persons to be nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature despite repeated requests by the government. The list was submitted to the Governor on November 6, 2020, and the issue remains a contentious one.Palghar and Sushant Singh Rajput Two cases became major controversies for the Thackeray government. In April 2020, a mob in a village in Palghar district lynched two religious figures and a man driving them, on the suspicion of being child-lifters, according to the local police. The BJP, however, alleged that the attack was communally motivated. The government handed over the case to Criminal Investigation Department of the state police. Home minister Anil Deshmukh also announced that 101 persons were arrested in the case. Action was also taken against 18 police personnel for dereliction of duty and their departmental inquiry is on.In case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June 2020, BJP MP and former CM Narayan Rane said Rajput was murdered and the government was trying to save the culprits. BJP legislator Ram Kadam alleged that the government was ignoring the drug mafia that had links to Bollywood which could be a significant aspect of mystery surrounding Rajput’s death. The apex court handed over the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation, which has not reached any conclusion as yet. Both cases saw a social media offensive against Thackeray.Sena minister forced to resignSena leader Sanjay Rathod became the first minister of the MVA government to resign February 28, following a controversy. It was over the death of a 23-year old woman who allegedly died by suicide in Pune on February 8. Soon, a bunch of audio clips went viral and BJP leader Chitra Wagh demanded that the police find out if one of the persons in the tapes was forest minister Rathod.Also Read | Spate of criminal cases puts Maharashtra govt in tight spot, leaders wary of imageThough Thackeray was not keen to take action against his minister initially, he had to order the latter to step down as the issue became bigger and NCP chief Sharad Pawar advised the CM to take action to minimise damage to the MVA government’s image. Rathod comes from Banjara community which has strong presence in some parts of the state. The delay on part of Thackeray to take action against Rathod gave enough ammunition to the Opposition to target him.The Munde matter Dhananjay Munde, the nephew of late Gopinath Munde, joined the NCP after his uncle picked cousin Pankaja as the political heir. He was made the social justice minister in the Thackeray government. On January 11, in a letter to the city police commissioner, a woman accused him of rape. Denying the allegations, Munde said that he was in a relationship with the woman’s sister with whom he also had two children. He escaped the axe as two leaders, from BJP and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, came forward and alleged that the same woman had blackmailed them in the past. The woman eventually withdrew her allegations.Speaker’s electionThackeray faces another challenge — the election of the Speaker of the Assembly. Following Congress’s decision to make former Speaker Nana Patole its state unit president, the post is now vacant. On February 16, Governor Koshyari asked the government to hold the election. Thackeray chose not to hold the same during the crucial budget session that was held between March 1 and 10. His alliance partner Congress — which has the Speaker’s post — is not happy and wants the election early while NCP is not keen on the same. There is no time limit to hold the election.Aarey Colony and Metro car shedOn October 11, 2020, Thackeray announced that he was scrapping the controversial car shed for Metro 3 line of Mumbai Metro network at Aarey Milk Colony, one of the few remaining green spaces in Mumbai. Instead, the Metro depot would be built at Kanjurmarg, he announced. On December 17, the Bombay high court stayed the state’s move to transfer 102 acres of land at Kanjurmarg for the construction of car shed. The court stayed the transfer on a petition by the Central Government which claimed the ownership of the land. Not only has this delayed the project, it is also an embarrassment for the governmentAlso Read | ‘Local issue,’ says Sharad Pawar on Vaze’s arrest; criticises Governor KoshyariThe state government had declared that the plot belongs to it and it made more sense to have an integrated car shed for multiple Metro lines at Kanjurmarg. Thackeray had announced that the plan was better than the Devendra Fadnavis-led government’s move to build a car shed at Aarey Colony. The government is yet to solve the tangle.Economy contraction The Covid lockdown has affected Maharashtra’s economy. The revenue of the state is expected to fall sharply by ₹57,959 crore, while the estimated revenue in 2020-21 was ₹347,457 crore. The state’s economic survey has predicted a negative 8% fall of state economy in 2020-21. The industry and services sectors that contribute heavily to state’s revenue are expected to show negative growth at -11.3% and - 9% respectively. The state’s debt is estimated to be ₹538,304 crore in 2020-21. Meanwhile, the state government is awaiting about ₹50,000 crore from the Centre on account of GST compensation, devolution in central taxes and allocation for centrally funded schemes. Reviving the state’s economy will be a tough challenge for Thackeray. Since the central government is not exactly friendly with the MVA government, there will be more trouble for Thackeray if he doesn’t get Central funding in time.Antilia scare An abandoned vehicle with 200 gelatine sticks found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia has turned into a political fight, with the BJP accusing the MVA of shielding a police officer who is implicated in the case. The MVA government responded by creating a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death by suicide of a Dadra and Nagar Haveli legislator, who named a former BJP legislator in a suicide note. In the current case, Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the vehicle found outside Antilia on February 25, was found dead 10 days later. Sachin Vaze, the cop, has been defended by Shiv Sena leaders. On Sunday, he was remanded to NIA custody. BJP leaders are demanding that Vaze’s links with Shiv Sena leaders should be probed. Former chief minister Narayan Rane has demanded President’s rule in the state. Chief minister Thackeray has maintained silence on the issue for the past couple of days. This issue may turn into one of his biggest challenges yet.Political analyst Hemant Desai said: “Rarely any chief minister of the state has faced one crisis after another as faced by Uddhav Thackeray. He has not shown the political acumen needed to counter an aggressive opposition like BJP. Besides, there is a clear lack of coordination among the three partners of the ruling MVA which is seen in the government’s scattered response to different problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-s-repeated-encounters-with-crises-101615797530112.html
16-03-2021||Today's||The story of Kathmandu’s long quest for deeper engagement with Beijing||In December 1975, as relations between the United States (US) and the People’s Republic of China (PRC) began to normalise, Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping had a long conversation with American President Gerald Ford about the state of affairs in South Asia. Sikkim had been annexed by India a few months previously, and Ford asked Deng whether Nepal faced any similar threats from India. Deng replied, ‘Nepal itself feels the threat, but at the moment there are no indications that India will make open military actions… I believe that you can do more things with Nepal… We have established good relations with Nepal — we have mutual confidence — but what we can do is quite limited. Perhaps things will get better when our railroad into Tibet is accomplished.’The Qinghai-Tibet Railway (QTR) opened its line to Lhasa in 2006, almost three decades to the day Deng spoke presciently about China’s role in Nepal. But as much as the Lhasa-Kathmandu Highway in the 1960s signalled the PRC’s intention to overcome the “magnificent frontier”, as Jawaharlal Nehru termed the Himalaya in his famous 1950 speech to the Indian Parliament, the QTR did much more to smoothen the path for China into Nepal. For, immediately Nepali policymakers began to believe a train could eventually make its way from Lhasa to Kathmandu. By 2008, Nepal had requested China to extend the line from Shigatse to the border, which a high-ranking Chinese official at the time called “a beautiful dream in Nepali hearts”. Nonetheless, China’s new infrastructure capabilities in the Himalaya had made it clear to Nepal that Beijing could finally be the alternative to Delhi — politically and economically — as Kathmandu had long sought. In the past few years, there has been an intense scrutiny of China’s new presence in Nepal at the cost of Indian influence. Chinese investments have increased in the country, with China now the largest foreign investor. There is also increased people-to-people contact, with a growing number of Nepalis now studying in China and Chinese tourists visiting the country. Further, China was said to have encouraged the merger of two major communist forces into a unified Nepal Communist Party (NCP), now disbanded by the Supreme Court. The NCP had established formal relations with the Chinese Communist Party, and had also decided to train its cadres in “Xi Jinping Thought”.Such extensive bonhomie was said to have been motivated by what Nepal views as the “unofficial” Indian blockade in 2015, when Kathmandu determined it was essential to break free of India’s economic stranglehold over Nepal. Similarly, when the 2020 border dispute broke out, senior Indian officials appeared to suggest that Nepal had protested at the behest of China (without explaining that the roots of the dispute go back much further). In November 2020, as prime minister KP Oli faced intense opposition within his party, Delhi signalled it was willing to do business by sending several high-ranking dignitaries to Kathmandu, and then inviting the foreign minister to minister-level talks despite Oli disbanding the Parliament. It seemed India had once again taken the lead in Nepal, with China’s focus on the NCP blinding it to the turbulence of domestic Nepali politics. However, this kind of reading misses the point entirely, focusing merely on short-term outcomes. For, as I suggest in my new book All Roads Lead North, a closer reading of history will show Nepal has long desired to break free of the “special relationship” it has with India — which is read alternatively in Kathmandu as an encroachment of Nepal’s sovereignty as well as Delhi putting its weight behind Nepali political actors it deems amenable to its interests. China’s own limitations in the Himalaya had prevented it from becoming the alternative to India in the country. Until now. With its new push towards infrastructure, however, and the decision to invest nearly $30 billion in Tibet in the new five-year-plan (which includes bringing the Tibet train to Gyirong, at the border with Nepal), it seems such limitations are a remnant of the past. Amish Raj Mulmi is an editor and commentator, and the author of All Roads Lead North: Nepal’s Turn to ChinaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-story-of-kathmandu-s-long-quest-for-deeper-engagement-with-beijing-101615901641447.html
16-03-2021||Today's||Time to send a strong message to Britain||Britain’s hope after Brexit — to be a Global Britain, Global Broker, as outlined in a Chatham House report — reflects both its diminished status and its imperial nostalgia. Britain is assuming that its membership of the European Union (EU) constrained its global role, which it now can play, and that Britain has enough weight and credibility in the international system to mediate differences among countries and assist in finding solutions to vexed contemporary issues. No doubt Britain is still a major power, but global economic and political power have steadily shifted towards Asia. Britain has limited political, economic or military weight in this area that is dominated by China, Japan, South Korea, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), and, increasingly, India. On regional security issues that are now primary strategic concerns of the United States (US), whether in the South and East China Seas, North Korea, Taiwan, Indo-Pacific or Quad, Britain is a minor or absent player. China’s Hong Kong grab has also exposed the limits of Britain’s power.Being a “Global Broker” goes beyond commissions for financial brokerages. Britain has to be seen as politically unbiased. In our region, it still bats for Pakistan because of an unshed historical attachment to that country. Its claimed superior understanding of Afghanistan from its imperial past has contributed to a befuddled US Afghan policy. Britain has always favoured accommodating the Taliban. All this has been at India’s expense, including its position on the Kashmir issue. This reality goes beyond government and is reflected in its parliament, media and think-tanks. It allows demonstrations against our high commission in London by a combination of Sikh separatists and Kashmiri elements with the connivance of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Britain’s intelligence agencies are well aware of the background of the agitators but, despite our repeated official representations, these “peaceful protests” are permitted time and again for vote-bank politics and to maintain some heat on India on its internal affairs.The recent debate in the British parliament on the farm protest shows why Britain’s status as “broker” will be suspect in India. Out of the 27 petitions presented for debate, many were more pressing but this petition was given priority. Human rights was chosen to justify the parliamentary discussion on the specious ground that this universal issue did not amount to foreign interference in India’s internal affairs. The statements of the Members of Parliament (MPs), barring one honourable exception, with large Sikh and Pakistanis in their constituencies, contain glaring factual distortions in which Jeremy Corbyn, a former Labour Party chief, excelled.If individual parliamentarians need to nourish their constituencies even at the cost of their credibility beyond that circle, the British government, through its Minister of State for Asia, Nigel Adams, needed to act more responsibly in the interest of ties between India and the United Kingdom (UK). Instead, he welcomed the petition, endorsed the propaganda against the Indian government and did not correct the obvious distortions. He praised the offensive interventions of some MPs, failed to snub a Pakistani-origin MP who made outrageous remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and instead of roundly dismissing it, gave an equivocal response to an MP who spoke about evoking sanctions against India for human rights abuses. He patronisingly lectured India on abiding by its Constitution and international agreements, and spoke of serious and specific concerns that Britain will raise during Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit. While paying lip service to the farm protests as Indian’s internal affair, Adam’s intervention attempted to carve out space for Britain as a “friend” to intrude into our internal matters. This is incongruous with British efforts to establish a new framework of ties with India post-Brexit.The British high commissioner in Delhi was rightly summoned to lodge a protest but that may not be enough to close the matter. Some conclusions have to be drawn about the British mindset towards India that assumes that its provocations can be cost-free. Britain has become a safe haven for fugitives from Indian justice. Of the 23 requests for extraditions made over 26 years, only one individual wanted in one of 2002 Gujarat riot cases has been extradited, with others have sunk into the dark hole of Britain’s legal system.Post-Brexit, Global Britain has to get its Asia policy right. For that, it has to get its India policy right. For it to be a credible Global Broker, honesty is a prerequisite. The parliamentary debate was an unwise move in the background of plans to launch a 10-year road map for expanded India-UK ties during Johnson’s visit to India. Raising the human rights issue with India is a double-edged sword given Britain’s own past and present record. Johnson himself is regarded positively in India as one genuinely committed to expanded India-UK ties in mutual interest. Let us see what he can do to get rid of the debris that still clings to India-UK ties from Britain’s colonial past.Kanwal Sibal is a former foreign secretaryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/time-to-send-a-strong-message-to-britain-101615901581762.html
16-03-2021||Editorials||The persistence of identity politics | HT Editorial||A cursory look at the state of political play in states heading for assembly polls throws up a common thread — the persistence of identity politics, on the axis of religion and caste. In Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hoping to ensure a substantial degree of Hindu consolidation, often through micro-caste management and co-option of marginalised groups. The Trinamool Congress is hoping to win over Muslim support, while making a targeted outreach to Hindu sub-groups. In Assam, the salience of identity politics, particularly on the outsider-insider axis, remains deeply entrenched. In Tamil Nadu, even as the ruling National Democratic Alliance combine hopes to win over the support of Hindu sub-castes through social engineering, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led alliance is hoping to create its social coalition of backward communities, Dalits and Muslims. In Kerala, it is the balance between Hindus-Muslims-Christians, and the balance within Hindus, that will play a key role in shaping the electoral outcome.To be sure, this is not the whole story of the elections. Issues such as the performance of the state government, welfare schemes, governance promises of an Opposition party, the interplay of urbanisation, mobility, migration and enhanced aspiration of citizens across castes, the role of media and social media, the popularity of local candidates, and the organisational strength of various forces in competition play an important role. But it is remarkable that identity — which is determined by where one is born — remains so central in both the calculus of political parties and of voters.For politicians, it is much easier to appeal to group identities, when group identities serve as the basis for social organisation, to consolidate their base and polarise. For voters, access to power, often, depends on whether a member of one’s own group is the directly elected representative who can ensure services to constituents belonging to that caste group, or if a party that is broadly sensitive to one’s group interests is in power. This leads to a vicious cycle — where both politicians and voters develop incentives in perpetuating this pattern. This form of politics defeats the idea of treating each voter as an individual citizen and reinforces narrow identities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-persistence-of-identity-politics-hteditorial-101615901642810.html
