17-03-2021||Mumbai||EAC did not consider our objections on Mumbai coastal road clearance: Green group||The Conservation Action Trust (CAT), a city-based non-profit environment group, wrote to the Union environment ministry on Wednesday, objecting to the amended Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearance for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) coastal road (south Mumbai), that were recommended by a Central expert committee.HT had reported, on March 17, that the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) expert appraisal committee (EAC) for CRZ clearances has approved an amendment in the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance granted to the contentious infrastructure project. Once ratified by the Centre, this approval will give legal sanctity to the BMC’s move to reclaim an additional 21 hectares (ha) of land for a stretch of coastal road between Marine Lines and Worli. The CAT’s letter, authored by executive trustee Debi Goenka, states, “The proposed amendment to the coastal road project (south Mumbai) was discussed at the 257th EAC CRZ meeting held on March 5, 2021. We had submitted our representation to the committee on March 4, 2021. We had also requested that we be heard by the EAC. The minutes of the meeting of 257th EAC (CRZ) do not record any of the concerns reflected in our written representation and written submissions submitted to MCZMA, MoEFCC, and EAC. We were not given an opportunity to be heard.”The CAT is currently one among at least four petitioners that have opposed the coastal road project in the Bombay high court, on grounds that it will lead to widespread ecological destruction and loss of marine biodiversity along Mumbai’s coastline. The CAT has also maintained that the project will benefit only a small section of the city’s population and that it will not be able to solve the city’s traffic woes, which is one of its main objectives. These points, among several other contentions, have been detailed in their representation dated March 4, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.Goenka’s letter, dated March 17, also states that “many members of the MCZMA were not present for the meeting” held on October 2020, when the Authority was to hear citizens’ concerns during its 147th meeting. Moreover, Goenka points out that the additional municipal commissioner and deputy chief engineer of MCGM “attended the meeting as members of the authority instead of recusing themselves because of the conflict of interest.”A member of the EAC, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The committee has followed due process. As far as the petitioner’s letter is concerned, I have not seen it yet. It would be best to direct any enquiries to the recipients of the letter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eac-did-not-consider-our-objections-on-mumbai-coastal-road-clearance-green-group-101616005510880.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||TRP scam: ED attaches assets worth ₹32 crore of 3 channels||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached movable and immovable assets worth ₹32 crore belonging to three channels; Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema and Maha Movies channels, in connection with the television rating points (TRP) scam, a senior ED officer confirmed.The properties are in the form of land, commercial and residential units in Mumbai, Indore, Delhi and Gurgaon and balances in bank account totalling ₹32 crore. Investigations have revealed that the proceeds of crime for these channels is to the tune of ₹46 crore, said an ED officer. ED’s investigation is based on the first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai Police. Probe in the money laundering aspect of the case has revealed that People Meters/devices also called bar-o-meters were installed at certain places/households (approximately 1,800 in Mumbai and 44,000 in India in total) on a proportionate basis to mimic the viewership pattern of 197 million households in India for capturing viewership of various channels of different genres and languages in selected homes to calculate the TRP.These bar-o-meters are installed for Broadcast Audio Research Council by Hansa (BARC decides the household, where the bar-o-meter is to be installed and the installation is handled by a third party agency - Hansa Research Group Limited), employees (relationship managers).TRP enables advertisers to understand the viewership pattern of the channels. TRP becomes an important basis on which advertisement is allocated to any channel and determines the revenue generation of a television channel. Thus, manipulation of TRP becomes a tool for generating greater advertisement revenue.The investigation further revealed that television channels namely Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema and Maha Movie, had entered into a criminal conspiracy to cheat and committed the offence of criminal breach of trust, forgery to gain wrongfully by manipulating TRPs of these television channels. Thus, by fraudulently enhancing the TRP ratings, these channels have garnered enhanced advertisement revenue. In two of these channels, just 5 compromised households were contributing to approximately 25% of the viewership of Mumbai for the relevant period and in the third channel, 5 compromised households were contributing to approx. 12 % of viewership of Mumbai.Accordingly, the movable and immovable properties of the channel’s owners/entities have been attached to the tune of ₹32 crore against the total proceeds of crime to the tune of ₹46.77 crore generated during the manipulation period of TRP of the channels under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.Mumbai police have so far arrested 14 accused in the case including the chief executing officer, BARC, Partho Das Gupta and distribution head of Republic Television. Mumbai crime branch has already charge-sheeted some of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-scam-ed-attaches-assets-worth-32-crore-of-3-channels-101616005331354.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Domestic help held for burglary at sculptor’s house||Noida: Noida Police arrested two men from Gurugram in connection with a burglary at renowned sculptor Ram Sutar’s house in sector 19 on March 9. The stolen goods too were recovered.One of the suspects was a cook that the family had hired through an agency on March 3. According to police, he had stolen ₹25 lakh, jewellery and the sculptor’s Padma Bhushan medallion and other national medals.“The same agency had provided us the previous cook as well. Due to a family issue, that person had to quit and the agency provided us with Madan Mohan Das who robbed us. Police has recovered all the goods and most of the money,” said Sameer Sutar, Ram’s grandson who was the complainant in the case.Aling with Das, police arrested a man named Lokesh, who, police said, Das had met while in Haryana’s Bhondsi jail.“They are a part of a larger gang. They associate themselves with agencies and e-portals and take on domestic jobs as cooks or servants. As soon as they get a chance, they burgle the houses and decamp with valuables. Then they join their accomplices in a different city where they carry out a similar crime,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police officials said that one of their accomplices worked in a house in Bengaluru.“We are working on apprehending that person also and others associated with them. Das had planned to use the stolen money to purchase mines in Orissa after the heist in Bengaluru,” said Singh.Police said that the suspects used ₹2.5 lakh to purchase new clothes, phones and pay off their debts.Das also has an attempt to murder case from Odisha on him. Police is investigating other crimes committed by the suspects.In order to blend in and get jobs quickly, the suspects were proficient in over 10 languages including English, Odiya and Marathi, among others.They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/domestic-help-held-for-burglary-at-sculptor-s-house-101616004910894.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Skeleton found in Noida house||A human skeleton were found inside a house in D Block of Noida’s sector 26 on Tuesday evening.According to neighbours, the owners of the house had been living in Delhi for the last few years.“A caretaker visits the house once in a while but otherwise, it is unoccupied. Someone had come yesterday to check the house that is when the skeleton was found,” said Govind Sharma, a resident in the area.He said neighbours had not reported any disturbance or foul smell from the house recently. “It is a complete human skeleton and we have sent it for an autopsy. A detailed report may throw some light on the identity of the person. Our forensic team also examined the area thoroughly and are continuing their investigation,” said additional commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.He said that the body had been thoroughly decomposed and only the bones were found. From the condition in which the remains were found, police suspect that the death had occurred within the house.“The house had been vacant for a long time. It is possible that some squatter took residence in the house and probably died there. But we are keeping all angles open for now and a probe is underway,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/skeleton-found-in-noida-house-101616004910187.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Sunder Bhati gang members held for extortion attempt||Noida: A father-son duo associated with the Sunder Bhati gang was arrested on Wednesday for threatening and attempting to extort money from a scrap dealer, police said.According to police, the victim, Deepak Awana, has a contract to pick up scrap from a multinational manufacturing company in Sector 81. Awana had approached the Phase 2 police on Tuesday alleging that he was contacted by several men who threatened him to either hand over the company’s contract to them or pay ₹50,000 to them as a sort of protection money. The demand was carried out in the name of the Sunder Bhati gang, police said. The suspects were identified as Gambhir Bhati and his son Yogesh Bhati, residents of Bisrakh. Police said that they are prominent members of the Bhati gang and are known for extorting money and taking over scrap contracts forcefully.“Following the businessman’s complaint, action was taken immediately and the duo was arrested today morning from near the Kulesra border on Dadri road and a car used by them was also recovered,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.Following the complaint, a case was registered against three named and an unnamed persons at the Phase 2 police station under sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The suspects have several cases of extortion against them since 2018. Their modus operandi involved threatening businessmen and demanding protection money in the name of Sunder Bhati, said police.The duo was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sunder-bhati-gang-members-held-for-extortion-attempt-101616004550650.html
17-03-2021||Noida||2 cattle smugglers held in Greater Noida||Noida: The Greater Noida police arrested two cattle smugglers on Tuesday night after an encounter in the Knowledge Park area. The suspects were identified as Chaman, 25, and Nazim, 26 — both residents of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh.The police had got a tip-off about the suspects’ movement near Jaypee Aman in Sector 151, said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.“When a police team from the Knowledge Park police station signalled the suspects to stop their Honda City car near Jaypee Aman, the suspects opened fire at them and tried to escape,” Singh said.The police team chased the suspects and stopped them. “During the exchange of fire, Chaman suffered an injury in the leg, while Nazim managed to escape. Nazim was later arrested during a combing exercise,” the DCP added.Chaman and Nazim have admitted to their involvement in cattle smuggling in the area. They were wanted in six cases of cattle smuggling, registered under the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955. Earlier, the Noida police had announced a cash reward of ₹25,000 for their arrest.Police have recovered a country-made gun, a rope, a knife, and sedatives from their possession. “They were produced before a court, and sent to judicial custody,” Singh said.Greater Noida: Man held for robbing people at gunpoint on pretext of giving lift The Expressway police arrested a man, 30, following an encounter in Noida. The suspect, identified as Vikas, is a member of a gang that allegedly robbed people at gunpoint on the pretext of giving lifts, police said.Five other members of the gang were nabbed on March 14.Vikas, a resident of Khoda in Uttar Pradesh, who had a bounty of ₹25,000 on his head.“We had received a tip-off about his movement in the area. A police team stopped three men travelling in a car without a number plate, near the Jaypee Cut around 2 pm on Wednesday. They opened fire at the police and tried to escape. One of them was injured in a retaliatory firing and was arrested, while the other two managed to escape. Police have seized the vehicle,” said Yatendra Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Expressway police station.Vikas was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-cattle-smugglers-held-in-greater-noida-101616004551294.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Noida’s air quality slips to ‘very poor’ category||NOIDA: The air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad has turned “very poor” after the dusty winds swiped the region, leading to a spike in the pollution levels.As Noida saw “very poor” air quality for the first time in March, the weather department predicted that the situation would continue for a few more days.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) in Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was recorded at 328 against 259 on Tuesday. The AQI in Greater Noida was 369 against 313 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 364 on Wednesday against 291 on Tuesday.An AQI up to 100 is considered “good”, between 101 and 200 is “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 is “very poor”, and above 400 is considered “severe”.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may improve slightly, but will remain within the “very poor” category. Noida saw a maximum and minimum temperatures of 34.4° Celsius and 18.7° Celsius on Wednesday, against 29.3° and 18.7° Celsius on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-air-quality-slips-to-very-poor-category-101616004549984.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Man arrested for posting female friend’s photo ends life in jail||A 22-year-old man arrested on Monday for allegedly posting an objectionable photo of his female friend on social media, allegedly killed himself on Tuesday in Luksar jail. The man was arrested on Monday after the woman’s family filed a complaint in Sector 39 police. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.Satya Prakash, jailer, said, “He appeared sad over the incident. On Tuesday morning, he talked to his father on the official telephone. After a while, he was found hanging.”At the Noida district hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. Prakash said that a judicial inquiry has been ordered into the matter. The man is a native of Bihar and worked at a private company in Noida Phase 2 and lived in Bhangel.Azad Singh Tomar, SHO Sector 39 police station, said that a case was filed against him on Sunday. “He was booked under Section 67 of IT Act for allegedly circulating objectionable photographs of a 19-year-old friend after her family fixed her marriage with someone else,” he said.The woman’s mother filed a complaint against him alleging he had approached her daughter sometime back. “When he found out that we fixed up her marriage elsewhere, he started harassing her. He circulated objectionable photographs of my daughter on social media platforms,” she said.The SHO said that the man’s family has not filed any complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-posting-female-friend-s-photo-ends-life-in-jail-101616004490594.html
17-03-2021||Other||Delhi riots: Man who complained about loot at his house made accused in the same case||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Wednesday termed it “an apparent absurdity” that a man in the north east Delhi riots, who had complained to the police about the damage and loot of his house during the north east Delhi riots, had subsequently made an accused in the case by the police after his complaint was clubbed with another complaint of one Naresh Chand.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav, while hearing the police’s review plea challenging the magistrate’s decision to register an FIR in the burning of the Madina Masjid during the north east Delhi riots in February last year, noted that the complainant Hashim Ali, was himself arrested.The court said that even though a DD entry is available on record with respect to the burning and desecration of the Madina Masjid on February 25, wherein Ali has named 15 persons as rioters, however, there is nothing on record with respect to the investigation conducted in case FIR No 55/2020 registered at PS Karawal Nagar which the police have claimed to register in the arson of the masjid.Ali filed two complaints with the police—one in connection to the burning of his house and the other was with respect to the burning of the Madina Masjid, Shiv Vihar.His first complaint was clubbed with the complaint of one Naresh Chand FIR-72/2020 and later a charge sheet was filed against him on February 2021 naming as an accused along with one Abu Bakar. Ali is out on bail in the matter.On Wednesday, the court said, “It is really strange that the complaint with regard to burning of house of respondent no 1 (Ali) was clubbed with the complaint of one Naresh Chand, being case FIR No 72/2020, PS Karawal Nagar and later on the respondent no 1 was arrested in the same matter, meaning thereby that he is not only complainant in the matter,but also an accused, which is an apparent absurdity.”The judge directed the DCP (north east) to file a report on the status of investigation in the case by March 25 while also asking the SHO of Police Station Karawal Nagar to remain present before it along with the investigation file and case diaries of the matter related to the mosque.The court noted that the police did not inform the magistrate court that an FIR had already been registered in the mosque case on February 26, 2020.“A perusal of the impugned order dated February 1, 2021, passed by Metropolitan Magistrate (MM) clarifies that the issue involved in the matter is with regard to burning and desecration of ‘Madina Masjid’, Shiv Vihar, Delhi on February 25, 2020. As per the version of police, already an FIR No 55/2020, PS Karawal Nagar has been registered in this regard on February 26, 2020, but no such averment was made by the police before the MM. “ Since the issue involved in this case is with regard to Madina Masjid, the specific complaint of complainant dated June 25, 2020 is on record, wherein he has named 15 persons as rioters, who had burnt and desecrated ‘Madina Masjid’; however, there is nothing on record with regard to investigation conducted in case FIR No 55/2020, PS Karawal Nagar in the matter,” it said.During the hearing, advocate MR Shamshad, appearing for Ali, had submitted that according to the police the FIR in the mosque attack case was registered in February last year but they had filed various status reports in the last six years before the magistrate court without disclosing it.Shamshad alleged that various wrong status reports were submitted before the magistrate court and the police disclosed the fact about the FIR exactly a year later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-riots-man-who-complained-about-loot-at-his-house-made-accused-in-the-same-case-101616004490046.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Protesters can build permanent structures at borders, says Naresh Tikait||Taking a stand contrary to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president on Wednesday said farmer protesters at the Delhi border sites could build permanent structures.“Summer is approaching, and houses are needed to protect farmers from heat when temperature peak to about 45 degrees Celsius. When our agitation ends, we will remove the structures,” said Naresh Tikait, the BKU president, while addressing a mahapanchayat on UP Gate.The protesters had been building shelters using bamboo, tin, plywood and even bricks at the Tikri and Singhu borders over the last two weeks to beat the summer heat and rain.On Sunday, the SKM had called on its followers not to build the structures and said alternatives would be offered. On Saturday, Kundli police had registered two FIRs against farmers for constructing brick and mortar houses and digging borewell along the highway at Kundli on the complaint of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).That is not all. Naresh Tikait’s speech also countered what younger brother and BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said Tuesday on blocking the Delhi-Noida border“We have no intention to block the roads. It may have been said but we will talk over this issue. The roads should be open, and we don’t want to trouble commuters. Even the road (Delhi Meerut Expressway) was barricaded by the police and they opened it on their own,” Naresh Tikait said. The traffic movement resumed at the Noida-Delhi Chilla border on the night of January 27 after BKU’s Bhanu faction called off their strike and removed their tents and belongings from the protest site. Over the issue of deadlock in talks with the government, he said that if Satya Pal Malik, the present Governor of Meghalaya, is given a chance for mediation, farmers would welcome the move. Malik on Sunday said that the Centre should accept one of their (farmers’) demands of writing minimum support price (MSP) into law and advised it against using the might of the state against the protesting farmers. Malik was addressing a gathering at Sheelchand Inter College in Aminagar Sarai town of his native district Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. He also said that he had written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah about the ongoing farmers’ agitation, but it remained unresolved. He also said that he opposed the arrest of farmers and advised the government not to use force against them but ensure that they did not go back empty-handed. “Satyapal Malik ji is a good man, and he is also from a farmers’ family and knows the issues faced by farmers. We have good relations with him, and farmers liked the statements he made. If he is sent to mediate, we hope that issues can be resolved. Earlier we said that we are also ready to speak to Rajnath Singh ji (defence minister) if he initiates talks with us. But the major issue is that the government is having no effect and not listening to farmers,” Tikait added. The talks between the government and the farmers’ unions were held last on January 22 and deadlock has ensued since. The farmers are still stuck on their demand for repeal of three farm laws while the government last proposed staying of implementation of the laws for a period of one and half years. The situation also hit a major roadblock after the incidents of violence in Delhi on the Republic Day during the tractor rally carried out by the farmers. The Delhi police lodged various FIRs against farmers’ leaders including Rakesh Tikait but the farmers maintained that it was handy work of some “outsiders.” The farmers are camping at the UP-Gate since November 28 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/protesters-can-build-permanent-structures-at-borders-says-naresh-tikait-101616004371101.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Unable to connect to ambulance services, 32-year-old delivers twin daughters in public toilet, one dies later||On Tuesday evening, 37-year-old Darshan Kumar, a daily wager who lives in Barola area of Noida, was frantically making calls for an ambulance. His 32-year-old wife Parwati had gone into labour.“No one answered our calls,” said Kumar. The couple were in an auto-rickshaw heading to a government hospital in Ghaziabad. When the pain became unbearable, the vehicle stopped near the Vijay Nagar police station and Parwati rushed to a public toilet.“I was with her inside. I tried calling up the emergency numbers, 102 and 108, but sometimes the numbers were busy and at other times it did not connect,” said Kumar. The police at the station rushed to help the couple and even called an ambulance from a private hospital. In the toilet, at around 7pm, Parwati gave birth to twin girls.“We rushed the mother and children to Flores Hospital in Vijay Nagar,” said Mahavir Singh Chauhan, SHO of Vijay Nagar police station. While Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani congratulated his team on Twitter, Kumar’s troubles did not end. One of the newborns suffered complications. “Late night, she died. I took her body in an auto to Lal Kuan at around 6am (Wednesday). From there, I boarded a mini truck and reached Sikandrabad and then took a bus to Bulandshahr. From there I called up a few villagers who arrived on a bike and took us along,” said Kumar whose native village is Bansi Nagla near Vair, almost 58km from Ghaziabad. Taking an ambulance till there was too expensive.After performing the last rites for his daughter, he returned to Ghaziabad where his wife and daughter were still admitted. “The other child is still sick and admitted to neonatal intensive care unit. The mother is, however, stable,” said Dr Manoj Singh, managin director, Flores Hospital. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta said that he will conduct an inquiry into the incident. “The 102 and 108 government ambulance services are centralised and operated through a control room at Lucknow. However, I will conduct an inquiry about why the calls did not connect,” he added. When approached over the entire incident, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he will seek all details from the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/unable-to-connect-to-ambulance-services-32-year-old-delivers-twin-daughters-in-public-toilet-one-dies-later-101616004310423.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Land acquisition process for Phase-2 of Noida airport begins as state govt sanctions ₹2,890 crore||GREATER NOIDA: The process of land acquisition for the second phase of proposed Noida International Airport at Jewar has started as the Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday sanctioned ₹2,980 crore for the project, officials said.“As the funds have been sanctioned, we have sent a letter to the state government for issuance of notification for carrying out a social impact assessment survey of villages, where we need to acquire 1,365 hectares of land for second phase of airport project,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The state government is likely to select an agency soon that will carry out the social impact assessment (SIA) survey, the officials said. As per the provisions of the Land acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, the agency takes two to six months to carry out the survey.“Once the SIA is completed, the section 11 of the 2013 Act will be implemented inviting objections from the public. Then we will implement section 19, and subsequently compensation will be decided and distributed to land owners as per the rules,” said Singh.The work at the airport site will begin once the houses of the farmers are shifted from Nagla Ganeshi, Nagla Chhitar and Ranhera, among other villages, the officials said. “In first round, we allotted residential plots to 238 farmers of Nagla Ganeshi. Now, in the next round we will allot the residential plots to farmers of Nagla Chhitar so that they can shift into new houses in airport township in Jewar Bangar area,” said Singh.Meanwhile, the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) said that the development work of the airport township will be finished by the end of April. “The work on township is in full swing and the farmers have started shifting their houses,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.For the first phase of airport project, the district administration has handed over 1,334 hectares of land to Swiss company Zurich International AG that is likely to start the developmental work by June this year. The swiss firm wants to start operations in first phase by 2023-24, said Yeida officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/land-acquisition-process-for-phase-2-of-noida-airport-begins-as-state-govt-sanctions-2-890-crore-101616004250002.html
17-03-2021||Other||Plastic waste menace: Time for consumers to re-think buying habits||Plastic pollution has reached such alarming proportions that as consumers, we now need to demand accountability from manufacturers who use plastic for packaging their goods but refuse to take responsibility for the waste that they generate. We also need to re-think our buying habits vis-à-vis plastics.The urgent need for concerted consumer action also comes from the fact that in the last one year, Covid-19 has pushed up enormously our use of plastic. Besides face masks, gloves and PPEs, our consumption of sanitizers , home cleaning agents and a variety of disinfectants have gone up so substantially during the past year that it’s only added to the mountain of plastic debris that’s toxifying our land, air and our water resources. However, with most manufacturers paying only lip sympathy to the cause of environment and many civic bodies around the country failing to enforce stringently, even the not-so-stringent Plastic Waste Management Rules, consumers need to take a more active role in ensuring accountability from manufacturers. In fact the global federation of consumer organizations, Consumers International, has brought to the forefront the crucial role that consumers have to play in forcing corporate and government accountability, by declaring ‘Controlling Plastic Waste’ as the theme for this year’s World Consumer Rights’ Day..As a first step towards this, we need to demand mandatory label information on every packaging material and container that uses plastic. We must know whether they are recyclable or not and those that cannot be recycled should have no place in the market and consumers should boycott all such products..The mandatory label information requirements can be brought under the Legal Metrology (packaged Commodities) rules, so that it can be enforced by the consumer affairs ministries of state governments. Today, every package has to mention the consumer helpline. This helpline should also be used for answering consumer queries on the recycling programme of the manufacturer.The same rules should apply to e-commerce food platforms too. They must use recyclable packaging and take responsibility for recycling them or use biodegradable packing materials made from agricultural waste or plant fibres originating from banana, sugar cane, bamboo, wheat and such plants. According to ‘ The WasteProject,’ the online food delivery platforms are generating plastic waste of 11000 tonnes to 14000 tonnes per month. And most of it is said to be non-recyclable single use plasticManufacturers (and also retailers ) should also take full responsibility for collecting the packing material /empty pouches and bottles that they use, for recycling. Businesses in fact should use the same channels of distribution that they use to sell their products, to also collect recyclable materials from the consumer. And it should also become mandatory for every manufacturer to inform once in a quarter, either through advertisements or through the website, specific details on the quantity of plastic waste generated by them, collected , re-used and recycled. And consumer preference for goods --- be it cosmetics, fast moving consumer goods, processed foods, milk - should in future depend not only on the quality and safety of the product, but also on the environmental accountability of the manufacturer/service provider.Of course there is one area, where consumers too have to act more responsibly and that’s with respect to carry bags. While large shops can well afford to give inexpensive cloth bags without charging for it, consumers have to carry their own cloth bags when they buy vegetables or fruits from roadside vendors. According to government sources, per day generation of plastic waste in the country is about was 26,000 tonnes . Out of this only 60 per cent is collected and recycled. It’s time we stopped that 40 per cent from destroying our environment and killing us and our future generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plastic-waste-menace-time-for-consumers-to-re-think-buying-habits-101616004191199.html
17-03-2021||Noida||Prohibitory orders imposed in Ghaziabad till May 10 in wake of Covid situation||The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Wednesday issued prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in the district and also released a set of guidelines to be followed in wake of the rising Covid-19 situation. The orders will be effective till May 10.The directions reiterated that entry of people having symptoms will not be allowed at places like malls, multiplexes, schools, colleges, hotels and restaurants among others. The entry to such places will also not be allowed without face mask. “The directions have been issued keeping in mind the minor increase in cases and it is expected that people follow the guidelines in order to prevent any spread of infection. The prohibitory orders will be in place till May 10 and may further be extended depending on the prevailing situation,” said district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. The directions said that intervals of different film show in multiplexes, theatres will not be allowed to be taken up at the same time. “All the shop owners will wear face masks and gloves and sales will not be allowed to customers not adhering to Covid protocols. No customers will be allowed to eat food in sweet shops and shopkeepers will not be allowed to allow customers to eat at the premises. No festival-related activities will be allowed in the containment zones,” the order issued by the district magistrate, said. The people operating saloons and beauty parlours will not be allowed to operate without use of face shield and gloves. “People using two-wheelers, cabs, autos, e-rickshaws among others will not be allowed to travel without face masks and the operators will not be allowed to carry passengers beyond the requisite limit. There will be a ban on processions, rallies, immersion and melas, etc., and all the Covid protocols will be followed at religious places. There will be restriction to touch idols, religious books and the priests and devotees will not be allowed to touch each other,” the order further said. The order also said that maximum of 200 people will be allowed at funerals or cremation and all Covid-related protocols will be followed by those attending the event. “We are making all efforts to spread awareness and also to increase our vaccination coverage. Our vaccination coverage has also shown an increase after we roped in 20 more government healthcare facilities and also opening our community health centres for six days in a week. The vaccination coverage has also increased as more staff from municipal corporation and other local bodies have started active participation and taking up vaccination,” Pandey added. According to official figures of the district health department, vaccination of 47874 beneficiaries was taken up during the period March 1 to March 16. During the period, 33341 senior citizens were vaccinated while 4289 beneficiaries aged 45 to 59 years but having co-morbid conditions, were also vaccinated besides healthcare and frontline workers. According to the target given by the UP government, the district is assigned to vaccinate 93480 beneficiaries in the month of March. With the coverage from March 1 to March 16, the district has covered 40.25% of its target assigned for vaccinating senior citizens and the other age group of 45-59 years having co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-ghaziabad-till-may-10-in-wake-of-covid-situation-101616004190056.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 536 new Covid-19 cases, most since Jan 6||The Covid-19 trend continued to tick upwards in Delhi, with the Capital reporting 536 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the most in a day since January 6, when the city logged 654 cases of the viral infection. Delhi on Wednesday added over 500 cases for the first time in nearly 70 days, and for the fourth time this year. The other three were in January, when the number of cases in the city was still on the decline after the heights of the third wave in November.The new cases came on the back of 80,856 tests and a positivity rate of 0.66%, also the highest since January 6. The daily case-spike and positivity rate have nearly doubled over the past fortnight, from 240 cases at a rate of 0.33% on March 3.Even though the positivity rate remains below the 5% threshold that the World Health Organization recommends for an infection to be considered under control, experts believe Delhi’s case spike is a cause of concern. “The number of cases has nearly doubled in the last two to three weeks and even though the positivity rate in Delhi is low, things will soon get out of hand. People have not been following Covid-appropriate behaviour and they tend to follow it only when there is strict enforcement. The government should again start fining people for not wearing masks and maintaining social distance,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research. The Centre has identified Delhi as one of 70 districts of concern where cases are on the rise.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain two days ago had said, “The positivity rate in Delhi was over 15% at one time and the WHO (World Health Organisation) says that it should be below 5%. The positivity rate in Delhi has been below 5% for a few months now and below 1% for nearly 2.5 months. In comparison, the positivity rate in Maharashtra is 16.46%, Kerala 3.54%, Punjab 4.81%, and Gujarat 1.78%. This means that the positivity rate in Gujarat is three times that of Delhi, Punjab six time, Kerala seven times, and Maharashtra thirty times. Till the positivity rate does not cross 1%, the infection is well control.”Dr Kant, however, disagreed. “There is a need to immediately take action – increase and intensify contact tracing, test as many people as possible, and prevent large gatherings. The government also needs to start looking at whether the new infections are in a different age group or demography – there are still around 50% people susceptible to the infection in the city.” The city has started increasing the number of tests being conducted, with nearly 81,000 samples being processed on Tuesday, as reported a day later in Wednesday’s health bulletin. The experts have also asked for an increase in the pace of vaccination. “Yes, we have vaccinated a huge number of people but when we look at the size of our population, it is nothing. It is important to vaccinate as many people are possible as quickly as possible to prevent severe disease and deaths. However, the pace of the vaccination drive has remained slow because of vaccine hesitancy,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant for internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital. He said, “I believe that the launch of Covaxin was a little rushed, if it had just been launched a month late along with the data people would have had more confidence on it. Now, with the European countries stopping the use of the Oxford vaccine, people have doubts about the Indian variant Covishield as well. I am receiving several calls a day to ask whether they should take the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-536-new-covid-19-cases-most-since-jan-6-101616004011469.html
17-03-2021||Other||Burglars make off with 300kg safe containing ₹5.8 lakh from Ludhiana flour mill||A gang of burglars decamped with a safe containing ₹5.8 lakh in cash from a flour mill in Bhattiyan village, Khanna, on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The flour mill is owned by Varinder Kumar Guddu, vice-chairman of the Khanna market committee. Guddu told the police that when he reached the mill on Wednesday, he found a hole in the wall and his safe, weighing 300kg, missing. He immediately informed the police.On reaching the spot, cops found the safe discarded at a vacant plot near the mill with the ₹5.8 lakh stored in it missing.Assistant sub-inspector Satinderpal Singh said a case under Sections 457 (house trespass) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the unidentified accused at the of Khanna City-2 police station.Police are scanning CCTV cameras in the area for clues about the thieves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burglars-make-off-with-300kg-safe-containing-5-8-lakh-from-ludhiana-flour-mill-101616004010551.html
17-03-2021||Other||Medical board to examine X-ray of farmer who died during R-Day clashes in Delhi||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the Delhi health secretary to constitute a medical board comprising a forensic expert and a radiologist of Maulana Azad Medical College to prepare and examine an X-ray report of a protesting farmer who died allegedly after his speeding tractor overturned the anti-farm bill agitators’ January 26 rally.Justice Yogesh Khanna told the Delhi health secretary that the team would prepare the report from X-Ray plates, which the Uttar Pradesh government would hand over. The Delhi government standing counsel (criminal), arguing for the Delhi Police, told the court they have shown the victim’s family and lawyers CCTV footage of the incident.The high court was hearing a plea filed by the victim Navreet Singh’s grandfather, Hardeep Singh, claiming that the deceased farmer suffered gunshot injuries to his head. Hardeep Singh’s plea said the victim had been shot by the police, because of which he lost control of the tractor. However, both the Delhi and UP police have told the court that Navreet did not suffer any gunshot wounds, and claimed that the man died under the tractor after it overturned.The victim’s autopsy was conducted at Rampur district hospital in UP.Delhi Police had on February 26 told the court that while they had asked the UP Police to hand over the original X-Ray plate and post-mortem video, Rampur police and the district hospital said they would do so only on if the court ordered..The UP Police counsel and hospital’s chief medical officer said told the court they did not have the X-Ray report but only the X-Ray plate and autopsy report, which they said they would share with the Delhi Police if so decided by the court.The petitioner’s counsel, Soutik Banerjee, had earlier contended that the Delhi Police had conducted itself in a manner that “does not inspire a shred of confidence”. According to the police, the man had died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the tractor parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour of the pre-agreed route for the march.Navreet was the only protestor who had died during the farmers’ tractor rally on R-Day. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-board-to-examine-x-ray-of-farmer-who-died-during-r-day-clashes-in-delhi-101616003889949.html
17-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman booked for aborting pregnancy without informing husband||A resident of Mundiyan Kalan has been booked for aborting her pregnancy twice without informing her husband. Her husband, who is a resident of Chandigarh, complained to the police that since they got married on November 24, 2019, his wife had been asking him to live separately from his parents. She also used to complain that he was not the man she wanted to marry, but she conceded to her parents’ will.In July 2020, he discovered that his wife had got two abortions without his knowledge and filed a police complaint on August 1, 2020. ASI Dalvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the woman under Section 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) of the Indian Penal Code following a probe. No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-booked-for-aborting-pregnancy-without-informing-husband-101616003710600.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Himachal, found dead at Delhi residence, suicide suspected, say police||Ram Swaroop Sharma, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Member of Parliament from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his official residence on North Avenue, Lutyens’ Delhi, on Wednesday morning, the police said.Sharma, 62, was a two-time MP -- he won the Lok Sabha elections from Mandi in 2014 and 2019. He is survived by his wife and three children. No suicide note was recovered from the house, said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, adding that the circumstances of the MP’s death were being investigated.“It looks like a case of suicide, but we are continuing with the probe. We’ll know better once we have the autopsy report and have questioned relevant people,” said Biswal.Sharma lived with his personal assistant and a cook in his official apartments on North Avenue. “He suffered from ailments such as diabetes and hypertension. He was used to waking up by 4.30am,” Biswal said.But on Wednesday morning, he didn’t wake up at his usual time and that drew the attention of his staff. “When their calls to him and knocks on the door went unanswered, they dialled the police around 7.45am,” said Biswal.The police broke into the bedroom to find the MP hanging from the ceiling fan. The police said prima facie, there was no evidence of foul play as the bedroom was locked from inside. The reason behind the extreme step remains unknown.The autopsy was carried out in the evening after the arrival of Sharma’s wife and son, the spokesperson said.Condolence messages having been pouring in from several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party president Jagat Prakash Nadda.“Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti (sic),” Modi tweeted.Shah and Nadda too used Twitter to say that they were saddened by the untimely death and offered prayers for the departed soul and words of condolence for Sharma’s family. Rajat Mitra, a clinical psychologist, said while the reason for the extreme step, in this case, is yet to be ascertained, people experiencing suicidal thoughts need to understand that such feelings are usually momentary.“People experiencing suicidal tendencies shouldn’t feel compelled to execute their plans as such thoughts go away soon. People must seek help from professionals, friends and relatives as it helps drive away such thoughts. Unlike what suicide victims may believe, life always has options,” said Mitra.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ram-swaroop-sharma-bjp-mp-from-himachal-found-dead-at-delhi-residence-suicide-suspected-say-police-101616003650665.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Toolkit case: HC gives Centre, Delhi Police two weeks to respond to Ravi’s plea over ‘info leak’||The Delhi high court on Wednesday granted one last opportunity to the Centre and the Delhi Police to file replies on a plea by climate activist Disha Ravi seeking to restrain the probe agency from leaking any information related to the investigation in the toolkit case.Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the ministry of Information and broadcasting (I&B), represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, and the city police’s counsel Amit Mahajan to file their responses within two weeks and posted the matter to May 18.Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police in February in connection with the ‘toolkit’, an online document intended to help amplify the ongoing farmers’ protest. She was charged with sedition, criminal conspiracy and inciting riots and a Delhi court granted her bail on February 13, saying there was “scanty” and “sketchy” evidence to back the charges levelled against her.Ravi, through her counsel, Abhinav Sekhri, had moved court stating that the police had taken her mobile phone into custody on February 13 and had forced her to provide them with credentials of her private accounts. The police had denied the charges and also filed an affidavit in this regard.The plea also said the police first “leaked investigative material” like alleged WhatsApp chats which were only in the possession of the police. It said the chats were published and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of law.The petition also said “media houses published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner”.On the last date of hearing (Feb 19), the court had refused to restrain several media houses from reporting on the toolkit case, but asked them to check the authenticity of news and not to sensationalise the issue. It had said “leaked investigation material” should not be circulated to prejudice the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toolkit-case-hc-gives-centre-delhi-police-two-weeks-to-respond-to-ravi-s-plea-over-info-leak-101616003589911.html
17-03-2021||Other||Lucknow admn to ensure implementation of guest limit norms for functions||LUCKNOW The district administration will ensure strict implementation of Covid-19 protocols, especially the ones pertaining to get-togethers and marriage functions. The initiative is part of the anti-Covid exercise in wake of the Covid surge. As per the guidelines issued by the UP government in November 2020, the total number of guests at marriage functions was restricted to 100. However at open lawns, gatherings were restricted to 50% of the total capacity. Rapid Response Teams (RRT) have been activated to ensure implementation of these guidelines, especially at marriage halls and party lawns. There is no relaxation in the Covid protocols that were issued by the government a couple of months back, said Ranjan Kumar, divisional commissioner. “People should ensure strict implementation of Covid protocols, as violation may invite legal action against the erring person under The Epidemic Act,” said Kumar. Officials are in touch with marriage hall, restaurant and hotel associations etc to ensure implementation of Covid guidelines. As per records with the district administration, the city has more than 200 marriage halls, he said. “Not only at marriage halls, we have also deputed our teams at all entry and exit points of the city including the airport, railway/bus stations and directed the health department to carry out target testing of passengers and to maintain record of passengers coming from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chattishgarh, Punjab etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-admn-to-ensure-implementation-of-guest-limit-norms-for-functions-101616003529963.html
17-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana NGO owner duped of ₹6 lakh on pretext of conducting govt survey||Lure of carrying out a household toilet survey across the city, in exchange for ₹100 per house, has cost an NGO owner dear.The victim, Chandar Bhanot of Shimlapuri, has complained that he was duped of ₹6 lakh by some persons claiming to get him the survey from the central government under the Swachh Bharat Mission.Following a probe, police have identified five of the accused as Poonam Gupta, Ashwani Kumar, Mukesh Kumar, Sayeed and Shweta, all natives of Uttar Pradesh.According to Bhanot, in 2019 he saw an online advertisement looking for an NGO to conduct a household toilet survey for the central government.When he contacted the given phone numbers, a man named Mukesh claimed that their agency represented different departments of the government that wished to conduct a survey in Ludhiana regarding household toilet coverage under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Mukesh claimed that the chosen NGO will be paid ₹100 for every household checked under the survey against an initial payment of ₹6 lakh. Bhanot said he made the payment through cash and online transfer on July 1, 2019. However, thereon the agency stopped responding to his calls. Therefore, he visited the agency’s office in Noida, only to find an electronics firm operating from there that had no association with any government agency.Realising he was duped, he filed a police complaint and an inquiry was marked.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sahnewal police station, said they had lodged an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code following an investigation. They had leads about the accused, who will be arrested soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-ngo-owner-duped-of-6-lakh-on-pretext-of-conducting-govt-survey-101616003470621.html
17-03-2021||Pune||Surrendered Naxal claims he saw Bhelke with Milind Teltumbde in jungles of Gadchiroli||A statement by a man named Krushna, who claims to be a surrendered Naxalite, stated that he saw Arun Bhelke and Milind Teltumbde together in the jungles of Gadchiroli was recorded on Wednesday. Teltumbde has a reward of ₹50 lakh on his head declared by Gadchiroli police in May 2018. The statement was recorded in the course of the trial which Bhelke is facing for a case registered against him and his late wife Kanchan Nanavare in 2014 under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The trial is underway in the court of judge SR Navandar. The surrendered Naxal questioned on Wednesday was identified as Krushna alias Birju Masa Dorpate (33), a resident of Allapalli area of Gadchiroli. The couple has been booked under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 20 and 38 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the anti-terrorism squad. The two are also facing a case under UAPA registered by Chandrapur police. The prosecutor, Ujjwala Pawar claimed that Dorpate is a surrendered Naxal, as is mentioned in his written statement recorded in 2015. He claimed that he joined the movement in 2003, gained “divisional committee member” status in 2010, and quit along with his wife in 2014. Questioning Dorpate’s authenticity, Nahar said, “It was the time when the state had started offering incentives like cash and land for surrendered Naxals. The people there are very poor. He only claims to be inside the jungle.” In his statement under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) recorded on January 11, 2015, Dorpate had allegedly said that Bhelke was known to Teltumbade who is believed to be among the leaders of the Naxals in Maharashtra. On Wednesday, Ujjwala Pawar cross-questioned him in court about the claims that he allegedly made to an officer of the Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) in 2015. He reiterated his statement about Bhelke being in contact of Teltumbade. “It does not affect the case in any way just because he is claiming that it happened. What is the evidence that he is speaking the truth,” asked Rohan Nahar representing Bhelke. The 2015 statement also claims that Nanaware worked in the capacity of a nurse while suffering a heart ailment. He also had recorded that she was actively involved in an armed struggle between police and Naxals in Padiyaljob area of Gadchiroli in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/surrendered-naxal-claims-he-saw-bhelke-with-milind-teltumbde-in-jungles-of-gadchiroli-101616003409929.html
17-03-2021||Pune||Boil water notice for city’s eastern residents||Even after two months of kicking off the Bhama-Askhed water supply project, the eastern part of the city is not getting clean drinking water. Now, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appealed to residents to boil the water before using it. Earlier, a turbid water problem occurred in Yerawada. Now, it has spread to Nagpur chawl, Maharashtra housing society and the Tridal nagar areas. Dr Siddharth Dhende, local corporator of Yerawada ward said, “The PMC has started supplying Bhama-Askhed water in our areas. From Tuesday, we have started receiving turbid water. In our areas, more than 30,000 residents are getting turbid water. We have appeal to residents of Yerawada to boil the water. Turbid water is expected in the next two to three days.” Ashok Dhiwar, a resident of Nagpur chawl said, “We are getting turbid water for the last two days. Earlier, we were getting clean water. On Tuesday, water turbidity was so high we could not drink the water. We purchased packaged water from the market. Today, turbidity is low as compared to Tuesday.” Anirudha Pawaskar, chief superintendent engineer of the PMC water supply department said, “There are some parts of the Yerawada area where people are getting turbid water. We received complaints from local corporators and residents. Now, we have stopped Bhama-Askhed water supply in Yerawada area and started supplying water from the Pune Cantonment water treatment and supply centre from where Yerawada used to receive water earlier.” He further said, “Even if the water is turbid, it is safe to drink. So, we have appealed to residents to boil the water before using it for drinking purposes. We are trying hard to sort out the problems on a war footing. It will take two to three days. We will publish an appeal in social media as well as in print to boil the water.” The long-delayed project to supply Bhama-Askhed dam water through a closed pipe to the eastern part of the city was completed in December 2020. After the inauguration of the Bhama-Askhed water scheme on January 1, 2021, the PMC began a trial run to supply water to the eastern part of the city. After two and half months, the PMC has not been able to supply drinking water to the entire eastern part of the city; the PMC is still facing problems of water turbidity in some parts of the Yerawada area. Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. The material that causes water to be turbid include clay, silt, very tiny inorganic and organic matter, algae, dissolved coloured organic compounds, and plankton and other microscopic organisms. The project was initiated to provide water to Kalas, Sangamwadi, Yerawada, Lohegaon, Dhanori, Kalyaninagar, Vadgaonsheri and Kharadi. The 200 MLD project is expected to meet the water supply needs of the region by 2041 when the local population is estimated to have increased to 14.5 lakh. The project was started in 2013 and has been completed in December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/boil-water-notice-for-city-s-eastern-residents-101616003352741.html
17-03-2021||Pune||PMC writes off ₹13 crore property tax on mobile towers||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee wrote off ₹13 crore property tax payable by mobile towers across the city after it received a proposal from the civic administration. PMC property tax department tabled a proposal in a standing committee meeting which passed on Tuesday. Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “The proposal was tabled by the PMC administration to write off property tax on mobile towers in the city. The property tax department has reasoned that some of the towers have double taxation and some of the towers haven’t existed on the ground but, the department has generated a property tax.” “Based on the administration information, the committee has given a nod to waive off property tax on mobile towers,” he added. Meanwhile, the PMC tax department received around 190 fresh mobile tower proposals for the assessment of new tax. The department has estimated around ₹80 crore revenue collection per year from the new mobile towers. As per the 2016 Supreme Court order, the civic bodies can levy property tax on mobile towers attached on rooftops of properties within its limits. The PMC is collecting property tax for towers and also imposing fines on mobile company operators who have installed the towers on illegal constructions. The operators have challenged the penalty decision of the PMC and the matter has been pending in court for a few years. At present, the outstanding amount has reached more than ₹1,500 crore so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-writes-off-rs-13-crore-property-tax-on-mobile-towers-101616003351565.html
17-03-2021||Pune||Edible oil prices reach an all-time high in Pune||After the historic increase in petroleum and diesel prices, Pune is witnessing an all-time high price of edible oils. According to the edible oil traders, the prices of edible oils have increased by ₹800 to ₹1,000 per 15 kg can as compared to the prices in April 2020. These prices have been increasing gradually throughout the year and are not predicted to come down at least for the next two months. “I have been in the business of edible oil trading for the last 40 years. These are lifetime high rates of edible oils. ₹800 to ₹1,000 have increased per can which is 15-kilograms,” said Rajkumar Nahar, wholesale trader of edible oil and owner of MM Nahar traders located at Market Yard in Pune. The price hike of the edible oils is attributed to the shortage of supply in the international market. “There is a shortage of edible oil in the international market. India imports almost 70-80 per cent of edible oil of its total requirement. There is a 40-60 per cent import duty,” said Nahar. The rate of sunflower oil is ₹2400 to ₹2500 per 15 kg. The rate of Soybean oil is ₹2000 to ₹2100, the rate of palm oil is ₹2050 to ₹2100 and the rate of groundnut oil is ₹2500 to ₹2600 per 15 kg can. While in April 2020, the rate of sunflower oil was ₹1,500 per 15 kg, soybean oil was ₹1,300 per 15 kg, palm oil was ₹1,200 per 15 kg and groundnut oil was Rs1,700 to ₹2,000 per 15 kg. The retail price of sunflower oil is Rs165, groundnut oil is ₹170, soybean oil is ₹140 and palm oil is ₹140.“These are the highest prices ever and they have been increasing gradually since last March. For the last 12 months, prices have been increasing every month. In the international market, there is a scarcity of the crop. There are labour problems and hence the supply is getting impacted. Also, the fuel prices have increased,” said Kanayalal Gujrathi, trader of edible oil in Pune. Though the price hike may have started to impact the monthly home budgets, it hasn’t yet caused the price hike in restaurants and eateries. “Food stalls, roadside eateries need more edible oil per day as they have a huge proportion of fried items. In restaurants, 10-15 kg oil is sufficient per day. Though the prices of edible oils have increased by 25-30 per cent, we haven’t increased the rates of the dishes. Our business is already running low, and we want to maintain the existing customer,” said Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Hoteliers Association. On the other hand, agriculture experts think that this price hike is benefiting the local farmers as they are getting good rates for the oilseeds produce. “I look at this issue from the farmer’s perspective. Farmers in Vidarbha and Marathwada are getting good rates for oilseeds such as soybean. I will not call this price hike in edible oils, inflation. It is an appreciation of the price, these market rates are necessary for farmers in order to get good prices for their crops,” said Deepak Chavhan, expert and analyser of the agriculture market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/edible-oil-prices-reach-an-all-time-high-in-pune-101616003352202.html
17-03-2021||Pune||PMC extends contract of SWaCH by two months, administration fears slip in cleanliness ranking||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has extended the contract of SWaCH, a non-profit responsible for door-to-door waste collection in the city, by another two months. However, the administration has warned that if SWaCH will continue its work, it will affect the ranking of PMC in Swach Survekshan, a cleanliness competition conducted by the centre every year. While PMC renews the contract with Swach every five years, it ended in December 2020. Due to Covid-19, there was no general body meeting taking place and hence the decision was pending but it was passed in a general body meeting on Wednesday. Covering around 8.5 lakh properties in the city, SWaCH gets ₹4.5 to ₹5 crore from residents every month in addition to ₹2.5 to ₹3 crore paid annually by PMC as supervision fees. However, there are numerous complaints from corporators and some citizens are against SWaCH workers for not lifting the garbage properly.Based on the complaints of corporators, the PMC standing committee was earlier pursing to call bids of other agencies for fair competition in the collection and segregation of garbage in the city. Shiv sena party leader Prithviraj Sutar had written a letter to PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar opposing the appointment of SWaCH once again.However, the non-profit presented to city mayor Murlidhar Mohol a letter with signatures of over 100 corporators and more than one lakh residents in its support. On Wednesday, the standing committee gave an extension for two months when the administration has mentioned effect on PMC Swach Survekshan if Swach stops the work. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar also made a reference to the threat of affecting Swach Survekshan while extending the contract with SwaCH. While giving an extension, the standing committee mentioned in the meeting that the process of calling tenders from other agencies will go on if the committee finds the work done by Swach unsatisfactory. Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “The Central government’s Swachh Survekshan is going on. It may be affected if SWaCH is going to get the contract again. We have mentioned this in the standing committee proposal.” Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in PMC said, “We are against Swach organization. However, the organization should have to sort out citizen complaints and improve the system and clear loopholes in the system.” Opposing the privatisation of the waste collection system, SWaCH representatives had issued a statement. It stated that SWaCH is an extension of the PMC’s solid waste management (SWM) department. Informal waste-pickers own SWaCH and provide waste collection services to citizens against direct user fees. In fact, it was established by the PMC in 2007 in line with state government directives in 2002 to integrate informal waste-pickers and pull them out of poverty and promote sustainable waste management.--------------------------------------------------------BoxPMC general body meeting gave approval to erect a saffron flag at the Sinhagad fort, worth ₹1 crore on Wednesday in the online general body meeting.PMC had made budgetary provisions for it and all parties gave approval to the proposal in general body meeting. Last month, the standing committee had given a nod to install the saffron flag at Sinhagad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-extends-contract-of-swach-by-two-months-administration-fears-slip-in-cleanliness-ranking-101616003349952.html
17-03-2021||Pune||Garbage stink irks commuters on Pune-Bengaluru highway||Take the service road or the main road, but the stink of garbage will follow you on both sides of the Pune-Bengaluru highway, where tonnes of garbage has been thrown. The stretch, after crossing the Maruti Sutar underpass, till the High Energy Material Research laboratory, is full of garbage. Residents residing near the highway blame hawkers for dumping vegetables, while the hawkers blame residents of Sutarwadi for throwing the garbage. “It is not only garbage, but on the service road many people have also dumped construction waste material and sand, which keeps coming on to the road,” said Milind Mokashi, a truck driver who uses the highway. “We have received few complaints of people burning garbage as well. I have already asked an official to clear the garbage from the highway. It will be cleaned in the next few days,” said Ajit Desmukh from the PMC’s solid waste management department. “Every day we see the amount of garbage increasing. Dumping is done at night,” said Rohit Mishra who runs a paan shop near the highway. A resident of Sutarwadi, Shailesh Kelkar, said, “Often, I have seen hawkers throwing vegetables after 7pm and if we argue, then they use foul language with us.” Fruit hawker Majid Hussain said, “There are only a few hawkers who come to the highway to sell vegetables and we don’t throw any waste on the road. Many vendors use the service road throughout the day and they might throw garbage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/garbage-stink-irks-commuters-on-pune-bengaluru-highway-101616003292994.html
17-03-2021||Other||UP sees rising trend in Covid cases||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh logged a further rise in fresh Covid cases with 261 people testing positive for the virus during the last 24 hours. The infection tally rose to 6,05,915 while one death in Unnao pushed the fatality count to 8,751. The state saw a rising trend in the daily Covid count since March 10 and crossed 200-mark on Tuesday after a gap of 44 days. UP had reported 226 cases on January 31 and since then cases were below 200 throughout February. The active case count was now 2,014. Till now, 5,95,150 patients had been treated and discharged from hospitals, as per the health department. Lucknow also reported a rise as 54 fresh cases were reported. Elsewhere in the state, Kanpur logged 20 cases, Prayagraj five, Ghaziabad 11, Gautam Buddh Nagar seven, Meerut six, Varanasi six, Bareilly 22, Aligarh 26 and Jhansi 10. “Lucknow has till now reported 82,267 cases, of which 80,757 have recovered and the recovery rate here is 98.16%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Keeping in view the Covid surge, the Lucknow Chemists’ Association (LCA) had decided to stop sale of medicines, if sellers and customers didn’t use masks and sanitizers. The decision was taken in a meeting of the LCA on Wednesday. Association president, Giriraj Rastogi, and general secretary, Harish Chandra Shah, in a press statement said, “With festivals approaching, the market is crowded and we need to ensure strict implementation of Covid protocols. Bo sale of medicine will take place if the seller or buyer both do not use mask and the medicine market in Aminabad will be sanitized as required.” GfxUPWARD TREND IN STATEMarch 17 -- 261 March 16 – 228 March 15 – 151 March 14 – 178 March 13 – 156 March 12 – 167 March 11 – 146 March 10 – 128 Cases in Lucknow March 17 – 54 March 16 – 44 March 15 – 35 March 14 -- 19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-sees-rising-trend-in-covid-cases-101616003292310.html
17-03-2021||Pune||A pedestrian nightmare to walk on Sus-Pashan footpath||Pipes lying between broken tiles and dirt all around the footpath, makes walking difficult for pedestrians on the Sus-Pashan road. Work has been going on for at least a month on the road, and hence all the debris on the footpath. “It becomes a very difficult walk, especially at night. The footpath has benches and an open gym, but we cannot use it, as it is not well maintained. I see workers and officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), but work going on is very slow,” said Mukesh Sinha, who stays at Prime Heights on the opposite side of the said footpath. Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer of the PMC’s road department, said, “70 per cent of the footpath work is completed. In a few patches, the drainage pipeline work is going on, so there is dirt on the footpath. The broken tiles will be replaced. Our official had done spot visits.” Prakash Saxena, who visits ICICI bank next to the footpath, said, “There is a nullah at the rear-end of the footpath, where garbage is dumped. Since the footpath is not kept clean it becomes hard to stand outside the bank.” Ajit Desmukh, who is currently handling the solid waste management department, said, “Every 15 days garbage is cleaned off the footpath. Instead of throwing garbage in bins, people just throw it near the nullah and it keeps on coming on to footpath.” Another resident, Subhash Puri of Maurya residency said, “No hawkers are allowed to set up stalls on the footpath, but in the evening many street eateries occupy space on the footpath. I have not seen any inquiry form the encroachment department ever here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/a-pedestrian-nightmare-to-walk-on-sus-pashan-footpath-101616003291761.html
17-03-2021||Other||Over 200 Covid cases surface in Ludhiana for third day in a row||The district reported over 200 Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, with 233 residents contracting the infection.The contagion also claimed five lives, pushing the death toll to 1,065.On Monday, the week had started with 226 cases, followed by 245 infections on Tuesday, the highest this year.Before this, the district had recorded over 100 cases on 10 days since the beginning of March.With five deaths on Wednesday, the city has witnessed 15 casualties in just three days. The virus had claimed six lives on Tuesday and four on Monday.The district’s case tally now stands at 29,537, of which 1,065 patients are still infected and 27,023 have recovered.The latest fatalities include three women and two men. The men, aged 74 and 65, were from Haibowal Kalan and Leela village, respectively, while the female deceased were a 92-year-old from Threeke village, a 74-year-old from Bahadurke village and a 56-year-old from Raipur Bet.The fresh cases include a traveller from Dubai, four healthcare workers and six teachers.Among the teachers are two from Government Primary School, Chhajjawal village, and one each from Khalsa College for Girls, Government College for Girls, Government Senior Secondary School, Rakba, and Government Primary School, Sunet. As many 21 students were also found infected. While six are from Baby Bawa Public High School, Salem Tabri; five are from Multipurpose School, four from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University and two from Government School, Basian. Besides one student each is from the government schools in Mangli Uchi, Samrala, Pona and Chorda.Seven areas declared micro-containment zonesTaking note of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district administration has announced 7 micro-containment zones in the city. These include Street No 3, behind Greenland School at Aman Nagar, near Jalandhar ByPass; Durgapuri in Haibowal; Gurdev Nagar; East Model Gram; Parkash Colony; Barewal and Chandar Nagar.Get vaccinated, DC requests senior citizens, comorbid people In his latest Facebook live interaction with residents, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma urged residents to shun hesitancy against the vaccine and get the jab to build vaccine-induced herd immunity.Sharma said it was sad that people of the targeted categories were not coming forward in large numbers despite the surge in Covid cases. Stating that both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines were safe and effective, the deputy commissioner said, “By not accepting the vaccine, we are not fulfilling our responsibility towards the country.”He said the district administration had adequate stock of 70,000 vaccine doses. The shots were available for free at government hospitals and for ₹250 at private health institutions, and residents only needed to turn up with their Aadhaar card to get vaccinated.Answering a query, he said night curfew was quite effective in curbing the virus, as people remained cautious about avoiding social gatherings at night.1,805 people inoculatedAs many as 1,805 people turned up for Covid vaccination at various government and private health centres in Ludhiana on Wednesday. These included 695 senior citizens and 254 cormorbid people aged between 45 and 59.Besides, 212 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 77 received the second dose. As many as 389 frontline workers also got the first dose and another 178 came forward for the second dose. So far, 83,866 people in the district have been inoculated against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-200-covid-cases-surface-in-ludhiana-for-third-day-in-a-row-101616003290621.html
17-03-2021||Pune||40 per cent of question sets yet to be submitted to SPPU||The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) examination department has instructed all its affiliated colleges to prepare question sets bank for students for the forthcoming first-semester examination starting from April 11. The process of making model question sets is not yet completed. Despite the warning to the appointed faculties, only 60 per cent of subject paper sets have been sent to SPPU of the total 3,700 subjects. The SPPU administration is now going to take strict action against such violating faculties. Around 8,000 faculties are involved in this important process of making question banks. While it has been instructed by SPPU to the colleges to complete the work in time, faculties appointed by SPPU for this work need to be given free time from their college work. There are a total of 3,700 subjects of SPPU graduate and postgraduate courses and the process of making the question sets bank was started on February 20. For each of the question, a faculty is paid ₹12, and one faculty cannot go beyond ₹1,000 charges for working on this project. It was instructed to colleges to complete this work on a priority basis, but only 60 per cent of the question sets banks are submitted to SPPU. “The remaining 40 per cent sets are yet to come, while now SPPU has asked for the list of faculties who are delaying the work. Action will be taken on those faculties who are found guilty of delaying the work and not submitting the question sets bank in time,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU director of the board of examination and evaluation. The overall admission process and examination for the academic year 2020-21 is delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The admission for some of the graduate and postgraduate courses in SPPU is still going on. This has resulted in the delay of first semester exams, and now due to the strict restrictions imposed by Pune district collector all the schools and colleges are closed in Pune district till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/40-per-cent-of-question-sets-yet-to-be-submitted-to-sppu-101616003291026.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sports varsity Bill likely to cause furore in Haryana assembly||The Sports University of Haryana Bill, 2021 reintroduced in the Haryana assembly on Wednesday has the potential to cause furore in the assembly on Thursday when it comes up for discussion. Earlier, it was withdrawn on March 8 following an objection by the central government. However, while reintroducing the Bill, the state government has persisted with a provision stating that no special provision for employment or admission of women, persons with disabilities or of persons belonging to the weaker sections of the society, scheduled castes, and the other socially and educationally backward classes of citizens shall be made on the ground of domicile. Since the state government recently enacted a law providing 75% reservation in private sector jobs to Haryana domicile candidates, the provision in the Sports University Bill runs contrary to it. The Bill was initially passed by the state assembly in August 2019 and was reserved by the governor for consideration of the President. Subsequently, the Union home ministry, in December 2019, wrote to the state government citing a Union HRD ministry office memorandum stating that as per the University Grant Commission (UGC) regulations, the chairman of UGC will nominate a member of the selection committee for selection of vice-chancellor of state, private and deemed universities. “Since no member of the search-cum-selection committee is nominated by the UGC, this criteria for appointment of V-C needs to be re-looked. Thus, on central government’s advice, it has been decided to re-look the Bill. Accordingly, the state government has decided to withdraw the Sports University of Haryana Bill,” said a cabinet note. The Sports University is touted as the first full-fledged sports varsity of international standards in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sports-varsity-bill-likely-to-cause-furore-in-haryana-assembly-101616002750416.html
17-03-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to install facial recognition cameras at 10 busy points||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to install facial recognition cameras at 10 busy points in the city to track criminals and strengthen safety measures, officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. “We are in the process of installing facial recognition cameras at 12 locations (two already installed) in the city to track movements of criminals in the city and improve security services. The list of locations was given to us by the Gurugram police department. The locations have been selected based on the movement of people, areas where people with difficult crime record are expected (like court complexes),” said a senior GMDA official, requesting anonymity. Facial recognition technology uses facial features to match with existing information on databases to identify a person. But, due to various reasons such as lack of proper lighting and varied angle of the image, there are chances of false recognitions also in these systems. The GMDA’s move comes after two cameras installed at Sheetla Mata Mandir and Bus Stand for a trial were found to be working well. The GMDA’s Smart City division tested the functionality of the cameras before deciding to expand the project. As part of the testing process, pictures of random employees were uploaded on the system managed by the Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC) and the persons were made to pass by the camera, which triggered an alarm at the command centre if there was at least a 60% match in the facial features. In the realtime process, the team at the command centre will inform the nearest police control room (PCR) about wanted persons. Experts are wary of the system as many government institutions in the country are adopting public facial recognition without legal restraints. The central government is also working to develop a National Automated Facial Recognition System to help match images captured from CCTV cameras with existing databases. Anushka Jain, associate counsel for transparency and Right to Information at the Internet Freedom Foundation, said, “The issue of facial recognition technology is that it is not 100% accurate, whether in the country or across the world. The testing process for these cameras also cannot be completely relied upon as authorities might be testing them in lab conditions with good lighting where facial features will get easily recognised by the camera, resulting in higher accuracy rates.” “Another concern is that the cameras will capture everyone who comes under their gaze, casting suspicion on everyone. We also don’t know who will have access to this data. The data, if it falls in the wrong hands, can easily be used for extracting personal vendettas as it tracks locations and movements on a continuous basis,” added Jain.When asked about the accuracy of the cameras, the senior GMDA official said, “These cameras are being tested at major airports also, so they have a good accuracy rate. But if 60-70% facial features match, the alarm will ring and a team will have to go on the ground to identify the person.” Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters) said, “In cases of snatching, robbery or firing, these cameras help us in identifying and nabbing the criminals. The positioning of these cameras is decided based on crime records from different areas and the accumulation of crowd. Traffic is also a criterion because these cameras help us with online challans or cases of road accidents.” The official cited above said that the GMDA is waiting for approvals from authorities concerned, after which the additional cameras would be installed. A tentative list of places for installation of the cameras includes three metro stations, the railway station, the bus stand and a government hospital. The Smart City team, at present, is in the process of feeding its system with the data of criminals from the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-install-facial-recognition-cameras-at-10-busy-points-101616001731508.html
17-03-2021||Gurugram||Policy soon to provide basic facilities in unplanned industrial areas, says Chautala||To provide basic facilities to industrial areas in nonconforming areas (unplanned industrial zones), the Haryana government will formulate a policy after a topography survey of industrial areas is completed, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala told the state assembly on Wednesday. The policy will be formulated jointly by department of town and country planning, local municipal bodies and industry and commerce department. Replying to a question in the assembly, Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of industries and commerce, said members of different industrial associations had met him and requested that factories established in unauthorised areas be authorised. He said the state government had conducted a survey of industrial areas and now the topography is being done. Once that process is over, the government will formulate a policy and further action will be taken. There are large number of industrial areas that are located in nonconforming areas and are devoid of basic amenities and infrastructure. Units located in such areas have been demanding basic infrastructure for the past several years. In Gurugram, such areas include Daulatabad, Basai, Kadipur, Behrampur and Khandsa that together house around 4,000 small units. Responding to another question, Chautala said a large battery company will set up a project in Nuh district, after which mobile phones, laptops, and other electronic gadgets will be manufactured there. He also said a mega project is being set up by M/S ATL with an investment of ₹7,083 crore in IMT Sohna, which has a capacity to generate 7,000 jobs. The HSIIDC (Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation) has allotted 178 acres for the project and the company plans to invest ₹7,000 crore in the next few years to supply batteries for industries that manufacture smartphones, two-wheelers, and three-wheeler e-vehicles, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/policy-soon-to-provide-basic-facilities-in-unplanned-industrial-areas-says-chautala-101616001730973.html
17-03-2021||Gurugram||HSVP razes illegal hutments, constructions to reclaim 2.5 acres||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive in Sector 9 to reclaim two large plots spread across 2.5 acres near a government college and cleared all encroachments. Officials said that over 350 tenements, around 30 permanent rooms and a service station, all of which were constructed illegally, were cleared from a one-acre plot meant for a primary school.HSVP officials said that an enforcement team reached the site around 11am and started the drive by deploying two earthmover machines, under the protection of a large contingent of police personnel. “There were around 300 illegal hutments and a rent was being collected from them by anti-social elements forcibly. All these, including 30 permanent structures and a service station, were demolished,” said Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP. HSVP officials said that the occupants of the hutments and those in the rooms were allowed to take their belongings but they were asked to clear the area as the land belonged to the authority. Officials said they will construct a boundary wall around the plot, which is worth several crores. Another 1.5-acre plot owned by the authority that is designated for a group housing society, on the opposite side of the government college, was also cleared of encroachments, said officials. “A large number of nomadic families, selling ironware and other items, had established huts on this plot and they strongly resisted the demolition drive. It was only after an intervention by police officials that we were able to remove the illegal structures,” said Lot. Illegal extensions, pertaining to small sheds, extended walls and other violations, carried out by residents of a nearby colony were also removed by the authority. The enforcement team also issued a warning to the violators and said that if violations were repeated, they would face criminal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-razes-illegal-hutments-constructions-to-reclaim-2-5-acres-101616001729787.html
17-03-2021||Gurugram||No takers for gangster’s plots due to registry issues||Auction of proclaimed offender and wanted gangster Sube Singh’s plots on Wednesday hit a snag as the properties were found to have multiple owners, officials familiar with the developments said.According to residents of Bar Gujjar village, where Singh’s ancestral property is located, he has a 24% share in the property and his siblings and uncles, who also hold a share in the property, were not interested in selling them. Jagdish Chand Bishnoi, naib tehsildar Manesar of revenue department, said that Singh’s share had not been notified and a partition has not been done among the family members. “There is no separate area that belongs to Singh and people do not want shared properties, due which the auction was unsuccessful. We will again finalise a date through court for the auction,” he said. Four bidders from nearby villages who had shown a keen interest in the properties returned after they found that there were complications in the deal and that land registration was pending. “Why would anyone buy a disputed land when one is unaware of which portion belongs to Sube Singh? The village will support Singh and will not let anyone buy this property,” a 70-year-old villager of Bar Gujjar said. The police, tehsildar, and patwari announced the auction and waited for nearly an hour but the villagers did not support them following which they moved to the second auction site in Manesar industrial area. The auction was organised at the chaupal of Bar Gujjar village near Manesar and in Manesar industrial area. Singh is wanted in more than a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion in Gurugram and Rewari. The police departments of the two districts announced rewards amounting to ₹4 lakh for information leading to Singh’s arrest. He was declared a proclaimed offender by a district court in April 2018. Singh’s properties comprise two plots, one of 1.3 acres in Bar Gujjar village near Manesar and another of 0.8 acres in Manesar industrial area, the police said. In 2019, the district administration tried to auction the properties twice to weaken the financial base of the gangster, who is allegedly on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-takers-for-gangster-s-plots-due-to-registry-issues-101616001671729.html
17-03-2021||Gurugram||Highest daily Covid-19 case count this year takes tally past 60,000||The district recorded 97 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest daily case count in 79 days, which took the total case count beyond 60,000. The rapid transmission of the coronavirus in the last two weeks has placed Gurugram among the eight districts of concern in Haryana, as per a union ministry of health and family welfare’s report issued on Wednesday. Health department officials said that the Covid-19 spread is under control but admitted that planning to scale up measures to curb further spread is underway. “The test positivity rate (positives out of the total samples tested in a day), which is almost 2.1%, shows the pandemic is well controlled in the district. As per the World Health Organisation guideline, positivity has to be less than 5%. Testing will be ramped up if Covid-19 cases increase further. Currently, almost 3,500 tests are administered every day. The department has also increased the containment zones to 18,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Data collated from the daily district health bulletins show that the district had last reported its highest cases in a day, 96, on December 30, 2020, after which the daily cases continued to dip. From the beginning of March, the number of daily coronavirus cases has been climbing up, with at least 1,104 new infections detected in the last 17 days. The case count over the first 17 days of March has increased by almost 71% from February, when 786 cases were confirmed. There has been a constant spike in the number of cases across Haryana, placing it among 12 states showing a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. According to the union health ministry’s data based on the seven-day average, new cases increased from 151 on March 1 to over 248 by March 8 in the state. This further increased to 374 by March 15, leading to an overall increase in the test positivity rate from 1.2% (on March 1) to almost 3.3% (on March 15). The overall surge across the state has been a consequence of daily detection of new cases, mainly in the eight districts of Yamunanagar, Karnal, Faridabad, Panchkula, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Gurugram. Most of the affected districts have reported a 150-200% spike in the number of cases, while it is at 71% for Gurugram.The total tally of the Covid-19 cases in the city has reached 60,097, while the active case count reached 635, of which at least 574 are in home isolation and 60 are moderate to severely-ill patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals. The death toll stands at 360.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/highest-daily-covid-19-case-count-this-year-takes-tally-past-60000-101616001671200.html
17-03-2021||Gurugram||Expressway concessionaire seeks toll hike||Commuters at the Kherki Daula toll plaza might have to shell out increased toll fare from April 1 as the highway concessionaire on Tuesday wrote to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) calling for an annual revision of fees based on the Wholesale Price Index (WPI), released by union ministry for commerce and industry. Officials of the Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the concessionaire for the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, said that the final WPI numbers were released on Monday and as per the concession agreement, the fee has to be raised annually. Suraj Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, MCEPL, said, “The toll fee is revised annually as per the concession agreement. We have written a letter to the NHAI but no decision has been taken yet. We are expecting that a decision in this matter will be taken soon.”Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, when asked about the matter, said, “The toll will be revised and new rates will be implemented from April 1. The revision of the fees is based on WPI, concession agreement and NHAI rules and it is an annual exercise.” Kherki Daula toll plaza, on average, collects toll from 80,000 vehicles every day. Last year, the NHAI had increased the toll fees of several categories of vehicles by ₹5, but the fee for passenger cars remained unchanged. At present, the toll for cars is ₹65 per trip, while mini trucks are charged ₹95, trucks and buses are charged ₹200 per trip. The proposed revision of the toll at Kherki Daula toll plaza is going to hit the commuters hard as they were expecting the toll plaza to be shifted in the next few months as announced by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on February 14. Khattar had announced that the process for the transfer of land at Panchgaon to NHAI is underway and the plaza could be shifted in the next six months.On March 5, the union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, after inspecting Dwarka Expressway, cited legal issues and extended the deadline for shifting of Kherki Daula toll plaza to August 15, 2022. The MCEPL had taken over the concession of the toll in 2014 on the directions of the Delhi high court and the company can collect toll fees at the expressway till 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/expressway-concessionaire-seeks-toll-hike-101616001669926.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray seeks permission for Mumbai based Haffkine Institute to produce Covid-19 vaccine||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday sought approval for starting more vaccination centres to expedite inoculation in the state and demanded that Mumbai-based Haffkine Institute be allowed to produce the Covid-19 vaccine.According to an official statement, Thackeray raised the demand during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction via video conferencing with chief ministers of some states amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.The PM promptly said institutes in all states which can produce the vaccine will be encouraged, according to the statement.Thackeray said those centres or hospitals which have the capability to conduct vaccination should be allowed to do so, adding that efforts will be taken to vaccinate three lakh people daily in the state.The CM called for transferring vaccine technology to the Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited under the Centre's Mission Covid Suraksha following the guidance of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The Haffkine Institute can produce 126 million vaccines if the permission is granted, he added.As per the release, the Union health secretary, in his presentation, said Maharashtra had done a satisfactory job when it came to vaccination, but called for increasing the numbers.An average of 1,38,957 persons were being administered doses daily, and 35.52 lakh doses have been administered in Maharashtra till Wednesday, the statement said, adding that 31,38,463 doses are available with the state.This is 10 days stock if three lakh people have to be vaccinated daily, Thackeray said and demanded more doses.Thackeray noted that Maharashtra had reported less than 2,000 daily cases on some days earlier this year, but the number of patients had increased in some districts recently.The "sudden" rise in cases in Maharashtra or states in the western part of the country is "confusing" and experts should throw light on the same, Thackeray requested the prime minister, the statement said.The chief minister also called for vaccinating all those above the age of 45, irrespective of the presence of comorbidities.Meanwhile, the Union health secretary said Maharashtra reported 7,741 fresh daily cases on March 1, and March 15 saw a single-day spike of 13,527.The state has 60 per cent of the country's active cases and its positivity rate was 10 per cent on March 1, which has now jumped to 16 per cent, he said, and called for an increase in testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-seeks-permission-for-mumbai-based-haffkine-institute-to-produce-covid-19-vaccine-101616000234285.html
17-03-2021||Lucknow||EOW seizes 4 luxury vehicles of bike bot scam key accused||Four super luxury vehicles worth over ₹1.6 crore of Badri Narain Tewari, the key accused in the multi-crore bike bot scam, were seized in the past two days, said Rajendra Pal Singh, director general, economic offences wing (EOW), here, on Wednesday.The EOW is investigating the case for the past one year during which as many as 11 arrests have been made while property worth several crore rupees owned by the accused people was seized.The DG said the EOW Meerut unit team seized a Jaguar sedan worth ₹60 lakh and a Fortuner SUV worth ₹30 lakh from Tewari’s firm Accord Hydraulics’s premises, in Gautam Buddh Nagar, on Wednesday. He said, a Mercedes sedan car worth ₹40 lakh and a Fortuner SUV were seized from his Lucknow office on Tuesday. More seizures are likely in the matter, he added.Singh said these seizures were done on the basis of information extracted from Tewari after taking him into police custody remand.Earlier, Tewari, who also owned an electronic news channel, was arrested from Lucknow on February 25.He was wanted in cases relating to the scam registered at Dadri police station in Gautam Buddh Nagar. Tewari was allegedly closely associated with Vijendra Singh Hooda, owner of Garvit Innovative Private Limited, which floated a ponzi scheme and allegedly duped over 2.5 lakh gullible investors of over ₹4,200 crore. Tewari got associated with Hooda as he was earlier involved in manufacturing battery-operated motorcycles and supplied these bikes to Garvit promoters.The Ponzi scheme operators allegedly duped people in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana by offering them a lucrative scheme of investing ₹62,200, the cost of one bike, and get returns of ₹9,765 every month for one year amounting to a total of over ₹1.17 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eow-seizes-4-luxury-vehicles-of-bike-bot-scam-key-accused-101616001249763.html
17-03-2021||Other||Ex-student of SHUATS made guv of Rawanda’s western province||: A former foreign student of Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS), Prayagraj has been appointed the Governor of Rwanda, said SHUATS officials here on Wednesday.Habitegeko Francis, a student of BTech (agriculture engineering) of 1998-2002 batch, was appointed as governor of western province by President of Republic of Rwanda, Paul Kagame. SHUATS management has congratulated Habitegeko Francis on his appointment, said media in-charge, SHUATS Ramakant Dubey.Dubey shared that Rawanda President Paul Kagame made key appointments, including two ministers; one for trade and industry and the other for local government in which Habitegeko Francis was appointed as governor of western province. The changes which were announced by Prime Minister of Rawanda Edouard Ngirente also saw the appointment of three new provincial governors.SHUATS student Habitegeko, who replaces Alphonse Munyantwari, has been the mayor of Nyaruguru district. During his tenure, Habitegeko spearheaded efforts to transform Nyaruguru. More residents are economically empowered and have amenities like electricity and clean water, which were a distant dream just a few years back. He is among the handful of mayors who fully served two terms, Dubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exstudent-of-shuats-made-guv-of-rawanda-s-western-province-101616000229718.html
17-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav says UP chief minister Adityanath campaigning in WB, Assam while unaware of own state||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav mocked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over his visits to the poll-bound states, alleging that criminals were having a field day in Uttar Pradesh.Yadav claimed that criminals were freely attacking the police under the BJP rule and the morale of the security forces was down."Criminals who are enjoying patronage are fearless, while police personnel taking action against them are being suspended," the former chief minister said.The SP leader added that the Adityanath government's tall claims of controlling crime against women have "failed" completely.Unaware of the actual situation in the state, Adityanath is busy in improving the situation in West Bengal and Assam, Yadav alleged.Adityanath has addressed three rallies in West Bengal's Purulia, Bankura and Paschim Medinipur districts on Tuesday, while he visited Assam for public meetings on Wednesday.Yadav said there was not a single day when incidents of loot, kidnapping, murder and rape were not reported, claiming that Lucknow tops the charts as far as crimes against women are concerned.Accusing the BJP govt of raising "magical 'jumlas' (rhetoric)" in order to divert people's attention from basic issues, Yadav said they might try every trick to confuse the people, but would not succeed anymore."People have come to know the reality behind BJP's tall claims and they will teach a lesson to the liars in 2022 (assembly) election," Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-says-up-chief-minister-adityanath-campaigning-in-wb-assam-while-unaware-of-own-state-101615998510401.html
17-03-2021||Other||Tata Zoo gets two pairs of pheasants from Vadodara Zoo in lieu of 21 deer||Tata Steel Zoological Park, Jamshedpur, got two pairs of pheasants, a ring-necked and a silver, from Sri Siyajibaug Zoo in Vadodara (Gujarat) in exchange of 21 deer on Wednesday.“Tata Zoo donated 11 Hog deer and 10 Black Bucks to Sri Siyajibaug Zoo, Vadodara, Gujarat as part of an animal exchange programme. In return, it has got two pheasants,” said a zoo official.A team from Sri Siyajibaug Zoo, Vadodara, Gujarat, led by Dr Pratyush Patankar (Curator and Zoo in-charge), visited the Tata Steel Zoological Park on March 12 in context of the exchange. The team was felicitated by the honorary secretary of Tata Steel Zoological Society Captain Amitabh.The Vadodara based Zoo authorities presented 2 pairs of Pheasants to the Tata Steel Zoological Park officials. The acquisition/transfer of animals by the Zoo has been legitimated under Section 38I of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, which has further been approved by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA).Tata Steel Zoological Park donated the herbivores on keeping in view the surplus at the zoo,while keeping the core population intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tata-zoo-gets-two-pairs-of-pheasants-from-vadodara-zoo-in-lieu-of-21-deer-101616000049660.html
17-03-2021||Other||Govt mulling to establish state transport corporation: Transport minister||HT Correspondenthtjharkhand@hindustantimes.comRANCHI: The Jharkhand government is planning to constitute a state transport corporation to boost public transport in the state, state tansport minister Champai Soren in the assembly on Wednesday. The announcement came in reply to a question put up by Congress legislator Deepika Pandey Singh, highlighting how lack of public transport in her constituency was hampering life of people, in all aspects, especially the poor in rural areas. The legislator sought to know if the state government has plans to.provide public transport in her constituency. “While there is no plan to provide public transport in that area specificially, the state government is pulling to establish State Transport Corporation,” said transport minister Champai Soren. It is noteworthy that unlike other states Jharkhand does not have a functional transport corporation, even two decades after its creation in 2000. Intra and inter district road transport and inter state transport in the state is totally dependent on private bus operators. City transport in all cities and district tiene is largely catered by auto rickshaws.‘Santhal area to get water from Ganga’Water resources minister Mithlesh Thakur informed the House that the state government is working on a project to draw water from Ganga river and provide it in areas across three districts including Sahebganj, Dumka and Godda. The minister was replying to a question on target of the state government to provide tapped drinking water to 50.28 lakh housholds actross the state by 2024. “We are working to provide Ganga water. We have obtained the NOC from the central authorities and DPR is being made for the project. Three firms are making DPR for the project,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-mulling-to-establish-state-transport-corporation-transport-minister-101616000050294.html
17-03-2021||Other||Wetlands safe havens for bootleggers||Wetlands are not just ecological treasure troves, but also seemingly the operational base of illicit liquor factories – it has come to light – in the Prayagraj region.As the menace of illicit liquor continues to claim lives, police and excise department officials religiously raid and destroy illegal liquor manufacturing units, being run in remote rural areas. However, these teams often fail to locate the units being run in the wetlands.The large wetlands of the Yamuna and the Ganga are safe havens for bootleggers and illegal liquor manufacturers, boats, camels and milk cans being used to supply hooch to different areas.The banks of the two rivers consist of ravines at many places which become safe hideouts for illegal liquor manufacturers and suppliers. An excise department official said that people involved in illegal liquor and hooch business choose wetlands as their hideouts. In a bid to avoid being spotted, they hide liquor gallons inside rivers and small ponds. Often, they bury the liquor gallons in the sand and take them out as per demand. Being locals, persons involved in the illegal trade are aware of the geography of the wetlands and often dodge the police and excise teams, he added.To supply illegal liquor and hooch to other villages, boats and camels are used which remain out of police sights. Camels are usually used in wetlands of the Ganga to transport vegetables and agricultural produce. Liquor gallons and pouches can be supplied in large quantities on camels to far-flung areas. Bahmalpur, Khaptiha, Kanihar, Phaphamau and many villages in banks of Ganga are notorious for illegal liquor manufacturing while Kanjasa, Arail, Lavayan, Sandwa etc in the trans-Yamuna area are considered hotspots of the hooch business. Ashutosh Mishra, SP, crime said that in a bid to completely crush the menace of illegal liquor, the informer network in remote rural areas will be strengthened. The help of locals will be taken to trace illegal liquor manufacturing units in wetlands and banks of rivers, he added.In many trans-Yamuna areas, bootleggers sell illegal liquor on boats and immediately take the boat in the middle of the river if they spot the police approaching. During the lockdown, the illegal hooch business was at its peak. Illegal liquor manufacturers earned hefty cash by supplying it on boats to different areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wetlands-safe-havens-for-bootleggers-101615999989654.html
17-03-2021||Other||MNNIT inks MoU with RGIPT-Amethi for academic, research collaboration||: Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Allahabad and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology (RGIPT), Amethi penned a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Wednesday to give pace to academic and research activities on MNNIT campus. The MoU was signed by prof Rajeev Tripathi, director, MNNIT and prof ASK Sinha, director of RGIPT with an aim to develop advanced research, academic courses, joint operation of research and technology development. On this occasion, prof Tripathi highlighted the significant role of both institutes in bringing academic excellence and wished to move towards holistic development of all students and faculty of the two institutes. He further mentioned that this MoU will be start of a new journey that will support faculty, researchers and students for exchange of knowledge, joint projects and technologies for mutual interest. Prof ASK Sinha also maintained that the MoU would facilitate exchange of teachers and administrative staff, exchange of research scholars besides graduate and undergraduate students, conduct lectures and organizing symposia and exchange of academic information and materials.The event was attended by Prof Geetika, Dean (Resource Generation and International Affairs), Prof RK Singh, Dean (academics), Sarvesh Kumar Tiwari, Registrar of MNNIT-Allahabad and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mnnit-inks-mou-with-rgipt-amethi-for-academic-research-collaboration-101615999809749.html
17-03-2021||Other||RPF policemen deployed on 20 trains running in night from Pune railway station||PUNE The Railway Police Force (RPF) department under the Pune railway division has now decided to send a special squad of armed policemen in 20 trains running in the night from Pune railway station.As the number of trains has increased from the Pune railway station, the passenger count has also increased in the last few weeks. Especially in the night trains there has been a heavy rush and to maintain social distancing and follow Covid-related safety measures, RPF police have taken the decision.“There will be three to four jawans of RPF policemen in each of the trains running in the night from the Pune railway station. It is for the safety of passengers, amid the surge in Covid cases,” said Ashwini Kumar, RPF senior police inspector and in-charge of Pune railway station RPF police station.“We do prior arrangements for providing safety in scheduled trains. And for some of the trains the security arrangements are done on an emergency basis,” said Kumar.“The squad will be present in trains like Konark Express, Indrayani Express, Vidarbha Express, Latur Express, Hussain Sagar Express and others. The RPF policemen go on till Pune-Lonvala, Pune-Satara and Pune-Daund as per their jurisdiction on the train route,” added Kumar..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rpf-policemen-deployed-on-20-trains-running-in-night-from-pune-railway-station-101615999689642.html
17-03-2021||Bhopal||Indore, Bhopal account for 54% of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid caseload: CM||As cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are increasing in Madhya Pradesh daily, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 positivity rate has risen by 4.3 per cent and two districts -- Bhopal and Indore -- were reporting 54 per cent of the total cases in the state. The chief minister was addressing a press conference, news agency ANI reported.Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 817 fresh Covid-19 disease cases, one fatality and 554 recoveries. This is the first time this year that the daily cases have gone past the 800-mark in the state, though the overall situation has been aggravating since the beginning of this month. The highest contribution to Tuesday’s tally was by Bhopal (196) and Indore (264). The total number of people infected with Covid-19 in the state has now gone up to 2,70,208 with 3,891 deaths and 2,61,031 recoveries.Both Indore and Bhopal have been placed under night curfew from Monday between 10pm to 6am in order to curb the spread of the infection. Only essential services-- pharmacies, ration shops, eateries-- are exempted from night curfew while people arriving from outside by flight, train or bus are being allowed to travel to their destination even after 10 pm, according to PTI. Shops in districts such as Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Chhindwara, Burhanpur, Betul and Khargone and Jabalpur are getting closed after 10pm.Further expanding the Covid- surveillance in Bhopal and Indore, the Madhya Pradesh government on Monday made it mandatory for all air travellers from Maharashtra to produce a negative RT-PCR test report upon their arrival in these two districts. Such passengers will also be placed under week-long isolation. Authorities in Indore demand a negative test report which is not older than 48 hours while those entering Bhopal will have to submit a report not older than 72 hours.More than 16.6 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries in the state till now with 12,92,780 getting the first doses and 3,71,081 with the second dose. Chief Minister Chouhan said on Sunday that the vaccination drive was going on in full swing but pointed out the state needed 81 lakh first doses of the vaccine of which just over 18 lakh had been procured so far. “The Union health minister has promised to provide the remaining shots very soon,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/indore-bhopal-account-for-54-of-madhya-pradesh-s-covid-caseloadcm-101615998797176.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade barbs over Delhi’s ‘most polluted capital city’ tag||A day after Delhi was declared as the most polluted capital city in the world, the ruling AAP and opposition BJP on Wednesday indulged in a blame game over the issue of pollution in the national capital.Delhi BJP spokespersons Harish Khurana and Praveen Shankar Kapoor, in a press conference, alleged that the Arvind Kejriwal government failed to utilise its environment budget.Citing documents, they claimed that during financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21, the AAP government "failed" to utilise the budget allocated for environment. In the current year 2020-21 alone, over 60 per cent of the environment budget is about to lapse, they said.The Kejriwal government should immediately form an expert committee to study various reasons of pollution throughout the year and suggest ways to curb it, the BJP leaders demanded.Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai, however, said the “central government had allowed the lapse of the Commission for Air Quality Management, and until the Centre gets serious about combating pollution, nothing could be done".Twenty-two of the world's 30 most polluted cities are in India, with Delhi being ranked as the most polluted capital city globally, the World Air Quality Report, 2020 said on Tuesday.The report, prepared by Swiss organization IQAir, was released globally. It, however, shows that Delhi's air quality improved by approximately 15 per cent from 2019 to 2020.“The recent report of Green Peace Asia saying that 54,000 people lost their lives in 2020 in Delhi due to pollution speaks volumes about the Kejriwal government's incompetence to control pollution,” Khurana charged.Kapoor alleged that instead of working to bring a holistic plan to fight pollution, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders are wasting time on accusing the Centre."Delhi has turned into a gas chamber, but shockingly there is no study report to scientifically tell the reasons of pollution growth in Delhi. Who is stopping the Kejriwal government to launch an effective anti-pollution campaign?" he asked.Defending the Delhi government, Rai said efforts of the ruling dispensation have helped reduce pollution by up to 15 per cent in the city."We are increasing the green belt, brought in a progressive electric vehicle policy and working towards making Delhi more environment-friendly," he said.The Delhi government had submitted a petition to the Commission for Air Quality Management to address stubble burning, but now with the Commission having lapsed, the issue remains unaddressed, he said.The minister reiterated that it was now up to the central government to do its part.“The intention of the central government was clear, which had done nothing to shut down polluting thermal power plants that are still functional in neighbouring states. It also had taken no step to shut down brick kilns, and the result is for all to see," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-trade-barbs-over-delhi-s-most-polluted-capital-city-tag-101615999161628.html
17-03-2021||Other||Preparations for planting 62 lakh saplings in Prayagraj begins||Even though monsoon is still months away all government departments in Sangam city have started preparations to meet their annual tree plantation target for 2021 as allocated by the state government. The UP government has set a target of planting 62 lakh saplings in Prayagraj this time with all departments having different individual quota, said district administrative officials. The forest department alone has been given a target of planting 17.50 lakh saplings while horticulture department has been given a separate target. Divisional forest officer, Prayagraj, YP Shukla said saplings for the drive were being prepared and the plantations would be planned in a way that the plants get best watering during the monsoons. Under horticulture department, 3.40 lakh saplings will be planted at the Chandra Shekhar Azad and 1 lakh saplings at the historical Khusro Bagh, officials shared. The government has ordered geo tagging of all new saplings to be planted this year too, officials said. The task of planting around 30 lakh saplings has been entrusted upon the urban and rural development departments. For this, preparations have already started at the departmental level. Planting preparations have started in Chandra Shekhar Azad Park, Minto Park and Khusro Bagh. Azad Park’s superintendent Seema Singh Rana said 3.40 lakh saplings were being prepared in a nursery for the drive to begin once the monsoon arrive. “We believe the saplings would be ready within the next 20 days,” she added. The officials also plan to take help of private nurseries to successfully complete such a large-scale drive. Plants will be purchased from private nurseries. The exercise for this has already started in all nurseries at the set government price, they added. The UP government plans to plant 30 crore saplings during its mega drive in July this year. The government has named this year’s campaign as ‘Vriksharopan Jan Andolan -2021’ to widen the ambit of the progamme and convert it into a mass movement. This year, the plantation figures will be 5 crore more than last year’s target of 25 crore, though the actual number turned out to be 25.8 crore. The state government has resolved to increase the state’s green cover by 15% in its five-year tenure due to which the target for plantation is being increased every year. The government’s target was 25 crore saplings in 2020, 22 crore in 2019 and 11 crore in 2018. Over 5.7 crore saplings were planted in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/preparations-for-planting-62-lakh-saplings-in-prayagraj-begins-101615999509653.html
17-03-2021||Patna||Education dept promotes students of Class 1 to 8 without examination||Considering the rising Covid-19 cases, the state education department has decided to promote more than 1.6 crore students of Classes 1 to 8 to the next grade without conducting the annual examination.As per the latest notification issued on Tuesday, the state government has decided to relax the detention policy for students of Classes 5 and 8 under Rule 10 of the RTE Act, 2019, only for the session 2020-21. As per the Act, there is a no-detention policy for Classes 1 to 4 and 6 to 7.“As schools have been closed since March last year, students are facing difficulty in appearing for the exam. Due to the unusual events surrounding the pandemic, the government has decided not to detain students of Classes 5 and 8,” read the notification.Last year, the state education department had promoted students up to Class 8 without holding annual examination owing to Covid-19 outbreak induced lockdown.The education department has yet not taken any decision on closure of schools owing to spike in Covid-19 cases. “No decision related to closure of schools has been taken so far. The crisis management group is likely to hold a meeting next week to review the situation,” said Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of Bihar education department.Meanwhile, the education department is carrying out an admission drive in the full swing. As per the data available, more than 50,000 students have been enrolled in Classes 1 to 9 across the state during the drive which commenced on March 8. The department is preparing to compensate the academic loss for the current session by conducting three-month catch-up course for students of Class 2 to 12.“All existing and new enrolled students will attend the catch-up classes which will begin in April. The short-term course will bridge the learning gap occurred due to year-long closure of schools and help the students to learn their new syllabus from July,” added Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/education-dept-promotes-students-of-class-1-to-8-without-examination-101615999510244.html
17-03-2021||Patna||Bihar first state to come up with new ethanol policy||Bihar on Wednesday became the first state in the country to have its own ethanol policy, called Ethanol Production Promotion Policy, 2021, which has been approved by the Cabinet.The new policy would permit ethanol production in Bihar from all feed stocks permitted by National Policy on Biofuels, 2018, and subsequently by National Biofuel Co-ordination Committee. The Assembly was informed of the cabinet decision by deputy chief minister Renu Devi as the industry minister Shahnawaz Husain was away in poll-bound West Bengal for campaigning. “Bihar has become the first state to bring a special policy for ethanol production,” said the deputy CM. In December 2020, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) had approved a modified scheme for extending interest subvention for those setting up grain-based along with molasses-based ethanol distilleries.So far, the government of India has granted permission for ethanol production from B-heavy molasses, C-heavy molasses, grains unfit for human consumption, sugarcane juice, sugar, sugar syrup, surplus rice and maize.The Ethanol Production Promotion Policy, 2021, of Bihar promotes new standalone ethanol manufacturing units by providing them additional capital subsidy at 15% of cost of plant and machinery up to a maximum of ₹5 crore. This capital subsidy will be in addition to existing incentives under Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, 2016. Under the industrial policy, units are offered exemption from stamp duty and registration fees, exemption from land conversion fees, interest subvention incentive, SGST reimbursement and electricity duty reimbursement, employment subsidy and skill development subsidy. The new policy also provides additional subsidy for special class investors like SCs, STs, EBCs, women, differently-abled, war widows, acid attack victims and third gender entrepreneurs. In their case, the capital subsidy will be 15.75% of cost of plant and machinery up to a maximum of Rs. 5.25 crore.Dovetailing of capital subsidy with incentives under any Central government policy has been allowed. So, investors may avail capital subsidy under the policy even if they are availing incentive under any Central government policy.The policy lays significant emphasis on issuing licences and clearances in a timebound manner for new standalone ethanol units.“Stage-1 clearance will be issued to units in seven working days; application for BIADA land allotment will be disposed of in seven working days and department of industries will hand-hold investors/entrepreneurs in private land registration and land conversion and also in availing all licences/clearances and NOCs required for setting up unit,” industry minister Shahnawaz Husain said over phone.The industry department has also fixed timelines for applying under the scheme. “The willing investors will have to apply for stage-1 clearance latest by June 30 this year and then apply for financial clearance latest by June 30 next year,” the minister said.Policy highlightsTo provide investors additional capital subsidy at 15% of cost of Plant and machinery up to a maximum of ₹5 crore The capital subsidy will be in addition to existing incentives under Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, 2016 Additional subsidy for SCs, STs, EBCs, women, differently abled, war widows, acid attack victims and third gender entrepreneursWilling investors will have to apply for stage-1 clearance latest by June 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-first-state-to-come-up-with-new-ethanol-policy-101615999449593.html
17-03-2021||Patna||Assembly sees rare spat between Speaker, minister||The state assembly on Wednesday witnessed some unsavoury moments when panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary had a run-in with Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, prompting the Speaker to adjourn the House in a huff and only returning in the post-lunch session when the minister tendered his apology over the spat.The tiff started when Choudhary was replying to a question. The Speaker told him that online reply to the question had not come to his office. The minister countered it, saying it had been sent to which the Speaker replied, “Only 11 replies had come”. At this point, the minister remarked that “one should not get so restless (etna vyakul hone se kaam nahin chalega)”. The comment by the minister apparently did not go well with the Speaker who asked the minister to withdraw his words, but Choudhary refused to relent, waiving a finger at the Chair. “You cannot run the House in this fashion,” the minister retorted. This apparently angered the Speaker who adjourned the House till 12 noon in the pre-lunch session. After the house reassembled, JD(U) MLA Narendra Narayan Yadav was on the chair and he adjourned the House till post lunch session. Later, when the House sat after lunch, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary told the chair that the minister would like express regret for his “uncalled for comments” at the Chair. “I apologise if my comments have hurt anybody,” the minister said. Later, the House resumed. The Opposition members, however, called the minister’s conduct unbecoming and sought his dismissal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/assembly-sees-rare-spat-between-speaker-minister-101615999450076.html
17-03-2021||Patna||Arrest minister’s kin for liquor haul or will lay siege to CM’s house: Tejashwi||A day after land revenue minister Ram Surat Kumar accused leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of spreading canards against him, the RJD leader on Wednesday said he would lay siege to chief minister Nitish Kumar’s residence if the school in Muzaffarpur where liquor consignment was seized a few months ago is not converted into a police station in a week.The minister’s brother is associated with the school. The state government had recently announced that premises from where liquor is recovered would be turned into police stations for effective implementation of Prohibition, which has been in place in the state since April 2016. “If a police station is not opened on the land where a school is run by the minister’s brother within a week, I will gherao (lay siege to) the chief minister’s residence,” Tejashwi Yadav said at a press conference Wednesday morning. The LoP also taunted the chief minister, saying it would be better if Kumar opens a liquor outlet at his official residence and also at residences of other ministers on April 1 (the day Prohibition was imposed in the state in 2016) in case he fails to get the minister’s brother arrested or dismisses the minister from cabinet. “The CM should open an outlet of liquor at his residence as that would check smuggling of liquor and save him the trouble of dismissing ministers,” he said. “Some ministers show their fists in the House to the opposition leaders . What kind of ministers are these? In the House, the Opposition leader is not allowed to speak and put facts. This is unfortunate,” he said.Yadav said investigation into the recovery of liquor consignment on November 8 last year from the school premises at Bochaha in Muzaffarpur had revealed that the pick-up van used for ferrying liquor was in the name of the minister’s brother. “It is mentioned in the police diary,” he said, waving police records at the press conference.He also claimed the police report mentioned another close relative of the minister, Sanjeev Kumar. “I do want to stoop low about making unsavoury comments about one’s family. But this is all there in the police diary,” Yadav said, apparently hitting back at the land revenue minister who had taken sharp jibes at the Opposition leader’s family in the Assembly on Tuesday.The minister, who comes from BJP, has maintained that the school land is a self-acquired property of his brother and not ancestral and that he should not be blamed for his brother Hanslal Rai’s conduct. “It is quite surprising the school principal, Amarendra Kumar, who had informed the police about the liquor consignment on school premises is in jail whereas the brother of the minister has not been arrested. I ask why,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/arrest-minister-s-kin-for-liquor-haul-or-will-lay-siege-to-cm-s-house-tejashwi-101615999389649.html
17-03-2021||Other||Kushwaha among 12 picked for Legislative Council||PATNAA day after the Bihar Cabinet authorised chief minister Nitish Kumar for shortlisting names for nomination to the state’s Legislative Council, the long pending decision was promptly taken on Wednesday with the announcement of 12 names. The list has been approved by the Governor’s secretariat and notified in the gazette. Later in the day, all 12 were sworn in.Those nominated from the Governor’s quota include two ministers, Ashok Choudhary and Janak Ram, who were not members of any House. Upendra Kushwaha, who recently joined the JD-U, has also been chosen for nomination. Others picked for nomination include Prof Ram Bachan Rai, Sanjay Kumar Singh, Lalan Kumar Sarraf, Rajendra Prasad Gupta, Sanjay Singh, Devesh Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Ghanshyam Thakur and Nivedita Singh.Both BJP and JD-U have shared six seats each.Since the much-delayed Cabinet expansion of the Nitish government ahead of the budget session, all eyes were on the nomination for the 12 seats in the Council, which have been vacant since May 2020.On Tuesday, Leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav had even raised the issue of a minister continuing for up to nine months without being a member of any House. He was alluding to building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, who was re-inducted into the new government after his six-month term as a minister expired before the Assembly elections in November last year since he was not a member of any of the two houses. Former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain and former BJP MP Janak Ram are also in the cabinet. Ram is not a member of any House and he needed to be nominated to the Upper House. Hussain was elected to the Council earlier. Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) leader Mukesh Sahni, who is minister of animal husbandry and fisheries, was elected to the Council earlier this year from the BJP seat from the Vidhan Sabha. The nomination to 12 seats of the Legislative Council was stuck due to lack of agreement on its distribution among the three constituents of the NDA, the BJP, JD-U and the LJP. Now, the new government has got four constituents and the equations have changed. Bihar is one among only seven states with a bicameral legislature, having both a Lower House (Legislative Assembly) with 243 members and an Upper House (Legislative Council). The council has a strength of 75 members. BJP, JD-U strike a 50:50 dealUpper House fullThe Council has 75 seats, of which 12 have been lying vacant since May 2020 and have now been filled. Bihar is one among only seven states with an Upper House.Two ministers Nominations from the Governor’s quota include two ministers, Ashok Choudhary and Janak Ram, who were not members of any House. The other 10Others nominated are Upendra Kushwaha, Prof Ram Bachan Rai, Sanjay Kumar Singh, Lalan Kumar Sarraf, Rajendra Prasad Gupta, Sanjay Singh, Devesh Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Ghanshyam Thakur and Nivedita Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kushwaha-among-12-picked-for-legislative-council-101615999329740.html
17-03-2021||Other||Pune airport witnesses rise in passenger traffic despite surge in Covid cases||PUNE As the passenger traffic is on a rise at the Lohegaon airport in Pune the Airport Authority of India (AAI) has tightened the Covid-related safety norms amid a surge in virus cases.As per the data shared by the Airport Authority of India, Pune, in the last week on an average daily 3,800 to 4,000 passengers from different destinations have arrived in the city.On March 8 at least 4,374 passengers arrived in the city which was 3,482 on March 9, at least 4,068 on March 10, 4,094 on March 11, 4,082 on March 12 and 3,497 on March 13 and 5,316 on March 14 and 4,423 on March 15.An official from the Airport Authority of India, Pune, on condition of anonymity, said, “Though there has been a rise in the Covid cases in Pune, people across the country are coming to Pune and there is no major impact on arrivals.”“Most of them are relatives and friends returning back to Pune to join their families. While others are coming by official works,” he said.The delayed schedule of arriving and departing flights from the Pune airport is between 8 am and 7 pm. There is flight movement from across the destinations like Chennai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Patna, Kolkata, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, Cochin and others.“I arrived in Pune two days back for my official work. When I was planning my tour I was worried about the rising numbers of Covid cases in the city, but work cannot stop. We are taking all safety precautions,” said Bipin Gandhi, a banker from Ahmedabad.Another regular passenger Kishore Tamhane said, “Due to business I need to travel to different cities in the country, and in last one-year business was hampered and we are trying to cover it up from last few months. Travelling through airways is faster and convenient for me, but I am aware of the risk involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-airport-witnesses-rise-in-passenger-traffic-despite-surge-in-covid-cases-101615999089595.html
17-03-2021||Other||MSEDCL employee locked inside metre room for cutting connection over unpaid bills; one held||PUNE A man was arrested by Pune police for wrongful confinement of a Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) employee after she cut the electricity connection due to non-payment of bill.The arrested man has been identified as Saleem Bashir Sayyed (41), a resident of Sukhniwas in the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) building of Mangalwar peth.“He was remanded to judicial custody and he had applied for bail. However, his bail was rejected. A Covdi test was done for him and he was sent to Yerawada Central Jail,” said police inspector Sandeep Jore of Samarth police station who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Madhuri Kulsange (28), a resident of Mangalwar peth who works at the MSEDCL.Sayyed had an unpaid bill of ₹11,481, according to the complainant.Kulsange went to the metre room of the SRA building and cut Sayyed’s connection as per the list of defaulters that she had.As soon as she cut the connection, Sayyed started hurling abuses at her, forcefully approached her and shut the metre room door from outside, the complainant said.The man allegedly refused to open the door until she restored the power supply on his connection.Kalsange then called an office assistant called Shailesh Dhumal from her office and narrated the incident to him. Dhumal arrived at the spot and was allegedly abused by Sayyed before he could open the door and let the 28-year-old woman out of the room.“Until January 31, 2021, not even a single connection was disconnected. As we saw no other option, we have started taking action of discontinuing connections since February 1. The service of complaint redressal about electricity bills is available at all offices of MSEDCL. There is also a facility of paying unpaid bills in parts (EMIs). However, people harassing and abusing employees providing 24*7 service will be penalised,” said an MSEDCL spokesperson.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 352 (assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 342 (wrongful confinement), 504 (insult with an intent of provoking a breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msedcl-employee-locked-inside-metre-room-for-cutting-connection-over-unpaid-bills-one-held-101615998489594.html
17-03-2021||Other||Contact tracing not done as per protocol, says central team||PUNE The central team during a visit to the district has found that although enough contact tracing is done the team on the field is not testing as per protocol.In view of the rising number of Covid cases, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is tracing at least ten contacts for every new case.The team following its visit last week to the district noted that although enough contacts are traced in most cases only family members are tested and on the very next day as opposed to the guidelines proposed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).A false negative on the very next day could lead to possible suspects roaming freely and spreading the infection, said the expert committee.While PMC has increased its contact tracing to about ten contacts for every new case the district collector in his earlier letter had said that about 30 contacts including 20 high risk and ten low-risk contacts should be tested.Dr Kalpana Baliwant, assistant health officer, said, “We have been asked to trace 20 contacts for every new Covid patient and we are doing that. About 15 high-risk contacts and five low-risk contacts. We are ensuring that each ward tests about 20 contacts for every new case.”On Tuesday, PMC tested reported 1,925 new cases and traced over 19,000 contacts out of which 4,020 are high-risk contacts and 15,366 are low-risk contacts. This brings the number to about ten contacts per new case. Also, 264 contacts of index cases were reported to test positive for Covid.The health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan in his letter to the state department wrote, ‘For every positive case, at least 20 to 30 close contacts (including family contacts, social contacts’ workplace contacts and other casual contacts) need to be promptly traced and tracked. The field staff engaged in contact tracing requires training/reorientation and develop skills in interpersonal communication for contact tracing. The contacts of a positive case should be tested strictly in accordance with the ICMR guidelines (five-ten days after exposure).”The team remarked, “The case-contact ratio is more than 1:20. Though it appears high, a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by the field level staff, who were mainly listing the immediate family and neighbourhood contacts, for the sake of listing. The high-risk contacts in workplace settings, social settings and family settings were not investigated and listed. The monitoring of the contacts was limited to conveying the message to the high-risk contacts for testing the very next day (and not as per the ICMR guidelines).”The report further said that for every case at-least 20-30 contacts need to be traced and tracked. Contact tracing should focus on family contacts, social contacts, workplace contacts and other casual contacts like vendors among others. The field staff now engaged in contact tracing requires training/reorientation and develop skills on interpersonal communication for contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/contact-tracing-not-done-as-per-protocol-says-central-team-101615994649314.html
17-03-2021||Other||Only 1% of Pune city’s frontline workers complete two-dose vaccination course||PUNE Only one per cent of the city’s frontline workers (FLW’s) have completed the two-dose vaccination course even as 47 per cent have taken the first dose, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data.For maximum efficacy, both the approved Covid vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have to be taken twice at least four weeks apart from the first dose.At least 57,264 FLW’s have registered themselves in Pune city, and as of March 16, as many as 27,052 have taken the first dose of the vaccine and 603 have taken the second dose and have completed the vaccination course.Observing the lack of enthusiasm among FLW’s, the central team during their visit to the state had said that the vaccine hesitancy among FLW’s needs to be addressed, as their services would be required if the trajectory follows the upward swing as is being witnessed currently.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “There are some perceptions among frontline workers that one vaccine is enough and so they are not willing to come forward for the second dose. We are trying our best to convey the message.”“Frontline workers have to understand that it is not just for their own benefit, but also the fact that they could be super spreaders. They have to get the complete efficacy which is possible only after second dose,” she said.FLW’s are at a greater risk because of their potential exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid infection and could then further spread the infection to their contacts. These include personnel from state and central police organisations, Armed Forces, home guards, prison staff and civil defence volunteers including disaster management volunteers, municipal workers, revenue officers engaged in containment and surveillance activities among others.The vaccination for FLW’s began on February 8, 2021, and the administration of the second dose began on March 2. Pune has been lagging behind Mumbai and Nagpur in terms of coverage for beneficiaries under phase two and so to boost vaccination coverage in the city Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is increasing session sites every day.The central health ministry in its letter to the state health department has written that “The central team could perceive a sense of helplessness by the field level health staff for implementing the test, track, isolate and treat policy, with other departmental staff having been withdrawn and the health staff too also pre-occupied with vaccine administration, there is a limited human resource for the surveillance and contact tracing activities. The district administration must engage the staff earlier appointed on a contractual basis to support the field staff.” It is possible that the administration might engage FLW’s for surveillance in micro-containment zones which are rising each day in the city.As of March 16, the progressive count in PMC stands at 0.228 million and the death toll stands at 4,636, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-1-of-pune-city-s-frontline-workers-complete-two-dose-vaccination-course-101615994229328.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Challenging phase’: Hemant Nagrale takes charge as Mumbai Police commissioner||Senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Hemant Nagrale on Wednesday assumed charge as the new Mumbai Police commissioner, just hours after the Maharashtra government transferred Param Bir Singh as director general, Home Guards. Addressing a press conference after taking over as the new city police chief, Nagrale remarked that the force was passing through a ‘challenging phase.’Also Read | Ambani bomb scare: Maharashtra govt transfers Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh“I have been appointed by the state government to solve the present situation which has brought a lot of embarrassment to the police department,” Nagrale, who was serving as Maharashtra’s acting director general of police (DGP), said, adding that Mumbai Police’s image ‘has been maligned by some recent developments.’Nagrale was referring to the sequence of events which led to his predecessor’s ouster. Singh, a 1988-batch officer, was held responsible by the Maharashtra government over the police’s ‘inept’ handling of the recent billionaire Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case and the related death of Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based businessman.The new Mumbai CP further said that he would try to restore people’s faith in the city police department with the help of his subordinate officers and other members of the force.Commenting on suspend assistant Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Ambani case, Nagrale said, "Those who are guilty will face appropriate action." The NIA has claimed that Vaze, who was handling the probe before it was transferred to the central agency by the Union government, was himself behind the bomb scare.Also Read | Case cracked, says NIA: ‘Vaze did it for lost glory’"We will definitely retain the glory and pride of Mumbai police," Nagrale promised.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted on Wednesday evening that Nagrale has been appointed as the new Mumbai Police commissioner, adding that Singh has been asked to head the Home Guards. Deshmukh added that Rajnish Seth will be the acting DGP of Maharashtra while Sanjay Pandey will head Maharashtra State Security Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/challenging-phase-hemant-nagrale-takes-charge-as-mumbai-police-commissioner-101615991865274.html
17-03-2021||Other||IMD forecasts light rain for city from March 19-23||PUNE Light rain is forecast for the city from March 19 till March 23, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The rain will be accompanied with thunder and lightning, the IMD added in its forecast bulleting issued on March 17.The maximum temperature recorded in Pune on Wednesday was 36.6 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 17.1 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of Weather Forecasting Department, IMD Pune, said that there is upper cyclonic circulation over central (Madhya) Maharashtra and a trough line from south-eastern Madhya Pradesh to Maharashtra and Karnataka.“These two weather systems along with wind discontinuity are observed. All these weather systems are governing the weather over Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi.“And so the day and the night temperature is likely to see a drop. The day temperature may drop to low as 34 degrees Celsius in the coming few days. The night temperature will continue to remain around 19 degrees Celsius till March 23,” said IMD officials.“Isolated places in Vidarbha may experience rainfall along with thunderstorm and lightning activity till March 21. Similar weather conditions may continue in Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra till March 21. Konkan and Goa may experience rainfall with thunderstorm activity from March 20,” said IMD officials.The highest maximum temperature reported in the state was at 40.3 degrees Celsius at Akola.Monsoon forecast soon: IMDAs per the recently released, El Niño Southern Oscillation (Enso) and Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) bulletin for of March by IMD, Pune, the probability forecast indicates neutral Enso conditions during March-April-May, and April-May-June.OP Sreejith, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Forecast, IMD Pune, said that for May-June-July season there is an increased probability of re-emergence of La Niña conditions.“With La Niña conditions, the monsoon is predicted to be good as it is an important factor. However, conditions will be clearer in April. We will forecast the monsoon very soon, but right now it is too soon to forecast,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imd-forecasts-light-rain-for-city-from-march-1923-101615991829161.html
17-03-2021||Other||History-sheeter, accomplices fire 13 rounds at Ludhiana man, his father||A 27-year-old insurance agent and his father had a close shave after five men opened fire at their house in Humbran on Tuesday night, in retaliation to the March 14 firing at the house of Jainpur village’s sarpanch.Police said 13 bullets were fired targeting the victims, Gurpal Singh, alias Pal, and his father, Harjit Singh, 60.In their police complaint, the victims had identified two of the five accused as Amandeep Singh, alias Amna, a history-sheeter from Sawaddi village, Sidhwan Bet and Paras Bassi of Samrala Chowk, Ludhiana. Harjit told the police that on Tuesday night, he and his son were woken up by noises in their street.When they went to the roof to inspect the matter, they found Amandeep and Paras, along with three more men, hurling abuses at Gurpal, accusing him being involved in the attack on the Jainpur village sarpanch and threatened to kill him. The men suddenly fired shots at their house, but they managed to duck out of their sight and escaped unhurt. Meanwhile, the assailants sped away in a car.“As many as 13 empty bullet shells were found outside the victims’ house. Prima facie, it appears Gurpal and the shooters were friends turned foes. So far, there is no evidence against Gurpal’s involvement in the Jainpur firing,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harpal Singh, in-charge, Humbran police post.The accused have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. A hunt is on for their arrest.The ASI said Amandeep was already facing trial in several criminal cases. He was booked in 2011 for firing shots in Sahnewal, along with gangster Dharminder Singh Gugni and other accomplices. Both Gugni and Amandeep were arrested in the case, but the latter was bailed out in 2016.In the March 14 incident, a group of 25 assailants had opened fire at the house of Balkaran Singh, 30, the sarpanch of Jainpur village. The shooters had also barged into his house and vandalised a car parked in the verandah. The sarpanch had a narrow escape as he locked himself in the house. Following his complaint, PAU police had registered a case of murder bid, house trespass and theft against Gurwinder Singh Gora of Bhatha Dhua village, Inderjit Singh Indra, Harsh Sebi, Manpreet Singh Bhathal and their 20 unidentified accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historysheeter-accomplices-fire-13-rounds-at-ludhiana-man-his-father-101615989610016.html
17-03-2021||Patna||Bihar will conduct 70,000 Covid-19 tests per day, says CM Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that the state government has decided to take the number of daily Covid-19 tests to 70,000 once again, reported news agency ANI. The CM's remarks come shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted a virtual meeting today with the chief ministers of all states over the current developments in the country's coronavirus disease situation."The Prime Minister held a meeting with all chief ministers today on the Covid-19 situation. Bihar government is alert, we will soon hold a meeting with all districts," ANI quoted Nitish Kumar as saying, "It has been decided to take the number of daily tests to 70,000 again."The PM held a meeting with all CMs today on the COVID19 situation. Bihar government is alert, we will soon hold a meeting with all districts. It has been decided to take the number of daily tests to 70,000 again: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar pic.twitter.com/JEpg1VGBfgBihar, the state that many look at as relatively a 'success story' in terms of the reported Covid-19 data, flaunts one of the highest coronavirus case recovery rates in the country: 99.29 per cent. It has also reported a mortality rate of 0.58 per cent, one of the lowest in India.Last Monday, the state created a record of sorts when it inoculated 1,73,137 people — the highest in a single day. The state had mobilised “Jeevika didis” and targeted to inoculate over 1 lakh women on Monday.Now, in the face of what is being called the second wave of the Covid-19 infection, Bihar is upping its daily coronavirus testing. To tackle the new wave, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today handed out a five-point plan to the states, directing the authorities to "immediately stop" the emerging threat.Reiterating his famous slogan 'Dawai bhi, kadai bhi' (yes to medicine, yes to caution), PM Modi said states will have to step up testing, focus on maximising vaccination and minimising wastage. In his five-point plan, the first is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In addition to that, the states will have to scale up RT-PCR tests, creating micro-containment zones, increase vaccination in both private and government hospitals and stop vaccine wastage.About 70 districts of the country have seen an increase of more than 150 per cent in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks, PM Modi said, adding that if the spread can’t be contained now, a situation of a nationwide outbreak can come up. But at the same time, he emphasised that the authorities must ensure panic is not generated among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-will-conduct-70-000-covid-19-tests-per-day-says-cm-nitish-kumar-101615986707003.html
17-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan minister says CM will resign if phone tapping claims are proven||The Rajasthan government informed the state assembly on Wednesday that it did not tap phones of any legislator during last year's political crisis.Rejecting the BJP's allegations on phone tapping, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal said the saffron party was making an issue in order to protect Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.He said the chief minister would offer his resignation if these allegations were proved right."Not only the chief minister, all of us will resign," Dhariwal added.However, the BJP demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter and created a ruckus in the assembly which led to adjournment of the House twice.The controversy around phone tapping erupted in July last year during the political crisis that was caused due to the rebellion of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's leadership.On the basis of three audio clips in which Shekhawat and Congress leaders could be heard talking about a conspiracy to topple Gehlot's government, Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi had registered FIRs with the Special Operations Group (SOG) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB).Dhariwal said after the FIRs were registered, SOG officers had gone to the residence and office of the minister in Delhi to collect Shekhawat's voice sample but failed to get the same.He said BJP leaders should tell Shekhawat that their party was facing embarrassment because of him and hence, he should take the voice test.On the allegations by the BJP that the voice clips were prepared and circulated by Lokesh Sharma, the OSD to the chief minister, Dhariwal said the audio clips were received on WhatsApp.He stressed that forwarding an audio clip on WhatsApp was not a crime.Dhariwal apprised the House that the SOG last year intercepted phones of two persons -- Ashok Singh and Bharat Malani -- with permission from the Home Department, after receiving information about illegal arms smuggling and movement of explosives.He said none of them was a politician but during the interception, conspiracy to depose the Gehlot government was exposed and that the SOG inspector lodged an FIR in the matter.The minister said the government did not order any MLA's, MP's or an elected representative's phone-tapping.Dhariwal reminisced that during the 90s, when efforts were being made to topple Bhairon Singh Shekhawat-led BJP government in the state, it was Gehlot, who met then prime minister PV Narasimha Rao and then Rajasthan governor Baliram Bhagat to speak against it.Dhariwal concluded his reply by taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which invited a sharp reaction from the BJP members who stormed to the well of the House and created a ruckus in the assembly.Speaker CP Joshi concluded the debate and adjourned the House for half an hour.The House was adjourned for the second time for another 30 minutes.Prior to the minister's reply, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria asked if the phones were not tapped, then why was the FIR lodged.He said if the cases lodged were true, then the government should take action against the accused.When the House reassembled, the speaker said it was everyone's responsibility to respect the president, vice president, prime minister, chief minister and other leaders in a parliamentary democracy.Saying that no such comment which may weaken the parliamentary democracy should be made, the speaker directed to expunge the comments of Dhariwal against the prime minister.Earlier in the day, the suspension of BJP MLA Madan Dilawar was revoked after the leader of opposition tendered an apology for his conduct.Dilawar was suspended for seven days for his "unruly behaviour" in the House on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-minister-says-cm-will-resign-if-phone-tapping-claims-are-proven-101615987569023.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav had asked me to reinstate Waze when I was CM: Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday claimed that when he was Maharashtra chief minister, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray had called him in 2018 to seek reinstatement of the then suspended police officer Sachin Waze into the state police force.He also accused the Shiv Sena of pressuring him over this demand at that time.Mumbai police officer Waze is at the focus of a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25.Waze, arrested in the case on March 13 for his alleged role in the crime, was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of city police's crime branch till recently.Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Fadnavis said, "I was Maharashtra chief minister in 2018 and also helmed the home department. Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray had called me to reinstate the then suspended police officer Sachin Waze back into the police force. Some Shiv Sena ministers later met me with the same request.""When I received the proposal to reinstate Waze back into police force, I verbally sought advocate general's opinion about it. I was told that Waze was suspended after the Bombay High Court's order. Therefore, I decided not to reinstate him," Fadnavis said.The Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly also alleged that the Shiv Sena even tried to pressurise him over it.The BJP and the Shiv Sena shared power between 2014 and 2019. However, after the 2019 Assembly polls, the Sena parted ways with the BJP over sharing the chief minister's post and joined hands with the NCP and the Congress. Uddhav Thackeray heads the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.Credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters', Waze, a 1990-batch officer of the state cadre, was suspended in 2004 over his role in the custodial death of a 2002 Ghatkopar blast suspect Khwaja Yunus and was reinstated last year. PTI ND NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-had-asked-me-to-reinstate-waze-when-i-was-cm-fadnavis-101615987042244.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to hold mega Covid-19 vaccination drives 2 days a week: CM Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday informed that mega vaccination drives will be held two days a week in the state."Mega vaccination drives to be held two days a week in the state; 7.50 lakh people have been vaccinated till now," Khattar said during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with chief ministers of various states on the prevailing Covid-19 situation.During the course of the meeting, the chief ministers, as per an official release, praised the leadership of the Prime Minister in the fight against Covid-19. They thanked the Prime Minister for the smooth implementation of the vaccination drive all across the country, while also giving their inputs and suggestions to further expand the vaccination coverage.During the meeting held virtually, the challenge of maintaining Covid appropriate behaviour in the general public was also discussed. The chief ministers agreed on the requirement of greater vigilance and monitoring of the situation.As many as 28,903 new Covid-19 cases and 17,741 recoveries were reported in the country in the last 24 hours, the health ministry informed on Wednesday morning.With the addition of fresh infections, the total cases in the country reached 1,14,38,734, including 2,34,406 active cases and 1,10,45,284 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-hold-mega-covid-19-vaccination-drives-2-days-a-week-cm-khattar-101615986362197.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: In Maharashtra’s Aurangabad, gatherings banned till April 4||With cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rising in Maharashtra, officials in the state’s Aurangabad district on Wednesday announced prohibitory order on gathering of people till April 4, according to news agency ANI. The order, issued by the district collector, district magistrate and police commissioner, directed that five or more people shall not be allowed to gather, in view of the spread of the viral disease.Aurangabad District Collector and District Magistrate and Police Commissioner issued prohibitory order for public gathering till April 4. As per the order, five or more people are not permitted to gather, in view of COVID19 spread. #MaharashtraWednesday’s order comes days after the Aurangabad district administration, last Saturday, announced that there will be a complete lockdown in the district during weekends until further orders, while a partial shutdown will be in effect during weekdays, till April 4. Till the day before the order, according to the administration, Aurangabad’s infection tally was at 57,755 including 5,569 active cases.Also Read | Covid-19: Complete lockdown imposed in Maharashtra's Aurangabad on weekendsAurangabad’s total tally of coronavirus cases crossed 60,000 on Tuesday, as 1,271 new cases took the district’s overall caseload to 60,100. Seven more deaths on the day took the death toll to 1,351. Total 52,073 people have recovered from the disease thus far, while active cases stand at 6,676.Maharashtra, whose Covid-19 tally has been the highest in the country since last year, has been at the epicentre of a fresh wave in recent days. At a press conference on Wednesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the western state currently accounts for 60% of all active cases in the country. On Wednesday, 17,864 fresh infections were detected in Maharashtra, its highest this year, taking its caseload to 2,347,328, while the death toll rose to 52,996 with 87 fatalities. Total 2,154,253 patients have recovered while active cases are at 138,813.While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ruled out a state-wide lockdown for now, he has urged citizens to not force him to impose one. However, administrations in various districts have announced curbs locally. The city of Nagpur entered a week-long on Monday, which will end on March 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-gatherings-banned-till-april-4-101615984524254.html
17-03-2021||Pune||Three-time MP, BJP leader Dilip Gandhi dies; PM Modi pays tribute||Pune: Three-time Member of Parliament (MP) from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and former Union minister Dilip Gandhi died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in New Delhi early Wednesday morning, his family members said. Gandhi, 69, was in Delhi in connection with some personal work. He is survived by his wife, two sons, and a daughter. During his Delhi stay, Gandhi had tested positive for the virus on Tuesday and was admitted to a private hospital where he was put on a ventilator. Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his condolences on the demise of the former MP. Remembering the minister’s contributions to community service, the prime minister said, “Saddened by the demise of former MP and minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om shanti.” Hailing from Ahmednagar, Gandhi served as corporator during the late 1980s. He also represented Ahmednagar in Lok Sabha three times till 2019 when the BJP decided to nominate Suyash Vikhe Patil, denying ticket to Gandhi. During the Vajpayee government in 2003, Gandhi held the shipping ministry charge. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh offered his condolences while commending Gandhi’s contributions to the welfare of farmers and weaker sections of the society and said the minister was an able administrator and parliamentarian. “Anguished by the demise of former MP and minister Shri Dilip Gandhi ji. He distinguished himself as an able administrator and parliamentarian. He worked towards the welfare of farmers and other weaker sections of our society. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om shanti,” Singh tweeted. Home minister Amit Shah also expressed his grief on hearing the news of the demise of the former minister. “The sad news of the demise of former Union minister and senior party leader Mr Dilip Gandhi was received. Dilip ji’s entire life was devoted to public service and organisation. May God give his family the power to bear this unbearable pain. Om shanti shanti shanti,” Shah’s tweet, in Hindi, read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/threetime-mp-bjp-leader-dilip-gandhi-dies-pm-modi-pays-tribute-101615984928670.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 positivity rate in Punjab has doubled, says health ministry as state’s tally crosses 2 lakh||The Union health ministry pointed out on Wednesday that Punjab’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate has currently doubled to 6.8 per cent from 3.4 per cent previously, which reveals people are not adhering to the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Addressing a press conference, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan compared the Punjab positivity rate with that of India and said, “The country’s cumulative positivity rate is 5 per cent while the weekly positivity is 3 per cent. This is a worrying situation as one state (Punjab) is seeing 6.8 per cent positivity while another state (Maharashtra) has 16 per cent positivity.”Bhushan said the daily average of Covid disease cases in Punjab was earlier at 531 and has now climbed to 1,338 in the last 15 days. The capital city of Chandigarh also saw its positivity rate increase from 3.5 per cent to 7 per cent and the daily average of cases have increased more than twice from 49 (on March 1) to 111(on March 15), he added. “Covid-19 tests in Chandigarh are coming up and going down and hence there is no distinct trend. We would want a distinct increasing trend of tests in which RT-PCR’s share is substantially higher than the present 40 per cent,” Bhushan said.Punjab's positivity rate is now 6.8%; this is worrying. This shows that COVID19 appropriate behaviour is not being followed: Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan pic.twitter.com/MX9az6XHRMPunjab has so far recorded over 2,00,000 Covid disease cases of which 6,137 people have died, 182,283 have recovered and active cases are at 11,942, according to the state’s health department bulletin. On Tuesday, 1,475 fresh cases and 38 deaths were reported. On Monday, 1,843 cases were recorded - which was the highest in more than six months. Currently, nine districts in Punjab are observing night curfew from 11pm to 5am and the state’s education department has postponed board examinations for class 10 and 12 to May 4 and May 24, respectively.Also Read| Maharashtra, UP, Telangana: What PM Modi observed about Covid-19 in these statesAs the overall situation in Punjab has been worsening for nearly a month, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to the central government to review its immunisation strategy and vaccinate all age groups in selected areas of the state- where weekly testing shows a doubling of positivity rate, according to news agency PTI. Singh, who was a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Covid-19 review meeting with all chief ministers, said the cases have been on the rise in Punjab due to people showing laxity in following Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-positivity-rate-in-punjab-has-doubled-says-health-ministry-101615982853336.html
17-03-2021||Other||Lt Gen DP Pandey takes command of Chinar Corps||Lieutenant General BS Raju on Wednesday handed over the command of the strategic Kashmir-based 15 Corps to Lt Gen DP Pandey. Lt Gen Raju will take over as the director general of military operations (DGMO) of the Indian Army.At a simple ceremony held at the headquarters of the Chinar Corps, the baton was handed over to Lt Gen Pandey, who was earlier serving as the director general of territorial army. He has also served in Kashmir as the general officer commanding (GOC) of the counter-insurgency Kilo Force.Lt Gen Raju commanded the 15 Corps, which guards the Line of Control in Kashmir, in a critical phase in 2020 when the Valley faced twin challenges of terrorism and Covid-19 pandemic.The army in a statement said that Lt Gen Raju’s tenure over the last one year is defined by an improved security environment prevailing both on the Line of Control (LoC) and in Kashmir. “With the civil administration and security forces synergising their efforts to bring normalcy back to Kashmir, terrorism is on decline with assessed residual terrorist numbers being the lowest in a decade. On the LoC, his approach combined a forward heavy deployment enabled by a dense electronic and surveillance grid. Pakistani ceasefire violations were dealt with punitive responses resulting in operational ascendancy by the Indian Army,” the statement said.To complement relentless and successful counterterrorist operations, it read, Lt Gen Raju ensured an improved soldier-citizen connection. “This effort included many successful events all over the Valley. The army effectively used its deployment grid, especially in far-flung areas, to be the first respondent in case of need. Grassroot interactions and Day with Company Commander received overwhelming response,” it added. Having served as Uri Brigade commander, GOC of Victor Force and now as GOC Chinar Corps, Lt Gen Raju reinforced and institutionalised high professional standards and ethical conduct in combat operations, the army said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lt-gen-dp-pandey-takes-command-of-chinar-corps-101615983311147.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal appeals to Centre to take back bill on LG powers||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday urged the Centre to take back the bill that seeks to define certain roles and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of the national capital.Speaking at a protest organised by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) against the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 at Jantar Mantar here, the chief minister also alleged that the Centre wants to weaken his government through this bill."I want to appeal to the Centre to take back the GNCTD Bill, don't cheat the people with this legislation," Kejriwal said.He said the BJP has brought the bill as it is scared of the AAP's reach in other states."That is why they are trying to stop our development work in Delhi," he claimed.Delhi ministers, AAP MLAs and councillors took part in the protest at Jantar Mantar against the bill which, according to the party, gives overarching power to the LG.The GNCTD (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in Lok Sabha by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Monday.According to the bill, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in context of any law made by the legislative assembly.The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the LG before any executive action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-appeals-to-centre-to-take-back-bill-on-lg-powers-101615982696259.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare: Maharashtra govt transfers Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||Amid the controversy over the bomb scare at billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia and the subsequent arrest of former police officer Sachin Vaze, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Param Bir Singh from the post of police commissioner of Mumbai to the head of the home guard. Acting director general of police Hemant Nagrale has been appointed as the new Mumbai Police commissioner, home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted.Singh, a 1988-batch officer, has been held responsible for the inept handling of the bomb scare and the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran. Vaze’s arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), too, is said to be the reason behind his sudden transfer. The decision was announced after a slew of meetings were held between key leaders from the three ruling parties (Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party) and top home department officials over the last two days.Also Read | Case cracked, says NIA: ‘Vaze did it for lost glory’“State government’s key decision—Shri Hemant Nagrale to become the new police commissioner of Mumbai. Rajnish Sheth will be the acting director general of police. Shri Sanjay Pandey will be director general of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Shri Param Bir Singh will head the home guards,” Deshmukh tweeted in Marathi.According to officials from the home department, the Mumbai CP has been replaced with immediate effect. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had a meeting with home minister Anil Deshmukh, and officers Nagrale and Singh for over an hour on Tuesday evening. A high-level meeting was held by CM Thackeray with the key leaders of the three ruling parties on Thursday morning at his official residence to apprise them about the decision,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was behind the bomb scare outside billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful cop, senior officers in NIA told HT on Tuesday, contending that the mystery around the explosive-laden vehicle has been solved.Vaze, a former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch, was initially the lead investigator after a Scorpio car carrying 20 loose gelatin sticks (unassembled, with no detonator or timer) was found near Ambani’s Antilia on Carmichael Road on February 25. The case was transferred to NIA on March 8, and Vaze was arrested on March 13.Vaze’s role first came under the spotlight after the death of Mansukh Hiran, who came forward as the person who had possession of the Scorpio SUV before it was found from outside Antilla. Hiran told police it was stolen from his residence before he was interrogated multiple times, including by Vaze’s unit.Hiran was found dead on March 5, and the police said it was a suicide. His wife, however, said she suspected the police officer’s role in the death, kicking off a chain of events that eventually led to Vaze being questioned and detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-maharashtra-govt-transfers-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101615982709122.html
17-03-2021||Bangalore||Woman allegedly exploited by ex-Karnataka minister abducted, says her father||The woman, who was allegedly sexually exploited by former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, was on Tuesday abducted from a hostel in Bengaluru, her father said in a police complaint in Belagavi. The father alleged unidentified people threatened, sexually harassed, and tortured his daughter. The same people also circulated the unverified video of a person resembling the former minister with the woman, he added.The woman’s family also released a video requesting the government to help them trace their daughter. Her mother said the woman told her that the latter’s pictures were morphed before the video was aired on news channels. “She told us that she had been held against her will. After two days, her phone was switched off and we do not know where she is now,” the mother said.“After seeing the video on television, I called her and told her that there is a video of someone like her on television. But she said it was not her...and they have used her morphed photo. She told me that she had not committed any mistake.”Also Read| ‘Conspiracy, fake videos’: BJP’s Ramesh Jarkiholi on alleged sex tape rowThe mother added she asked her to return home, but she said she cannot since there was a threat to her life. “After that when I called her again, she said she was safe. She used to keep messaging my sons but one day she asked us not to contact her because her phone is being monitored. When my son called her again, the phone was switched off.”The woman also released a video citing the threat to her and her family. Belagavi’s police commissioner, K Thiyagarajan, said the complaint was filed, but no First Information Report has been registered so far. “We are seeking legal opinion on the matter. We are collecting information from the family as of now,” he said. He added since the complaint says the alleged abduction took place in Bengaluru, the case could be transferred to Bengaluru police. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that so far, they have not received any information from the Belagavi police. Jarkiholi resigned from the state cabinet a day after allegations of sexual exploitation surfaced against the Bharatiya Janata Party legislator from Gokak in Belagavi district on March 3.In his resignation letter, Jarkiholi said the allegations against him were “far from the truth”. “There should be an investigation into this. Even though I am innocent, I am taking moral responsibility and resigning from the cabinet,” Jarkiholi said in the letter, written in Kannada.Also Read | Yatnal doubts transparency of probe by SIT in harassment case against MLAThe resignation came after Dinesh Kalahalli, a social activist, filed a police complaint in Bengaluru as the video went viral. Kalahalli claimed Kalahalli promised the woman a job and exploited her. The complaint was later withdrawn.Jarkiholi has separately given a statement to a Special Investigation Team (SIT) saying a group of people, including a Tumakuru-based journalist, tried to extort money from him. They released the video on social media when he refused to pay, he said.An SIT officer said the alleged abduction case will be transferred to Bengaluru and they will take over the investigation into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/woman-allegedly-exploited-by-ex-karnataka-minister-abducted-says-her-father-101615981389309.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare: MVA govt transfers Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh was shunted out from the top post in the city police and replaced with Hemant Nagrale, a 1987 batch Indian Police Service officer who had been appointed to officiate as Maharashtra police chief just two months earlier, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Twitter.The unceremonious exit of the police commissioner comes after the ruling coalition Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had to face embarrassing moments when the arrest of Sachin Vaze, a city police officer who had probed the explosives found in an abandoned vehicle near billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani residence in Mumbai on February 25.Also Read | Antilia bomb scare: No question of Maha home minister being replaced, says NCP“State government’s key decision—Shri Hemant Nagrale to become the new police commissioner of Mumbai. Rajnish Sheth will be the acting director general of police. Shri Sanjay Pandey will be director general of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Shri Param Bir Singh will head the home guards,” Deshmukh tweeted in Marathi.सरकारचा मोठा निर्णयश्री हेमंत नगराळे होणार नवे मुंबई पोलीस आयुक्तश्री रजनीश शेठ यांच्या कडे पोलीस महासंचालक महाराष्ट्र राज्य या पदाचा अतिरिक्त कार्यभारश्री संजय पांडे यांच्या कडे महाराष्ट्र राज्य सुरक्षा महामंडळाची जवाबदारीश्री परमवीर सिंह यांच्या कडे गृह रक्षक दलाची जवाबदारीInvestigations by the National Investigation Agency, or NIA, which arrested Vaze, suggest that the police officer was behind the bomb scare, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful cop. Vaze is also being investigated for links to the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran.Also Read | Case cracked, says NIA: ‘Vaze did it for lost glory’The revelations have led to red faces in the ruling coalition which had rejected demands from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for action against Vaze. When Deshmukh first announced the decision to transfer Vaze out of the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) in the crime branch, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had declared that the government wouldn’t spare the guilty but faulted the opposition for painting the police officer as 'Osama Bin Laden.'The decision to move out Singh after completing one year in the hot seat was taken at the meetings held over the last two days to control damage. The government’s assessment was that the police commissioner’s handling of the investigation into the bomb scare near Ambani’s residence, Antilia, and the death of Hiran was 'patchy.'As the ruling coalition switched into damage-control mode, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar - his intervention had persuaded Thackeray to earlier transfer out Vaze - even justified the Centre’s decision to get the NIA to probe this case.Also Read | Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray on damage control mode as cop’s arrest singes MVAOfficers who misuse their powers must face the music, Pawar told reporters, a stand that appeared to contrast sharply with the earlier stance of the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-mva-govt-transfers-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101615980532795.html
17-03-2021||Jaipur||18 tribal women from Rajasthan find new purpose, thanks to 2 women||18 tribal women from Rajasthan’s Udaipur belt have cleared the written test for police constable’s recruitment and are now waiting to clear the physical part of the examination to become constables of Rajasthan police. These women were among the 38 tribal women including widows and those from poor financial backgrounds, who were given the opportunity to transform their lives by two senior officials, Binita Thakur, who was earlier posted as Udaipur range IG and Anandhi, who was earlier posted as former Udaipur collector.“Many tribal women living in Udaipur division are facing either social or economic problems. Last year, our police department along with district collector Anandi decided to coach them and roped-in a private institute,” said Binita Thakur, who is now additional director general of police (ADGP) in Rajasthan. Her companion in the mission, Anandhi, is currently deputy director of Mussoorie based Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration.Thakur added that while the police and district administration arranged for their accommodation and food, the private institute coached them.“During the lockdown, the coaching was affected for sometime but as soon as restrictions were eased, it resumed. During the lockdown, they were even given online coaching. Officials of district administration and police also used to give one lecture on a daily basis,” said Thakur.Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officer Sanjay Kumar, additional SP Swati Sharma, the then Udaipur Range IG Binita Thakur, the then collector Anandhi, along with trainers at Anushka Academy were prominent forces involved in this project. Now deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Chetna Bhati is training the selected women for the physical endurance examination.One of the candidates to have cleared the written test, Iltaja Khan, 23, is a resident of Sallopat village in Banswara, who was turned out of her house by her parents after she refused to marry. “I stayed in an NGO in Udaipur from March 2, 2019 to November 2020 and got coached from 11am to 5 pm to become a police constable,” she says.Another candidate Asha Meena (28) said her husband died in a road accident after a few years of marriage, leaving her with the responsibility to raise three children. “For the past one year, I took coaching and cleared the exam. Now, I have got a new direction to live,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/18-tribal-women-from-rajasthan-find-new-purpose-thanks-to-2-women-101615980671656.html
17-03-2021||Lucknow||Mosque lowers loudspeaker volume after Allahabad varsity V-C seeks ban on azaan||The management committee of a mosque near Allahabad University on Wednesday changed the direction of one of its two loudspeakers and reduced their volume. The move came after Sangita Srivastava, the university vice-chancellor, wrote a letter to officials seeking a ban on Muslim calls for prayer via loudspeakers from the mosque saying it disturbs her sleep in the morning.Kaleem-ur-Rehman, the caretaker of the Lal Masjid, said after police informed them about the problem, the committee immediately took steps to address the issue. “The volume of the system, which was already a decibel less than the norm set by the [Allahabad high] court, has been further reduced by half and direction of one of the loudspeakers has also been changed, so that it points away from the vice chancellor’s home,” he said.Rehman said had she spoken to the members of the management committee, they would have ensured that there was no inconvenience to anyone living near the mosque..Earlier in her letter dated March 3 to district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami complaining about noise pollution, Srivastava said every day at around 5.30 am, her sleep gets disturbed due to the call from the mosque. Copies of the letter were also marked to other top officials.“The sleep so disturbed does not resume even after trying very hard. This also results in a headache throughout the day, causing losses in work hours,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.The letter went viral on social media.Also Read | Action against Prayagraj hospital sought in alleged medical negligence caseSrivastava attached a copy of the Allahabad high court’s May 2020 judgement on azaan, or the call for prayer. The court held that azaan may be an essential part of Islam, but its amplification cannot be said to be integral to the religion, warranting protection of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 25 of the Constitution, which is even otherwise subject to public order, morality or health, and other provisions. Thus, under no circumstances, sound amplifying devices can be permitted to be used between 10pm and 6am, the order said.Goswami said the letter was received and necessary action as per the law would be taken.Prayagraj’s senior police superintendent Sarvashresth Tripathi said orders have been issued for a probe in light of the complaint.Former Allahabad University Students’ Union vice-president Akhilesh Yadav said the concept of communal harmony lies at India’s core and unfortunately speaking against religions has become fashionable. He demanded strict action against Srivastava.The call for prayers is made five times a day. Their timings wary depending on sunrise and sunset and each call does not last more than three minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-vice-chancellor-seeks-ban-on-azaan-via-loudspeakers-101615980669793.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Speaker warns officials against tabling misleading info in assembly||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday said that action will be taken if officials provide incorrect information to the state assembly. “A motion of privilege will be brought against such officials,” he said in the House. The Speaker recently called top officials of the industries department for explaining a faux pas made in a reply tabled by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala to an unstarred question by Mullana Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary on action taken by the government on the 2015 Enterprise Promotion Policy. The incorrect reply tabled during the assembly session on November 5, 2020, reads: “Two projects of tool room/technology centres have been set up at IMT Rohtak (19.8 acres), and Industrial Growth Centre, Saha (10 acres), with an approximate investment of ₹150 crore by the Government of India. The land for these projects has been provided by HSIIDC as the state’s contribution.” The Congress MLA had subsequently complained to the Speaker about the incorrect and misleading bits of information tabled in the House. “The Speaker has asked senior industry department officers to fix responsibility of those who submitted incorrect information in the reply,” Chaudhary said. Rectifying the mistake, Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday told the assembly that courses in the Rohtak tool room were started in 2018. “As far as the proposal of a tool room for Saha was concerned, there were problems regarding land. Also, the Centre decided to fund one tool room for each state. However, we have urged the central government to consider our proposal for a second tool room. The state government has identified 20 acres for the Saha tool room and conveyed the proposal to the Centre,” said Chautala, who holds the industries and commerce portfolios. The minister’s reply came on a starred question by Chaudhary, who also sought a deadline for the setting up the Saha tool room. Chaudhary said there were multiple instances when the executive was found to be misleading the legislature. The Speaker told the House that if any official provided wrong information, a motion of privilege will be brought against him/her in the assembly. He was responding to a statement by Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats, who wanted action against such officials. “If any official provides a wrong report, please let me know,” the Speaker told the MLA.Assembly speaker, Gian Chand Gupta told HT that the industries department officials have tendered an unconditional apology in the matter. “However, I have asked the state government to fix responsibility of the officials responsible for the omission,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-speaker-warns-officials-against-tabling-misleading-info-in-assembly-101615980609047.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine stock to last 10 days: Maharashtra health minister Tope to Javadekar||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said during a press conference on Wednesday that the state’s Covid-19 vaccine stock will last for another 10 days. He said that he apprised Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday about the stock availability based on the current trend of daily vaccinations.Tope’s comments came after Union minister Prakash Javadekar blamed the Maharashtra government for mismanaging the Covid-19 vaccination drive. He said the state’s ruling Shiv Sena members of Parliament were asking the Centre for more vaccines while Maharashtra has only utilised 44% of the stocks delivered so far.Also Read | Covid-19: Highest single-day spike in cases in Maharastra since SeptIn a tweet, Javadekar said, “Maharashtra Government had only used 23 lakh [2.3 million] vaccines out of the total 54 lakh [5.4] vaccines sent to the state, till 12th March. 56% vaccines remained unused. Now, Shiv Sena MP asks for more vaccines for the state. First mismanagement of pandemic now poor administration of vaccines.”Tope said given their target of 300,000 vaccinations daily, they only have vaccine stocks that will last for 10 days. “I have told this to Rajesh Bhushan. Today, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray too informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about this...” He added that based on their targeted inoculation, they want more additional vaccination centres.Tuesday saw the state’s highest single-day spike in 167 days with 17,864 fresh cases (18,317 cases were logged on September 30). The state saw the peak of the first wave on September 17 last year with 24,619 cases. The daily caseload in the state dropped to fewer than 2,000 cases in the first week of February. On Tuesday, the state also reported 87 deaths, taking the toll to 52,996. The state’s tally stands at 2,347,328 with 138,812 active cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 2.49% and the recovery rate at 95.66%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-stock-to-last-10-days-maharashtra-health-minister-tope-to-javadekar-101615979349086.html
17-03-2021||Other||Hyderabad man arrested for beating brother to death over property dispute||A man was on Wednesday arrested for allegedly beating his brother to death over a property dispute on Hyderabad’s busy Mehdipatnam-Gachibowli road around 11.30pm on Tuesday. A video purportedly showed Narender, the accused, moving around the body of his brother Vijay, in his late thirties. Many vehicles can be seen passing on the road. Curious onlookers gathered but nobody dared to go near Vijay.When somebody shouted at Narender, he hurled the club he attacked Vijay with towards the people. He can be seen trying to make a call before fleeing the spot.Also Read | Boy beaten for drinking water in Ghaziabad temple, two arrestedK Chandrasekhar Reddy, a local police officer, cited the preliminary probe and added the brothers had a dispute over some inherited property. “Apparently, the family elders brought about a compromise between the two and settled the matter a few days ago, but still they continued to quarrel.”Reddy said on Tuesday night, the two had a quarrel and traded blows. “Narender, who was in an inebriated condition, picked up a club from a nearby shop and repeatedly attacked his brother on his head.”The police rushed Vijay to a hospital where the doctors declared him dead. “We have taken Narender into custody and are questioning him. We have filed a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” said Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-man-arrested-for-beating-brother-to-death-101615978688948.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi could have an accessible riverfront in a few years: DDA||Large parts of the 54km-long Yamuna riverfront have been inaccessible for Delhiites for decades, while industrial waste and untreated sewage are continuously dumped into the river.However, there is a change in the offing. While the Delhi government has set a three-year target to clean the river, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is working on rejuvenating and making the riverfront accessible to the public.From cycling tracks, walkways, eco-trails to wetlands and a floodplain forest, the 22km-long rejuvenated urban riverfront between Wazirabad Barrage to Okhla Barrage will not only help people connect with the river (which has long been neglected) but also check the dying ecosystem of the Yamuna floodplains, both flora and fauna, a senior DDA official said. Close to 1,400 hectares of land are being developed by DDA on the eastern and western banks of the river.Also Read | SC rejects farmers’ plea on land acquisition for Delhi-Katra national highwayDDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “The entire stretch has been divided into 10 projects, each spread over 90 hectares and above. The work is moving at a fast pace, and the three projects will be completed in the next few months. We aim to complete large parts of projects by the end of this year.”The project to restore the riverfront was conceived following a National Green Tribunal order in 2015. The work on the riverfront, DDA officials said, started in 2017 and was monitored by the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee that was set up in 2018. The committee concluded its proceedings in January this year after it submitted its final report. DDA officials said that the restoration work on the 22km-stretch in Delhi has been planned as per the committee’s directions. The restoration work is being closely monitored by Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, who has been taking regular review meetings. A report regarding the status of work was presented to the L-G in February by DDA. One of the biggest challenges in restoring the riverfront, Jain said, is removing encroachments and reclaiming the land. According to a senior DDA official, about 1,000 acres of land have been cleared of encroachment and are being developed, and work is going on in other parts.As for the issue of dumping of debris on the floodplains, DDA officials said they have installed CCTV cameras and deployed staff to keep a check on the menace.Of the 10 projects, three projects—Kalindi Biodiversity, Park Asita East, Asita West—are in advanced stages of construction and will be completed in the next few months, officials in the know of the matter said.Spread over 200 hectares, Asita West, located between the Old Railway Bridge and the ITO barrage, is one of the first areas being rejuvenated. DDA has developed 4.8km of walkways, 1.5km of cycleways, three new water bodies, 300m of green buffer along the river, greenways, etc. on 93 hectares of land. The project is likely to be completed by June this year.A senior DDA official involved in the project said, “In Asita West, we have cleared 140 acres of land of encroachment and developed these facilities. There are floodplain forests, grasslands and buffer areas along the river edge planted with riverine species of grasses like sedges, Saccharum, Cymbopogon etc.”For residents of Walled City and nearby areas, this has become a popular spot. Kishore Kumar (35), who lives and works in Chandni Chowk, said that he often comes here with his children. “While there are parks in the area, there aren’t many such large open spaces. We usually come here on weekends. They have now expanded the park and constructed a water body here.”Also Read | 220 acre Bharat Vandana park in Dwarka sub-city gets green clearanceShambhu Nath Pathak, who works at the park, said, “A lot of people from nearby areas come here for morning walks and exercise. The park is crowded during the weekends. The work is still going on. A small passage has been created for people to walk up to the river.”DDA officials said that as part of all 10 projects, walkways, cycle tracks, eco-trails, as well as wetlands will be developed. DDA also plans to develop the three ghats (Qudsia, Yamuna Bazaar and Sur ghats). While work on Sur Ghat is expected to be completed by September this year, plans for the other two are yet to be prepared.As part of the rejuvenation project, DDA is developing a biodiversity park near Delhi Noida Direct (DND) Flyway. Spread over 116 hectares between DND Flyway and Okhla Barrage, the biodiversity park will have 11 constructed wetlands and will treat sewage from about 25 drains. It will also have 100m-wide greenways, about 6km-long walking trails and recreational parks.CR Babu, who heads the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE) at Delhi University, said, “Two of the 11 constructed wetlands are operational. We are treating drain water that has raw sewage from the Kilokri drain naturally via a constructed wetland system before the water is released into the river. A similar wetland system will be soon operational for the Maharani Bagh drain where 500MLD (millions of litres per day) of drain water will be treated. We are also constructing recreational spaces.”However, environment experts say that beautifying the floodplains will serve no purpose if the river continues to be dirty.Faiyaz A Khudsar, a scientist in charge of the Yamuna Biodiversity Park who is involved in the development of Kalindi Biodiversity park, said, “The river has to be clean before you take people close to it. How can people sit near the river if it stinks? Just beautifying the floodplains is not enough, we have to restore the ecology of the area which will help not only rejuvenate the river but become an attraction for the people.”He added, “We are developing grasslands and woodlands, and one can see already restored wetland and established biological communities in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park. We are working on ensuring that sewerage water is naturally treated through constructed wetland systems before it is discharged into the river.”Khudsar and AK Gosain, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Delhi, who submitted a drainage master plan to the Delhi government in 2017, said that just treating a few drains is not enough and efforts should be made to ensure that no sewage flows into the river.Gosain said, “There is a need to ensure that sewage doesn’t flow into the river. There are around 200 natural drain segments in Delhi and most of them are flooded with sewage. We had advised the government to put in a system in place whereby sewage from unauthorised colonies, where there are no sewer lines, is trapped and diverted to nearby sewer lines. The natural drains should be clean and are meant to carry only stormwater.”On the completion of the first year of the Delhi government’s second term, Delhi health and urban development minister Satyendar Jain said after defeating Covid-19, the Delhi government will focus on cleaning the Yamuna in three years.“Nobody believed us when we promised to provide 24×7 electricity, but today, the Delhi government is providing 24×7 electricity to the people of Delhi. Soon, we will also provide 24×7 water supply as well. [Delhi chief minister Arvind] Kejriwal has given clear instructions to complete the Yamuna cleaning project as soon as possible and we are working day and night for this,” Jain said on February 16.While work on the restoration of the riverfront, which was disrupted last year due to the coronavirus disease pandemic, is picking up pace, DDA officials said that a majority of the work will be completed by December 2021.DDA is also planning to send a proposal to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for approval of funding of the project from the Urban Development Fund, which is collected by DDA mainly through conversion charges, said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-could-have-an-accessible-riverfront-in-a-few-years-dda-101615977309341.html
17-03-2021||Other||Sainik schools go co-ed: All-male bastion turns a liberal leaf||The authorities of the four sainik schools in the region — Kapurthala (Punjab), Kunjpura (Haryana), Sujanpur Tira (Himachal Pradesh) and Nagrota (J&K) — are ready to roll out the red carpet for girl students, who can now join these elite institutions. Entrance tests have been conducted to select a batch of 10 girls each in Class 6. HT takes an overview of what changes are being made on the campus to the govt’s initiative aimed at a bigger participation of women in the armed forces.‘Girls will get best and safe environs’JALANDHAR/KAPURTHALA: Kapurthala Sainik School is gearing up to welcome the batch of girls in the 2021-22 academic session for the first time since its inception in 1961. The girls were allowed to take the All India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISEEE) for admission in Class 6. The school authorities have been busy in new recruitments and creating separate facilities for the girl students. The 250-acre campus in the heart of Kapurthala city, the sainik school is housed in Jagatjit Palace of the erstwhile Kapurthala maharaja. It was inaugurated on July 8, 1961, by the then defence minister VK Krishna Menon. The school has produced more than 7,000 male officers for the Indian armed forces since. The official spokesperson of school principal Col Prasant Saxena said changes in infrastructure have been made to cater to the needs of the girl students. “A separate hostel wing has been created. We have recruited women staff for hostel, nursing and physical training. The girl hostel has a landline telephone facility. We have been trying to provide the best and safest environment to girl students.” The spokesperson said the school management was elated to welcome the girl students who will trained to join the armed forces of the country. In this academic session, around 60 students, including 10 girls, will join the school in Class 6, while 12 students will join in Class 9.The school was set up by then Punjab chief minister Partap Singh Kairon, who had brought two sainik schools to the state in 1961 — one at Kapurthala and another at Kunjpura in Karnal district (now in Haryana). There are a total of 625 seats for boys in the day boarding school, while staff children are day scholars and only daughters of school staff get admission. The lateral entry is allowed in the Class 9. The central and state governments also provide scholarship to students. In 2020, an alumnus of the school, gentleman cadet Akashdeep Singh Dhillon of Kairon village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, was awarded the coveted Sword of Honour at the passing out parade for the Spring Term-2020 of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun. ‘Will produce women officers’KARNAL/ KUNJPURA: Having produced several generals, including a chief of army staff, Sainik School Kunjpura (SSK) is now all set to welcome its first batch of girl students from the coming academic session. The school administration has made the required changes in infrastructure and done new recruitments teach and train the first batch of 10 girls in Class 6. For the first time that the girls will be seen rubbing shoulders with boys on lush green campus of the SSK since it was set up as one of the five sainik schools of the country in 1961. The school authorities are excited and have made arrangements for a separate hostel, canteen, and co-educational classrooms with special focus on their safety.The all India Sainik School Entrance Exam for admission to classes 6 and 9 was conducted on February 7 by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for admission to 33 sainik schools across the country.School principal Col VD Chandola said, this time, 83 seats for boys and 10 seats for girls in Class 6 and 22 seats for boys in Class 9 were available at the SSK. “The study material and syllabus for girls will be the same. Besides the studies, military training will be given to girls to enable them to join as officers in the armed forces to fulfil government’s objective of enabling greater participation of women in forces,” he added. “The school is ready to welcome the first batch of girls. We have sent a request for allocation of ₹9.88 crore for the construction of a separate girls hostel, but till we get the budget for the new building, we have renovated a building for girls’ hostel”. According to Col Chandola, the women staff members are being appointed and the girls will be provided all facilities including hostel, canteen, physical training and counselling. “Admission will be made from April 1 as per the merit list sent by the NTA but the physical classes will start from July 1 due to Covid-19 restrictions,” the principal added.Spread over 276 acres and having a perfect blend of modern and old architecture, the SSK has sent over 800 cadets to NDA and about 1,000 personnel to defence forces. It has won the Raksha Mantri Trophy nine times. Currently, the all-boys school has a strength of 620 from classes 6 to 12, and 100 to 120 new students join every year on April 1. ‘Excited to welcome girl students’DHARAMSHALA/SUJANPUR TIRA: Even as the result of the February 7 entrance examination is still awaited, the scale of preparation to welcome new students at Sainik School Sujanpur Tira is bigger than the previous years. For the first time, the school will have a batch of girl students (maximum 10) in Class 6 in the ensuing academic year. While boys and girls will be admitted to Class 6, only boys will be admitted to Class 9, a school press release said. Ten per cent of the admissions in the school will be reserved for girls. School officials said till the time new hostel for the girls is in place, they will be housed in the guest house or some other building on the campus. The girls will be given training similar to the boys. However, the number of girls joining the school will be known after the result of the entrance test is declared by the National Testing Agency, said school principal Capt Manoj Kumar Mahavar. Set up in 1978, Sainik School Sujanpur Tira has a total student strength of 525. The school admits 100 students each academic year.‘They will get top-class facilities, hostel ready’JAMMU/NAGROTA: A feeder institution for the elite armed forces of India, officials at Sainik School Nagrota are busy in making arrangements to accommodate 10 girl students in Class 6 from the new academic session. “We do have separate hostel, dormitories and wash rooms for girls. Some constructions are underway and they will be ready by the time new academic session begins,” an official said. “After the results are announced by the NTA, eligible girl students will undergo medical test and those who clear it will get admission. To begin with, only 10 girl students will get admission. Usually it takes two months to complete the entire process. We are waiting for the results,” he said. The official said the school was located with 16 Corps cantonment and is well secure. “We have a lady officer, who will cater to the needs of the girl students. Everything will be taken care of.” The school was among the first five sainik schools set up in India and has produced around 800 officers since. In the last four years, around 24 students of the school cracked the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwalsa, Pune, exam and joined the elite academy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sainik-schools-go-co-ed-all-male-bastion-turns-a-liberal-leaf-101615976892469.html
17-03-2021||Jaipur||Hospital staffer rapes woman on oxygen support at Jaipur hospital||A staffer allegedly raped a patient on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital in Jaipur on Monday night, a police officer said and added the matter came to light the next morning when she wrote about the sexual assault on a piece of paper after her husband came to see her.The husband gave her a pen and paper when he noticed the teary-eyed woman, in her 30s, was gesturing to tell him something as she remained on oxygen support. The 26-year-old accused was arrested after the husband registered a First Information Report (FIR).According to his police complaint, the husband was asked to go home after the woman was shifted to the ICU around 8pm on Monday. He was assured he will be called in case his presence was required.Also Read | Woman, 30, allegedly gang-raped in front of husband in Rajasthan’s BaranDeputy police commissioner Pradeep Mohan Sharma said after the husband lodged the complaint, a police team was rushed to the hospital to scan the duty chart and analyse the CCTV footage to identify the accused.He added the accused, who had been working at the hospital for a year, was later arrested from his residence.The hospital authorities refused to comment on the alleged assault. It was not immediately clear why the woman needed oxygen support and the nature of her medical history. There were no other staffers in the ICU at the time of the alleged assault and the rest of the patients were also on ventilator support and mostly in an unconscious or semi-conscious state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/hospital-staffer-rapes-woman-on-oxygen-support-at-jaipur-hospital-101615976409234.html
17-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka will conduct 1 lakh Covid-19 tests daily to stop '2nd wave'||Karnataka will now carry out 1,00,000 Covid-19 tests daily, stepping up the state's testing, tracking mechanism, the state health department told news agency ANI on Wednesday adding that this is being done to ‘prevent and mitigate’ a second wave of the virus. Authorities have been so far conducting between 60,000 and 75,000 Covid-19 tests per day -- with 68,469 tested on Monday comprising 61,984 RT-PCR tests and the remaining 6,485 rapid antigen tests.This announcement by the Karnataka health department comes two days after chief minister BS Yedyiruppa chaired a meeting with senior officials, health experts and members of the Covid technical advisory to review the overall situation in the state.Quoting experts, Yediyurappa said there were indications of a second wave and the state has been advised stringent enforcement measures to combat the spread of the outbreak. He also made RT-PCR negative test report mandatory for people arriving in Karnataka through Maharashtra and Kerala. The chief minister further urged people to adhere to all Covid-related measures to avoid another lockdown in the state.Also Read| 'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTsKarnataka on Tuesday registered 1,135 fresh cases of the Covid-19 disease and six more related fatalities, pushing the caseload and death toll to over 962,000 and 12,403, respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 940,489 people have recovered so far while active cases have gone up to 9428, the bulletin showed.Tuesday’s case count has been the highest in nearly three months - 1,005 new cases were seen on December 24, 2020. Bengaluru urban contributed the highest towards the fresh cases (710), followed by Mysuru (58), Dakshina Kannada (50) and Kalaburagi (46). The state has been adding more than 900 cases from the past three days.According to a report by Hindustan Times on March 16, experts and lawmakers have attributed the recent surge in Karnataka’s cases to large public gatherings with no attention paid towards safety norms such as wearing face masks/coverings and maintaining social distancing. More than 33,000 people have been fined across the state for not following the above safety norms of which 11,624 have been fined in Bengaluru itself, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-will-conduct-1-lakh-covid-19-tests-daily-to-stop-2nd-wave-101615975968211.html
17-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM’s statement on ‘ripped’ jeans draws flak||Women rights activists and the opposition Congress on Wednesday criticised Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s comments a day earlier that wearing ripped jeans is not Indian culture but aping of the West.“Showing bare knees by wearing ripped jeans just to look like rich kids is the value given now which is just a race towards westernisation when the Western world today is following us. Ripped jeans pave the way for societal breakdown and is a bad example parents set for children,” he said.Heera Jangpangi, a women’s rights activist, said the statement is completely unwelcome. “Nobody has the right to ...[speak about] one’s attire,” she said. “It is just a sign of patriarchal mindset.”Also Read | Uttarakhand BJP leaders flock to CM Rawat’s ‘political guru’. It’s a strategyCongress leader Garima Dasauni said being the chief minister does not give Rawat a right to speak on anyone’s lifestyle choices. “It was a highly derogatory statement... He has no right to speak on anyone’s attire or food habits...”Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Bhasin said Rawat was just drawing attention towards the deterioration of values. “He stressed the importance of decency, which is a positive message. But if Congress finds negativity in it, then it means it does not believe in societal values...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-s-statement-on-ripped-jeans-draws-flak-101615976109024.html
17-03-2021||Lucknow||UP cabinet gives nod to acquire 1,365 hectare land for Noida airport||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet has approved a proposal for acquisition of another 1,365 hectare land in Jewar for the second phase of the upcoming Noida International Airport, according to an official statement.The cabinet also approved an expenditure of ₹2,890 crore for the land acquisition, besides resettlement and rehabilitation of the people who will be affected by the expansion of the greenfield project, it stated.The decision was taken by the cabinet at a meeting in Lucknow on Tuesday evening.S P Goyal, the additional chief secretary to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, tweeted on Tuesday, "The State Cabinet has today approved the proposal to acquire another 1,365 hectares of land for the future expansion of Noida International Airport at Jewar.”Currently work is underway for the first phase of development of the Noida International Airport in the Jewar area of Gautam Buddh Nagar district in western Uttar Pradesh, according to officials.The greenfield airport is being developed in four phases and billed to be the biggest when completed with five or six runways spread in an area of 5,000 hectare, the officials said.The first phase of the project is coming up on over 1,300 hectare land and commercial operations from the airport are expected to begin by December 2023 or January 2024, they said.Swiss-developer Zurich International Airport AG is developing the airport at an estimated cost of ₹29,560 crore, they added. PTI KIS SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cabinet-s-gives-nod-to-acquire-1-365-hectare-land-for-noida-airport-101615957309370.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||CAG sees red on Hisar golf greens||The comptroller and auditor general (CAG) has asked the Haryana government to consider fixing responsibility of those who allowed unauthorised use of government land for playing golf. In its report on social, general and economic sectors (non-PSUs) ending March 2019, the CAG said the golf course developed on a piece of government land with government resources at third battalion, Haryana Armed Police (HAP), Hisar, was allowed for use by private persons in an unauthorised manner for more than five years. Also, revenue to the tune of ₹80.87 lakh generated by its management committee was kept outside the government account, the audit said. The CAG said that Section 3(a) of the Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act, states that a person shall be deemed to be in unauthorised occupation of any public premises if he enters into possession thereof otherwise than under and in pursuance of any allotment, lease or grant. Section 3(c)(i) of the Act and rule 3.29 of Punjab Police Rules prohibit the use/lease of public premises without government permission. Rule 4.1 of the Punjab Financial Rules (PFR) provide that the departmental controlling officers should see that all sums due to government are regularly and promptly assessed, realised and credited into the treasury. Govt resources used for paying power and water chargesThe third battalion, HAP, Hisar, occupied 83 acres and imparted training to newly recruited police constables. Of the 83 acres, the commandant, third battalion developed a golf course in 55 acres with the approval of the DGP and formally started the golf course in October 2010 under the name of Haryana Armed Police Green Golf Course. In November 2013, the golf course was opened to private persons by allowing membership. Private persons were made members to make the course self-sustainable and for generating funds for its upkeep. A managing committee, chaired by the inspector general (IG), Hisar range, was also set up for managing the affairs of the golf course like a private enterprise. The managing committee generated and retained revenue of ₹80.87 lakh up to December 2018 as membership and maintenance fee, whereas government resources were used on payment of electricity and water charges and deployment of manpower for operation and maintenance of the golf course, the report said. “Managing the affairs of the golf course through a managing committee and allowing membership to private persons tantamount to leasing it out to a private body as permission from the government was not obtained for constructing the golf course on its land and funds generated by the body were being kept outside the government account and were spent by the body without following the government rules and regulations,” the audit said. In April 2019, the DGP replied that membership fee and maintenance charges were being deposited in a separate bank account and were managed by a committee headed by IG, Hisar range, and the operation of this account was done as per procedure prescribed in the club’s constitution. All expenditures were incurred strictly as per constitution of the club, the DGP’s reply said. Golf course leased out without approval The CAG, however, said the reply was not tenable as funds generated by way of membership and maintenance fee were kept out of the consolidated fund of the state without specific authorisation. Further, government resources were being used for the operation and maintenance of golf course as payments of electricity and water charges were made from government funds and police manpower was deployed for development of the golf course, the audit said. “Thus, the golf course was leased out to a private body without specific approval of the government by violating provisions of the Haryana Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act and was under unauthorised use of a private body for more than five years. More than two-thirds of the area allotted for the battalion by the government was used for the golf course, without payment of any lease money to the government. The action of the police department was in violation of extant government rules and regulation,” the CAG said. The matter was referred to the state government in March 2019 and subsequent reminders were issued in June 2019 and May 2020. The government reply was awaited, the audit report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cag-sees-red-on-hisar-golf-greens-101615974308812.html
17-03-2021||Patna||12 nominated to Bihar Upper House; BJP, JD(U) get equal share of seats||With the Bihar cabinet on Tuesday authorising chief minister Nitish Kumar for short listing names for nomination to the Bihar Legislative Council, the long held up decision was promptly taken on Wednesday with the announcement of 12 names. The list has been approved by the governor’s secretariat and notified in the gazette. The swearing in is likely soon, said officials.The leaders chosen for nomination from the governor’s quota include two ministers – Ashok Choudhary and Janak Ram, who were not members of any house. Upendra Kushwaha, who recently joined the JD-U, has also been chosen for nomination.Others selected for nomination include Prof Ram Bachan Rai, Sanjay Kumar Singh, Lalan Kumar Sarraf, Rajendra Prasad Gupta, Sanjay Singh, Devesh Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Ghanshyam Thakur and Nivedita Singh. Both BJP and JD-U have shared six seats each.Since the much-delayed cabinet expansion of the Nitish government ahead of the budget session, all eyes were on the nomination for the 12 seats of the council, which have been vacant since May 2020.Top leaders of the alliance said that the two main constituents – JD-U and the BJP were in agreement on the formula adopted for sharing of the 12 seats.On Tuesday, Leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav also raised the issue of a minister continuing for up to nine months without being a member of any house. Building construction minister Ashok Choudhary is not a member of any house. He was re-inducted into Nitish cabinet in the new government after his 6-month term as a minister expired before the assembly elections in November last year since he was not a member of any of the two houses.Former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain and former BJP MP Janak Ram are also in the cabinet. Ram is not a member of any house and he needed to be nominated to the Upper House. Hussain was elected to the council earlier.Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) leader Mukesh Sahni, who is minister of animal husbandry and fisheries, was elected to the council earlier this year on the BJP seat from the Vidhan Sabha.The nomination to 12 seats of the legislative council was stuck due to lack of agreement on its distribution among the three constituents of the NDA – the BJP, JD-U and the LJP. Now, the new government has got four constituents and the equations have changed.Bihar is one among only seven states with a bi-cameral legislature, having both a lower house (Legislative Assembly) and an upper house (Legislative Council). The council has a strength of 75 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/12-nominated-to-bihar-upper-house-bjp-jd-u-get-equal-share-of-seats-101615972749170.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||#AbTohCampusKholDo rebellion : DU students spam answer sheets, make memes||With campus masti and life coming to a stand still, in order to express their helplessness students have engaged in a funny rebellion against the authorities, by making memes and spamming their answer sheets requesting teachers to reopen the campus. “It’s been more than a year jab se campus band hai. When DU opened the college for final year students in a phased manner, rumours were rampant on campus ki finally freshers ki mauj hogi, kyunki phase two main pura DU khul jaayega. But aisa nahi hua,” shares a sad Manish Mourya, student of Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College who makes memes using #AbTohCampusKholDo on Instagram to express his angst. Mourya further shares, “Humare mock exams chal rahe hai and many of my friends spammed their exam answer sheets with sentences like - Online teaching and learning has been very horrible because kuch samajh nahi aata! Second semester mein college khulwao, mujhe nahi pata.”Delhi University professors who have been at the receiving end of such answer sheets have been understanding towards students’ frustration. “It’s funny when we read such answer sheets that have requests to reopen campus. As these were mock exams, therefore it didn’t matter what the students wrote as we just wanted to acquaint the freshers with how Open Book Examinations (OBE) are. We understand what the students are going through, the pandemic has put a dampener on all their college fun,” shares a professor on condition of anonymity.Meme lords have been making trending content on #AbTohCampusKholDo on social media. However, they share that while students enjoy reposting these memes, they are also scared of giving offline exams once the colleges reopen. “As a DU student and a meme page admin, I make memes about our online campus life and on how campus should fully reopen. However, offline exams ka darr makes students feel that online exams main toh cheating ho jaati hai magar offline exams mein kya hoga. Most of the students are therefore confused as they want college to open to meet their friends and have fun living the college life but on the other hand they don’t want to give offline exams and have gotten comfortable with OBE. So as a meme page admin I make memes on both these topics ki campus khol do magar exams online hi rakho,” shares Sahil Rajput, student of Shaheed Bhagat Singh College and admin of Instagram meme page, du_memeswale. Rajput concludes, “Asking for campus to reopen through memes, gifs, stickers and reel is a funny yet relevant rebellion we all are undertaking, to reclaim our campus days!”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/abtohcampuskholdo-rebellion-du-students-spam-answer-sheets-make-memes-101615971010853.html
17-03-2021||Patna||PACS chairman shot dead in Bihar, angry villagers clash with police||A Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) chairman Pawan Gupta, who was likely to contest panchayat elections, was gunned down in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Tuesday, triggering a clash between villagers and police, when they tried to take one of the assailant’s custody from the villagers. The clash resulted in injuries to 11 persons, including policemen and a couple of senior officials. More than 50 villagers have been arrested for the clash along with the man accused of hiring contract killers to eliminate Gupta. “More than 100 people have been identified, while 54 have already been arrested for their involvement in the clash,” said Navin Chand Jha, superintendent of police (SP), East Champaran, on Wednesday.Sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Areraj, Jyoti Prakash, and sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Sanjeev Kumar, were among the injured in the clash. On Tuesday morning four criminals on two motorcycles, barged into a shop and shot Matiyariya panchayat PACS president Pawan Gupta from a close range, killing him at the spot, said police. PACS are the grass root level arms of the short-term co-operative credit structure.“The local gave a hot chase and caught hold of one of the assailants, while three others managed to escape on a motorcycle,” Shiv Kumar, a local resident quoted eye-witnesses as saying. As the news of the murder spread, a large number of villagers gathered near the Bazaar area, set the motorcycle used in crime on fire and thrashed the captured criminal, identified as Anil Sahni. “They were unwilling to hand the criminal to the police when we reached and tried to rescue him. When we tried to claim his custody, a crowd gathered there and attacked the police team,” said Jyoti Prakash, sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Areraj, who suffered leg injuries. At around 1pm, Matiyariya Bazaar area suddenly resembled a war zone as the protestors fought pitched battle and hurled stones, seriously injuring four police personnel. Normalcy returned only after reinforcements from Areraj, Govindpur and Sagsuli police stations reached the spot and fired several rounds in the air. Victim Pawan Gupta was seen as a contestant for the post of village headman against incumbent mukhiya Surendra Singh for Matiyariya panchayat this year, locals said. SDPO Jyoti Prakash confirmed the arrest of Matiyariya panchayat head Surendra Singh for allegedly hiring contract killers to eliminate Pawan Gupta.“In the course of preliminary investigation, the arrested criminal Anil Sahni accepted to have received a contract from Surendra Singh,” said the sub divisional police officer. The condition of Sahni, who was badly thrashed by the crowd, is stated to be serious, while injured police personnel are undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Areraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pacs-chairman-shot-dead-in-bihar-angry-villagers-clash-with-police-101615968548639.html
17-03-2021||Other||Expert view: Covid-19 resurgence... Why Pune, again?||For the last two-three weeks we are observing a rising trend of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Pune is showing this rise more prominently. As of March 13, Pune has the highest number of cases in the country. Why Pune again? As if Covid-19 is just proving the local proverbial saying about the city, Pune tithe kay une? (Everything in abundance in Pune.) Take a look at the statistics. On September 10, 2020, when the state was reporting its almost highest daily tally of 23,446 cases, Pune reported 5,939 cases in a day, approximately 25% of the state tally. Pune’s proportion of Pune of the state’s Covid-19 morbidity figures ranges between 20%-25%, even if you consider the cumulative tally, or the tally of January 31, when Pune reported one of its lowest daily figures of Covid-19. There is nearly a 10-times-rise in the daily reported cases in Pune on March 14, 2021, as compared to its January 31 figures. At any given time, every fourth or fifth Covid-19 case in the state is from Pune district. As per the World Health Organisation (WHO) norms for better containment of Covid-19, the positivity rate should be below 5%. In the last week of January, when the weekly positivity rate of the state was 4.65%, Pune’s positivity was 7.40%; and in the current week of March 2021 when the state’s positivity rate is 14.66%, Pune’s positivity rate is higher than 20%. It categorically explains that Pune district never achieved the desired positivity rate indicative of effective covid-19 containment. We are also doing genomic surveillance as per the Government of India (GOI) guidelines. But, any variant of such concern has not been detected so far. One important observation is case fatality, which is on the decline, indicative of low virulence of the circulating virus at present. Current figures show that Pune district is witnessing a second surge of Covid-19. What are the reasons for this rise, especially after a declining trend since October last year?The first one is related to the weather. In February the state observed a fall in minimum temperature by 5-7 degrees Celsius, due to a cold wave in north India. This fall in temperature is more pronounced in the Pune and Vidarbha regions. Obviously, this is a conducive environment for Covid-19 transmission.In January there were gram panchayat elections in almost 14,000 villages across the state. Voting turnout was more than 80 per cent. This election facilitated state-wide social intermingling. We have observed an increase in cases in blocks like Shirur of Pune district, where these elections were fought vehemently. Family celebrations like marriages were on the rise after unlocking, and started in a phased manner with pre-Covid fervour. The reluctance of the public to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour is an important root cause of the surge. It’s true that many of these factors have been observed all over the state; however, interplay of different variables and local conditions displayed different epidemiological pictures in different areas of the state.Even after discussing these common factors, the question still remains unanswered about Pune’s curious situation. Why is this particular district the most affected in the entire country? Why Pune? A cursory look at the Influenza A H1N1 pandemic will reveal a similar situation. During the 2009 pandemic also, Maharashtra and Pune had topped the influenza morbidity numbers. In the entire last decade, Pune always reported the highest number of Swine flu cases. In their study regarding “Dynamics of Influenza Seasonality at Sub-Regional Levels in India and Implications for Vaccination Timing”, Mandeep Chaddha, et al, emphasised the role of climatic factors and topography in disease transmission. It appears that Pune’s hot semi-arid or steppe climate, with an average temperature of between 20 to 28 degrees Celsius is one of the most important reasons for higher transmission rate of diseases like Swine flu and Covid-19. This difference is more evident when we compare the Mumbai situation with Pune. This factor needs further exploration with inputs from experts in climatology. Approximately 70% of the Pune population is urbanised with nearly 40% residing in slums. The population density of Pune city is 9,400 per square kilometre, which is way ahead of the state average of 603. The decadal growth rate of Pune is 36, which is almost more than double the state’s decadal growth rate of 16. It must be kept in mind that the decadal growth rate of Mumbai is -5.75. As an educational hub and industrial hinterland, Pune is the most preferred migration destination for job seekers from various states. The World Economic Forum’s report of 2017 mentioned that Pune has now emerged as a counter magnet of Mumbai. All these factors have raised huge challenges for urban local bodies in providing essential services adequately to its populace, including public health when there’s a manpower crunch. Surveillance is the soul of outbreak containment. Though Pune managed surveillance activities well in the initial phase of the pandemic with the help of manpower pulled from various other departments, it’s difficult to sustain the tempo once this manpower is withdrawn during the declining phase of the disease. In cities like Pune, it is breath-taking to keep pace with a rapidly growing population in terms of building health infrastructure. Sassoon hospital is the only government tertiary care centre for its four-million population. Even for Covid-19, only 23 per cent of dedicated beds are available in government institutions. Covid-19 pandemic laid open these inadequacies substantially. Though with proactive administration and effective resource management Pune is doing every necessary thing to contain the Covid-19 menace, long-term planning, and action plans to develop urban public health infrastructure are need of the hour. With expanding its hospital and laboratory network and ensuring surveillance activities, Pune managed the August-September surge well. Its surveillance-centric approach will help to curb this second surge too. But, lessons learnt during these phases should not be forgotten. These lessons must be translated into action.The author is state surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Maharashtra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expert-view-covid-19-resurgence-why-pune-again-101615966807793.html
17-03-2021||Other||Mandi in shock over MP Ram Swaroop Sharma’s sudden death||People rushed to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Ramswaroop Sharma’s residence at Japlehar village in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi as the news of his death in Delhi broke on Wednesday. His sons left for Delhi as condolences poured in on social media.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said: “It is a very sad day for all of us. Sharma was very popular among the masses and the party. He was with us 4-5 days back and had assured that he would campaign in the Municipal Corporation election in Mandi.” He added Sharma, 62, was not in good health for quite some time. “It is a great loss for me personally and for the party as well.”Born on June 10, 1958, Sharma worked as a supervisor in the National Hydro Power Corporation before he quit his job in 1984 to join the BJP’s ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. He later moved to the BJP. Sharma was known to keep a low-profile leader. He first came into prominence when he was chosen to take on Congress’s Pratibha Singh in the 2014 national polls. He won the election by a margin of 40,000 votes. He was re-elected to Lok Sabha in 2019 defeating Congress’s Aashray Sharma by over 40,00,00 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mandi-in-shock-over-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-s-sudden-death-101615964768557.html
17-03-2021||Bhopal||MP school principal framed under freedom of religion law, says court||Madhya Pradesh high court on Tuesday granted bail to the principal of a missionary school, booked under the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 on February 22 for alleged mental harassment of a female teacher and trying to force her to convert. “Sister Bhagya has submitted that the complaint is false and registered only out of a sense of frustration experienced by the teacher Ruby Singh, on account of her termination from service of the school. The principal lodged a complaint to the sub-divisional magistrate on February 17 that the complainant was terminated from the services of school on account of her poor performance and lack of documents and was threatening to commit self-immolation if she is not reinstated. The same was forwarded to the SDO(P), Khajuraho, to look into the issue. Thereafter on February 20, the same letter was sent to town inspector Khajuraho police station,” said single bench judge Atul Sreedharan. “The FIR was registered on February 22. It is clear that Ruby Singh falsely implicated the principal Sister Bhagya by levelling the allegations of forced conversion of her and her family,” the judge added before granting her interim bail. Ruby Singh had filed the complaint at the police station against the school principal in the presence of leaders of Vishwa Hindu Parshad stating that she belonged to a lower-middle-class family and was under pressure from Sister Bhagya to convert; she also claimed that the principal used undignified words for Singh’s religion and when she refused to change her faith, her salary payment was stopped followed by sacking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-school-principal-framed-under-freedom-of-religion-law-says-court-101615958707982.html
17-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM directs police to prepare for Kumbh, Char Dham Yatra||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Tuesday said that the coming times will be challenging for the state police considering the Kumbh, Char Dham Yatra and Covid-19.All preparations for the Kumbh and Char Dham Yatra should be completed on time, said the Chief Minister at a meeting with senior officers of the police department to review the law and order situation in the state.Stating that the first Shahi Snan of the Kumbh was very successful, he said, "The number of devotees will increase further in the upcoming three snans of the Kumbh. Complete preparations should be made for crowd management in the Kumbh and a proposal should be prepared if more force is needed."Rawat said that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had also assured that more force will be provided for the Kumbh.Citing the Kumbh, Char Dham Yatra and Covid-19, the CM pointed to the need for increasing the number of vehicles with the police department. He also stressed developing CCTV camera networks in small mountain towns. The Chief Minister added that the department should focus on modernisation considering the need of the times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-directs-police-to-prepare-for-kumbh-char-dham-yatra-101615957352462.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Bhojpuri film actor held in Delhi for fake currency racket, vehicle thefts||Two people, including a Bhojpuri film actor who suffered financial losses during the Covid-19 pandemic, have been arrested for allegedly running a fake currency racket and vehicle thefts, the Delhi police said. Fake currency notes worth ₹50 lakh have been seized from them, they added.Police said the two allegedly cheated people by tricking them into exchanging genuine currency notes with three fake ones of the same denomination after convincing them that they resembled the genuine currency and can be easily used. The source of the fake notes is being ascertained, they added.Deputy police commissioner RP Meena said the Anti-auto Theft Squad caught Mohammad Shahid and Sayyed Zen Hussain from New Friends Colony on Friday night following information that they would come there on a stolen scooter. Also Read | Two dead after 2 shooting incidents in Adarsh Nagar“The two were carrying a bag on their scooter. The bag was opened, and 200 wads of notes were found inside. On verification, the notes were found to be fake,” said Meena. He added Shahid told them he runs a film studio in Delhi’s Hari Nagar Ashram, where editing and portfolio-making are done.Meena said Shahid told them he has worked in a Bhojpuri movie apart from featuring in Bhojpuri songs on YouTube. “While in the film industry, Shahid came in contact with a conman and started cheating people by exchanging fake notes with genuine notes. During the lockdown, Shahid suffered a huge financial loss and came in contact with Hussain with whom he began stealing two-wheelers.”The two allegedly on September 28 stole a scooter from Jamia Nagar and began using it for running their fake currency note racket. Meena said Shahid has previously been involved in eight cases of cheating, snatching while Hussain had no previous involvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bhojpuri-film-actor-held-in-delhi-for-fake-currency-racket-vehicle-thefts-101615954027607.html
17-03-2021||NA||38k get covid-19 vaccine jabs in Capital; Experts call for more inoculations||The Covid-19 vaccination drive has picked up pace only marginally in the two weeks since it was opened up for those above the age of 60 or those above the age of 45 who have severe illness, even as experts continue to call for more inoculations to prevent the emergence of another Covid-19 spike in the city.On Tuesday, just over 19,000 beneficiaries over the age of 60 were given their first shot of a coronavirus vaccine. There were just over 17,000 people immunised on average each day during last week’s drive. Meanwhile, 3,223 persons over the age of 45 with comorbidities were immunised on Tuesday, up from 2,834 persons who got jabs on average the previous week.Overall on Tuesday, 38,437 shots of the vaccine were administered. Of these, 27,123 were the first doses, while the rest were the second, thus completing their vaccination against the infection.There was a low turnout on the first day that the drive was opened up for the general public — around 6,100 turned up — due to confusions about the processes and problems faced with the government’s CoWIN portal.There are 2.1 million people over the age of 60 living in Delhi, according to data from the latest electoral rolls. To boost immunisation among them, the district teams have been visiting people door-to-door to motivate them to get immunised, registering those who cannot use the online portal, and allowing walk-ins for unregistered persons after 3 pm.As on Tuesday, nearly 174,700 health care and 266,500 frontline workers in the city have been immunised against the infection. There are around 243,000 health care and 346,000 frontline workers registered in government’s Co-WIN portal in Delhi.“The solution to Covid-19 remains vaccination, along with masking, social distancing and other Covid-19 norms. There is no dearth of vaccines, and although the drive is picking up pace, it is not commensurate with the Indian population,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/health/38k-get-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-in-capital-experts-call-for-more-inoculations-101615951931053.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Two dead after 2 shooting incidents in Adarsh Nagar||Two men, one of them a 45-year-old chartered accountant, were shot dead in two separate firing incidents reported between Monday evening and Tuesday morning at two different places under the jurisdiction of north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar police station.While one person was arrested in the first case, the murder of a 32-year-old man in Azadpur village on Monday evening, the police are still working on clues in the CA’s murder, reported on Tuesday morning.There has been a spate of shooting incidents in the city of late. At least four firing incidents were reported between Friday and Sunday from different areas in north-east Delhi. One person was killed, and four others were injured in those shootings. Two back-to-back separate firing incidents took place within an hour at two different places falling under the territorial jurisdiction of the Defence Colony police station last Wednesday. A BSES contractual driver and a policeman were injured in those incidents. The attackers in both the cases were arrested.Recounting the latest incident, police said CA Anil Aggarwal lived with his wife and two children in a rented flat in Majlis Park near Azadpur. The family owns a property on Mahatma Gandhi Road that is less than a kilometre away from their home. A four-storey building is being constructed there and Aggarwal’s murder took place at the under-construction site, the police said.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said on Tuesday, around 10am, Aggarwal and his wife had gone to inspect the construction site. Aggarwal was speaking to a worker on the ground floor, when an unidentified man arrived there on a scooter. “The man was wearing a helmet. He came inside and shot Aggarwal from close range in the presence of his wife and the worker. The bullet hit Aggarwal in the neck and he collapsed. The attacker immediately fled on the scooter,” said the officer, adding that the scooter was later found to be stolen from central Delhi’s Patel Nagar on February 7.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said the police control room was informed about the firing and a team was rushed to the crime scene. The injured man was shifted to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.“We have registered a case of murder and are probing it from all possible angles. Multiple teams are working on the case. All necessary evidence has been collected from the scene of crime, after proper inspection. CCTV footage has been procured and is being analysed. We have some vital clues and various teams are working on them,” said Rangnani.Police officers associated with the case suspect the possibility of a contract killing as the scooter used in the crime was a stolen one. “Personal enmity and financial dispute are also being looked into,” said another police officer, requesting anonymity.Nearly 16 hours before the CA’s murder, a 32-year-old man, identified as Suresh alias Banwari, was shot dead by a group of four persons outside his home in Azadpur village. The crime took place around 6pm Monday and Banwari sustained at least six gunshot wounds. The prime suspect, identified as Rajnish alias Raja, 21, was arrested on Tuesday, the police said.Police said Banwari, who had a criminal background, was standing outside his home when four persons arrived there and fired on him. Banwari sustained gunshot wounds to the chest and head. He was rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.A case of murder was registered. Raja was caught following searches at his possible hideouts, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-dead-after-2-shooting-incidents-in-adarsh-nagar-101615951744208.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Was showdown over assembly panels a precursor to standoff?||An exchange of letters between Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel in 2017 may have been the precursor to the Union government’s decision to bring in a new law that may tilt the balance of power in the Capital away from the legislature, the speaker said on Tuesday.The Union home ministry on Monday introduced a bill in Lok Sabha to amend the government of National Capital Territory act (GNCTD act). The bill, among other things, said “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in context of all legislation, and the assembly “shall not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration or conduct inquiries”.“The part of the amendment that talks about Delhi assembly committees and rules clearly has its origin from the 2017 message from the L-G,” Goel told HT, referring to the confrontation that took place when the assembly, in May 2017, inserted four clauses in the house business rules that allowed it to set up department-related standing committees, or DRSCs.Four months later, on September 13, 2017, L-G Baijal sent a letter to the speaker asking him to withdraw the rules since it gave more powers to the assembly committees compared to the ones formed under the Lok Sabha rules.Baijal said the Delhi assembly’s new rules did not include a specific clause found in the Lok Sabha rules, which state that the committees “would not consider matters of day-to-day administration of the departments concerned”.The L-G tabulated a comparison of both rules, while particularly objecting to the Delhi committees having the power to take up matters of “public importance concerning the respective departments and carry out scrutiny, inquiry and investigation”.Replying to this, on September 20, 2017, the speaker asked L-G to revisit the matter with the help of “true constitutional experts”. HT has seen copies of both letters.“I remember telling the L-G that his message was based on a fundamentally flawed premise that the Delhi assembly rules have to be identical to those of the Lok Sabha rules. In fact, the rules of no two legislative bodies are identical. Not even those of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha,” said Goel.“Just because the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is unable to win elections in Delhi, it is now trying to take control over Delhi by hook or by crook. In that case, what is the need to conduct elections in the first place and waste the taxpayers’ money?” Goel added.The L-G’s office did not respond to queries seeking comments.Delhi’s administrative framework is unlike any other region in India. As a Union territory, it is governed by the 1991 GNCTD Act that provides for an elected assembly and an L-G appointed by the Union home ministry. But unlike full states, several important departments, such as land, police and personnel appointments, don’t come under the purview of the city government.The leader of Opposition in Delhi assembly, BJP’s Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said that the AAP has been misusing its huge majority in the House. “They drafted new assembly rules in a fashion which allowed them to form committees empowered to inquire into day-to-day administrative functions. Now, the Delhi government does not have the services department directly under it and, hence, they cannot transfer officers. So, the AAP government is using these committees to build pressure on officials who refuse to break protocols. The L-G should have the last say on the matter of formation of such committees. The central government, through the new Bill, is heading in the right direction,” Bidhuri said.PDT Achary, former secretary-general of Lok Sabha, said Goel’s contention that no law states that the rules of a legislative assembly need to be similar to Lok Sabha is correct. “The independence of every legislative assembly to frame its own rules is guaranteed under the Constitution of India. Each legislature is the master of its proceedings and is free to frame its rule, but the only condition is it should be within the Constitution,” he said.Achary asked if the assembly or its committees are not able to enquire into administrative matters, how will accountability of the executive be ascertained.A senior government official said under the Aam Aadmi Party government, the assembly committees came to the limelight as they started enquiring into matters relating to municipal corporations, the 2020 north-east Delhi riots, and alleged scams in state-run cooperatives.On December 4 last year, the House committee on municipal corporations issued a notice seeking certain information regarding the accounts of the three MCDs.This was challenged by the standing committee chairperson of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation in the high court. The MCDs got a stay order on the House panel’s notice, and the case is ongoing.“Similarly, the assembly committee on peace and harmony, which is probing into the northeast Delhi riots of February 2020 had summoned Facebook India’s CEO, the social media giant then moved the Supreme Court, which gave a ruling in the company’s favour,” said the official, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/was-showdown-over-assembly-panels-a-precursor-to-standoff-101615951022695.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi borders||Several borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border is closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders instead. Commuters can also take the Chilla border route. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continue to remain closed. Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Will block Delhi-Noida border, warns Rakesh TikaitThe traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. Farmers have been protesting at three Delhi borders, Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu, since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Their protesting farmers’ unions have called for an open dialogue, asking the government to remove “obstacles”, months after several rounds of talks failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-remains-diverted-at-several-delhi-borders-101615950847528.html
17-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Seven get life term nearly 10 years after farmer’s murder||A Bihar fast track court sentenced seven persons accused in a murder case in Bhabua district to life imprisonment on Tuesday, nearly 10 years after the crime was committed in 2011.Bhabua district fast track court judge Om Parakash Singh found accused Bhorik Ram, Jay Prakash Ram, Ram Ashish Ram, Jitendra Ram, Munna Ram, Ravikant Ram and Umesh Ram guilty under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to the case registered with Ramgarh police station by informant Uday Pratap Singh, his father Raj Kishor Singh was sleeping near his tube well when the accused attacked and killed him on the night of November 25, 2011.Also Read: Bihar man hiding in Ludhiana for years escapes from court minutes after arrest Following an investigation, police submitted a charge-sheet and the trial took place in the fast track court after the accused pleaded not guilty.The court on Tuesday awarded life terms to all accused and also fined them ₹20,000 each, which if not paid, will result in an additional six months of imprisonment for the convicts, ruled the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-seven-get-life-term-nearly-10-years-after-farmer-s-murder-101615950427472.html
17-03-2021||Pune||'Don't think complete lockdown is necessary', says Pune mayor||The mayor of Pune has said that there is no plan to impose a complete lockdown in the city due to the Covid-19 situation. Pune is among the cities in Maharashtra which is badly affected by the resurgence of the coronavirus disease."We have made micro containment zones, increased screening and testing. I don't think imposing a complete lockdown is necessary right now," Pune's mayor Muralidhar Mohol told news agency ANI.He, however, said that health authorities in the district have increased screening and testing to contain the fresh surge.On Tuesday, Pune reported a huge spike in its daily Covid-19 count as infections surpassed 3,500-mark. The total caseload in the district stands at 4,10,347, according to state government's health bulletin.The death toll in the district reached 9,440 with 12 more fatalities on Tuesday.Pune, in worst-affected Maharashtra, lags other cities when it comes to inoculating its population against the deadly infection. The health department data showed that till March 12, only 10% of those above the age of 45 with comorbidities and about 13% of those above the age of 60 have got their first dose as of March 13 under phase 2 of vaccination.In comparison, Mumbai hae given vaccine to 16 per cent of its population and Nagpur 12 per cent.Meanwhile, the aituation in Maharashtra has worried the Centre. Government officials have said that the state is at “the beginning of its second wave".Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a crucial meeting with states where he is expected to raise the issue of states where the Sars-CoV-2 virus appears to be taking hold once again.PM Modi is also likely to stress on the need to accelerate vaccinations, said officials aware of the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dont-think-complete-lockdown-is-necessary-says-pune-mayor-101615949912162.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI continues to deteriorate, in very poor category today||Delhi’s air quality dropped to the very poor category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 307. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 258.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.Also Read | 22 of world’s 30 most polluted cities in India: ReportUnion ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the air quality in the Capital was going to remain in the poor to moderate category.“AQI is likely to stay in the moderate to lower end of poor category for next two days. An increase in dust contribution is expected in the coming days. Poor AQI is forecast for March 19,” Safar said in its daily bulletin on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature in the national Capital is likely to be 18 degree Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to be 34°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 17.2°C, two degrees above normal and the maximum temperature was 32.1°C, a notch above the normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-continues-to-deteriorate-in-very-poor-category-today-101615949947326.html
17-03-2021||Kolkata||Anti-BJP 'storm' spills out of cup at Kolkata’s iconic Coffee House||The iconic Indian Coffee House at Kolkata’s College Street is in the news since Monday when the tussle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and activists of an anti-BJP movement spilled beyond the electoral arena and entered the premises of the cafe which started its journey in 1876 and became a melting pot for political and cultural thoughts.Since last month, the Indian Coffee House and College Street have been witnessing a flurry of activities by followers of the new “No Vote for BJP” campaign that has the support of a section of intellectuals and pro-Maoist groups. On Monday, the campaigners were locked in a face-off with BJP workers inside the nation’s oldest outlet of the Indian Coffee House.The Bengal BJP headquarters at Muralidhar Sen Lane is located close to College Street.Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga, spokesperson of the BJP’s Delhi unit, told HT that he was having a cup of coffee when followers of the movement misbehaved with the BJP workers accompanying him.“We were having coffee when they stormed at us. This is unacceptable in a civilised society,” he said on Tuesday night. Bagga also tweeted photos.The activists, on the other hand, alleged in a statement and numerous messages on the social media that the BJP activists had come to the Coffee House wearing T-shirts with party symbols and tore posters put up by the anti-BJP campaigners. The activists have already held a rally in Kolkata and several more in the districts.Also Read: 'TMC colludes with bureaucracy to smuggle girls': Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryWhen told that activists of the “No Vote for BJP” campaign have said they would stage an agitation outside the state BJP headquarters, Bagga said, “In a democratic country, all people have the freedom to express their opinion. They are welcome.”Bengal BJP leaders remained silent on the incident.Incidentally, the CPI-ML (Liberation), which is contesting some assembly seats in Bengal in the upcoming polls after its success in the Bihar elections, has said that Bengal’s Left parties, headed by the CPI(M), should consider the BJP its first political enemy. This has been opposed by the CPI(M) which says the BJP and the ruling Trinamool Congress should both be opposed and treated as enemies of democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/antibjp-storm-spills-out-of-cup-at-kolkata-s-iconic-coffee-house-101615945042726.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Momos in Paharganj||According to logic, the city’s best vegetable momos should be found in Majnu Ka Tila. After all, which other place can be more idyllic to enjoy this Tibetan dumpling than Delhi’s Tibetan refugee camp?Well, don’t rely on logic only.Some of Delhi’s best and most affordable vegetable momos are to be found in the touristy backpackers’ district of Paharganj. At Appetite German Bakery.Yes, Germany is far from Tibet, and yet.The cook here fills his momos with a variety of chopped veggies, and paneer (you might ask the waiter to avoid the latter though, for the momos are superior without it).True, only a Tibetan or somebody extremely familiar with the native cuisine could tell if these momos are authentically Tibetan, but… they are so light on the palate, and so delicious! You feel the flavours intensely and yet the presence of each individual ingredient remains elusive. A single bite is like inhaling an air perfumed with the aroma of fresh carrots and cabbage.The cafe also used to serve another version of momos, crammed with spinach and mushroom, but they weren’t as good—and anyway they’re no longer available. Like most businesses, the coffee shop suffered during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown months. Most of its cooks have left, and the only one still there, politely explains, that it is not possible to make spinach momos.In the pre-pandemic era, the waiter would take a long time (20 minutes at least) to serve this dish, but nobody would complain. The momos were a lunchtime hit among the foreign backpackers of Paharganj, who would be so commonly spotted in its lanes. But this afternoon no foreigner is to be seen in the hotel district. The coffee shop itself is empty, though open. The cake counter has no cake—the yummy almond cake with the white frosting is but a memory. Each table, however, still has a sauce bottle, a cruet set and paper napkins—strongly evocative of the recent past, when you would always see foreigners here, busy with their book, mobile or guitar.For one plate you will get 10 momo pieces, along with tomato and cucumber salad.The accompanying chilli sauce is ear-burning but super-yummy. End the meal with honey ginger lemon tea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-momos-in-paharganj-101615940823522.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||AAP heads to Jantar Mantar against Centre’s move to define L-G’s powers||The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will organise a protest on Wednesday against a Bill introduced by the Union government on Monday in Parliament that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G).“The AAP will organise the protest tomorrow [Wednesday] at 2 pm at Jantar Mantar over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Aam Aadmi Party MPs [members of Parliament], Cabinet ministers in Delhi, and party MLAs [members of legislative assembly] will be present,” said Delhi minister Gopal Rai.“The BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] has been left baffled by the recent loss in the municipal bye-polls to five wards and the AAP’s popularity across states. By bringing this Bill in Parliament, the BJP has made it clear that it wants to rule Delhi through back door by making the L-G more powerful,” Rai said.Rai called the Bill a conspiracy to make an administrative mess in Delhi again. “The BJP will act as an obstructionist in implementation of the policies in this year’s Delhi budget which focuses on patriotism and aims to further improve governance in Delhi.”AAP said in a press statement that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be attending Wednesday’s protest at Jantar Mantar.Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said, “It is difficult to understand why AAP government is protesting against the central government’s move. It is only aimed at strengthening checks and balances in Delhi’s governance. Also, Delhi is not the responsibility of Mr Arvind Kejriwal alone. The central government too has its own share of responsibilities. Whenever AAP government has failed in any aspect of governance – from combating air pollution to ensuring water supply across the city – Kejriwal and AAP leaders have often blamed the central government. With the intervention of the L-G, such blame game will reduce. Also, the crux of the 2018 Supreme Court judgment was to bring more clarity in Delhi’s governance and the central government is trying to ensure that with the new Bill. AAP leaders are deliberately misinterpreting it to mislead people.”Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Bill in the Lower House on Monday. The Bill says the “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly. It makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-heads-to-jantar-mantar-against-centre-s-move-to-define-l-g-s-powers-101615931753294.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Case cracked, says NIA: ‘Vaze did it for lost glory’||Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was behind the bomb scare outside billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful cop, senior officers in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) told HT on Tuesday, contending that the mystery around the explosive-laden vehicle has been solved.Vaze, a former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch, was initially the lead investigator after a Scorpio car carrying 20 loose gelatin sticks (unassembled, with no detonator or timer) was found near Ambani’s Antilia on Carmichael Road on February 25. The case was transferred to NIA on March 8, and Vaze was arrested on March 13.Also Watch: Maharashtra ministers on Sachin Vaze’s arrest, NIA probe & Ambani case“Vaze himself was driving the Scorpio car on February 25, while an Innova that belongs to Mumbai police tailed it. After parking the Scorpio on Carmichael Road, Vaze sat in the Innova and left,” said a senior NIA official, who asked not to be named.To be sure, the officials did not give details of how these conclusions were made, and if Vaze had admitted during interrogation to the details and motive behind the crime.The investigators have ruled out a “terror angle” in the incident, particularly after certain crucial pieces of evidence was recovered Mumbai during hours-long raids. These helped NIA piece together the sequence of events and the purported conspiracy, the official said.In Mumbai, the NIA confirmed the recovery of these items. “We have seized a Mercedes and during the investigation, it was made clear that the car was used by Sachin Vaze, but owner is not identified yet. During the search we recovered more than ₹5 lakh cash, a counting machine, clothes and the original registration number plate of the Scorpio that was found parked near Ambani residence carrying gelatin sticks,” said inspector general Anil Shukla. NIA also recovered couple of containers with kerosene and diesel that the agency believes was used to burn the oversized clothes worn by the Scorpio driver, as seen in the CCTV footage recovered from near Carmichael Road, the first official said.Vaze was suspended in 2004 over the death of a suspect in custody. He was brought back into the force in 2020.“He wanted to prove to Mumbai Police brass that he is still as good by solving a bomb conspiracy so he planned this whole episode to plant explosives outside Antilia. He wanted the limelight again,” said the first officer.“He had in fact got what he wanted. In CIU, he was made the investigating officer of the Scorpio case and during the four days he handled the probe, Vaze tried to cover the loose ends he left on February 25, including destruction of some CCTV footage,” a third officer said, asking not to be named.Vaze, 49, was once a renowned “encounter specialist” alongside officers like Daya Naik and Pradeep Sharma. He was suspended after being arrested for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Younis.“He probably never thought that investigation would reach the NIA and that his plan to regain his lost glory would tank,” said the third officer.Vaze’s role first came under the spotlight after the death of Mansukh Hiren, who came forward as the person who had possession of the Scorpio SUV before it was found from outside Antilla. Hiren told police it was stolen from his residence before he was interrogated multiple times, including by Vaze’s unit.Hiren was found dead on March 5, and the police said it was a suicide. His wife, however, said she suspected the police officer’s role in the death, kicking off a chain of events that eventually led to Vaze being questioned and detained.Vaze’s brother Sudharm moved a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay HC on Monday, saying that the case by Hiren’s widow, in which the Mumbai cop had been arrested, included certain “false, frivolous and concocted allegations”. The petition also said that “surprisingly”, the very next day an FIR was registered by the NIA — and that this suggested political conspiracy.The ruling Shiv Sena and the opposition BJP have been trading allegations of wrongdoing and conspiracy over the case.Since the weekend, NIA officials purportedly came across several pieces of evidence. The team recovered the Digital Video Recorder (DVR) of CCTV camera footage from a Thane housing complex where Vaze lives, which was obtained by Mumbai Police following a letter from Vaze’s unit. The DVR was not mentioned in the list of Muddemal (seized evidence), and the central probe agency suspected that it was collected to destroy evidence which could implicate Vaze, a Maharashtra police official said, asking not to be named.“Vaze was heading the CIU so he issued an official letter that he required DVR of his residential complex and collected the same from his building but did not show the DVR and the CCTV footage as collected evidence in official record of the case,” the official added.(With inputs from Manish K Pathak & Anamika Gharat in Mumbai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/case-cracked-says-nia-vaze-did-it-for-lost-glory-101615931020288.html
17-03-2021||Other||3 major fires reported at different areas in Mumbai||A major fire was reported in a godown in Samna Parivar on A.K. Vaidya Road in Goregaon East, at 6.52pm on Tuesday. No injuries have been reported in the fire, till the time of going to press.Meanwhile, a major fire broke out at an industrial unit at W-46 in Rabale MIDC, on Tuesday evening. “The fire is under control. No one is injured in the fire so far,” said a fire officer. Another major fire was reported at the Adharwadi dumping ground in Kalyan during late evening hours on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-major-fires-reported-at-different-areas-in-mumbai-101615925223801.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC orders probe into ‘custodial torture’||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday ordered a judicial probe into allegations that labour activist Shiv Kumar, arrested in connection with the ongoing farmer protests and released on bail on March 4, was tortured.The probe will be conducted by the additional district and sessions judge, Faridabad.Kumar was lodged in the Sonepat jail for 30 days before being released and is a co-accused in cases against labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who was released from the Karnal jail on bail on February 26. The two were demonstrating in solidarity with the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws at Delhi’s borders for the past four months.Shiv Kumar, the president of Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, was picked up by police on January 16, illegally detained for seven days before being produced before the magistrate, according to the plea in the high court filed by his father, Rajbir Singh, seeking a CBI probe.Senior advocate RS Cheema, appearing for Shiv Kumar, argued that the comparison of the initial medical report when Shiv was arrested by police and the subsequent report, conducted by a panel of Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh at the instance of the court, speaks for itself. An inquiry should be ordered and in the meantime the investigation should be stayed, he said. The medical examination found two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe. The report listed out seven injuries of which two were termed as grievous caused by a blunt object. He was sent to Sonepat jail on February 2. Additional advocate general, Deepak Sabharwal told court the state was not averse to an inquiry. He further added that SIT is probing the FIRs.“No comment is made on comparison of two sets of medical reports, lest it would affect any further proceedings or inquiry, it would be suffice for this court to say that a probe is required,” the bench said. It added that the Constitution guarantees protection to life and personal liberty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-orders-probe-into-custodial-torture-101615923123181.html
17-03-2021||Other||ED raids Thane builder’s bungalow||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Tuesday raided the bungalow of Thane builder Yogesh Deshmukh, situated at Godrej Hill in Kalyan (West). After the raid, Deshmukh fell ill and was admitted to a private hospital. The raid was conducted in relation to a property deal in Titwala. ED sources claimed that the property was purchased by Shiv legislator Pratap Sarnaik, who is already being inquired by the central agency. “On Tuesday, around 7:45am, eight to 10 ED officials raided Deshmukh’s Virajman bungalow. After the raid, Deshmukh’s wife had an argument with the officials. In the meanwhile, Deshmukh, who developed some health issues, was taken to a private hospital,” said a Kalyan police officer. Sarnaik could not be reached for comment. “We never had any land deal with Sarnaik. ED is putting pressure us to say that the cash used in the land deal was utilised for money laundering. He has been tested positive for Covid-19,” said Deshmukh’s wife Sheetal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-raids-thane-builder-s-bungalow-101615924804957.html
17-03-2021||Other||Charge sheet by Mumbai Police in TRP case solely targeted at Arnab, his counsel tells HC||Claiming that the first information report (FIR) and charge sheet filed in the television rating points (TRP) case by Mumbai Police was solely targeted at Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, his counsel on Tuesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that though former cop Sachin Waze was informed of the alleged TRP manipulation in June 2020, police commissioner Param Bir Singh took a press conference to announce a probe into the case after four months. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by ARG Outlier Media – which runs Republic TV – and Goswami, seeking quashing of the FIR and charge sheet against some of the key employees of the media house, was informed by senior counsel Ashok Mundargi that the police has not named Goswami in their charge sheet because they want to keep the criminal prosecution open-ended. Mundargi submitted that the ploy adopted by the police was to name ARG Outlier Media employees, which included chalak-malak and sambandhit vyakti (operator, owner and other persons concerned), but not Goswami, so that the probe can be open-ended and people connected with the channel can be harassed. Mundargi added that Singh told media that the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) had implicated Republic TV. However, BARC had not initiated any inquiry against Republic TV, and no material was provided by them to the police either to show that the media house was involved in TRP manipulation. When the court sought to know if the police could hold such press conferences to reinforce public trust in the police machinery, Mundargi responded, “There was no public outcry. No one knew about the alleged TRP scam and then the senior police officer comes before the media. The action on part of the police officer is with mala fide. There is no sufficient material to substantiate whatever was being said by him.” He summarised that the act reeked of malice, malafide and an unnatural way of collecting evidence by Mumbai Police. There was an effort to somehow name the petitioner’s channel by hook or crook. The court asked chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare how long the investigations would continue, as two charge sheets had already been filed. Thakare said the probe would be completed as soon as possible. HC will continue hearing ARG’s plea on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charge-sheet-by-mumbai-police-in-trp-case-solely-targeted-at-arnab-his-counsel-tells-hc-101615924564095.html
17-03-2021||Other||Punjab issues draft notification for one-time settlement of illegal water-sewer connections||For expediting recovery of dues and providing residents an opportunity to get their illegal water-sewer connections regularised at nominal rates, Punjab local bodies department has issued a draft notification for one-time settlement (OTS). The draft notification issued on Monday invited suggestions from various urban local bodies for changes if required. As per the draft notification, residents will be able to get their illegal water-sewer connection regularised at nominal rates, without any penalty or interest, within three months of the issuance of the final notification. After three months, they will have to pay 100% penalty on the concessional fee being offered under the OTS policy. If residents fail to get the connections regularised within six months, they will have to pay the fee, penalty as well as the interest on it. The draft also includes a waiver on interest and penalty for defaulters of water-sewer user charges. As per the draft notification, no penalty or interest will be charged on the principal amount if the payment is made within three months, while only penalty will be waived off if the amount is paid after three months but within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-issues-draft-notification-for-one-time-settlement-of-illegal-water-sewer-connections-101615924443430.html
17-03-2021||Other||Fake marriage certificate racket busted in Khadoor Sahib, 2 held||Two persons were arrested after a fake marriage certificate racket was busted in Khadoor Sahib tehsil complex of Goindwal sub-division on Tuesday. Police are on the lookout for two others involved in the racket. The accused have been identified as Avtar Singh, who is posted as a reader to Khadoor Sahib tehsildar Abhishek Verma (a revenue officer) and Khadoor Sahib Sewa Kendra operator Swaran Singh. Two of their aides, identified as Ashok Kumar and Kulbir Singh, who run a photostat shop, are on the run.As per the police, the accused had been tampering with old record files of marriage registrations and issuing it to unsuspecting persons. After two such cases surfaced, Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh deputed a superintendent, Surjit Singh, to probe the matter.The superintendent found that in two of the cases, the accused had taken around ₹10,000 to 13, 000 for issuing fake certificates.Based on the findings, a case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 466 (forgery of record of court or of public register), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 168 (public servant unlawfully engaging in trade), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused at Goindwal Sahib police station.Goindwal station house officer Jaswant Singh said, “We will produce the accused in a local court and seek police remand to find out how many such fake certificates they had issued in the past.” He added that raids are on to nab the two accused who are currently on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-marriage-certificate-racket-busted-in-khadoor-sahib-2-held-101615924323375.html
17-03-2021||Other||Shortage of Covishield supply; Thane civic body to administer only Covaxin shots: TMC||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has said that due to limited supply of Covishield, the civic body will administer only Covaxin shots for the next few days. Covishield will be given to beneficiaries for their second doses. TMC will receive over 5.3 lakh doses of Covaxin and 63,000 doses of Covishield today. Thane district has not reported any shortages. On Tuesday, only 19 out of 50 vaccination centres in Thane were operational, which led to confusion among residents. In Thane city, 1,548 doses of Covaxin were administered on Tuesday and a total of 2,280 beneficiaries were inoculated by TMC. “There were only 8,000 doses of Covaxin available on Tuesday as it was the first day. This is also the reason we kept fewer centres open for vaccination. In order to avoid confusion regarding vaccine dosages, there will be separate centres for booster doses and for primary dosage henceforth,” said a senior officer from TMC. TMC officials said they received fewer than the number of doses they need from the state. Thane district said it has adequate supply of vaccine doses. From Wednesday, 44 centres (of which 11 are private vaccination centres) will administer Covaxin. Booster doses of Covishield will be administered in six centres across Thane city. Slots have to be booked online for private hospitals and 30% of the slots in civic-run centres are available online. Walk-in appointments are available only in civic-run vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-covishield-supply-thane-civic-body-to-administer-only-covaxin-shots-tmc-101615924263568.html
17-03-2021||Other||Mansukh Hiran’s kin should be given security: Kirit Somaiya||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya, who has a copy of the letter which the Saket Complex secretary submitted to Rabodi police, has called for a detailed investigation in the entire case. He has also requested the Centre to provide security to the family of late businessman Mansukh Hiran. Somaiya visited Hiran’s family on Tuesday for about two hours. “When I met them for the first time, they were scared and angry, and didn’t have any faith in the system. They were not sure about getting justice for their loved one. But as the case has been taken over by NIA and with Vaze’s arrest, they are placing their trust on the probe officers as well as the system and believe that they will get justice. As they are scared of being targeted by people from the Vaze’s camp, I have requested the Centre to provide them security,” said Somaiya, who had met the family for the third time after the trader’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-s-kin-should-be-given-security-kirit-somaiya-101615924203578.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai recorded 31,106 new Covid-19 cases in one month||Between February 15 and March 15, the city has recorded 31,106 new cases of Covid-19, of which 18,903 were reported in March alone. Mumbai’s Covid growth rate shot up to 0.42% on March 15, from 0.15% reported on February 15. The doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the number of cases to double —was 165 days on March 15 compared to 455 days on February 15. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 1,922 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths from the infection. The total number of cases is 3,47,597 and the Covid death toll stands at 11,543. The case fatality rate is 3.3%. There are 13,862 active cases in the city, with a recovery rate of 92%. Experts and doctors have attributed the spike in Covid-19 cases to the public not observing precautionary measures like social distancing and wearing masks as well as patients delaying seeing a doctor in case of symptomatic Covid-19. Dr Om Shrivastav, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The main reasons for increase in cases is not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing or Covid-19 hygiene, such as frequent washing of hands.” Other factors include resumption of local train services and increased testing and contact tracing. As of March 13, an estimated 62% of Mumbai’s active Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body’s data shows 35% of the cases are symptomatic but stable, while 3% are critical. In the past month, BMC has increased testing from 15,000-16,000 tests to 21,000-22,000 tests per day. As of March 15, Mumbai had conducted 35,93,065 tests, of which 19,009 tests were done conducted in the last 24 hours (until Monday evening). The positivity rate in the city has also increased. BMC’s data shows the average positivity rate in March as 7.58%, up from February’s average of 4.54%. In January, the positivity rate was 3.98%. Positivity rate is the total number of positive cases recorded compared to the total number of tests in a fixed time period. Dr Rahul Pandit, another member of the Covid-19 task force, said, “The high number of cases reported daily is a reflection of what is happening on-ground. The increase in the number of daily tests conducted over the past month is one of the factors why we are seeing a high number of cases.” He said the number of tests needs to increase further, and pointed out that Delhi conducts approximately 50,000 tests a day, though most of these are antigen tests and considered less reliable in comparison to reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. In Mumbai, 75% of the tests conducted are RT-PCR tests, which are considered the gold standard for Covid diagnosis. “If we do more tests, the positivity rate will come down. High testing numbers will help us identify the population which is at risk or has been exposed,” said Dr Pandit. Contract tracing up to 30 high-risk contacts per patient within the first 24 hours would also help reduce the number of cases, said Dr Pandit. Mumbai had seen a spike in reported cases in September and October last year, with 59,724 cases of Covid-19 and an average positivity rate of over 15% reported in September. In October, Mumbai had 53,147 cases and an average positivity rate of 14.7%. The highest single-day caseload was recorded on October 7, 2020, with 2,848 cases. The highest daily caseload this month was on March 14, when the city recorded 1,963 new cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-recorded-31-106-new-covid-19-cases-in-one-month-101615924083447.html
17-03-2021||Other||No illegality in ex-Mumbai Police cop Sachin Vaze’s arrest: NIA court||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court Tuesday on Tuesday rejected suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze’s claim that his arrest by NIA was illegal. The court also rejected his claim that no sanction of the government prior to his arrest was obtained as his actions were part of his police duty. Special NIA judge Prashant Sitre, while rejecting Vaze’s plea, observed, “It is an admitted fact that the accused was a police person, and hence, is in the knowing about his right. The entry in the station diary clearly reflects that intimation was provided to the accused and the police station concerned, so also, the information about his arrest. It means the grounds of arrest were provided to accused.” “This is the type of case where the prosecution must be given an opportunity to establish its case by evidence and an opportunity given to the defence to establish that he [Vaze] had been acting in the official course of his duty. The question whether the respondent 1 [Vaze] acted in the course of performance of duties and/or whether the defence is pretended or fanciful can only be examined during the course of trial,” the court held. The judge allowed Vaze’s lawyer to remain present during the investigation, but at a distance. Vaze’s lawyers had claimed: “The applicant was not produced within 24 hours after his arrest, nor was he provided an opportunity to take the opinion of his advocate. The ground of the arrest was also not provided to the applicant’s family.” The lawyers also submitted that no sanction prior to the arrest was obtained. As per the notification dated May 23, 2019, consent is required under section 45(1) (protection of members of the armed forces from arrest) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). NIA prosecutor Sunil Gonsalvis contested the plea and argued that Vaze was arrested on March 13 at 11.50pm, while he was produced before the court at 2.45pm the next day, within 24 hours after the arrest. “The accused is a police person and is well aware about his right. Also, the accused never expressed to meet an advocate of his choice, and hence, there is no question of denying the opportunity,” Gonsalvis argued. The NIA prayed for the rejection of the plea, claiming that when Vaze was called for probe, he came from his office and had intentionally not carried out any mobile phone, and hence, was unable to inform his family. “But the IO (investigating officer) informed the police station concerned accordingly. When the accused was arrested, due process of law was followed,” NIA claimed. The agency also claimed that no sanction is required to arrest the accused, because he has not acted in discharge of his official duty. There is no nexus between action and duty of the accused and hence it prayed to reject the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-illegality-in-ex-mumbai-police-cop-sachin-vaze-s-arrest-nia-court-101615923963339.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Omitted syllabus appears in SSC, HSC question bank||The state education department’s recent move of releasing question banks for Class 10 and 12 students has not gone down well with many students and parents who say the question bank has served to increase confusion. On Monday, the education department released the subject-wise question bank for state board aspirants on its official website (maa.ac.in). The department said this was done to help students who will write their secondary school certificate (SSC) and higher secondary school (HSC) certificate exams, which will be held between April and May. However, several students have pointed out discrepancies in the question bank. Many said the question bank contains questions on topics that were omitted after the education department reduced the syllabus by 25% last year. “There are several questions from omitted topics and the entire material consists of questions on each topic and theme. What is the point of the question bank if it is not different from the existing study material?” asked a student. Parents said students felt more unsure about what to expect in their exams. “Now they don’t know whether to study from the questions given or from the textbook. The department should have instead marked a few topics as important so that students would have accordingly studied,” said a Borivali-based parent of a Class 12 student. Officials from the education department did not respond to calls and messages. A senior official said the department will release more papers in the coming days and the questions should only be considered guidelines. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct HSC (Class 12) examinations between April 23 and May 29. SSC (Class 10) examinations will be held between April 29 and May 31. Due to the pandemic and resultant lockdown, the education department has announced a 25% reduction in the syllabus for Classes 1 to 12, for the current academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-omitted-syllabus-appears-in-ssc-hsc-question-bank-101615923664564.html
17-03-2021||Other||Sachin Vaze used different cars: Thane society residents||The residents of Thane’s Saket Complex, where former Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze had been staying for over 20 years, claimed that they always saw the former officer using different cars. His wife and daughter, however, used public transport, claimed the residents. “I have known Vaze and his family for the past 20 years. His wife and daughter mix well in the society, but he was very reserved. We have seen him using different cars on most occasions. We have seen a Scorpio car too, but are not sure if it is the same SUV involved in the case. However, those cars were never used by his family, as they used public transport,” a society resident said. The resident said they were shocked to know that the security contractor was abruptly sacked by the chairman and secretary without informing them. “They had never done this before. Also, they had not informed us about providing the NVR and CCTV footage to the CIU team. They must be under some pressure but we are unaware of so many things. However, we have told the chairman and secretary that if they are right, we will stand by them.” The chairman and secretary of the society were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sachin-vaze-used-different-cars-thane-society-residents-101615923663488.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Consider income loss of families before applying for fee hike, FRA tells institutes||In a recent meeting, the state Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) has requested colleges to consider the economic repercussions of the past year upon students’ families before applying for hikes in annual fees. The authority is currently in the process of approving fee structures for the upcoming academic year of 2021-22. “College managements should appreciate that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, incomes of several households have suffered and their capacity to incur expenditure has been affected. Therefore, the same should be contended with the approved fee structure,” states the minutes of a meeting held on March 12. Established in 2004, FRA is the quasi-judicial body responsible for regulating fees of unaided private professional colleges in the state. Every year, institutes submit proposals to change their fee structures to FRA. Based on several indicators, including the nature of the course, number of students, teaching and non-teaching staff, infrastructure and other facilities at the college, changes in fees are approved. Colleges must display the approved fee structure on their website for students to check at the time of admission. Institutes are usually allowed a 10% fee hike. They also have the option of continuing two years or more with the same fee structure based on FRA’s approval. This year, FRA is hoping for fewer applications. “We have made a request to institutes. Now it is their decision to whether or not apply for the fee hike,” said a senior official from FRA who said the authority will take into consideration the decrease in expenditure for institutes as their campuses were not in use all of last year. “The fact that they incurred less expenditure last year will reflect in their balance sheets that they have to submit along with their proposal. This too will help reduce the fees that will be approved for the upcoming academic year,” added the official. Colleges have pointed out that since online classes were conducted regularly, the staff was paid in full. The director of a private medical college in Pune told HT, “No staff was sacked and neither was their salary deducted because not only was our staff conducting classes, but were also running the hospital for several hours at a stretch, fighting Covid-19. We also need to take into consideration the considerable expenditure institutes will incur in sanitisation of classes and hostel. So the only way to meet expenditure is by charging fees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-consider-income-loss-of-families-before-applying-for-fee-hike-fra-tells-institutes-101615923484465.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Teachers can work from home from March 17: Mumbai civic body||With the cases of Covid-19 seeing a surge in the city again, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) education department has asked teachers and non-teaching staff of schools and junior colleges of all mediums and managements across the city to work from home starting March 17.As per a circular released on Tuesday, in line with the government orders and in-keeping the precautions in place to curb the rise in cases, teachers across schools have to work from home. “As per the guidelines issued in November 2020, schools were allowed to call 50% teachers every day on a rotational basis. However, as per the verbal instructions of the officials in the government, schools are asked to ensure that teachers work from home until further orders or until schools reopen for physical classes,” states the circular. The circular is issued for schools and junior colleges of all managements and mediums in the city.Teachers have been asked to submit a report of their teaching and send across learning material to students online. Non-teaching staff of schools can be called as and when needed by the principals to ensure cleanliness and regular maintenance of schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teachers-can-work-from-home-from-march-17-mumbai-civic-body-101615923303345.html
17-03-2021||Other||NIA recovers CCTV footage of cop’s building seized by Mumbai Police CIU||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has recovered the network video recorder (NVR) and the CCTV footage of Saket Complex in Thane, which was allegedly taken away by controversial former Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, who in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in parking an explosive-laden SUV near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s home Antilia on the night of February 24.A senior Mumbai Police officer said a team of NIA officers recovered the CCTV footage from Vaze’s cabin in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of crime branch. Vaze headed CIU till he was transferred to the citizen facilitation centre of Mumbai Police on March 12. On Monday, he was suspended from the force after his arrest.The police officer added that NIA’s search at CIU office started late on Monday night and went on till the early hours of Tuesday. The NIA team has also seized a laptop, an iPad, a phone and many documents. Confirming the development, an NIA officer said the agency has also seized a Mercedes Benz, which was intermittently used by Vaze. However, they are yet to ascertain its ownership.Inspector general Anil Shukla of NIA said, “We have seized a Mercedes, and during investigation, it was confirmed that the car was used by Vaze. However, the owner of the car has not been identified yet.” While conducting search in the car, we recovered cash worth over ₹5 lakh, a counting machine, some clothes and the registration number plate which was on the Scorpio found parked near the Ambani residence with gelatin sticks,” added Shukla.According to the residents of Saket Complex – Vaze’s housing society – a team of four CIU officers visited their society on February 27 around 8.30pm and took the society’s NVR without informing its committee members. The four officers, according to Thane police, included Vaze’s colleague assistant inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, who had written a letter (a copy of which is with HT) to the society chairman and secretary, demanding the footage for investigation into the explosives case. “For the purpose of investigation, this office needs to check the CCTV installed in the premises of your society and the adjoining area. Therefore, I’m directing to provide us the DVR (digital video recorder) which stores the CCTV footage to facilitate the said investigation,” Kazi’s letter read.Two days after the CIU seized the NVR, the society sacked its security contractor. “The [CIU] team asked for the CCTV footage. So the contractor was called, to hand over the NVR to the officers. Two days later, he was sacked, claiming that his work was not satisfactory. The other committee members were not aware that the NVR was handed over to CIU,” a member said. The society’s chairman and secretary then submitted a letter to Rabodi police in Thane about the NVR and CCTV seizure on the evening of March 4 – the day when businessman Mansukh Hiran went missing. Hiran had claimed that the SUV found outside Antilia belonged to him. His body was found from a Thane creek on March 5. “The chairman and secretary had given us in writing that on February 27, the CIU took their CCTV footage for some probe. They said they were being responsible citizens and informing the police about it,” said an officer from Rabodi police station. The society chairman and secretary were not available for comment. According to crime branch sources, NIA has recorded the statements of Kazi as well as of three other officers – assistant commissioner of police Nitin Alaknure; inspector Milind Kathe; assistant inspector Prakash Howal – and three constables in connection with the case.NIA is, however, yet to recover DVR and CCTV footage of the shop from where fake number plates were allegedly made for the SUV as well as an Innova, which was seen tailing the SUV parked near Antilia. Vaze and his team had allegedly visited the shop, located around 500 metres away from that of Hiran’s, and collected its DVR and CCTV footage, said the Mumbai Police officer. A second Mumbai Police officer, who is privy to the investigation, said the Innova – in which the SUV driver fled after abandoning the SUV outside Ambani’s home – had entered Mumbai again 30 minutes after exiting the Mulund check post. “The Innova again went to the same place where the SUV was parked, as the driver had forgotten something in the SUV. The Innova driver is seen again in the footage found near the spot. But the driver is in a PPE kit, perhaps to hide his identity,” said the second officer, adding that Vaze and other suspects would be made to walk in a PPE kit to ascertain the identity of the Innova driver by trying to match their comparative movements.Meanwhile, three deputy inspector general level officers of NIA have arrived in Mumbai to join the ongoing investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-recovers-cctv-footage-of-cop-s-building-seized-by-mumbai-police-ciu-101615923243547.html
17-03-2021||Other||HC stays PCS exam process, asks Punjab for reply on reservation for differently abled||After Punjab government failed to respond twice on the issue of reservation for differently abled persons in Punjab State Civil Services (PCS) exam-2020, the high court on Tuesday stayed the further process of the exam till a representation on the issue is decided by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC).The court was hearing a plea from Jalandhar-based lawyer Vivek Joshi 40, who had challenged the reservation criteria. The PPSC had advertised 75 posts on December 12, 2020 for which the exam was conducted at various centres across the state on February 13, 2021.Joshi had pleaded that reservation for differently abled persons should have been as per Section 34 of the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, 2016 and accordingly 4% seats were required to be reserved out of the total seats advertised. However, the same was not done, it was stated. He had demanded that PPSC be directed to amend its notification as it has violated the rights of the petitioner by not reserving seats for the physically handicapped/disabled per the Rights of persons with disabilities Act, 2016 and further violated rules about exemption in fee for this category.The court was told that the petitioner is a disabled person and a practicing lawyer in Jalandhar. He had submitted a representation with PPSC in December and demanded for rectification of the said mistake. However, the PPSC has not acted.The court, while posting the matter for July, directed the PPSC to consider his case for providing appropriate reservation and also examine his representation of December 29, 2020.“It is further directed that till the representation is decided, further process in pursuance to the advertisement shall remain stayed,” the court directed. The stay order was passed as it came to light that on January 28, response was sought on a similar matter and PPSC and the state were directed to file a status report by March 1. However, no reply was filed. Also response was not filed on March 16 even as HC had granted a last opportunity during the hearing on March 1, said the court while staying the further process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-stays-pcs-exam-process-asks-punjab-for-reply-on-reservation-for-differently-abled-101615923063164.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Father struggles to get US emergency visa for 6-year-old’s surgery||Six-year-old Priyanshu Meshram, a native of Madhya Pradesh (MP), needs an emergency visa to the United States of America (USA) to undergo surgery for rare congenital heart disease. However, his 31-year-old father Sagar Meshram is struggling to get an appointment with the US Consulate in Mumbai for the emergency visa, considering the huge number of applications, due to stringent restrictions imposed by the US government in granting visa.Priyanshu needs to be admitted to the Boston Children’s Hospital in the US on March 22 for pre-surgery diagnostics.A wall painter by profession, Meshram did not have the money to treat Priyanshu, who was diagnosed with a heart condition when he was four months old. When doctors in MP could not help to improve Priyanshu’s condition, the family shifted to Mumbai in 2018, to undergo treatment at Kokilaben Hospital. Later, Priyanshu was referred to Boston Children’s Hospital. The treatment would cost an estimately ₹2 crore. “I work as a wall painter and I did not have so much money. It took us almost over three years to arrange for the money through crowdsourcing,” said Meshram, who is currently residing in Pune.Meshram said that he deposited ₹1.68 crore at the hospital in the US and that the surgery is scheduled for April 5. He now fears that if he fails to reach Boston by March 22, he may lose his son after six years of fighting. “The pandemic has become the biggest obstruction in saving my son,” he said. Documents available with HT show that the hospital has acknowledged it and also requested the US embassy in India to issue a visa to the child immediately for his surgery.“Due to the pandemic, the embassy has kept very limited dates for appointment dates for emergency visa. So, even before we log into the website for the process, all the dates get filled up. I have also written to the US Consulate General, Mumbai, to expedite the process for my son, but it hasn’t been fruitful,” said Sagar. In reply to an email sent to Sagar on March 12, the Consulate responded, “...(sic) The consulate cannot guarantee when it will be able to resume limited visa services or consider requests for expedited appointments.”The US consulate in Mumbai did not respond to HT’s email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-father-struggles-to-get-us-emergency-visa-for-6-year-old-s-surgery-101615922827535.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Times when politics caught the fancy of Mumbai and Maharashtra’s policemen||While police officer Sachin Vaze’s political career did not take off, one of the reasons why he returned to the police job after taking retirement, there were many police personnel who took the political plunge while in service or after retirement. A few of them succeeded, but most did not make it big. Former chief minister the late Sushilkumar Shinde and Bharatiya Janata Party MP Satya Pal Singh are among the very few who succeeded in creating their niche. Shinde, who was also the union home minister, started his career as a constable, was promoted to the post of sub-inspector and later became a successful politician. Similarly, former Mumbai police commissioner Satyapal Singh managed to bag the union ministership in his very first attempt after being elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014. Arup Patnaik, former Mumbai police commissioner, lost the recent 2019 Lok Sabha elections to a political newcomer from the Bhubaneshwar constituency. “I have faced a lot of ups and downs as a policeman and take this defeat as one such setback in my political career,” said Patnaik who contested on a Biju Janata Dal (BJD) ticket. A fellow police officer of Vaze and another “encounter specialist” Pradip Sharma joined the Shiv Sena ahead of the 2019 elections and contested from Nalla Sopara constituency on a Sena ticket. He however lost the election. Retired Assistant Commissioner of Police Shamsher Singh Pathan, who formed his own party Avami Vikas Party (AVP), blamed citizens for his political failure. “I wonder why the people who loved me so much during my career as policeman did not support me politically,” said Pathan who formed his outfit on May 1, 2012, a day after his retirement. “The failure is not mine, but of citizens who did not support a genuine and upright person like me.” The AVP has not been able to win a single seat despite contesting all elections since its formation. Former additional director general (ADG) of police Prem Krishan Jain who was appointed the vice-president of Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India (RPI-A) is no longer associated with politics. “I had joined the RPI to serve the poor, but then I resigned as I was selected as the member of the State Police Complaints Authority,” said Jain. Elaborating on the link between the police and politicians in the backdrop of the Vaze controversy, Patnaik said police tend to curry favours with an eye on post-retirement assignments. “In case of joining politics, the policemen tend to start compromising with favoured political parties. Even politicians tend to exploit the situation to the hilt,” said Patnaik. Political experts called it a dangerous phenomenon, which has an impact on the law and order.“These policemen go out of their way to serve their political masters. They dilute cases against guilty party workers, which encourages them to take the law in their own hands,” said political commentator Hemant Desai. Desai said one of the factors which encourage cops to enter politics is their association with politicos in their career. V V Lakshminarayana, who served as the additional director general of police, planning and coordination, said, “Given their wide experience, the police personnel should join politics and work towards reforming it.” Lakshminarayana had helmed the investigation in the infamous Satyam scam. He had joined the Jana Sena party floated by South Indian film star Pawan Kalyan and had contested the Lok Sabha polls from Vishakapatnam on the plank of zero budget politics, where he spent within the prescribed limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/times-when-politics-caught-the-fancy-of-mumbai-and-maharashtra-s-policemen-101615922826409.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||38 more deaths, 1,475 Covid cases in Punjab||There was no let-up in surge in Covid-19 cases in Punjab as 1,475 fresh infections pushed the tally to 1,99,573, while the death toll rose to 6,137 with 38 more fatalities, according to a medical bulletin issued on Tuesday.The number of active cases also increased from 11,942 on Monday to 12,616 on Tuesday.Hoshiarpur reported a maximum 257 fresh Covid-19 cases, Ludhiana 245, Patiala 197, Mohali 192 and SBS Nagar 132.The recovery count reached 1,82,283 after 751 more novel coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering, the bulletin said.A total of 54,27,097 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the state, it said.31 more Thapar University students infected Thirty-one more students of Thapar University, Patiala, tested positive for coronavirus Tuesday, taking the tally to 69 in four days. Chaos prevailed on the campus after parents of students, who were struck at hostels, reached the varsity and demanded authorities to allow their wards to go back home. Senior officials also reached at the spot and held meeting with the varsity management to resolve the issue. District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said the students who were found negative have been allowed to accompany their parents after they submitted a consent form that they would home quarantine themselves at their respective areas. He added positive students have been shifted to isolation centre set up at the varsity campus. 2 test positive in Punjabi University Two positive cases of coronavirus were reported from Punjabi University campus on Tuesday. University’s finance officer Rakesh Kumar and an employee from his department have contracted the infection following which they have been home isolated.At least 20 people from the varsity have been tested positive in the past one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/38-more-deaths-1-475-covid-cases-in-punjab-101615922825431.html
17-03-2021||Other||Mumbai: Man stabs 2 women, attempts to kill self in Vasai||Waliv police have booked a 30-year-old man for allegedly stabbing a 29-year-old woman and her mother with a knife in Vasai (East), on Monday. The man then attempted to kill himself by consuming poison. According to Waliv police, the man went to the victim’s flat; when the victim opened the door, the man without warning pulled out a Swiss knife and stabbed her in the hand and hip. The mother intervened and tried to rescue her, however, the man stabbed her too. The accused then pulled out a bottle and consumed poison in a bid to kill himself said police.The victims and the accused are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Vasai. We have registered a case under section 324 (causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said an officer.The accused claimed that the victim had secretly married him a few years back. The marriage was kept a secret from her parents.“The accused wanted to stay with her, however, and the victim refused. In a fit of rage, he stabbed her. We are investigating all possible angles,” said an officer.Meanwhile, on Saturday, a man stabbed three members of a family in Khanivade, Virar, and locked himself in the bathroom of the house. The locals handed him over to the Virar police. Police are investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-man-stabs-2-women-attempts-to-kill-self-in-vasai-101615922643157.html
17-03-2021||Other||AAP’s Mehrauli MLA Naresh Yadav acquitted in Quran desecration case; 2 others guilty||A local court on Tuesday acquitted Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s MLA from Mehrauli constituency of Delhi, Naresh Yadav in a Quran sacrilege case which took place in Punjab’s Malerkotla on June 24, 2016. Two others, Vijay Kumar and Gaurav Khajuria were found guilty and sentenced to two years’ rigourous imprisonment with a fine of ₹11,000. Besides Yadav, another accused, identified as Nand Kishore, has been acquitted. Narpal Singh Dhaliwal, the counsel for Yadav, said the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Prashant Verma acquitted Yadav as there was no evidence against him. Police had registered a case under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli¬gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli-gious beliefs), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 124A (sedition), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Malerkotla City-1 police station. The court, however, dropped the sedition charges in the case.Vijay Kumar, the main accused in the 2016 incident which had triggered violence in the Muslim-dominated Malerkotla, was a former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) volunteer. He had claimed that he had desecrated the Quran at the behest of Yadav, who, he claimed, was his friend.The Mehrauli MLA was arrested for his suspected role in the case. However, later, Vijay Kumar took a U-turn and alleged that the police had forced him to name Yadav in the case.Yadav welcomed the verdict, stating that the SAD-BJP government had nominated his name in the FIR as they felt threatened by AAP’s rising popularity ahead of the 2017 Punjab assembly elections.Walking out of the Sangrur court with Punjab leader of opposition and Dirba legislator Harpal Cheema, Yadav said, “I got justice. The Akali government had conspired against me ahead of the Punjab assembly polls. It was done to defame the AAP,” added Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aaps-mehrauli-mla-naresh-yadav-acquitted-in-quran-desecration-case-2-others-guilty-101615922583376.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Foodgrain procurement: Existing quality norms to apply but land record a must, FCI tells Punjab||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) on Tuesday conveyed to the Punjab government that it would require farmers’ land records for wheat procurement, expected to begin from April 1, but the crop will be procured as per the existing quality norms fixed by it. At a meeting attended by top officials of the state food department and the FCI, it was clarified that a move for tightening quality checks was at a proposal stage and a nod from the Union food and public distribution ministry was awaited. “We have received directions from the Centre to procure wheat as per the existing norms,” said a deputy general manger-rank official of the FCI. “There is no change in the condition for giving farad (land record) at time of selling the produce, which we plan to introduce from this year in the upcoming procurement,” he added. “Most of the issues related to the procurement were settled in today’s meeting, however, what goes pending is land record issue, as to procure farad by 10 to 12 lakh farmers is a big exercise and a cost is also involved. There are other technicalities such as the land division has not taken place in a large number of cases. Original owners are not alive and land division has not taken place in name of the legal heirs and at least one-fourth agriculture land in state is given on ccontract,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Ashu said he would take up the issue with the CM at a meeting scheduled on March 22. “Procuring farad (land record) from the state’s revenue department involves a lengthy process and it comes at a cost (of ₹20 per page). Who will bear the cost?” asked Ashu, adding that it was not practical to handle pressure of giving farads to a large number of farmers in a short span of time. FCI not willing to procure big stocks The FCI has shown reluctance to procure big stocks of produce in the upcoming rabi procurement season. As per reports, the Punjab government, while dividing share among the FCI and four state procurement agencies (Pungrain, Punsup, Markfed and Punjab state ware housing corporation), asked the former to purchase 20% of the total stocks but it insisted on cutting down quota to 15%. “Actually, they will procure even lesser,” said an officer from state food department. As per an estimate, 132 lakh tonne of wheat is expected to come for procurement in the upcoming season. FCI’s regional head Arshdeep Thind represented the corporation and principal secretary state food department KAP Singh and director Ravi Bhagat alongwith the food minister was also present. New proposal for quality norms As per recommendations of the FCI sent to the Union food and PDS ministry for approval, the reduction in moisture level in wheat crop has been proposed from 14% to 12% has been proposed. It has recommended to permit damaged grain from 4% to 2%. In paddy, reduction in permissible limit of foreign matter from 2% to 1% has been proposed, discoloured grain from 5 to 3% and reduction in add mixture of lower-class paddy to 5 from 6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/foodgrain-procurement-changes-in-quality-norms-at-proposal-stage-but-land-record-a-must-says-fci-101615922524694.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 110,702 travelled by Matheran toy train since Nov 2020, says CR||Over 100,000 passengers travelled by the toy train since November 2020, as per the Central Railway (CR) data.Toy train that operates between Neral and Matheran hill station is presently operational between Matheran and Aman Lodge railway stations. CR resumed the toy train services after demands from passengers and Neral residents.“More than ₹67 lakhs have been earned by the ticket sales of the toy train services. There has been a slow, but significant increase in the number of passengers travelling between Matheran and Aman Lodge railway stations.” said a senior Central Railway official.The train services witnessed an increase in the number of passengers in January and then dipped in February.Around 33,515 passengers travelled by the toy train in January, while in February, 20,548 passengers travelled by the toy trains and up till March 15, 11,507 passengers travelled as per the Central Railway data.A total of 1,10,702 passengers travelled by train.The zonal railway resumed toy train operations on November 3, 2020, after demands from passengers and luggage vendors.Initially, two toy train services were operated between Aman Lodge and Matheran and later four additional train services were operated.Earlier, the CR had resumed parcel train services to provide essential food items for the people residing in Matheran. The services were suspended on June 2, 2020, after poor response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-110-702-travelled-by-matheran-toy-train-since-nov-2020-says-cr-101615922523216.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena all set to counter BJP’s attacks||Battered with attacks from the Opposition for nearly a year now, the most recent being the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in the Ambani house security scare case and death of Mansukh Hiran, the trader whose car was used for the threat, the Shiv Sena now plans to counter the “allegations and campaigns meant to defame” the Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA). From the Palghar district mob lynching case to actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case to allegations of crime against women on two cabinet ministers, including a Sena minister who resigned, to the Vaze case, the Sena has faced repeated attacks from its former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sena leaders said the Opposition has been “setting the agenda” for the government. Senior party leaders, including Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who were steadfast in their defence Vaze, have now not spoken on him. The party line on the controversial cop echoes the government’s – “Nobody would be shielded”. Amid series of meetings between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and senior ministers within the MVA for the second day, Raut met NCP chief Sharad Pawar in Delhi on Tuesday evening. Emerging from the meeting, Raut told reporters that “everything is alright” and dismissed speculations that Pawar was unhappy with Thackeray’s backing for Vaze last week. “Nobody is supporting anybody. Maharashtra is a land of law-and-order, no matter who the person is,” he told reporters. Raut also denied that there would be any “big changes” in Maharashtra amid speculations that home minister Anil Deshmukh may be replaced.“I believe it is not appropriate for me to speak on this. Sharad Pawar or the chief minister can speak on this. But as of now, I do not think that there are going to be any big changes in the state.” Sena minister Eknath Shinde too said Vaze was not being shielded. “The matter is being probed by the NIA and ATS and the truth will come out. The Vaze issue has become a part of the investigation and therefore there is no question of shielding anybody... NIA has arrested him and legal process is on so there is no question of backing him,” he said in Delhi. A senior Shiv Sena MP said the BJP aims to get back in power, which is why it leaves no opportunity to attack the Sena. On its part, the Shiv Sena has decided to take on the BJP-led central government for trampling on the rights of the state. “Law-and-order is a state subject, right? Then why did the CBI descend to Mumbai after the actor died. Now, after the state blocked CBI’s entry, they entered Maharashtra through NIA,” he said, requesting anonymity. A senior Sena leader said, “The opposition has been setting the agenda and the government is chasing it. If you see the Palghar lynching episode, what role did Shiv Sena have in it? The opposition has built a public perception through incessant yelling and through their social media cell. But the government has also countered it. Over 100 people have been arrested in that case. What more can the state government do? Don’t such cases happen in other states?” “After Palghar lynching, a sadhu (seer) was killed in Uttar Pradesh. Around the same time, when gelatine sticks were found in a car near Ambani’s home, Mohan Delkar committed suicide naming people close to BJP. It is nature’s counter them. We are not bothered by what they throw on us, we do not intend to respond to each and every allegation they make,” the MP said. With less than year for the prestigious Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election, Sena’s dented image in this case could become the fodder for the BJP which is aiming to wrest control of the civic body from Sena. “People are intelligent. The opposition thinks they are better Sherlock Holmes, lawyers, or even judges.” The leader added that the party, as it nears the BMC polls in the second half of the year, the Sena will take to various platforms to counter the BJP on all these issues. “As a party, we are aware of what is being done. With respect to the BMC election, let time pass, we will take up all these issues at appropriate stage,” he said. The BJP, meanwhile, alleged that the government backs their “close ones”. “The government’s close ones are being protected. The current issue of Vaze is front of us. He is involved in conspiracy and many things are going to come out. He was constantly supported and the CM made a statement asking if he was Osama bin Laden,” said Keshav Upadhye, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson. “Maharashtra and police force are being defamed by such stories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-all-set-to-counter-bjp-s-attacks-101615922403965.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||21ha more for Mumbai coastal road: Green panel gives nod||An expert committee of the Union environment ministry has approved an amendment in the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance granted to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s coastal road project. Once ratified by the Centre, this approval will give legal sanctity to the BMC’s move to reclaim an additional 21 hectares (ha) of land for a stretch of coastal road between Marine Lines and Worli. This was revealed in the minutes of the 257th meeting of the MoEFCC’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) overseeing CRZ clearances, held on March 5. The BMC had, in 2016, stated it will reclaim only 90ha for the project, which got CRZ in May 2017. However, the BMC subsequently tabled a requirement for another 21ha in two affidavits before the Supreme Court, on August 28 and September 7, 2020, taking the total quantum of reclaimed land to 111ha. It is this additional requirement that has now received the sanction of the EAC. “The committee after detailed deliberations and submissions made by the PP (MCGM) recommended for granting the CRZ clearance,” the minutes state. Of the 21ha, 14.49ha will be used for building a sea-wall toward the Worli-end of the coastal road, which “had not been factored in” at the time of seeking CRZ in 2016, as per the minutes of the aforesaid meeting (which have been reviewed by Hindustan Times). The BMC had also tabled a requirement for another 6.51ha for the road in two affidavits before the Supreme Court, on August 28 and September 7, 2020. However, the Supreme Court in October directed the BMC not to undertake reclamation beyond the 90ha, as mandated by the earlier CRZ clearance. Environmentalists pointed out that construction of this partially submerged seawall, which officials say is necessary to protect the road against wave action and erosion, is already underway in variance with the Supreme Court’s directions. “For the EAC to recommend approval now is essentially a post-facto regularisation of work that began without the needed clearances,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust and applicant in the matter before the SC. Goenka also pointed out that the EAC has not, as per the minutes of its March 5 meeting, considered various objections put forward by citizens and interest groups at an MCZMA hearing held last year. An assistant engineer in the BMC’s coastal roads department who is privy to the development, said, “The added land requirement has not been given CRZ clearance yet, but it is now a step closer to reality. The final step is for the MoEFCC to accept the EAC’s recommendation, after which the additional land requirement will have legal sanctity and the reclamation work on the additional 6ha can proceed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/21ha-more-for-mumbai-coastal-road-green-panel-gives-nod-101615922283447.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Power firms paid ₹42 lakh for Congress minister’s trips, alleges BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) media cell chief Vishwas Pathak has alleged that energy minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut used chartered flights for several trips between Mumbai, Nagpur, Hyderabad and Delhi, for which debt-ridden power companies were made to pay more than ₹42 lakh, during the lockdown. Raut has said he would react to the allegations after going through the same.“As per the details obtained under RTI (Right to Information), MSEB Holding Company Limited paid ₹14.45 lakh for two trips and Maharashtra State Power Generation Company paid ₹29.10 lakh for three trips between Mumbai, Delhi, Aurangabad and Hyderabad. Two other companies have paid more than ₹60 lakh for several such trips between June and October, but they have been hiding the information under RTI. This means the minister has spent more than ₹1 crore of the public money on his air travel by making the bleeding companies pay for it,” Pathak said.Pathak said that the payment made by the companies is illegal. “No statutory corporations or the boards affiliated to the state government are allowed to bear such expenses on behalf of the minister who heads these bodies. Secondly, every private flight journey by the minister should have approval from the chief minister. In these cases, no such approval was taken by the minister. Most of these trips appear to be private ones and there was no reason to make the companies to foot the bills,” he alleged.When contacted, Raut said, “I have not heard about the allegations. I will react only after going through them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-power-firms-paid-42-lakh-for-congress-minister-s-trips-alleges-bjp-101615922103184.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||MVA distances itself from controversial police officer Sachin Vaze||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Tuesday — comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress —distanced itself from controversial police officer Sachin Vaze who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the recovery of explosives from an SUV parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said officers who misused their powers must face the music. In contrast to the stance taken by Sena earlier, the NCP wants the government to maintain its distance from the officer. Pawar as well as his nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar made it publicly clear on Tuesday. Vaze was also suspended by the Mumbai Police on Monday following the arrest.Senior Pawar also sought to justify the probe by the NIA into the case and said the state government should cooperate with the central agency. Ajit Pawar said that the state would not shield anyone and the guilty, whoever it is, would be punished. He made the government’s stand public after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and senior ministers of the ruling coalition.Senior Shiv Sena leader and urban development minister Eknath Shinde, too, said they have not shielded Vaze and do not intend to do it even in future. State Congress president Nana Patole said no one is shielding Vaze, but they are opposing the attempts made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “ to defame the Maharashtra and Mumbai police.”The day saw hectic activities and parleys over the controversy that has dented the image of the MVA government. “The MVA government handled the case very well. This is the reason all (culprits) were exposed. The one (Anil Deshmukh) having the responsibility of the home department has done a good job. Those involved in wrongdoing were located and exposed and proved that stern action can be taken,” Pawar told reporters in Delhi.“Action in the case was started by the Mumbai Police, then NIA requested for transfer of the case and it was done without any hesitation… I don’t believe there is any impact on the government because of a sub-inspector,” he added.Justifying the NIA probe, the veteran leader said, “There is no difference of opinion within the MVA government over action by NIA against those who have misused their position… It is the responsibility of all of us to cooperate with the national agency if it is investigating a case.”Here again Pawar took a different stand from Sena as the party has been opposing NIA’s taking over the Antilia bomb scare case.Thackeray held a meeting of senior ministers from all the three ruling parties on Tuesday morning at ‘Varsha’, the official residence of the chief minister in south Mumbai. Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh, water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, transport minister Anil Parab and Shinde were present.Deshmukh briefed the issue in the meeting and it was decided that the government’s stand should be made clear that they have never defended Vaze and whoever is guilty will be punished, said an MVA insider.The change in the MVA stand is being seen as an attempt to control the damage done over the past week in the case that has dented the government’s image.State Congress chief Nana Patole and Thorat also met the chief minister to discuss the matter. Later, in the evening, senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut met Pawar and his Delhi residence. The meeting took place for more than half an hour. Raut later clarified that Pawar is not upset over the handling of the case.“I didn’t find him (Sharad Pawar) upset. He only takes information, brainstorm and makes decisions. Everything is alright. Why do you think there is any trouble in the Maharashtra government?, Raut said.The statement assumed significance as the NCP supremo was believably not happy with the way the Vaze case was handled by the MVA government and lack of efforts put in to control the damage. He had expressed his displeasure over an attempt made by the chief minister and home department to shield a controversial police officer even though there were indications that he could be involved in some way. He had met the chief minister on Monday.“Since the beginning the government took a stand that the investigation should be completed and the guilty will have to face the consequences. No one is going to be shielded and there is no reason to take any such step. I want to make it clear as the deputy chief minister,”Ajit Pawar told reporters.“The law and order of Maharashtra has to be the best. Whoever is found guilty will have to face action, irrespective of the party he belongs to. If there is a mistake then action will be initiated… The chief minister and we all are of the same opinion… No interference was made in the ongoing investigation,” he added.“The MVA government took action in the case without any delay and Vaze was removed as soon as his name appeared in the case. The case was also transferred to the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) immediately. NIA came in picture because of explosives found in the car… Now both the investigation agencies — NIA and ATS — are probing the case at their own level,” the deputy chief minister clarified further.“MVA’s stand is clear, no one tried to shield Vaze and the truth will come out by the end of the probe,” Shinde told reporters in Delhi. He also stated the central agencies will start losing credibility if they continue to take over different cases in non-BJP ruled states. “NIA should investigate matters that come under their jurisdiction, but if Central agencies such as NIA, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) will continue taking over all the cases in the states then definitely they will lose their credibility,” he said.Patole said they have not taken a stand to shield Vaze. “But the way BJP is portraying Mumbai and Maharashtra police as villains, we are against that. We are not concerned about Vaze, whoever is guilty should face action. The Congress will not tolerate targeting the police,” he said after meeting the chief minister.There is a buzz that the home minister may be shunted out in due process of reshuffle of the cabinet in the near future. The MVA may also transfer Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh, holding him responsible for the controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-distances-itself-from-controversial-police-officer-sachin-vaze-101615921924784.html
17-03-2021||Other||Pak intruder shot dead in Samba’s Ramgarh||The BSF shot dead a Pakistani intruder in Ramgarh along the Indo-Pak IB in Samba on Tuesday evening. “After the intruder repeatedly ignored warnings by BSF men, he was shot dead near Malluchak post of the BSF in Ramgarh subsector,” said officials. Meanwhile, an aeroplane shaped balloon with ‘PIA’ written on it was recovered by J&K Police in Bhalwal area. An investigation has been initiated, said the officials. On March 10, a similar balloon was recovered from Sotra Chak village of Hiranagar sector in Kathua. 4 youths prevented from joining militancy: J&K PoliceJ&K Police on Tuesday claimed to have saved four youths of central Kashmir’s Ganderbal and Budgam areas from joining militancy. Ganderbal SSP Khaleel Poswal said they succeeded in bringing back two youths from Batwina and Kurhama in Ganderbal who had left home to join militancy. Their parents were unaware about their clandestine activities.”He said they are around 18 years of age.A police spokesperson said they left their houses to join terrorist ranks and had initially gone to Shopian. “Further, when they reached to Karannagar-Batamaloo axis, they were apprehended by police. Facts have been revealed by the duo that they were motivated by Pakistan-based terror handlers to join terrorism and asked to establish contact with their ground cadre in Shopian. After proper counselling, custody of both the youths will be handed over to their parents. In another incident at Budgam, the police said that they received information that two teenagers had gone missing on March 13.“Police teams were constituted and they were subsequently tracked and rescued in Tral area of Awantipora. Both the youths are in their teenage and had got influenced on social media to join terrorist ranks. They were instigated by Pakistan-based recruiters through social media handles. Both the boys were properly counselled in presence of their family members.”Police said the families of youth have hailed the efforts of police and appreciated their timely action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-intruder-shot-dead-in-samba-s-ramgarh-101615921923521.html
17-03-2021||Other||Railways connects bottom ends of main arch of world’s tallest bridge over Chenab||Moving towards an unparalleled engineering feat, the Northern Railways on Sunday connected bottom ends of the main arch of what’s going to be the world’s highest railway bridge over Chenab in Reasi district. “It is a team work but indeed, it is a big accomplishment for us. We are hopeful to connect the top ends by the end of this month or in the first week of April,” said officials. The arch bridge will provide direct connectivity to Kashmir. The Railways was also planning to organise a ceremony on the accomplishment in the first week of April where media will be briefed about the feat, they added. The world’s tallest railway bridge over Chenab is coming up in Kouri area. This bridge is being constructed on challenging 111km long stretch called Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) by the Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL). The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line project is being built at a cost of ₹27,949 crore. It is being constructed at 359 metres above river bed of Chenab having 467 metres of single arch span across the river and will be the highest railway bridge in the world. It will be 35 metres higher than the Eiffel Tower (324 metres). The overall length of Chenab bridge is 1,315 metres having 17 spans, in which a span of main arch portion across the river is of 467m in length. The viaduct portion comprises straight and curved portion. The curvilinear portion of viaduct is located on the sharp curve of 2.74 degrees. The quantity of structural steel used for Chenab bridge is 27,051 metric tonnes. The launching of the main arch is noteworthy endeavour as it entails carrying heavy segments (up to 32 metric tonnes) from Srinagar end of workshop with the help of the world longest cable crane arrangement and executing erection works from both ends (Bakkal and Kouri ).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railways-connects-bottom-ends-of-main-arch-of-world-s-tallest-bridge-over-chenab-101615921804613.html
17-03-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid wave in Maharashtra, admits govt||Days after the Central team’s visit to six Maharashtra districts and municipal corporations, the state government admitted that it is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections and has begun taking measures to contain the spread of the virus. After witnessing the peak of the first wave on September 17 with 24,619 cases, the daily caseload in Maharashtra had dropped to as low as fewer than 2,000 cases in the first week of February. After reporting 1,927 infections on February 2, cases started rising to 17,864, the highest single-day spike after 167 days (18,317 cases were clocked on September 30), on Tuesday.As of March 15, 65.72% of the daily caseload (85,696 out of 130,547) and 65.64% of the active cases (9,893 of the 15,051) were from eight districts — Pune (14.5% of total and 20.27% of active); Nagpur (16.26% of total and 13.88% of active); Thane (3.41% of total and 9.71% of active); Mumbai (11.38% of total and 10.19% of active); Nashik (6.66% of total and 6.15% of active); Jalgaon (4.65% of total and 3.80% of active); Ahmednagar(3.64% of total and 1.74% of active) and Aurangabad (5.22% of total and 6.05% of active) — which are being closely monitored by state authorities.On Tuesday, the state also reported 87 deaths, taking the tally to 2,347,328 and toll to 52,996, while its active case count surged to 1,38,812. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 2.49% and the recovery rate at 95.66%..A team of three senior officers attached to central institutions from the public health sector visited Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Aurangabad districts/cities between March 7 and 12. The Central team has observed it to be the beginning of the second wave in Maharashtra and has also expressed displeasure over the handling of the spike in the state. In a letter sent by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the Centre has pointed at limited contact tracing, poor rate of institutional isolation, fewer tests. The Centre has also asked the state to ramp up its health infrastructure, earmark the most infected areas as containment zones and chalk out a strategy for the better clinical management of patients.“Any suggestions for the betterment of the system are welcome and should be taken positively. It is true that cases are on the rise in a second surge in Maharashtra and the infectivity rate has increased, which is a cause of worry. But at the same time, our CFR is around 0.5%, which used to be 2.5% last month. We have enough number of beds, ICU beds available in the hospitals. 90% of the patients are asymptomatic, leading to a speedy recovery,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.Tope said that according to the recommendations by the Centre, the state has increased number of tests to around 125,000 per day and Maharashtra’s per million tests rate is one of the highest in country.“As suggested by the Centre, we have been earmarking containment zones with perimeter control. At the same time we have been taking efforts to reduce the crowding at public places by banning social, religious and political programmes. Establishments have been told to operate their offices at half their capacity and encourage work from home. On the other hand, I am meeting Union health minister Harsh Vardhan with the request of releasing 20 lakh (2 miilion) doses per week as we want to speed up inoculation,” Tope said in Delhi on Tuesday.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that the state has been witnessing the second wave and the cases are likely to cross the peak witnessed during the first wave. “There are no two opinions that we have been witnessing the spike in the cases. But we have started ramping up our health infrastructure and are taking to the level of capacity we had in September. We have also been facing the paucity of the manpower in the urban areas for the tracking, tracing of the contacts. We had pulled on manpower engaged in various government departments and included teachers, home guards to drivers-conductors in public transport as they were free owing to the lockdown then,” he said.Dr Awate said that the district and city administrations have been told to ramp up their health infrastructure. “Nagpur has been reporting more cases than Pune and Mumbai, which have comparatively better infrastructure. The tracing, testing has been increased in the areas with high number of cases. They have also been told to better the monitoring of the people in home isolation. We have only 30% patients in home isolation, and have enough beds and isolation wards to take up more number of people, if need be,” he said.Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patulkar, from Nagpur, said that several factors have contributed to the rise in cases. “Most importantly, after December 2020, the public had put their guard off. They didn’t follow precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Soon, the chain of infection started, which is now spreading across the district,” he said. “However, so far, we haven’t received any case of virus mutation in the district,” he added.Dr Sundar Kulkarni, civil surgeon from Aurangabad, also blamed the public for the rise in cases in the district. “The public would go to roadside crowded eateries and remove their masks. Also, we have observed large gatherings of people in marriages and family functions. With the relaxation of the lockdown, hundreds of marriages took place,” he said. “We are also conducting tests in large numbers, which is also contributing to the overall numbers,” he added.Meanwhile, Tope met the Union health minister and requested to release 2 million doses of vaccine per week, enabling Maharashtra to inoculated 1.77 crore people from the priority groups that are being vaccinated. “We will need 2.20 crore doses to inoculate health care, frontline workers, senior citizens above 60 years of age and comorbid people above 45 years. We have planned to complete their inoculation by June-end. In the backdrop of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, we have decided to ramp up the vaccination programme,” he said. Tope said that the union health minister has said more doses will be released for Maharashtra.Tope also has requested the Central government to allow 158 more private and public hospitals to set up vaccination centres. Of the 367 hospitals for which the demand was raised, 209 have been given permission, while the remaining are still awaiting the centre’s approval. He also has requested to relax the norms of compulsion of the 100-bed capacity at the vaccination centre by bringing it down to 50 beds to facilitate opening of more such centres.Interestingly, the daily caseload in Amravati, where a sharp spurt was witnessed at initial stage after cases started rising last month, has reported fewer cases in the past few days. Amravati clocked 351 cases on Tuesday, a sharp fall from 773 two weeks ago on March 2. Amravati was the first district to impose complete lockdown last month amid the spike.(with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-wave-in-maharashtra-admits-govt-101615921803264.html
17-03-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh okays 2015 as base year for reservation of all posts||Now, 2015 will be the base year for reservation of all posts in the forthcoming panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, including that of zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons and members. The state cabinet, at a meeting presided over by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, approved amendments to the old reservation policy, as proposed by the panchayati raj department in this regard, after the High Court on Monday struck down the old policy. The HC, while quashing the old reservation policy, had said, “1995 cannot be the base year since the government had not deleted the old reservation policy.”The state government is likely to issue the revised reservation policy on Wednesday, after which reservation for all posts of zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons and members, and village pradhans and members, will be done afresh. “The cabinet has cleared the amendments, we proposed, to take 2015 as the base year to reserve posts for various castes for the three-tier elections,” panchayati raj minister Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary said.“We expect to issue the GO (government order) on the revised policy by Wednesday evening or Thursday morning,” the minister said. The government’s move comes in the wake of the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court directing it to take 2015 as the base year for the panchayat elections. The court on Monday quashed the UP government’s February 11 order that took 1995 as the base year to reserve posts for panchayat elections. The government had already reserved posts under all the categories taking 1995 as the base year and taking categorization done in all the previous polls since 1995 (1995, 2000, 2005, 2010 and 1015) into consideration. “Now, we will have to carry a fresh reservation exercise, taking 2015 as the base year as directed by the court,” the minister said. The exercise is bound to change the reservation category of a majority of the posts that were reserved earlier, he said. He said the government would complete the reservation exercise and submit the lists of all the posts to the state election commission by March 27, after which the commission could announce the election schedule. “The fresh reservation exercise will not impact elections that will be held as planned earlier by the commission,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-okays-2015-as-base-year-for-reservation-of-all-posts-101615921203384.html
17-03-2021||Other||Teen takes money from friend for online gaming, gets killed on failing to repay||A 17-year-old Chattisgarh boy, who was reportedly addicted to mobile gaming, was killed by his friend when he was unable to repay the money which he took for purchasing ‘in-game’ items, the police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in Raigarh district. The boy was missing for the last five days and his body was recovered on Monday.As per the Superintendent of Police (SP), Raigarh, Santosh Kumar Singh, the body of the minor was recovered from Bharrikhar jungles in Sarangarh block of the district.“The deceased, Laxendra Khunte (17), was in the habit of playing online games and for that, he had taken ₹70,000 from one Chaman Dubey (25) who was his close friend. Five days ago, he and his friend had an altercation when both were consuming liquor. Suddenly, Dubey hit him due to which the victim sustained serious injuries on his head. Dubey thought that if Khunte regained consciousness he will be exposed hence he killed him with a razor and buried him,” said the SP.Khunte had gone missing from his home on February 10, 2021.“When we started investigating the case, Dubey started helping the police to mislead us. He also sent messages of ransom to the victim’s father who works as a labourer. On suspicion, we detained him and then the messages stopped. When grilled, he confessed the crime,” said the SP.Dubey told us that Khunte was addicted to online mobile gaming and had taken money from him and refused to pay it back.“The victim had also taken money from others because of his addiction to the game and was in huge debt,” said the SP.Meanwhile, the police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and have arrested the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teen-takes-money-from-friend-for-online-gaming-gets-killed-on-failing-to-repay-101615920963026.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||96 test +ve for Covid in Panchkula, highest since November surge||Amid a surge, with is being called the second Covid-19 wave by the local health authorities, Panchkula district on Tuesday recorded 96 fresh cases, highest since November 28, when an equal number had surfaced. Just within 16 days in March, the district has reported 624 cases, nearly double the cases in February (313), which has taken the total to 11,468.The number of active cases has gone up from 124 at the beginning of the month to 439 while recovery rate has dropped from 97.4% to 94.8% in the same period.Among the fresh cases, 73 surfaced in urban pockets of Panchkula city, while the remaining were scattered throughout the district. While 10,880 patients have been cured, 149 have died to date.As many as 1,759 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, including 1,034 senior citizens, 369 frontline workers, 263 in the comorbid group and 93 healthcare workers. The total has reached 36,668, which includes 16,883 senior citizens.100+ cases for 6 days, Chandigarh admn issues instructions to hotelsChandigarh on Tuesday recorded 100+ cases for sixth consecutive day, as 147 people tested positive for Covid-19, which took the total to 23,391. A 34-year-old woman from Sector 38 succumbed, taking the death toll to 359.The number of active cases has reached 1,199, which is 5% of the total. The recovery rate has declined to 93%. In the wake of the surge, the administration has issued fresh directions to the hospitality industry, asking them to avoid calling singers without permission.In a meeting chaired by Ruchi Singh Bedi, SDM (east), representatives of restaurants, bars, clubs and hotels in Sectors 7 and 26 besides the Industrial Area were told to ensure compliance of Covid norms, including social distancing, wearing of masks, and only 50% occupancy. The ban on serving of hookas was also reiterated.Meanwhile, as many as 56,095 people have been vaccinated in Chandigarh, including 20,413 senior citizens, 2,264 in the comorbid group, 13,455 healthcare workers and 13,171 frontline workers. The second dose has been administered to 6,792 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/96-test-ve-for-covid-in-panchkula-highest-since-november-surge-101615920424399.html
17-03-2021||Other||Karnataka records jump in Covid cases||Bengaluru Karnataka recorded 1,135 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday, going past the four-digit figure for the first time since Christmas last year and threatening a relapse into the health crisis. Bengaluru recorded 710 new Covid-19 on Monday, registering almost a 30% increase from the day before. Six more people succumbed to the infection in the state on Monday, taking the toll to 12,403. K Sudhakar, state’s health & family welfare minister on Tuesday said that strict measures will be implemented if government-mandated guidelines on safety are not followed by the public. “The chief minister has given a clear message regarding this. Covid-19 cases are increasing in the state. There is (a) spike in the cases in the neighbouring states as well. The CM has issued strict instructions to follow guidelines, otherwise (the) government has no option but to take tougher steps,” Sudhakar said.He added that the government was printing advertisements to create awareness.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a meeting with chief ministers on the escalating Covid-19 situation in the country on Wednesday.While the technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in Karnataka told the government that the spike was an indication of a possible second wave of infection, the administration is yet to acknowledge this as official.According to the daily bulletin of the state health department, Bengaluru accounted for 6,832 out of the total 9,428 active cases across Karnataka.Experts and medical practitioners, however, believe that a high number of asymptomatic cases was likely to result in lower than actual positives in the state.“There is definitely an element of underestimation because many are asymptomatic,” said Dr C.N Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru, and a member of the state’s technical advisory committee on Covid-19.The rise in Covid-19 cases has also been attributed to the large public gatherings like marriages, political rallies and protests with no safety precautions like wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing, experts and lawmakers said.A total of 33,251 persons have been fined for not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing across Karnataka, including 11,624 in Bengaluru alone.Dr Manjunath said that contact tracing efforts have taken a backseat in the last few months.The health minister said that at least 20 primary and secondary contacts have to be traced for every infected person. However, according to a performance review by the state Covid-19 war room, till Monday evening, Karnataka has recorded an average of 4.5 contacts per patient in the last seven days with just 0.1 contacts per patient in Bengaluru.Several other districts like Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru and Bidar have also registered a spike in cases.Karnataka has made it mandatory for those coming from Maharashtra and Kerala to produce Covid-19 negative certificates as a measure to contain the migration of new cases. “Spike in the cases is due to (an) increase in the number of cases at bordering districts,” Sudhakar said.The government has also emphasised on the need to accelerate the vaccination drive.The health minister said that primary hospitals were instructed to conduct at least 100 tests per day and 500 tests per day was the target for general hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-records-jump-in-covid-cases-101615919882989.html
17-03-2021||Other||CID serves notice to Naidu in Amaravati land scam||Hyderabad The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of Andhra Pradesh police on Tuesday issued a notice to former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu for questioning on March 23 in Vijayawada in connection with an alleged land scam in Amaravati, officials familiar with the matter said. This comes 4 days after the CID registered an FIR against him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He has also been booked under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act.A team of CID officials went to the residence of Naidu at Jubilee Hills in Hyderabad in the morning and handed a notice to him, under Section 41 (C) of the Criminal Procedure Code. “Failure to attend comply with the terms of this notice, you are liable for arrest under section 41 A (3) and (4) of Cr PC,” the notice said. The CID also issued a notice to another senior TDP leader P Narayana, who was municipal administration minister in Naidu’s cabinet. In the notice, CID deputy superintendent of police A Lakshminarayana Rao has asked Naidu to appear in person before him at 11 am on March 23 at the CID office in Vijayawada. He said it was necessary to examine Naidu to ascertain facts which are within his exclusive knowledge. The CID official asked the former chief minister not to interfere with the process of investigation either directly or indirectly and not to contact or influence or intimidate or induce or threat the witness or any other persons acquainted with the facts of the case. “You should also not tamper with the evidences in any manner whatsoever and appear before the court whenever your presence is required,” the DSP said in the notice. The CID registered the FIR following a complaint lodged by YSR Congress party MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, who represents Mangalagiri assembly constituency which is part of Amaravati, on February 24. According to the FIR, a copy of which was seen by HT, farmers of Reddy’s Mangalagiri constituency in Amaravati told him that influential people in the previous Naidu-led Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government cheated them by taking away their lands illegally. The farmers have alleged that some middlemen created insecurity stating the government might take away their assigned lands without giving any compensation, it added. The FIR said Reddy verified the orders issued by the then government and found several irregularities in acquiring assigned lands, thereby “causing irreparable loss” to the people belonging to Scheduled Castes (ST) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). The CID authorities led by deputy superintendent of police S Surya Bhaskar Rao conducted a preliminary inquiry before registering the FIR on March 12. TDP leader K Atchannaidu dismissed the allegations as a political witch-hunt. He wondered how the CID could register the case against Naidu on the basis of a complaint by a ruling party lawmaker. “Ramakrishna Reddy is not an SC or ST. How can the CID file a case against Naidu under the SC/ST law?”Atchannaidu said the lands were acquired for the capital under a pooling scheme after taking the farmers’ consent. He added there have been instances in the past when the government has acquired land for public purposes. “The [YS] Jagan [Mohan Reddy] government, too, acquired assigned lands for the house sites distribution scheme and also for solar power companies. Even during the [chief minister] Y S Rajasekhar Reddy regime, the [Andhra Pradesh] Assigned Lands ((Prohibition of Transfers) Act was amended for acquiring lands for public purposes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cid-serves-notice-to-naidu-in-amaravati-land-scam-101615919882265.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||No violation of statutory provisions in Kishor appointment by Punjab: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that there is no violation of constitutional and statutory provisions in the appointment of political strategist Prashant Kishor as principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “The chief minister, being an elected representative, has manifold constitutional duties to discharge, including good governance towards the residents of the state. In fulfilment of the said obligation, the chief minister has complete authority to choose his advisers. Since an adviser to chief minister is not a post but an office which is not regulated by any statutory rules, the argument that an advertisement should be issued is completely misplaced,” said the division bench of justices Jaswant Singh and Sant Parkash. The high court was dealing with a plea from one Labh Singh and Satinder Singh who had demanded that the appointment be quashed. Labh Singh is a boxing coach based at Khanna and Satinder Singh, a lawyer and former councillor of the Chandigarh civic body. They had argued that without issuing any advertisement or conducting any interview after framing criteria, the post was filled up. In the matters of appointment to any office under state, no post can be filled without following Article 16(1) of the Constitution that provides for equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office. He has been appointed with a status of a cabinet minister and will be provided for all pay, perks and facilities from the state exchequer, therefore it was imperative for the state to issue an advertisement, they had argued. State’s advocate general Atul Nanda had argued that the petition suffered from lack of locus and maintainability as in service matters, no PIL is maintainable. The bench, while dismissing the plea, said that it was of the firm opinion that the petitioners had no locus to challenge the appointment. The appointment in question is not a civil appointment but for the purposes of perks and rank only, and thus, Article 16(1) of Constitution is not attracted, it said, adding that in case the appointment, as argued by petitioners, is only to accommodate some person which will put burden on ex-chequer, then it is for the public to take its call during the next elections. The court further said that the petitioners have not been able to point out violation of any constitutional or statutory provision. They have filed a writ of certiorari (judicial review of a decision of a lower court or government agency) while seeking to espouse public interest. In a number of judgments, the courts have held that in service matters no Public Interest Litigation is maintainable. Even if a challenge can be laid to any appointment, then only a writ of Quo Warranto (by what authority) can be maintained and that also if it is against statutory rules, the bench said, referring to various judgments in which it was held that a writ of Quo Warranto would be maintainable if challenge is laid to any appointment which is contrary to statutory rules. It is an admitted fact that no violation of any statutory provision has been pointed out in the appointment of Prashant Kishor, the bench stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-violation-of-statutory-provisions-in-kishor-appointment-by-punjab-hc-101615919703037.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||PWD told to stop revamp on Ring Road stretch||The Delhi forest department has asked the agency to stop work on redesigning a portion of Ring Road between Moti Bagh and Mayapuri, a project that is part of an ambitious state government plan to convert over 500km of the city’s roads on the lines of those in European countries.“...It was found that violations under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994, has been done by executive engineer (north/west), PWD, at Road-I, Brar Square, Ring Road and Moti Bagh...it is hereby directed to stop all work till proceedings under DPTA is completed by south forest division,” read a notice issued to PWD on March 12 by deputy conservator forests (south division) Amit Anand.Senior forest department officials said the notice was issued after a complaint regarding digging and trenching on the stretch was forwarded to the south division from the west division, saying that work around the trees was damaging their roots.Ring Road also features in the original list of areas identified as deemed forest land in an affidavit submitted by the Delhi forest department in 1997 before the Supreme Court in the TN Godavarman Thirumulpad vs Union of India case.In Delhi’s context, “an area above 2.5 acres having a density of 100 trees per acre as well as stretches along roads and drains having a length of one kilometre,” are considered ‘deemed forests’, according to the affidavit.For any “non-forest related activity” to take place in such an area, permissions have to be sought from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change under the Forest Conservation Act (1980).A senior PWD official said the work for which the notice was served by the forest department is part of Delhi government’s ‘redesigning and street-scaping of roads’ project. The official said objections have been raised for work taking place between the Moti Bagh and Mayapuri stretch of the revamp.“There is no violation on our part, and we were executing our work following all the guidelines. Forest department officials did not visit the spot to check if there were any violations. They directly served a work stop notice. Following the directions, work on the project at the stretch has been stopped,” the PWD official said, requesting anonymity.He added that the stretch is one of nine that are to be redesigned on a pilot basis. In January this year, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal conducted a review meeting and directed officials to finish the project by 2023.The official said under the project, road geometry is to be improved along with enhancing its aesthetics and introducing user facilities like kiosks, benches, decorative lights and water ATMs on the roadside.The PWD official said the project aims not only at making streets look more appealing, but also envisions to make them more pedestrian and cyclist-friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-tells-pwd-to-stop-revamp-work-on-ring-road-section-between-moti-bagh-and-mayapuri-101615919342282.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||MCDs are failing to hit waste treatment targets at Delhi landfills: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi of failing to achieved its targets in reducing the scale of waste in any of the three landfills in the city.The BJP, however, refuted this claims, and called the allegations “misleading”.“The amount of garbage hasn’t reduced in either of the three landfill sites. BJP leaders’ false claims stand exposed. Of 2,800 metric tonnes of garbage generated every day in east Delhi, 1,300 metric tonnes are treated (processed with trommel machines to break down solid waste components). In south Delhi, of the daily 3,600 metric tonne garbage, a mere 1,600 metric tonnes are treated. Of the 4,000 metric tonne garbage from North Delhi, just 2,000 metric tonne is treated. The remaining untreated garbage is left behind at the landfill sites — the sizes of which are expanding every day,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s municipal affairs in-charge.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations in the city, which are due to go to polls next year.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, hit back at the AAP’s allegations.“Leaders of the AAP including Durgesh Pathak are misleading people with such allegations. All three MCDs use trommel machines to reduce the heights of garbage dumps at landfill sites quite effectively. Simultaneously, the MCDs are working on bigger scheme for faster disposal of garbage by setting up new treatment plants which should be ready by next year. In public interest, the AAP should quit engaging in petty politics and help MCDs financially set up the new waste treatment plants,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-says-mcds-failing-to-hit-waste-treatment-targets-at-delhi-landfills-101615919284358.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Why no women SHOs in Delhi: DCW to cops||Taking suo motu cognizance of media reports that there are currently no women station house officers (SHOs) in any of the 178 police stations in the national capital, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Friday issued a notice to Delhi Police seeking to know whether any police station had a woman SHO.DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal also sought details of women officers who were posted as SHOs in the past one year and said the Delhi Police has been told to furnish the information by March 19.“We have been informed that there are no women SHOs in any of the 178 police stations in Delhi. This is very shocking and disappointing at the same time. It is very important to ensure gender parity in the force,” Maliwal said on Tuesday.“We have issued a notice to the police in the matter and sought answers. We are taking this issue very seriously and will try to bring about a change.”In a statement released on Tuesday, the commission said, “Reports also state that while there are already rules in place guaranteeing 33% reservation for women in the force, women participation in the force remains particularly low.”Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “We are examining the letter and necessary information will be shared in due course.”A senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said that postings are done by the establishment board after following all the procedures and on the basis of eligibility and merits.“There is no criteria of being male and female officer in matters of posting. Presently, two women IPS officers are heading two separate police districts, besides two women DCPs in crime and PCR. There have been many women inspectors who served as SHOs in Delhi’s police stations,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dcw-issues-notice-to-police-seeking-to-know-number-of-women-shos-in-city-101615919222312.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||HC notice to JNU on plea by riot accused||The Delhi high court on Tuesday issued notice to Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and other authorities on a plea by Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal seeking to be enrolled in her third year of PhD studies at JNU. Narwal was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the north-east Delhi riots and is currently in judicial custody at Tihar Jail.Justice Prateek Jalan sought the response of the varsity on the plea, which has stated that the entire process of enrolment is online and as she cannot access the internet or the portal through which she has to confirm her enrolment.The plea also sought access to her thesis supervisors so that she can complete thesis from Tihar jail where she is currently lodged for allegedly conspiring with others to orchestrate riots in the city in February 2020.Her regular bail is being heard by a division bench of the Delhi high court and the next date of hearing is in May.Meanwhile, the Delhi high court on Tuesday granted bail to four accused, including a close aide of suspended AAP MLA Tahir Hussain, who were booked in connection with the riots in Khajuri Khas area.Justice Suresh Kait granted bail to Liyakat Ali, Gulfam, Hussain’s aide Irshad Ahmad and Mohammad Arshad Qayyum stating that they cannot be made to languish in jail for a longer time.The judge said there is no evidence against the accused such as CCTV footage, video clips or photos to connect them with the incident in question and nothing incriminating has been recovered from their possession. He also said the call detail records of prime accused Tahir Hussain does not match with those of the four accused.Kait said he failed to understand why, despite having a good understanding of the law, the head constable present at the scene did not make a DD entry or call the police control room. He also said the alleged incident took place on February 24, 2020, but the FIR was registered only on February 27, 2020.The statement of eyewitnesses was recorded only on March 14 and none of them had made any calls to the police till that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/notice-to-jnu-over-narwal-s-plea-seeking-enrolment-in-third-year-of-phd-101615918987798.html
17-03-2021||Other||Women social media influencers fined for performing bike stunts in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad traffic police, after taking cognisance of social media posts, sent challans of ₹11,000 and ₹17,000 against two people after their vehicles were used by several young women for allegedly performing stunts on a road near Govindpuram. The cops said that the challans were sent for different traffic violations.The police said that in the first video, two women were allegedly seen performing stunts. While one was driving a Royal Enfield bike, another was seated on her shoulders. A challan was sent to the vehicle owner for ₹11,000 for riding without a helmet, without a driving license and also for performing stunts in a public place.“The other challan was also issued against the owner of another Royal Enfield bike. The bike was used by three women where the rider was driving dangerously without holding the steering. This bike had a Delhi registration number while the previous bike had a Ghaziabad registration number. The woman riding the bike having Ghaziabad registration number was also seen in the second video among the three women,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).Also read: Sahibabad factory fire - Three workers succumb, toll rises to fourThe cops said that the owner of the second bike was sent a challan for different violations, including triple riding and performing stunts.The two women who featured in the first video were identified as Sneha Rajvanshi and Shivangi Dabas who became friends after connecting through their social media accounts and enjoy a large base of followers online.“We want more girls to do something unique, and others should get inspiration from us. I am tall enough to control a bike easily. So, we tried with Shivangi (her friend) on my shoulders, and it became possible. Policemen came to my house and asked about the owner of the bike and I said that it was registered in name of my mother. We are not trying to wrongly influence others,” said Rajvanshi, the rider of the bike having Ghaziabad registration number. She is a resident of Shalimar Garden.Her friend Shivangi Dabas, a resident of Shatabdi Puram, said that they upload different videos on social media as it leads to an increase in their online followers and has also opened up monetisation opportunities.“We did not perform stunts on the highway as portrayed and I was sitting on Sneha’s shoulders as she has a long height. In our videos, we have also issued a disclaimer, cautioning people not to perform such acts. We are not trying to influence people to do such acts,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-social-media-influencers-fined-for-performing-bike-stunts-in-ghaziabad-101615918987053.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Metro to monitor vibration levels at 80 spots on Yellow, Violet lines||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will soon start monitoring the vibration levels at 80 locations in the Capital to ensure that they stay within permissible limits in the underground sections of the network, said DMRC officials.The monitoring of vibration levels will be done on two corridors: Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli) and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate –Raja Nahar Singh).“This type of vibration monitoring helps in ensuring that track and rolling stock systems are performing within the defined parameters. The samples will be randomly collected from different locations to assess whether the vibration levels are within acceptable limits. If any variation is reported, then accordingly necessary steps are taken to mitigate the same,” said a DMRC official.With the expansion of its network in the Capital, the agency has in the past received complaints from residents that they feel the vibration every time a train passes in the tunnel. In the past, residents of Saket, Hauz Khas, Begumpur, Shahbad Mohammadpur, Sarvpriya Vihar have raised the issue. Vibration is caused due to the interaction between the wheel and the rail track in underground stations.According to Dr Nasim Akhtar, principal scientist at transportation planning and environment division, CSIR-Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) vibration above 72VdB (vibration decibel) can cause some discomfort to people. Akhtar said vibration on underground tracks is usually between 70-80 VdB, but on a soil base it gets killed. The vibration is amplified where the track has been laid on a rocky surface.Akhtar said, “It is good that they are checking the vibrations at different locations. It is needed, especially in old systems, to identify areas on tracks or wheels, which require repair. The vibration levels are high in underground tracks near the curves. If the tracks are on rocky surface, then it will amplify the vibration level.”DMRC officials said that the Metro has been regularly monitoring vibration levels.“In the past, such monitoring has been carried out at locations such as Saket, Malaviya Nagar, Begumpur, Hauz Khas, Khan Market, Golf Links, Azadpur, Palam, Dashrathpuri, etc. DMRC since its beginning has taken adequate care to ensure that vibration levels in its underground section remain within permissible limits.”DMRC officials said efforts have been taken to reduce vibration in the underground network constructed in Phase-I and II.Anuj Udhrain, secretary of Hauz Khas Central RWA, said, “There are around 60 houses in the area which are affected by the vibration caused due to trains passing underground. The problem has aggravated over the past two years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrc-to-monitor-vibrations-at-80-locations-101615918983083.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||Kasturba Hospital docs call off stir after meeting mayor||Resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital, who were on an indefinite strike since Saturday over pending salaries, on Tuesday called off their stir after the North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor assured them that their salaries dues will be cleared by the end of the month.However, permanent doctors of north corporation hospitals and other peripheral centres said they will go on an indefinite strike from March 22 if their salaries, pending for the past four months, are not paid by Sunday.Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the Resident Doctors Association of Kasturba Hospital, said the decision to call off the strike was taken after a meeting with mayor Jai Prakash who assured the association members that salaries of doctors will be released soon.“Our three months’ salary is pending. The mayor assured us that a month’s salary will be released within two days and the rest will come in a week’s time. He assured us that all our pending salaries will be cleared by the end of the month. After these assurances, we decided to call off our strike,” Kumar said.Mayor Prakash said, “Participation of doctors is vital in the Covid-19 vaccination process. So, I have assured them that all their demands related to payment of pending salaries will be met and appealed to them to end the strike. We are arranging funds and their pending salaries will be cleared soon.”Meanwhile, permanent doctors deployed at north corporation hospitals and at peripheral centres such as dispensaries, maternity and child welfare centres, chest clinics (TB centres) clarified that they will continue with their announced schedule of striking work from March 22 and also going on mass casual leave on Friday. The decision in this regard was taken in a general body meeting of the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association on Monday night.In a letter to the North Corporation commissioner, permanent doctors have also demanded an interest of 18% for the period for which their salaries were delayed. “It was unanimously resolved in the GBM (general body meeting) to protest against non-payment of salaries and arrears by resorting to mass casual leave on Friday . If our four months’ pay is not released by March 20 (Saturday), then doctors will go on an indefinite strike from March 22 (Monday),” said the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kasturba-medicos-call-off-stir-over-salary-dues-permanent-docs-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-march-22-101615918982144.html
17-03-2021||Pune||From life of social work, and dreams of civil service... Dhanashri fights for her life||Dhanashri Kumbhar, a 27-year-old civil service aspirant, was hit by a speeding auto-rickshaw on March 2 in Shivane when she was crossing the road on her way to library as part of preparations for competitive exam next week. During the mishap, Dhanashri sustained serious head injuries, leading her to slip into coma. After 14 days, journalism graduate and a social worker is battling for life at Navale hospital with her family struggling to collect the funds for her treatment. Dhanashri who had started to prepare for competitive exams after completing a master’s in journalism and mass communication from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU)’s department of journalism (Ranade Institute) also used to teach poor students without charging any fees. Neurosurgeon Dr Nikhil Talathi’s team at Navale hospital is conducting the treatment of Dhanashri. “She has Diffuse Axonal Injury (DAI). She has suffered a severe head injury. She has been in a coma stage. After 14 days, her condition has not deteriorated which is a good sign according to me. She has shown slow improvement in these 14 days. It is difficult for me to say when she will she recover completely,” said Dr Nikhil Talathi. The doctors have now pegged expenditure for her treatment at around 15-20 lakh, something the family is not able to raise on their own. Dhanashri, an eldest among three siblings, is a daughter of cab driver. Owing to the family’s economic condition, her friends and classmates have started crowdfunding to raise the funds for her treatment. “It has been 14 days since she has been comatose. Doctors have told us that it is uncertain how much time will be required to recover. The minimum expenditure of 15-20 lakh is estimated for her treatment. We cannot afford this much expenditure. We have been trying to get financial help for her treatment,” said Omkar Kumbhar, Dhanashri’s younger brother. After completing her journalism course in 2016, Dhanashri used to teach in Aadishakti Career Guidance Centre in Pirangut. She was about to appear for the state civil service preliminary exam which was earlier scheduled on March 14 which was later deferred to March 21. However, her dream has hit a roadblock due to injuries, felt her friends. This was her second attempt at this exam. She was also an active in the student rights movement. “Dhanashri is a brave girl and a fighter. We are hopeful that she will fight with this situation as well. We have been trying to collect help for her,” said Sharad Bodage, Dhanashri’s classmate from Ranade Institute. Dhanashri’s family alleged that police have not taken the investigated case properly and even after 14 days have failed to nab the reckless autorickshaw driver. “I have personally tried to gather information about that autorickshaw, but police still haven’t arrested anyone,” Kumbhar said. Police officials however said that the investigation has been going on. “We are conducting the investigation. There were 10-12 auto-rickshaws on that road during the time of the accident. So now we are trying to investigate who has hit her,” said Shivdas Gaikwad police sub-inspector Ramnagar Police Chowki under Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-worker-civil-service-aspirant-dhanashri-now-fights-for-life-101615915922829.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||CAG findings: HSIIDC fails to provide encumbrance-free site to allottee in Gurugram||The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) failed to provide encumbrance-free site to an allottee in Gurugram within the prescribed time frame, resulting in deferment of payment schedule leading to loss of interest of ₹45.96 crore.The observations were made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its report on public sector undertakings (social, general and economic sectors) ending March 2019.The CAG observed that revision of the schedule of regular letter of allotment (RLA) resulted in deferment of payment schedule of allottee by 113 to 354 days.“Had the company received payments as per original RLA, it could have saved interest of ₹45.96 crore paid on its borrowings as HSIIDC has obtained various loans for its operations,” the audit said.The audit said that the corporation should have initiated the process for vacation of land well in advance so that clear and encumbrance-free site could have been provided to the allottee as per bid document to avoid any losses.The cash-strapped corporation had in February 2018 auctioned a 11.76-acre commercial site in phase 5 of Gurugram’s Udyog Vihar for ₹1,496 crore. The reserve price of the site was fixed at ₹686 crore.“Four parties participated in bidding for the site - Beech Projects Limited, Experion Developers, Parmida Constructions Ltd, and Aadarshini Real Estate Developers. All four were found technically qualified. Aadarshini Developers emerged as the highest bidder with a quote of ₹1,496 crore as compared to the bid of ₹1,446 crore made by Beech Projects,” a HSIIDC spokesperson had said.The CAG in its audit pointed out that as per clause 2.3 of bid documents, the site was clear and free from all encumbrances.“The HSIIDC offered the site as free from all encumbrances, but the building having two tenants and mobile tower on the land, were not vacant. Notices to vacate the premises were issued to the tenants in September 2017, though the corporation had decided to sell this land in November 2016 itself. Since the building on the land was not vacant, HSIIDC initially extended the due date for deposit of first instalment from April 8, 2018 to April 30, 2018.The allottee apprehending non-removal of encumbrances moved high court for extension in payment time and deposited ₹224.40 crore with the HC.The court, in May 2018, ordered the corporation to remove all encumbrances and issue the revised RLA. Accordingly, the corporation issued revised RLA on July 3, 2018 with revised payment schedule.The allottee again requested the corporation to provide encumbrance-free site as it was still not clear and there were still some issues relating to allotting of parking slot, underground water tank, sewerage lines, demarcation points which were not as per zoning plan.HSIIDC, however, in March 2019 served a notice to the allottee for balance payment upon which the allottee again moved the HC.The state government, in its reply, stated that the allottee had been raising different issues at different times and did not approach the corporation for taking possession of the land pre-supposing that the land was not free from encumbrances.The reply was not acceptable as the corporation could not provide the encumbrance-free land to the allottee till March 2019 upon which the HC directed it for revision of schedule of the RLA commencing from March 26, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cag-findings-hsiidc-fails-to-provide-encumbrance-free-site-to-allottee-in-gurugram-101615906981738.html
17-03-2021||Pune||Restoration of 135-year-old British-era iconic Shivaji Market building remained on paper||The Shivaji Market, a Grade I heritage structure, has been a bustling marketplace since its construction in 1885 by British army officer Lt Gen John Ross as per the design by Gen Cecil D’Urban La Touche and WM Ducat. According to historical records, the structure was one of the highlights of Pune city during the pre-Independence era and served as platform to feed servants and the quarters of the then “white population” in the Pune cantonment area. Conservationists and heritage lovers have written about its Victorian Gothic style with high ceilings. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) in 2014 had asked its engineers to conduct a detailed evaluation of the structure and suggest mandatory steps to fix damaged stones and roof replacements due to leakage during the monsoon season. It had recommended repair and re-plastering of walls. The revamp of Shivaji Market was discussed at length during the general body meeting under the title “Repairs and Renovation of Chhatrapati Shivaji Market” without disturbing the existing façade and roof structure in 2018. The PCB administration in its note on the agenda item stated that Chhatrapati Shivaji Market building has heritage value and its identity is acquired over the last 126 years as a prime market for Pune cantonment. The building needs repairs to be preserved. However, according to officials, only minor maintenance works have been carried out since the last four decades. In order to undertake a renovation project, it is necessary that the market may be closed to the public for six months, the administration had stated on record. The board asked the chief executive engineer to present its report. The engineering section told the board that annual repairs were never done for Shivaji market. They said the structure needs immediate repairs and renovation to extend its life for 25-50 years. The engineers recommended repairing of roof by providing same tile i.e. Mangalore tiles, internal wooden structure and painting, walls, floor tiles and drains and replacement of miscellaneous items, if required. PCB resolved to carry out repairs in phased manner. In phase I, the vegetable and fruit section was scheduled to be vacated and stall holders were given permission to continue business on the roadside. The dilapidated old non-vegetarian shops and sheds near the beef market and closed dilapidated storeroom needed immediate repairs and facelift. It was agreed to repair and auction the shops for sale of chicken. However, the old structure has seen no major repairs or renovation over the years. Conservation plan Conservationists Anjali and Kiran Kalamdani had prepared a report (2012) on protection and preservation of the historic structure and submitted it to the PCB. In view of the safety of inmates certain portions of the building should be declared unsafe. The users and tenants of such portions should be asked to vacate and work should be taken up immediately. The increasing levels of roads and poor maintenance of water drainage have led to knee deep ponding. Emergency maintenance and permanent solution for the problem should be worked out after thorough investigation and a practical approach. The health and hygiene condition has reached appalling levels. Pieces of meat are scattered inviting scavengers, bandicoots and rodents. Services of lighting, public address, signage, parking, water supply, pest control, public toilets and drainage need to be reviewed and overhauled. The heritage features of the building such as bargeboards, coping stones, turrets, arches, trusses carvings, stained glass panels are largely in a good condition. In places where they show a need for attention, repairs or replacements may be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restoration-of-135-year-old-british-era-iconic-building-remained-on-paper-101615906561077.html
17-03-2021||Delhi||2 stabbed in Paschim Vihar road rage, 2 held||Two men were stabbed to death early on Tuesday in Delhi’s Paschim Vihar by a Class 10 student and a 19-year-old scrap dealer following an argument after their two-wheelers brushed against each other in a secluded lane, police said. The crime was recorded on CCTV, and the footage was shared widely on the social media.The footage shows an incident of road rage escalating into murder -- one of the victims appears to slap one of the attackers, leading to a scuffle that ends in the attackers taking out knives and stabbing them.Police identified the victims as 23-year-old Rohit Aggarwal, a resident of Shiv Ram Park in Nangloi, who worked at his father’s utensils shop in Najafgarh and also as a civil defence volunteer; and Ghanshyam Ratan, 20, a labourer at a dairy in Nihal Vihar. The two were friends.A senior officer who spoke on condition of anonymity said the incident took place when Aggarwal and Ratan were returning on a scooter after attending a wedding. When they reached near Udyog Vihar Metro station, a motorcycle brushed past their scooter.“This led to an argument between Aggarwal and Ratan and the 19-year-old Pradeep Kohli and his juvenile associate aged 17. The two victims left the spot, but Kohli and the Class 10 student caught up with them in a lane and picked a fight. During the fight, Kohli and the juvenile took out a knife and stabbed both Aggarwal and Ratan multiple times. As soon as the duo collapsed, the attackers fled the spot on their bike,” said a second senior police officer who asked not to be named.Locals and passersby reported the matter to the police, and the injured victims were rushed to Sanjay Gandhi hospital, where they were pronounced dead. Their families were informed, and bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination.While Aggarwal has one visible stab wound near the heart, Ratan was stabbed at least 20 times in his chest, throat and abdomen, police said, quoting initial medical reports.Also Read | Road rage: 3 men held for attempt to murder in Mumbai Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said with the help of technical surveillance and local intelligence, the two suspects were identified and nabbed within three hours of the incident. “Both of them were caught following a raid. Kohli has been arrested and his juvenile aide has been apprehended for the murder. A case has been registered at Paschim Vihar West police station. The knife used in the murder has been recovered from them,” the DCP said.“Whether they were carrying the knife or picked it up on their way, is being probed,” the second officer said.Police have found that the two suspects were drunk at the time of the incident. “They do not have any previous criminal record and prima facie it looks like a crime that took place in the heat of the moment,” a fourth officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/road-rage-two-murdered-after-argument-in-delhi-101615882013072.html
17-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder, Sidhu to meet over tea today||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has invited former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu for tea on Wednesday. The two leaders will meet over tea at 4pm at Amarinder’s farmhouse near Chandigarh amid speculation about the former minister’s rehabilitation, according to sources. Earlier, the CM had invited Sidhu for lunch, but the programme was changed due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Covid meeting at 12.30pm. The meeting will be the second between the chief minister and his former cabinet colleague, who have not been on the best of terms for a long time, in four months. They had met in November 2020 to break the ice. The party circles have been abuzz for the past several weeks with talk of behind-the-scene attempts to ensure the estranged leader’s return to the state cabinet or make him the state unit president. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, who has been batting for an “important role” for the cricketer-turned-politician, had met Amarinder and Sidhu separately in Chandigarh last week and sounded hopeful of “positive developments soon”. Though the former minister is said to be keen on the Punjab Congress president’s post as the assembly polls are now less than a year away, Amarinder has not been amenable to having him as head of the state unit. Sidhu had quit the state cabinet in July 2019 after the chief minister divested him of the local government portfolio, blaming his “inept handling” of the department and for the poor performance of the party in urban pockets during the Lok Sabha elections. Sidhu kept a low profile thereafter, staying away from most party events till Rawat cajoled him and ensured his presence at former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally against the farm laws five months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-invites-navjot-singh-sidhu-for-luncheon-meeting-today-101615861312749.html
17-03-2021||World||China hits out at US, Japan ahead of Sino-US talks in Alaska||China on Wednesday hit back at the US and Japan for issuing an accusatory joint statement against it, saying the two countries were colluding to interfere in its internal affairs.The Chinese foreign ministry’s reaction came after the two countries talked of Beijing’s “destabilising behaviour” in the region.The Chinese response to the joint statement comes just a day before China’s top diplomats are set to meet top US officials in Alaska in their first face-to-face talks since President Joe Biden came to power in January.“The US-Japan joint statement maliciously attacks China’s foreign policy… and is an attempt to harm China’s interests,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday.“This is just another clear example of the US and Japan working in collusion to interfere in China’s internal affairs,” Zhao said. “Japan’s joint statement with the US targeting China showed it was willing to depend on the pleasure of the US for its selfish purposes, and it downgraded Japan as the US’s strategic appendage.”Temperatures are clearly rising ahead of the meet in Alaska that will see US secretary of state Antony Blinken and White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan meet senior Chinese official Yang Jiechi and state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi, two of China’s top diplomats.China has said it is ready for a reset of ties with Washington following four stormy years under the administration of former president Donald Trump.But Beijing has also warned Washington to stay out of issues it perceives to be domestic concerns, from the changes to Hong Kong election laws to the treatment of Uighurs in Xinjiang.The Biden administration has generally backed the tougher approach on China initiated by Trump by, for example, frequently deploying aircraft carriers and frontline warships in the dispute-ridden South China Sea.Zhao Minghao, a research fellow at Charhar Institute think tank, wrote in China Daily newspaper, “Given the domestic pressure on both sides, neither China nor the US is willing to compromise on significant, sensitive issues, which is understandable. But both sides need to rediscover the art of diplomacy,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hits-out-at-us-japan-ahead-of-sino-us-talks-in-alaska-101616003050583.html
17-03-2021||World||UK faces 'significant' cuts in Covid-19 vaccine supply for four weeks||Britain will see a significant reduction in the number of vaccines available from March 29 due to a cut in supply, a letter sent around the state-run health service said on Wednesday.Britain has rolled out the fastest vaccine programme of any large country but it has also clashed repeatedly with Brussels over supplies.The European Union threatened on Wednesday to ban exports of COVID-19 vaccines to Britain to safeguard scarce doses for its own citizens as it aired frustration over a lack of deliveries coming from AstraZeneca in Britain."The Government's Vaccines Task Force has now notified us there will be a significant reduction in weekly supply available from manufacturers beginning in the week commencing 29 March, meaning volumes for first doses will be significantly constrained," the letter said."They now currently predict this will continue for a four-week period, as a result of reductions in national inbound vaccines supply."Britain says it is on track to have given a first COVID-19 shot to half of all adults in the next few days and it said earlier on Wednesday that more than 25 million people had now received the first vaccination.The letter to the NHS said for the four-week period it would focus on making sure all those in the most vulnerable categories received their first shot, while those who have received their first vaccine receive their second on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-faces-significant-cuts-in-covid-19-vaccine-supply-for-four-weeks-101616002558879.html
17-03-2021||World||15 dead, 30 infected with Ebola in Africa's Guinea, Congo||The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) said Guinea and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) have reported 30 Ebola virus cases and 15 related deaths so far.The Africa CDC, the specialised healthcare agency of the 55-member African Union, reported a fatality rate of 50 per cent in the two countries.Official figures reported to the agency showed that the DRC had 12 cases and six deaths while Guinea had 18 cases and nine deaths, the Africa CDC said in a statement issued late Tuesday.According to the Africa CDC, Guinea and DRC have so far reported eight Ebola virus recoveries, six and two, respectively.Seven healthcare workers are amongst the confirmed cases, two in DRC and five in Guinea, according to the agency.The Africa CDC, in its Ebola virus cross-border updates, indicated that between February 15 to March 12, some 18 Ebola virus-related alerts were reported in Sierra Leone.It, however, stressed that all alerts were investigated and tested negative for the Ebola virus, as it emphasized that there are no confirmed Ebola cases from Sierra Leone so far.Meanwhile, the agency called on all African countries to enhance their cross-border surveillance efforts by mapping population movements to identify all potential crossing points where there is a risk of disease spread.African countries have been urged to set up screening posts and conduct health screenings for travellers with signs of Ebola, as well as implement public health measures at border crossing points including temperature monitoring, and infection prevention and control measures.It also called on AU members to continue performing contact tracing and follow up of all probable and confirmed cases, as well as enhance infection prevention and control measures in health care settings, health care workers protection and practice safe and dignified burial.New outbreaks of the deadly Ebola virus disease in the two African countries are sending new jitters to Africa as the continent is still grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic.The 2014-2016 West Africa Ebola virus outbreak claimed over 11,300 lives, with over 28,600 recorded cases.Ebola is a highly contagious hemorrhagic fever that causes a range of symptoms including fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, generalized pain or malaise and in many cases internal and external bleeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/15-dead-30-infected-with-ebola-in-africa-s-guinea-congo-101616001900045.html
17-03-2021||World||Homeland Security head rejects GOP claims of border 'crisis'||The head of the Department of Homeland Security pushed back Wednesday against Republican criticism of the Biden administration's border policies, refusing to say that the surge of migrant children entering the United States is a “crisis.”As GOP members of Congress argued that President Joe Biden had wrongly rolled back immigration policies enacted by former President Donald Trump, DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas pointed to another Trump policy that was widely reviled: the separation of immigrant families under a “zero tolerance” policy on border crossings.“A crisis is when a nation is willing to rip a 9-year-old child out of the hands of his or her parent and separate that family to deter future migration," Mayorkas told the House Homeland Security Committee. "That, to me, is a humanitarian crisis.”The number of migrants being stopped at the US-Mexico border has been rising since last April, and the administration is still rapidly sending back most single adults and families under a public health order issued by Trump at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the US is now allowing teens and children to stay, at least temporarily, and they have been coming in ever larger numbers. Border agents have also been prevented from expelling families with young children from Texas' Rio Grande Valley because of changes in Mexican policy.More than 4,000 migrant children were being held by the Border Patrol as of Sunday, including at least 3,000 in custody longer than the 72-hour limit set by a court order, according to a US official. The agency took in an additional 561 on Monday, twice the recent average, according to a second official. Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss figures not yet publicly released.The rise has left Biden in a difficult spot. He is criticized by Republicans for what they view as encouragement to illegal border crossings and by some Democrats over the prolonged detention of minors.Rep. Jeff Van Drew, R-N.J., referenced a photo of a small crowd of demonstrators in Tijuana, Mexico, wearing matching T-shirts with the words “Biden, please let us in” that circulated widely on social media in recent days.“I look at two months ago, and we had a certain situation. We were under control," Van Drew said. "And I look now with people crossing the border illegally in much larger numbers with shirts with our president’s name on it. That means something under anybody’s standard.”The situation is also a challenge to Biden's effort to overhaul broader Trump policies intended to curtail both legal and illegal immigration.“I can say quite clearly: Don't come over,” Biden said in an ABC News interview that aired Wednesday.The number of migrants attempting to cross the border is at the highest level since March 2019. Mayorkas on Tuesday said it was on pace to hit a 20-year peak.“The situation at the southwest border is difficult,” Mayorkas said in his most extensive remarks to date on the subject. “We are working around the clock to manage it and we will continue to do so. That is our job.”Under questioning Wednesday, Mayorkas and some Democrats also highlighted nonimmigration issues, including the threat of domestic extremism following the violent insurrection at the Capitol, while Republicans focused primarily on the border.Several Republicans argued that Biden's rescinding of the Trump-era “Remain in Mexico” policy was a mistake. Small numbers of immigrants — far from the more than 70,000 people barred from entry under the policy — have been allowed into the US during the first weeks of the new administration after they pass a Covid-19 screening. Human rights groups and lawyers have documented kidnappings, rapes and attacks in border cities against many migrants forced to wait in Mexico.Republican Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas defended Trump's agreements to send people from Central America to other countries in the region instead of letting them seek asylum under American law.“The Trump administration, in my judgment, did a masterful job in negotiating the ‘Remain in Mexico’ policy and the asylum cooperative agreements with Central America,” McCaul said. "It was actually a foreign policy achievement.”Biden has moved to roll back those policies and restore a program allowing Central American children to seek asylum while in their home countries. Said Mayorkas, “Sometimes the tools of deterrence defy values and principles for which we all stand.”The Health and Human Services Department plans to open shelter facilities at Moffett Federal Airfield near San Francisco and in Pecos, Texas, to handle the flow. It is also looking to expand a facility in Donna, Texas, in the Rio Grande Valley, to hold 2,000 people.Also, the Dallas Convention Center was to begin holding children as early as Wednesday, with plans to accommodate up to 3,000. A makeshift holding center in Midland, Texas, that opened last weekend for 700 children had 485 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/homeland-security-head-rejects-gop-claims-of-border-crisis-101616001912715.html
17-03-2021||World||Millions across Southeast US bracing for potential tornadoes||Hundreds of schools, Covid-19 vaccination clinics, businesses and more shut down across the Deep South on Wednesday as forecasters warned of waves of severe weather including massive tornadoes, downpours and hail the size of tennis balls.While nearly 16 million people in the Southeast could see powerful storms, the Storm Prediction Center said, a region of about 3 million stretching from southeastern Arkansas and northeastern Louisiana across Mississippi into Alabama was at high risk for big twisters that stay on the ground for miles, straight winds up to 80 mph (129 kph) and destructive hail.Storms were possible all the way from northern Texas in the west to northern Illinois and as far east as the Carolinas.Dozens of schools systems in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi canceled classes, switched to online learning or dismissed students early, and Mississippi State University moved to virtual teaching because of the potential for danger at its campuses in Starkville and Meridian.Large vaccination clinics where hundreds of people an hour can get shots without leaving their vehicles were canceled in Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee. In the Mississippi capital of Jackson, state employees were warned to head to stairwells if they hear weather sirens. Near Birmingham, labor organizers canceled an outdoors event at an Amazon facility where workers are voting on union representation.At least two waves of storms were likely, forecasters said, and the worst might not hit until a cold front passes overnight.“The biggest question is how strong to severe these storms are going to be and if they're going to be tornadic right off the bat," said Gary Goggins, a forecaster with the National Weather Service office for Birmingham.Communities across the South used social media to share the location of tornado shelters. In Jackson, Tennessee, officials said a civic center and the regional airport would be open for residents seeking shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-across-southeast-us-bracing-for-potential-tornadoes-101616001447737.html
17-03-2021||World||Greece could order private doctors to join Covid-19 fight in next two days||Greece’s health minister said Wednesday that unless at least 200 private doctors volunteer to help the public health service’s battle against COVID-19 in the next 48 hours, he will recommend the prime minister orders the requisitioning of their services.Vassilis Kikilias made the announcement as Greece registered a new daily record of confirmed infections since the start of the pandemic, despite lockdown-related measures in place since early November. The country of 11 million announced 3,465 new infections and 56 deaths on Wednesday, bringing the total number of infections to just under 230,000. More than 7,200 people have died.Kikilias renewed an appeal to private sector pathologists, respiratory specialists and general practitioners to assist the public health service. “It is a battle for human life, it is honoring the Hippocratic oath,” Kikilias said during a regular Health Ministry briefing on the coronavirus. “Our citizens need you, Greece needs you.”Kikilias said if at least 200 doctors from those particular specialties do not respond to his appeal within the next 48 hours, he will recommend to Prime Minister Kyrakos Mitsotakis to order the requisitioning of their services, essentially forcing them into working in the public sector.Greece was credited with handling the initial outbreak of the pandemic well, with an early lockdown imposed last spring keeping cases and hospitalizations low. The respite gave the government time to add hundreds of intensive care beds to the public health system.But the country has been struggling to overcome a surge in infections and deaths since the fall, despite lockdown measures that have largely shuttered the retail sector and only allow people to leave their homes for specific reasons and with either a self-written declaration or an SMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greece-could-order-private-doctors-to-join-covid-19-fight-in-next-two-days-101616000671030.html
17-03-2021||World||Israel PM Netanyahu fights for re-election without key ally Donald Trump||As Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faces a re-election battle next week, he's missing an ally he could rely on during three previous votes over the past two years: Donald Trump.The American former president's conservative base was avidly pro-Israel and Trump fulfilled a wishlist for the hawkish Netanyahu.Trump recognised Jerusalem as Israel's capital, blessed settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories and doled out US incentives for Arab nations to normalise ties with the Jewish state.Netanyahu cited his closeness with Trump to bolster his candidacy, printing the former president's face on his posters during past campaigns.The prime minister "actually said to his followers: See, whenever I want, I knock on the door of the White House and the White House opens the door," Tamar Hermann, a political scientist at the Open University of Israel, told AFP.President Joe Biden represents a dramatically different political reality for Netanyahu, who is seeking to extend his record 12 consecutive years in power on March 23.In this vote, "the presence of the American administration is minimal," Hermann said.'No alternatives'?Netanyahu and Biden have both affirmed a decades-long friendship, but they have sharp policy differences, especially concerning Iran.Biden has sought a return to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, an agreement loathed by Netanyahu which Trump had scrapped.The Democratic president is also expected to renew US criticism of Jewish settlement expansion in the West Bank."There's no love for Netanyahu in this administration and among Democratic elites," said Shibley Telhami, an expert on US policy in the Middle East at the University of Maryland."The problem for them right now is that the practical alternatives to him are almost equally bad."Several of Netanyahu's former allies have joined rival right-wing parties.Polls show none of those new factions is likely to beat Netanyahu's Likud, but they have shifted Israeli politics further to the right.Biden's ideology may align most closely with Israel's centrist Yesh Atid party led by Yair Lapid, which is predicted to finish second behind Likud.Veteran US Democratic political consultant Mark Mellman, who is advising the challenger, said Lapid shares Biden's values and counts the president as a friend."Biden is for a two-state solution. There are parties running in Israel that are opposed to a two-state solution," Mellman said.Still, "there's nothing that [Biden] has done that suggests that he wants to play a favourite here at all."David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the pro-Israel Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said even if Biden wanted to back a Netanyahu rival, any alternative coalition could face collapse under ideological divisions."They agree they want to get rid of Netanyahu. That gets them through the first month, but what do they agree on after that?" said Makovsky.Moreover, he told AFP, the Biden administration's attention is elsewhere."The administration has got a lot on its plate with Covid, Covid, Covid, 500,000 Americans killed, all the economic implications of Covid, and it's just crowding out a lot of issues," he said.'Not Mideast focused'Biden has signalled he will not reverse some of Trump's moves that were popular in Israel.He does not intend to return the US embassy to Tel Aviv and his administration supports the Trump-brokered agreements that saw Israel normalise ties with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Morocco and Sudan.Washington's criticism of an International Criminal Court probe into possible Israeli war crimes in the West Bank and Gaza was also welcomed across the Israeli political spectrum."The US is going to work with whoever emerges," Dan Shapiro, who served as Barack Obama's ambassador to Israel, told AFP."But the broader picture is that President Biden's overriding priorities right now are generally not Middle East focused."Rather than aim for a comprehensive peace deal, Biden will focus on improving daily life for Palestinians by restoring aid and renewing diplomatic missions, which Trump cut off, Shapiro predicted.Domestically, Biden faces only limited calls from progressives to advocate harder for the Palestinian cause.Last week Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent, and four Democratic senators asked Secretary of State Tony Blinken to pressure Israel to do more to help Palestinians get coronavirus vaccines.Israel is the world leader in Covid vaccinations per capita, but has only offered a limited quantity of doses to the Palestinians, who have yet to launch large-scale inoculations in the occupied West Bank or Israeli-blockaded Gaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-pm-netanyahu-fights-for-re-election-without-key-ally-donald-trump-101615999809625.html
17-03-2021||World||Colombian businessman, aide of Venezuela's Maduro, faces extradition to US||A court in Cape Verde granted a U.S. request to extradite Alex Saab, a Colombian businessman close to Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro.The ruling comes two days after a regional court in Nigeria ordered the authorities in Cape Verde, an Atlantic Ocean island nation, to free Saab and halt extradition proceedings.Saab, 49, has been indicted by a U.S. federal court in Florida on money-laundering charges related to bribing Venezuelan officials. He has denied the charges through his lawyers.The Cape Verde Supreme Court “confirms the judicial authorization for the extradition of the defendant to the U.S.,” it said in the ruling. “The extradition that is now authorized is for the extradited person to be subject to a criminal process for only one of the crimes that is being attributed, in accordance with the guarantee offered by the requesting state.”Saab plans to appeal, said Femi Falana, one of his lawyers.“We shall be filing an appeal to the Constitutional Court and reaffirm our confidence that Ambassador Saab will be released,” he said in a text message. “The defense is currently studying the decision and we will issue a further substantial statement later.”Saab was detained June 12 when the private plane he was traveling on from Venezuela to Iran made a fuel stop on the Cape Verdian island of Sal. Prior to his arrest, Saab was tapped to orchestrate deals that would exchange Venezuelan gold for Iranian gasoline.Authorities in Cape Verde said they made the arrest in response to an Interpol Red Notice, spurred by the money-laundering charges. Following his arrest, Venezuela identified Saab as its diplomat on a “humanitarian mission” to Iran, an argument Cape Verde’s Barlavento Court of Appeal has rejected.The Economic Community of West African States Court of Justice, based in Nigeria, on March 15 ruled that Saab should be freed because he was detained before the Red Notice was issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colombian-businessman-aide-of-venezuela-s-maduro-faces-extradition-to-us-101615999199837.html
17-03-2021||World||Senate unanimously confirms Katherine Tai as Joe Biden's top trade envoy||The Senate confirmed Katherine Tai as the top US trade envoy in an overwhelming bipartisan vote on Wednesday.She will be the first Asian American and first woman of colour to hold the position.Tai is considered a problem-solving pragmatist, and her nomination by President Joe Biden to be U S trade representative drew support from Democrats and Republicans alike. She was confirmed on a 98-0 vote and is the 19th member of Biden's Cabinet to clear the Senate.A former trade negotiator and congressional staffer, Tai has vowed to work for a US trade policy that benefits ordinary workers, not just big corporations, and to work more closely with America's allies to confront an increasingly assertive China.In her confirmation hearing, she ducked questions about how she'd handle several politically sensitive questions such as whether the Biden administration would drop former President Donald Trump's tariffs on imported steel and aluminum and whether it would revive an Asia-Pacific trade agreement that was negotiated by President Barack Obama but jettisoned by Trump.Fluent in Mandarin, Tai served several years as head of China enforcement at the trade representative's office.“I know firsthand how critically important it is that we have a strategic and coherent plan for holding China accountable to its promises and effectively competing with its model of state-directed economics,? Tai told senators last month, taking an indirect shot at Trump's often chaotic approach to negotiations with Beijing.In the biggest trade war since the 1930s, Trump slapped taxes on USD 360 billion in Chinese imports in a fight over China's aggressive push — alleged to include cybertheft — to promote its own technology companies and challenge US technological dominance.Biden and his team appear to be in no hurry to reverse Trump's China tariffs. US legislators and policymakers across the political spectrum have taken an increasingly confrontational line on China, frustrated by its trade practices, crackdown on Hong Kong and aggressive pursuit of territorial claims in the South China Sea.Tai promised to work with US allies to present a united front to Beijing. Far from coordinating with US allies on trade, Trump sparred with them instead, putting tariffs on imported steel and aluminum and threatening to target European cars, too.At her confirmation hearing, Tai wouldn't commit to dropping the tax on foreign metals, calling tariffs “a legitimate tool in the trade tool box.?Tai also dodged a question about whether the Biden administration would revive the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a pact with 11 Pacific Rim countries.The pact excluded and was meant to isolate China and cement US ties with other Asian countries. Trump called the TPP a job killer and withdrew from it in his first week in office. The pact also faced opposition in Biden's Democratic Party.Tai last served as the top trade staffer at the House Ways and Means Committee. She handled negotiations with the Trump administration over a revamped North American trade deal.Under pressure from congressional Democrats, Trump's trade team agreed to strengthen the pact to make it easier for Mexican workers to form independent unions and demand better pay and benefits — decreasing the incentives for US firms to move south of the border to take advantage of cheap labour.(AP)RUP RUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senate-unanimously-confirms-katherine-tai-as-joe-biden-s-top-trade-envoy-101615998820947.html
17-03-2021||World||Georgia shooting: Suspect may have 'sexual addiction', say police||The man accused of killing eight people at massage parlors in the Atlanta area told police his act was not racially motivated, and that he potentially had a “sex addiction,” officials said Wednesday.Still, officials said they were investigating whether the deaths were hate crimes amid concerns over a wave of attacks on Asian Americans. Six of the victims were Asian and seven were women.Officials did not say that Robert Aaron Long, 21, ever went to the parlors where the shootings occurred. They also said he was planning to go to Florida in a plot to attack “some type of porn industry."“He made indicators that he has some issues, potentially sexual addiction, and may have frequented some of these places in the past,” said Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds.He said it was too early to tell if it was racially motivated. “But the indicators right now are it may not be. It may be targets of opportunity. Again, we believe that he frequented these places in the past and maybe have been lashing out.”Many suspects who commit mass shootings have a history of violence against women. Still, the attack haunted members of the Asian American community who saw the shootings as an attack on them, given a recent wave of assaults that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States. The virus was first identified in China, and then-President Donald Trump and others have used racially charged terms like “Chinese virus” to describe it.“We’re in a place where we’ve seen an increase in hate crimes against Asian Americans since the pandemic started,” said Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen. “It’s hard to think it is not targeted specifically toward our community.”The attacks began Tuesday evening, when five people were shot at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor near Woodstock, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Atlanta, Cherokee County Sheriff’s spokesman Capt. Jay Baker said. Two people died at the scene, and three were taken to a hospital where two died, Baker said.About an hour later, police responding to a call about a robbery found three women dead from apparent gunshot wounds at Gold Spa near Atlanta's Buckhead area, where tattoo parlors and strip clubs are just blocks away from mansions and skyscrapers in one of the last ungentrified holdouts in that part of the city. Officers then learned of a call reporting shots fired across the street, at Aromatherapy Spa, and found another woman apparently shot dead.“It appears that they may be Asian,” Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said President Joe Biden has been briefed on the “horrific shootings” and would receive an update later Wednesday from Attorney General Merrick Garland and FBI Director Christopher Wray.Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant cautioned that it was too early to say if the attack was hate crime. Over the past year, thousands of incidents of abuse have been reported to an anti-hate group that tracks incidents against Asian Americans, and hate crimes in general are at the highest level in more than a decade.“We are heartbroken by these acts of violence,” Asian Americans Advancing Justice — Atlanta said in a statement. “While the details of the shootings are still emerging, the broader context cannot be ignored. The shootings happened under the trauma of increasing violence against Asian Americans nationwide, fueled by white supremacy and systemic racism.”Police in Atlanta and other major cities deplored the killings, and some said they would increase patrols in Asian American communities. Seattle’s mayor said “the violence in Atlanta was an act of hate,” and San Francisco police tweeted #StopAsianHate. The New York City Police counterterrorism unit said it was on alert for similar attacks.Other civil liberties groups and prominent Americans also expressed their dismay. The Rev. Bernice King, daughter of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., said she’s “deeply saddened that we live in a nation and world permeated by hate and violence. I stand with Asian members of our World House, who are a part of our global human family.”Former President Barack Obama regretted that “even as we’ve battled the pandemic, we’ve continued to neglect the longer-lasting epidemic of gun violence in America.” While acknowledging that the shooter's motive was not known, he said “the identity of the victims underscores an alarming rise in anti-Asian violence that must end.”Surveillance video recorded a man pulling up to the Cherokee County business about 10 minutes before the attack there, and the same car was spotted outside the Atlanta businesses, authorities said. A manhunt was launched, and Long was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of Atlanta, Baker said.Video evidence “suggests it is extremely likely our suspect is the same as Cherokee County’s, who is in custody,” Atlanta police said in a statement.South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said in statement Wednesday that its diplomats in Atlanta have confirmed with police that four of the victims who died were women of Korean descent. The ministry said its Consulate General in Atlanta is trying to confirm the nationality of the women.FBI spokesman Kevin Rowson said the agency is assisting Atlanta and Cherokee County authorities in the investigation.Crisp County Sheriff Billy Hancock said in a video posted on Facebook that his deputies and state troopers were notified Tuesday night that a murder suspect out of north Georgia was headed their way. Deputies and troopers set up along the interstate and “made contact with the suspect,” he said.A state trooper performed a PIT, or pursuit intervention technique, maneuver, “which caused the vehicle to spin out of control,” Hancock said. Long was then taken into custody “without incident.”Crisp County sheriff’s spokeswoman Haley Wade said Wednesday morning that Long, who is white, is no longer in their custody and that her office has turned over its information to the other Georgia agencies and the FBI.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is in South Korea meeting with Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong, mentioned the killings during an opening statement.“We are horrified by this violence which has no place in America or anywhere,” he said.“Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence,” Gov. Brian Kemp said Tuesday evening on Twitter.___Associated Press writers Kim Tong-hyung in Seoul and Zeke Miller in Washington contributed to the this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-shooting-suspect-may-have-sexual-addiction-say-police-101615996200926.html
17-03-2021||World||More than 25 million people in UK receive first Covid-19 vaccine shot||Britain said on Wednesday more than 25 million people had now received a first Covid-19 vaccination, 100 days after the first person in the country received a shot.The government said it meant almost half the adult population had received a vaccination dose, putting it on track to have offered all those over 50 a shot by the target date of April 15."This latest milestone is an incredible achievement - representing 25 million reasons to be confident for the future as we cautiously reopen society," Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a statement.Britain's vaccine rollout began on Dec. 8 when Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old grandmother, became the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine outside of a trial.Since then Britain has offered vaccines to priority groups, starting with the eldest and most clinically vulnerable as well as frontline health workers, before moving to younger age groups.Health services have now vaccinated a total of 25,273,226 with either the Pfizer or AstraZeneca shot, and 1,759,445 people had been given both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-25-million-people-in-uk-receive-first-covid-19-vaccine-shot-101615995744512.html
17-03-2021||World||UK minister views India as like-minded, high trust vendor nation||The UK has a central role to play on the world stage as an independent sovereign state, a leading member of the Western alliance, and an energetic and dependable partner in the growing prosperity of the Indo-Pacific region, UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said in a major foreign policy speech on Wednesday.Addressing the US Aspen Security Forum virtually a day after Britain released its flagship Integrated Review of foreign policy, the senior Cabinet minister warned that democracy is under threat around the world and therefore the policy document singles out like-minded nations, such as India, who will be key to upholding democratic values and interests.He also named India among the countries that would help address the need for diversified global supply chains with “high trust vendors”.“The UK will remain anchored in NATO [North Atlantic Treaty Organisation], in Five Eyes, a close US ally, a friend of the Gulf, a dependable European neighbour and partner, a passionate member of the Commonwealth. But, Global Britain will also be able and willing to forge and follow agile clusters with like-minded countries, where our values and our interests demand it,” said Raab.“That’s why you can see under our Presidency of the G7 that we’ve invited India, South Korea and Australia to join this year’s summit, because we in the West, we have got to broaden our reach and appeal, if we are going to tackle global challenges and manage the threats we face today,” he said.Pointing to some of the lessons learnt from the Covid-19 pandemic, he said that it showed up very clearly the weaknesses of the global supply chain model, as every country around the world queued up for personal protective equipment (PPE) from China and a small number of other mass-producing countries.“Of course, we embrace the power of the market and we value our trade with China. But we will also develop new partnerships with existing allies, and other high trust vendors. We will work with the likes of Estonia and Norway, India and Israel, Singapore and South Korea, and many others, to diversify our supply chains from manufacturing to tech, to shore up our economic resilience,” he said.With reference to the ‘Global Britain in a Competitive Age’ Integrated Review, which calls for an Indo-Pacific tilt in the UK's foreign policy, the minister reiterated a commitment to the East as part of a common mission to strengthen democracy.Warning that “democracy is in retreat”, Raab pointed out that in the next decade, the combined wealth of autocratic regimes is likely to exceed that of the world's democracies.He noted: “Just take a second to think about what that means. Tyranny is richer than freedom. And that matters to us here at home because we know stable, freedom-respecting, democracies are much less likely to go to war, to house terrorists or to trigger large scale flows of immigration.“Democracies are generally, not always, but generally easier to trade with and easier to cooperate with to solve our shared problems. That's the first problem. The second trend is the rise of new threats. We have all become used to talking about asymmetric warfare since 9/11 but technology, twisted to perverse causes, is creating dangerous new weapons which falls short of armed conflict.”He said the UK has a moral responsibility and an indivisible stake in the planet, global economy and ecosystem to protect the peace and stability that underpin them.The minister championed the UK’s commitment to free trade, which he said reflects a deeply-held belief in human exchange as a “force for good”.“Britain is truly global, and that gives us an edge,” he declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-minister-views-india-as-like-minded-high-trust-vendor-nation-101615995572322.html
17-03-2021||World||EU chief says AstraZeneca shortfalls slow Covid vaccine campaign||The European Union's chief executive criticized Anglo-Swedish vaccine-maker AstraZeneca on Wednesday, accusing the embattled pharmaceutical company of delaying Europe's coronavirus vaccination campaign and warning that the EU is weighing export bans to ensure supplies.“AstraZeneca has unfortunately under-produced and under-delivered, and this painfully, of course, reduced the speed of the vaccination campaign,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told reporters.Von der Leyen said the company originally pledged to deliver 90 million doses of its shot in the first three months of 2021, but later said it could only provide 40 million, then more recently only 30 million.Beyond criticism for its slow deliveries, notably in Europe, AstraZeneca also has had to deal with reports of dangerous blood clots in some recipients of its shot, although the company and international regulators say there is no evidence the vaccine is to blame. Several countries, including Germany, France, Italy and Spain, have suspended its use.The EU’s drug regulator insisted Tuesday that there is “no indication” it does so, and von der Leyen said Wednesday that “I trust AstraZeneca, I trust the vaccines.”AstraZeneca’s formula is one of three vaccines in use on the continent. But the escalating concern is another setback for the EU’s vaccination drive, which has been plagued by shortages and other hurdles and is lagging well behind the campaigns in Britain and the US. For the second quarter of 2021, van der Leyen said, AstraZeneca will only deliver 70 million doses, less than half of the 180 million it was “contractually obliged to deliver.”Two production sites in the UK figure in the EU's advance purchasing agreement drawn up with AstraZeneca, she said, adding: “We’re still waiting for doses to come from the UK," she said.Von der Leyen also noted the EU has exported around 41 million vaccine doses to other countries. “But open roads run in both directions, and this is why we need to ensure that there is reciprocity and proportionality,” she said.“If the situation does not change, we will have to reflect on how to make exports to vaccine producing countries dependent on their level of openness,” she added, without naming any country.She said the EU still aims to vaccinate 70% of all adults by September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-chief-says-astrazeneca-shortfalls-slow-covid-vaccine-campaign-101615993079562.html
17-03-2021||World||France to announce stricter local measures to to contain Covid-19||France will announce stricter local measures to try and contain the coronavirus epidemic on Thursday, government spokesman Gabriel Attal said.“Additional measures will be taken in a certain number of territories,” Attal told reporters on Wednesday after a cabinet meeting. They will target the economically-important Paris region and the north of the country.Attal also said that France would swiftly resume the AstraZeneca vaccination campaign if the European Medicines Agency recommends it on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-announce-stricter-local-measures-to-to-contain-covid19-101615988772278.html
17-03-2021||World||WHO reviewing data, recommends AstraZeneca Covid jabs continue||The World Health Organization said Wednesday its experts were still reviewing safety data on the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine following concerns around blood clots but recommended that injection programmes continue.While millions of doses of the vaccine have been administered, small numbers of people have developed blood clots, prompting countries including the EU's three largest nations -- Germany, France and Italy -- to suspend injections."The WHO Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety is carefully assessing the latest available safety data," the UN health agency said in a statement."At this time, WHO considers that the benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine outweigh its risks and recommends that vaccinations continue."It said that once the committee had completed its review, the WHO would immediately communicate its findings.The European Union's medicines regulator on Tuesday insisted there was no evidence linking the jab to blood clots -- termed thromboembolic events -- after several nations suspended the shot over health fears.The WHO said that in mass vaccination campaigns, it was routine for countries to flag up potential adverse events after people have been immunised."This does not necessarily mean that the events are linked to vaccination itself, but it is good practice to investigate them. It also shows that the surveillance system works and that effective controls are in place," it said."Vaccination against Covid-19 will not reduce illness or deaths from other causes."Thromboembolic events are known to occur frequently. Venous thromboembolism is the third most common cardiovascular disease globally."The WHO said it was in regular contact with the EU's European Medicines Agency and regulators around the world for the latest information on Covid-19 vaccine safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-reviewing-data-recommends-astrazeneca-covid-jabs-continue-101615989853989.html
17-03-2021||World||UNESCO's Azoulay set for second term as no other nomination submitted: Official||The head of UNESCO, the United Nations' cultural agency, is expected to win a second term later this year after nobody else submitted their candidacy for the position by the deadline on March 16, a UNESCO official said on Wednesday.Outgoing Director General Audrey Azoulay was appointed in 2017 after a bitter campaign. Her mandate was to revive the organisation's fortunes after the United States, which provided a fifth of its funding, pulled out.The election is due in November, but without an opponent and a majority of the 58 Executive Board member states, including biggest financial contributor China, backing her, she should be elected for another four years.The agency, founded in the ashes of World War Two to protect the common cultural inheritance of humanity, is best known for designating and protecting archaeological and heritage sites, from the Galapagos Islands to the tombs of Timbuktu.Most of its activities are uncontroversial, but issues such as resolutions about how religious sites should be run in Jerusalem have been highly charged and the United States quit over accusations of anti-Israeli bias by the body.The official told Reuters that the signals from the new U.S. administration were positive and that the objective was to make progress on the issue over the coming months.UNESCO has had to fill a gaping financial hole. The United States left with $542 million in arrears. A U.S. return, done through a letter informing the body, would also mean that Washington would repay its arrears at some stage.Things may still prove complicated given a U.S. law that forbids Washington from funding U.N. bodies that have admitted Palestine as a full member, although a waiver can be sought.(Reporting by John Irish; Editing by Alex Richardson)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unescos-azoulay-set-for-second-term-as-no-other-nomination-submitted-official-101615987659912.html
17-03-2021||World||Biden vows Russia's Putin will 'pay a price' for election meddling: Report||President Joe Biden said Russian President Vladimir Putin will face consequences for directing efforts to swing the 2020 U.S. presidential election to Donald Trump, and that they would come soon."He will pay a price," Biden told ABC News in an interview that aired on Wednesday. Asked what the consequences would come, he said, "You'll see shortly."His comments come after a US intelligence report on Tuesday bolstered longstanding allegations that Putin was behind Moscow's election interference, an accusation Russia called baseless.At the same time, Biden noted that "there's places where it's in our mutual interest to work together" such as renewing the START nuclear agreement, adding that the two leaders have a known history."I know him relatively well," Biden said, adding that "the most important thing dealing with foreign leaders in my experience ... is just know the other guy."Of Putin, Biden said he does not think the Russian leader has a soul. Asked if he thought Putin was a killer, he told ABC: "I do."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-vows-russia-s-putin-will-pay-a-price-for-election-meddling-report-101615987394691.html
17-03-2021||World||GOP Senators accuse Biden of breaking law by halting border wall construction||Senate Republicans accused President Joe Biden of breaking federal budget law when he ordered a halt to construction of a southern border wall and say the action contributed to a surge in illegal border crossings.Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and 39 other Republicans wrote a letter to the Government Accountability Office on Wednesday seeking an investigation into the president’s actions, which they allege violated a 1974 act forbidding the executive branch from refusing to spend money appropriated by Congress.“On Jan. 20, in one of the first official acts of his presidency, Joseph Biden suspended border wall construction and ordered a freeze of funds provided by Congress for that purpose. In the weeks that followed, operational control of our southern border was compromised and a humanitarian and national security crisis has ensued,” the letter states. “The President’s actions directly contributed to this unfortunate, yet entirely avoidable scenario. They are also a blatant violation of federal law and infringe on Congress’s constitutional power of the purse.”The letter was organized by West Virginia’s Shelley Moore Capito, the top Republican on the Homeland Security spending panel. It asks GAO head Gene Dodaro to issue a legal opinion on whether the Impoundment Control Act was violated.The fiscal 2021 spending bill that Congress passed in December has $1.4 billion for border wall and related spending.Republicans this week have focused on the surge of migrants crossing the U.S. border from Mexico, with lawmakers traveling to the region to highlight the issue. Biden has ordered federal disaster officials to the area to handle the surge, while Democrats have said that border crossings remained at roughly the same level during the Trump administration. They also have argued that the border wall is ineffective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gop-senators-accuse-biden-of-breaking-law-by-halting-border-wall-construction-101615986181324.html
17-03-2021||World||Brazilian president Bolsonaro faces record disapproval rating over Covid||Brazilians' disapproval of President Jair Bolsonaro's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit a record high, according to a new opinion poll.The Datafolha poll published by the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper late on Tuesday showed 54% of respondents regard Bolsonaro's handling of the crisis as bad or very bad.The poll of 2,023 people, carried out this week, showed a further decline in confidence in Bolsonaro over the pandemic since the previous Datafolha poll on Jan. 20-21, when 48% of respondents expressed disapproval.Covid-19 has killed more than 282,000 people in Brazil and more than 11.6 million have been diagnosed with the respiratory disease, according to health ministry data. Only the United States has reported more deaths and cases.Bolsonaro initially sought to portray Covid-19 as a "little flu" after the first case was registered in February 2020 and the slowness of Brazil's vaccination campaign among a population of more than 212 million has severely strained hospitals.Fiocruz, the Rio de Janeiro-based biomedical center that is manufacturing the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in Brazil, said on Tuesday Brazil faced its worst sanitary crisis on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazilian-president-bolsonaro-faces-record-disapproval-rating-over-covid-101615985250536.html
17-03-2021||World||New York begins Andrew Cuomo impeachment investigation||The New York State Assembly on Wednesday said it hired law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP to carry out an impeachment investigation into Governor Andrew Cuomo.It’s the first step in a broad investigation into Cuomo that’s intended to look into whether the legislature should begin impeachment proceedings. The probe is expected to span multiple accusations of sexual misconduct and harassment against Cuomo, as well as claims Cuomo’s administration withheld information on Covid-19 nursing home deaths, covered up structural problems on the Mario M. Cuomo Bridge, and whether Cuomo’s vaccine czar crossed ethics lines when he called county executives to gauge their loyalty to the governor.“The addition of Davis Polk will allow my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee and me to fully and fairly investigate the allegations,” said Assemblymember Charles Lavine, who chairs the judiciary committee. “These are serious allegations, and they will be treated with fairness, due process and discretion.”The investigation’s launch comes just weeks ahead of a March 31 deadline for the legislature and the governor to pass a budget. The probe was an effort at finding common ground between a camp of lawmakers who have called for immediate action if Cuomo continues to refuse to resign and another group of lawmakers who want to wait for an investigation to play out before taking action. The investigation is separate from a sexual-harassment investigation by lawyers appointed by New York Attorney General Letitia James.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-begins-andrew-cuomo-impeachment-investigation-101615985910400.html
17-03-2021||World||WHO official calls blood clots 'very rare'||A top World Health Organization expert on vaccines says people should feel reassured that even if health authorities turn up a link between blood clots and the AstraZeneca vaccine, such cases are “very rare.”Dr. Kate O’Brien, who heads WHO’s department of immunizations and vaccines, said the U.N. health agency and the European Medicines Agency are trying to investigate the possibility of a link between blood clots and the AstraZeneca shots. The potential side effect has prompted some countries -- mostly in Europe -- to temporarily suspend use of the AstraZeneca vaccine.A WHO committee on vaccines is looking into the issue.“I think the reassurance to the public is that regardless of whether or not the committee ultimately assesses that there may be an association between these events and the vaccine, that in any event, these are very rare events,” O'Brien said during a Wednesday news conference.The current “benefit-risk assessment” from the European Medicines Agency and WHO is for countries to continue giving people AstraZeneca shots, she said. Both WHO and EMA are expected to present updated recommendations on Wednesday or Thursday.O’Brien said in general “vaccine recommendations are dynamic,” and are reviewed over days, months, and years. She noted that blood clots occur regularly in the population.“What we don’t know is whether or not that experience would be related to having been vaccinated,” she said. “The important point is that if anybody is having symptoms, any serious medical symptoms, regardless of whether you’ve been vaccinated or not vaccinated, it’s important to seek medical care for the presence of those symptoms.”The comments came at a news conference detailing how a WHO expert panel on vaccines recommended use of Johnson & Johnson’s one-dose COVID-19 vaccine, which has already been granted an emergency use authorization from the U.N. agency.Dr. Annelies Wilder-Smith, a technical adviser to the expert panel, noted that studies on the J&J vaccine involving some 42,000 people turned up 10 cases of blood clotting in the placebo group -- slightly more than half of all participants -- and 14 cases among those who were administered the vaccine. She called that difference “not statistically significant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-official-calls-blood-clots-very-rare-101615985610987.html
17-03-2021||World||Boris Johnson says he will get 'his own' Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 jab 'very shortly'||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday he would get the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot very soon, voicing his confidence in a vaccine that has been suspended in some other European countries after reports of blood clots.Several European Union countries have suspended their roll out of the shot, developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, but Britain's regulator has said that there is no evidence of a causal link between reports of thrombo-embolic events and the vaccine.Asked if European countries had disregarded scientific evidence, Johnson said: "The best thing I can say about the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine programme is that I finally got news that I'm going to have my own jab ... very, very shortly.""It will certainly be Oxford/AstraZeneca that I will be having," Johnson told parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-says-he-will-get-his-own-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-jab-very-shortly-101615985237082.html
17-03-2021||World||Egypt prepares for move to 'high-tech' new capital, away from the chaos of Cairo||Egypt is racing to prepare a grandiose new capital city in the desert east of Cairo before the first civil servants move in this summer and ahead of the delayed official opening of President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi's flagship project.At the heart of the city, workers are putting finishing touches to an avenue of ministries that echo the architecture of pharaonic temples and adjoin a raised Islamic complex, two domed parliament buildings and a sprawling presidential compound.There will be a monorail passing through a business district where a 385-metre central tower is close to completion. Beyond, the contours of a 10km park stretching to a giant mosque are taking shape.The city, known simply as the New Administrative Capital, is designed to operate with smart technology on virgin land away from the clutter and chaos of Cairo. It will boast universities, leisure facilities and a diplomatic quarter.But it has made halting progress, and after Emirati funding fell through shortly after it was announced in 2015, the military and government took on the estimated $25 billion cost of the first phase, injecting off-budget investment.Some foreign loans and financing have been secured.The coronavirus pandemic also slowed progress, and the first of three planned phases, covering 168 square kilometres, will not be completed when the government begins to move in."The rate of completion of the first phase has passed 60% across all projects," said Khaled el-Husseiny, spokesman for the new capital.He added that the delayed transfer of civil servants would begin in July, ahead of an official opening planned for the end of 2021.Hi-TechThe city is being designed as a high-tech model for Egypt's future.Control centres will monitor infrastructure and security electronically, roofs will be covered in solar panels, payments will be cashless and 15 square metres of green space are allocated per inhabitant, officials said."We are trying to solve all the problems we had in the past in the new capital," said Husseiny.The finished city is expected to house at least 6 million residents, its second and third phases largely residential.That will take decades to complete, although the government will be able to function normally while construction goes on, said Amr Khattab, spokesman for the Housing Ministry which is responsible for executing parts of the city.How far and how fast Egypt's centre of gravity shifts away from Cairo to the new capital 45 km from the Nile is unclear. For now, thousands of residential blocks stand empty either side of a highway leading into the new city.The completion of the business district, yet to be marketed, is set for 2023.Electric train and monorail links are under construction. The first 50,000 civil servants expected to relocate to the new capital from this summer will be offered shuttle buses to get there.Around 5,000 out of 20,000 housing units have been sold in the first residential district expected to open in May, said Khattab.On Monday, Sisi's office announced 1.5 billion Egyptian pounds ($96 million) in incentives for civil servants selected to move to the city.Land SalesOfficials say the city will eventually include social housing and is meant to finance itself through land sales, though it is unclear how much revenue these have generated.Of the $25 billion cost for the first phase, about $3 billion is being spent on the government district, said Husseiny.Some international financing has been secured for rail links, and a $3 billion Chinese loan has helped fund the business district, built by China State Construction Engineering Corp (CSCEC).Sisi, who has embarked on multiple infrastructure mega-projects and national development schemes, says other regions will not be neglected."We are not leaving Cairo, or Alexandria or Port Said or other provinces. We are moving forward with the old and the new together," the president said last week. The capital's opening would mark the "birth of a new state", he added.Though there is support for the government's argument that the new capital can reduce congestion in Cairo, there is also concern that it will be unaffordable and inaccessible to many."Some classes will be able to live there, others won't," said Alaa Ibrahim, a 39-year-old electrician in Cairo's impoverished Imbaba district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-prepares-for-move-to-high-tech-new-capital-away-from-the-chaos-of-cairo-101615984419119.html
17-03-2021||World||East Jerusalem: Several Palestinians injured in clashes with Israel forces||Dozens of Palestinians were injured in clashes with the Israeli forces in the Kafr Aqab neighbourhood located in East Jerusalem, a spokesperson for the Red Crescent Society in Jerusalem told Sputnik."Thirty-one people were injured [after inhaling] tear gas, and 11 others were wounded by rubber bullets ... in the Kafr Aqab area in the city of Jerusalem. All of those injured received treatment on the spot," the spokesperson said.Palestine's official news agency WAFA reported that Israel's forces stormed the area, which led to clashes between the two sides.The Israeli Border Police, also known as Magav, declined to comment when asked for clarification by Sputnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/east-jerusalem-several-palestinians-injured-in-clashes-with-israel-forces-101615983815285.html
17-03-2021||World||US Prez Joe Biden calls Afghanistan withdrawal deadline of May 1 'tough'||President Joe Biden says that it will be “tough” for the US to meet a May 1 deadline to withdraw troops from Afghanistan but that the complete drawdown won’t take much longer.The deadline to end America’s longest war six weeks from now was set under an agreement reached by former President Donald Trump and the Taliban, without the buy-in of the Afghan government.Biden, in an interview with ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos that aired Wednesday, said he was consulting with allies on the pace of the drawdown. Of meeting the May 1 deadline, he said it “could happen, but it is tough.” If the deadline is extended, he added, it won’t be by “a lot longer.”Biden, like his predecessor, has promised to end the nearly 20-year conflict and bring home more than 2,500 American troops in the country — down from about 13,000 troops a year ago. The Trump deal caught some American allies off guard, as the roughly 7,000 NATO troops in Afghanistan rely on the US for logistics and security support.“That was not a very solidly negotiated deal that the president, the former president worked out,” Biden said in the interview. “We’re in consultation with our allies as well as the government, and that decision is in process now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-joe-biden-calls-afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline-of-may-1-tough-101615983309523.html
17-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Vietnam mulls 'vaccine passport', may resume international flights||Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc ordered ministries to study the use of a “vaccine passport” as the country is in talks to buy more shots against the coronavirus.Government agencies were asked by the premier to study a gradual reopening of international flights, according to a post on a state website. The statement didn’t provide details on the vaccine passport.Overseas trips resumed in the second half of 2020 but were halted again in December after the southeast Asian nation saw an outbreak following three months of having no local transmission.Vietnam, which has started its inoculation program with AstraZeneca Plc., is in talks with other vaccines producers including Pfizer-BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson, the government said. The nation has among the mildest outbreak in the region with a total of 2,560 infections and 35 deaths as of Wednesday, according to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vietnam-mulls-vaccine-passport-may-resume-international-flights-101615983281501.html
17-03-2021||World||Jordan sentences six to death for maiming 16-year-old boy||Jordan's state security court sentenced six men to death Wednesday after convicting them of maiming a 16-year-old boy in a case that triggered public outrage, a court official said.The victim has since regained the use of one eye after receiving specialist treatment at Amman's King Hussein Hospital ordered by King Abdullah II but he lost both hands to his assailants' vendetta against his father.A total of 17 people were implicated in the teenager's abduction from the city of Zarqa northeast of the capital last October.The gang wanted to make the boy suffer to punish his father, who had been detained on suspicion of killing the brother of four of them following an argument about money.The brutality of the attack shocked the kingdom. Queen Rania called it an "unspeakable atrocity in all respects".The king called for the culprits to be punished to the full extent of the law and the case was reclassified as an "act of terrorism" and transferred to the state security court.Among the other defendants, one was sentenced to 15 years jail for complicity, one to 10 years for kidnapping and two to one year. Seven were acquitted.Jordan has not carried out any executions since March 2017 although it has continued to hand down death sentences.In 2017, Jordan hanged 15 convicts, 10 of them for terrorism offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jordan-sentences-six-to-death-for-maiming-16-year-old-boy-101615982811641.html
17-03-2021||World||Shared climate vision on visit agenda with friend PM Modi: Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday said the UK and India’s shared vision for a sustainable future will be among the issues on the agenda for talks with “friend” Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his upcoming visit to New Delhi next month.Addressing the virtual International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (ICDRI) inaugurated by Modi, Johnson hailed the Indian Prime Minister's “fantastic leadership” in areas such as renewable energy in the global fight against climate change and welcomed the “excellent initiative” of CDRI led by India and co-chaired by the UK.He said the goal of such coalitions was to learn more from each other and support those particularly at risk from the dramatic effects of climate change, such as small island nations.“We have a shared vision for a sustainable future for our nations and global community and I very much look forward to discussing this and many other issues with Prime Minister Modi on my upcoming visit to India,” he said, in his video message from Downing Street in London.Johnson is set to visit India at the end of April.“I applaud my friend Prime Minister Modi for his commitment to this excellent initiative, the Coalition for Disaster Resilience Infrastructure (CDRI). The UK is proud to be its co-chair and I am delighted that since its launch, the coalition has made such a great start with 28 countries and organisations now signed up,” he said.He highlighted how the UK embarked on its journey to make its infrastructure more disaster-resilient over 10 years ago and is investing 5.2 billion pounds in bolstering flood defences and has a “wealth of expertise to share”.“If our battle with Covid-19 has taught us anything over the past year, it’s that we must be ready for whatever challenges may be coming next."And, as the world’s climate changes, we must not only do everything in power to strive for Global Net Zero, an ambitious 2030 emissions reductions target, but we must also adapt to its damaging effects and build more resilience to disasters – our roads, our bridges, powerlines, our schools and hospitals – all the infrastructure that we rely on to keep our economies moving and our communities safe. They must be made ready,” Johnson said.“As we look forward to COP26 in Glasgow this November, we are working hard to help countries adapt to the effects of climate change. Let’s take action now so that as we build back better from the pandemic, we do so cleaner and greener, making all our communities stronger and more resilient,” he added, in reference to the United Nations climate conference being hosted by the UK later this year.India and the UK are co-chairs of the CDRI and are presently working together to create a new multi-country facility to support Small Island Developing States in creating climate and disaster-resilient infrastructure.“In our quest for resilience, we are all in the same boat. The pandemic has reminded us that no one is safe until everyone is safe,” Modi said in his inaugural address.The virtual event, hosted by India from Wednesday to Friday, brings together stakeholders from partner countries and organisations to promote the resilience of new and existing infrastructure systems against climate and disaster risks in support of sustainable development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shared-climate-vision-on-visit-agenda-with-friend-pm-modi-boris-johnson-101615982927455.html
17-03-2021||World||Russia 'influenced' 2020 US presidential race to help Trump hurt Biden: Intelligence report||Russian President Vladimir Putin authorized influence operations to help Donald Trump in last November's presidential election, according to a declassified intelligence assessment that found broad efforts by the Kremlin and Iran to shape the outcome of the race but ultimately no evidence that any foreign actor changed votes or otherwise disrupted the voting process.The report released Tuesday from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence represents the most detailed assessment of the array of foreign threats to the 2020 election. These included efforts by Iran to undermine confidence in the vote and harm Trump’s reelection prospects as well as Moscow operations that relied on Trump's allies to smear Joe Biden, the eventual winner.Despite those threats, though, intelligence officials found "no indications that any foreign actor attempted to interfere in the 2020 US elections by altering any technical aspect of the voting process, including voter registration, ballot casting, vote tabulation, or reporting results.”The report is the latest official affirmation of the integrity of the election, even as Trump supporters continue to make false claims of interference, from foreign or domestic actors, and refuse to accept Biden’s victory. Multiple courts and even Trump’s own Justice Department refuted claims of widespread fraud. The document makes clear that even while Trump has cried foul about the legitimacy of the election, intelligence officials believe Russia sought to influence people close to Trump as a way to tip the election in his favour.The report, rejected by Russia as “unsubstantiated,” wades into the politically charged task of ferreting out which foreign adversaries supported which candidates during the 2020 election, an issue that dominated headlines last year. Trump, whose 2016 campaign benefited from hacking by Russian intelligence officers and a covert social media effort, seized on an intelligence assessment from August that said China preferred a Biden presidency — even though the same assessment also said Russia was working to boost Trump's own candidacy by disparaging Biden.Tuesday's report, however, says China ultimately did not interfere on either side and “considered but did not deploy" influence operations intended to affect the outcome. U.S. officials say they believe Beijing prioritized a stable relationship with the U.S. and did not consider either election outcome as advantageous enough for it to risk the “blowback” that would ensue if it got caught interfering.The primary threats instead came from Russia and Iran, albeit with different intentions and through different means, according to intelligence officials.In the case of Russia, the report says, Russia sought to undermine Biden’s candidacy because it viewed his presidency as opposed to the Kremlin's interests, though it took some steps to prepare for a Democratic administration as the election neared.The report also says Putin authorized influence operations aimed at denigrating Biden, boosting Trump, undermining confidence in the election and exacerbating social divisions in the U.S.Biden, in an interview that aired Wednesday on ABC's “Good Morning America,” said that there would be repercussions for Putin for a variety of misdeeds, saying, “The price he’s going to pay, you’ll see shortly."The president recounted that in their first call, held last month, he opened by saying to Putin that “we understand each other." And when asked in the interview if he thinks Putin is a killer, Biden said, “I do.”Central to Moscow's interference effort was reliance on proxies linked to Russian intelligence “to launder influence narratives" by using media organizations, U.S. officials and people close to Trump to push “misleading or unsubstantiated" allegations against Biden.Intelligence officials did not single out any Trump ally in that effort. But longtime associate Rudy Giuliani met multiple times with Ukrainian lawmaker Andrii Derkach, who in 2020 released heavily edited recordings of Biden in an effort to link the Democratic nominee to unsubstantiated corruption allegations. U.S. officials have said they regard Derkach as an “active Russian agent,” and Tuesday's report said Putin is believed to have a “purview” over his activities.Notably, though, Russia was not as aggressive as in past election cycles in trying to hack election infrastructure. The report says Russian cyber operations that targeted state and local government networks last year were probably not election-focused and were instead part of a broader effort to target the U.S. and global entities.The Kremlin on Wednesday rejected the allegations in the report.“We disagree with this report’s findings of our country,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on a conference call with reporters. “Russia didn’t interfere with the previous election and didn’t interfere with the 2020 election mentioned in the report."He said Russia "has nothing to do with campaigns against any of the candidates,” calling the report “unfounded and unsubstantiated.” He expressed regret that “such materials, far from being of high quality,” could be used as a pretext for new sanctions against Russia.Iran, meanwhile, carried out its own influence campaign aimed at harming Trump's reelection bid, an effort U.S. officials say was probably approved by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.One “highly targeted operation" — the subject of an October news conference by then-Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe and FBI Director Christopher Wray — involved a flurry of emails to Democratic voters in battleground states that falsely purported to be from the far-right group Proud Boys and threatened the recipients if they didn't vote for Trump.Iran's efforts, which officials say were more aggressive than in past elections and continued even after the contest was over, were focused on sowing discord in the U.S., likely because Tehran believed that would hurt Trump's re-election chances.Though Iran sought to exploit vulnerabilities on state election websites and did “compromise US entities associated with election infrastructure as a part of a broad targeting effort across multiple sectors worldwide,” it did not attempt to manipulate votes or affect election infrastructure, the report concluded.The 15-page document is a declassified version of an election interference report that was provided to Trump on Jan. 7, one day after a riot at the U.S. Capitol that occurred as Congress was gathering to certify the election results.A separate document released Tuesday from the departments of Justice and Homeland Security reached a similar conclusion about the integrity of the election, saying there was no evidence any foreign actor had changed votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-influenced-2020-race-to-help-trump-hurt-biden-us-intelligence-report-101615981740344.html
17-03-2021||World||Germany to boost incentives for firms offering vocational training by $830 million||Germany will increase incentives for firms offering vocational training by 700 million euros ($830 million) as the Covid-19 pandemic undermines efforts to reduce shortages of skilled labour in Europe's largest economy, officials said on Wednesday.Even before the coronavirus crisis hit in 2020, workers and trainees faced huge reskilling challenges due to the digitalisation of business models, automation of production steps and electrification in the automobile industry.The pandemic has increased the risk of skill bottlenecks and mismatch unemployment because virus-hit firms are scaling back vocational training positions and trainees are having problems applying for an apprenticeship during lockdown.In addition, the coronavirus is reshaping Europe's labour markets more fundamentally and spurring workers to seek new career paths as old jobs disappear or remain beset with uncertainty about any return to normal.Also read: Most Germans believe it was right to pause AstraZeneca shots, survey findsLabour Minister Hubertus Heil from the centre-left Social Democrats said he put forward a package of measures worth some 700 million euros, including the doubling of a premium to 4,000 euros for small- and medium-sized companies which do not reduce the number of vocational training positions.If a company decides to offer even more vocational training positions compared to an average of the previous three years, the government will raise the bonus to 6,000 euros."We can't afford a situation where there is no vocational training during the crisis and we lament the lack of skilled workers after the crisis," Heil told Deutschlandfunk radio.Cabinet is expected to pass the package later on Wednesday.The government will also lift the company size limit in the scheme to include firms with employees of up to 499, sharply up from the previous threshold of up to 249 workers.The government hopes that the increased incentives can help counter an expected plunge in vocational training this year.From October 2020 until February 2021, the number of people looking for vocational training was roughly 40,000 below the level recorded during the same period in the previous year, according to figures from the Federal Labour Office.At the same time, firms offered 37,000 fewer open positions in vocational training schemes during that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-to-boost-incentives-for-firms-offering-vocational-training-by-830-million-101615970552376.html
17-03-2021||World||US to “refrain from causing stink” amid deadlocked nuclear negotiations with North Korea||Fresh off a stop in Tokyo, President Joe Biden’s top diplomat and defense chief traveled to South Korea on Wednesday, a day after North Korea made sure it had their attention by warning the United States to “refrain from causing a stink” amid deadlocked nuclear negotiations.How to get North Korea to return to talks will be a major focus when Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin meet South Korean officials this week.It has been more than two years since nuclear talks stalled, and some experts say the United States and its allies should settle for a deal that would freeze North Korea’s nuclear program in return for relaxing sanctions — and possibly leave Pyongyang's already manufactured nuclear weapons in place.Austin and Blinken will meet their South Korean counterparts for separate talks Wednesday and a joint “two plus two” meeting Thursday, the first such contact between the two countries in five years.South Korea is the second leg of their regional tour aimed at boosting America’s Asian alliances to better deal with growing challenges from China and North Korea. While in Tokyo on Tuesday, they joined forces with Japanese officials to criticize China’s “coercion and aggression” and reaffirm their commitment to ridding North Korea of all its nuclear bombs.US-led diplomacy on that last topic has been in limbo since a February 2019 summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un collapsed over disputes on US-led sanctions. Kim has since threatened to enlarge his nuclear arsenal in protest of what he called US hostility.On Tuesday, Kim’s sister and a senior official in her own right, Kim Yo Jong, slammed the United States over its ongoing regular military drills with South Korea, which North Korea sees as an invasion rehearsal.“We take this opportunity to warn the new US administration,” Kim Yo Jong said in a statement. “If it wants to sleep in peace for (the) coming four years, it had better refrain from causing a stink at its first step.”Also watch: ‘If it wants to sleep in peace…’: Kim Jong Un’s sister & advisor warnsSome experts say Kim Yo Jong’s statement is a pressure tactic and that Pyongyang may try to further raise animosities with weapons tests to boost its leverage in future negotiations with Washington.Asked about Kim Yo Jong’s statement during a news conference in Tokyo, Blinken said that he was familiar with the comments and was more interested in hearing from allies and partners.Blinken said that Washington reached out to North Korea through several channels starting in mid-February, but it hasn’t received any response. He said the Biden administration is looking forward to completing its policy review on North Korea in coming weeks and was looking both at possible “additional pressure measures” and “diplomatic paths.”Shim Beomchul, an analyst with the Seoul-based Korea Research Institute for National Strategy, said he expects the Biden administration to pursue a deal with North Korea that resembles a 2015 accord that froze Iran’s nuclear program in return for lifting sanctions. While the United States won’t likely give up its long-term commitment to denuclearizing North Korea, rolling back the country’s nuclear capabilities to zero is not a realistic near-term diplomatic goal, he said.Trump blew up that 2015 Obama administration deal in favor of what he called maximum pressure against Iran, and the Biden government is trying to resurrect it.In an op-ed in the New York Times in 2018, Blinken, then a managing director of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, argued that the best deal the US could reach with North Korea “more than likely will look like what Barack Obama achieved with Iran.” He said that an interim agreement “would buy time to negotiate a more comprehensive deal, including a minutely sequenced road map that will require sustained diplomacy. That’s the approach Mr. Obama took with Iran.”Other experts say an Iran-style deal won’t work for North Korea. Iran hasn't built any bomb, but North Korea has already manufactured dozens. They say North Korea, which has a history of derailing agreements with its vehement rejection of verification processes, won’t find any reason to denuclearize when some of the most painful sanctions are lifted.“Everyone can say easily that (settling for) a nuclear freeze would allow North Korea to preserve its existing nukes. But I ask them what other options do they have” to realize North Korea’s denuclearization, said Kim Yeol Soo, an analyst with South Korea’s Korea Institute for Military Affairs.Another possible topic during US-South Korean talks is whether South Korea should actively participate in US-led efforts to curb China’s rising strength in the region.South Korea is a longtime US ally and hosts about 28,500 American troops. But its economy is heavily dependent on trade with China, making it difficult to take any step deemed provocative to its biggest trading partner. When South Korea allowed the United States to install anti-North Korea missile defense shield on its soil in 2017, it suffered economic retaliation from China, which sees the system’s radar as a security threat.South Korean Defense Minister Suh Wook told lawmakers Tuesday that the U.S. hadn’t formally proposed for South Korea to join an expanded format of the so-called “Quad” group that includes the United States, Japan, Australia and India, and that the Americans won’t likely make such a proposal during this week’s talks.China has called the Quad an attempt to contain its ambitions.Kim Yeol Soo said the allies will likely discuss Seoul joining an expanded Quad format, known as the Quad Plus, though they’ll never publicly announce it to avoid angering China. Kim said it would be “wise” for South Korea to join the Quad Plus to voice its opinions clearly and avoid being sidelined on issues involving Seoul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-refrain-from-causing-stink-amid-deadlocked-nuclear-negotiations-with-north-korea-101615970611366.html
17-03-2021||World||California's Group 11 completes first closing of fifth fintech fund||California-based venture capital firm Group 11 has completed the first closing of its fifth fintech fund, raising more than $120 million from investors.The group has invested in startups including Next Insurance and Papaya Global, while founding partner Dovi Frances said two more so-called unicorns are on the way in the portfolio within the next 90 days, without naming them.Also read: Warburg Pincus marks down value of Chinese fintech giant after IPO derailed“The opportunities in the financial technology sector have not waned,” Frances said in an interview. “Covid-19 has accelerated lots of things.”Group 11 was founded in 2012 and its latest fund will invest primarily in Silicon Valley-based fintech software companies often connected to Israel through founding teams and research and development centers, it said in a statement.The venture capital group has more than $400 million under management, and said it latest fund received backing from Israeli institutional investors including Migdal Insurance and Harel Group. Group 11’s fourth fund, from 2019, has garnered a nearly 90% internal rate of return so far, according to data provided by Frances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/californias-group-11-completes-first-closing-of-fifth-fintech-fund-101615965277422.html
17-03-2021||World||Human placenta continues to be sold illegally in China: Reports||Human placenta continues to be sold illegally in China, including on the internet, because of a steady demand for the organ’s unproven healing properties, a media report said this week.Customers who buy placenta cook and eat it, while the organ is also sold to traditional Chinese medicine makers who use it in medications.The practice, considered morbid by many, is not new to China but the report by thepaper.cn found that it continues to flourish despite a ban on trading of human organs since 2007.The usual sources to buy the human product are hospitals, medical waste treatment plants and funeral parlours, the report found, adding that each placenta could cost around 80 yuan ($12).Subsequently, after being processed, when it is sold to shops, the cost could go up to several hundred yuan.Processing placenta into capsules has become a business in China as some feel uncomfortable to eat it directly, said the report.Called “ziheche” in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), placenta is believed to strengthen immune systems that are weak and it is also said to be good for reproductive health.“On online shopping platform Taobao, placenta from a boy is sold at 480 yuan ($73) and 450 yuan ($69) from a girl. The price difference is due to a long-term belief in China that a baby boy’s placenta has stronger health benefits. Online sellers often use vague or cryptic language to disguise what they are selling to avoid detection by authorities,” according to the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post.“Currently, hospitals in China either return the placentas to their owners or dispose of them as medical wastes if new mothers don’t want them,” Huang Chengsheng, an obstetrician at the Shanghai Sixth People’s Hospital, told the tabloid Global Times in another report.“Many new mothers choose to take their placentas home and eat them,” Huang was quoted as saying.According to reports, placentophagy - the practice of eating one’s placenta after birth - is relatively common in China.Scientists have questioned the tradition.“Despite the many claimed benefits of placentophagy, it is unclear whether consumption of the placenta is advantageous. The placenta is not sterile and one function of the placenta is to protect the fetus from harmful exposure to substances. As a consequence, elements including selenium, cadmium, mercury, and lead, as well as bacteria have been identified in post-term placental tissues,” a paper published by the US’s National Centre for Biotechnology Information a few years ago said.“Due to in-utero or post-birth contamination bacteria or viruses may remain within post-term placental tissues. The potential adverse effects of these components of the placenta on the postpartum consumer and nursing infant are unknown,” the research paper added.The demand for placenta within China, however, is big enough for some to try and smuggle it from abroad.A number of seizures were carried out by Chinese customs in 2019.In September 2019, customs in the city of Yantai, east China’s Shandong province, intercepted a total of 3,500 injections and capsules of human placenta extract from an inbound flight.“The 3,300 injections, totalling 6,600ml, and 200 350mg capsules, were found undeclared in the luggage of a Chinese passenger who flew from Japan’s Nagoya to Yantai,” a Xinhua report on the seizure said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/human-placenta-continues-to-be-sold-illegally-in-china-reports-101615978989340.html
17-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Poland logs highest daily cases of 2021, nationwide lockdown in view||Poland reported 25,052 daily coronavirus cases on Wednesday, according to health ministry data, the highest number so far this year as the country looked to be moving closer to a nationwide lockdown.Poland has been implementing a policy of regional lockdowns in a bid to contain a surge in infections driven by a highly contagious variant of the coronavirus first discovered in Britain, but the government has said that if case numbers keep rising a nationwide lockdown is possible.Wednesday's total marked a significant increase on the previous 2021 record of 21,049, reported on Saturday. There were 453 deaths related to Covid-19 on Wednesday.In total, the country of 38 million has reported 1,956,974 cases and 48,032 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-poland-logs-highest-daily-cases-of-2021-nationwide-lockdown-in-view-101615977417674.html
17-03-2021||World||Boris Johnson’s Britain trade deal hit by China human rights row||Prime Minister Boris Johnson insisted the UK must be ready to increase trade with China, in the face of criticism that his government is putting commercial deals ahead of security and human rights.Setting out his principles for the UK’s future foreign and defense policy, Johnson told Parliament his administration would defend its values as well as its interests. He said Britain had already called out China for the treatment of its predominately Muslim Uyghur minority in Xinjiang, and had intervened to offer 3 million of Hong Kong’s people a path to becoming British citizens.“There is no question that China will pose a great challenge for an open society such as ours,” the prime minister told Parliament on Tuesday. “But we will also work with China where that is consistent with our values and interests, including building a stronger and positive economic relationship and in addressing climate change.”Some of Johnson’s own Conservatives -- including former Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt -- raised concerns that he wasn’t taking a strong enough line against Beijing and urged him to think again. Meanwhile, a report by UK lawmakers said their was “compelling evidence” that major fashion, retail, media and technology companies that do significant business in Britain were complicit in forced labor practices in Xinjiang.Whether China appreciates Johnson’s efforts to strike a balance remains unclear. Chinese diplomats have repeatedly denounced his government over the UK’s efforts to support Hong Kong’s pro-democracy opposition and ban China’s main state television network.Also read: British PM to visit India in April“We urge the UK to immediately stop making political maneuvers and correct its mistakes,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a regular news briefing last month after the UK communications regular revoked CGTN broadcasting license. Last week, the Foreign Ministry in Beijing summoned the UK ambassador, Caroline Wilson, over a commentary she wrote defending the foreign media.China denies using forced labor in Xinjiang, explaining its policies as vocational programs to combat extremism and poverty. “Such inflammatory accusations are fabricated out of ignorance and prejudice,” Foreign Minister Wang Yi told the UN Human Rights Council in February.Johnson is in a delicate position as he seeks to shape a new role for the UK outside the European Union, striking commercial agreements with new allies, while attempting to show the country is still a force for “good” in the world. His struggle parallels that of the EU, which is facing resistance in parliament to an investment agreement announced in December despite concerns about forced labor.A defense blueprint for the next decade released by the Johnson government on Tuesday called for greater focus on the Indian and Pacific oceans. That included upgrades to bases in Cyprus, Germany, Gibraltar, Kenya, Oman and Singapore so forces can respond more quickly to threats.‘Growth Markets’The British leader’s effort to defend his record on China was dented when the HuffPost UK published a leaked recording of Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab briefing an internal meeting of his officials that human rights considerations wouldn’t always trump trade needs. Restricting trade pacts to countries that meet the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights would hurt result in missing out on commerce with “growth markets,” Raab said.The Foreign Office responded by insisting that the leaked recording from the staff meeting had been selectively edited.“I squarely believe we ought to be trading liberally around the world,” Raab told his team. “If we restrict it to countries with ECHR-level standards of human rights, we’re not going to do many trade deals with the growth markets of the future.”A spokesman for the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office said the minister had in fact made clear “in his full answer” that Britain always defends human rights, and highlighted examples of sanctions and action the country had taken at the UN.“We regret that this audio has been deliberately and selectively clipped to distort the foreign secretary’s comments,” the spokesman said. “As he made crystal clear in his full answer, the UK always stands up for and speaks out on human rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-s-britain-trade-deal-hit-by-china-human-rights-row-101615965261317.html
17-03-2021||World||Peace with Pakistan will give India direct access to Central Asia: Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday said India will be benefitted economically by having peace with his country as it will enable New Delhi to directly access the resource-rich Central Asia region through Pakistani territory.Delivering the inaugural address at the launch of the two-day Islamabad Security Dialogue, Khan also said that his government after coming to power in 2018 did everything for better ties with India and it was for India to reciprocate.“India will have to take the first step. Unless they do so, we cannot do much,” he said.India last month said that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility.India has also told Pakistan that "talks and terror" cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India.Khan discussed Pakistan's vision of comprehensive national security, built on the pillars of traditional and non-traditional security, including his vision for economic prosperity and human welfare.Khan dwelt at length on the issue of peace in the region, including peace between Pakistan and India, saying "the unresolved Kashmir issue was the biggest hurdle between the two countries."“If India gives the Kashmiris their right under the UN (resolutions), it will be greatly beneficial for Pakistan as well as for India,” he said and added, “India can access Central Asia after peace.”Khan said that having a direct route to the Central Asian region will economically benefit India. Central Asia is rich in oil and gas.Central Asia, in the modern context, generally includes five resource-rich countries -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcating it into two Union territories in August, 2019.India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution was its internal matter. The Ministry of External Affairs has also underlined that the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India.India and Pakistan had announced on February 25 that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors.Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country.Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship dipped further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.The relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories.Talking about non-traditional threats to Pakistan, Khan said that climate change, food security and a weak economy were among the biggest challenges in the quest to realise the full concept of security.He acknowledged that improving the national economy was the biggest challenge but his government was trying to reduce trade deficit and control inflation so that the financial condition of common people could improve.“We cannot become a secure nation when a small rich minority is surrounded by the sea of poor people…National security is achieved when a nation stands up to secure itself,” he said at the dialogue organised by the National Security Division and think-tanks comprising the Advisory Board of National Security Committee.Khan also praised all-weather ally China for its "successful" handling of poverty and lifting more than 700 million people out of poverty in the last three decades. “It is their big achievement whether you like China or not,” he said.Khan said that Pakistan’s 25 per cent population was suffering from extreme poverty and another 25 per cent was just slightly better.He said the government already launched Ehsaas programme to give cash to the poor people and another programme of giving targeted subsidies to the poor was being launched.Khan also talked about peace in Afghanistan and reiterated support for the ongoing peace process by saying that Pakistan would be the greatest beneficiary of a stable Afghanistan.The Islamabad Security Dialogue is envisioned as an annual flagship security forum based on the model of major dialogues on security and international policy.The National Security Division, in collaboration with leading think-tanks that are part of its advisory board, has taken this initiative to provide a platform for critical thinking and robust intellectual discourse on some of the most pressing challenges and opportunities being faced by Pakistan and the wider region, according to an official statement.The two-day event is being attended virtually by international thinkers and scholars, members from the Federal Cabinet, diplomatic corps, former government officials, academia, think-tanks and civil society members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peace-with-pakistan-will-give-india-direct-access-to-central-asia-imran-khan-101615976726851.html
17-03-2021||World||Japan's economy slows; weakening of US, China shipments raises concerns||Japanese exports fell much faster than expected in February as US and China-bound shipments weakened, a source of concern for the world's third-largest economy as it tries to prop up growth.The prospects for a US recovery may ease concerns about the outlook for Japan's economy, however, which is seen slowing in the current quarter due to new Covid-19 curbs that have hit service-sector activity.Ministry of Finance data out on Wednesday showed Japanese exports fell 4.5% year-on-year in February, hurt by decline in US-bound shipments of automobiles."Japan's export growth has probably weakened this quarter, but uptrend remains intact," said Masaki Kuwahara, senior economist at Nomura Securities."The Chinese economy will resume recovery once a renewed rise in infections fades, and the vaccine rollouts and huge stimulus will give a boost to the US economy, all of which should help accelerate Japan's exports and broader economy in April-June."It was the first decline in three months, following a 6.4% gain in January. It was also much bigger than a 0.8% drop expected by economists in a Reuters poll.Also read: China acting aggressively, repressively in Asia, says BlinkenBy region, exports to China rose 3.4% in the year to February, led by chip-making equipment, nonferrous metals and plastic, slowing sharply from a 37.5% gain in the prior month due partly to the Lunar New Year holidays that fell in February.US-bound shipments, another key export market for Japanese goods, declined 14.0% year-on-year in February, dragged down by automobiles, airplane parts and motors, after a 4.8% drop in the prior month and posting a fourth straight month of declines.Exports to Asia, which accounts for more than half of Japan's overall shipments, fell 0.8% in the year to February, while those to European Union declined 3.3%, the data showed.The trade data comes on the eve of the Bank of Japan's two-day policy review at which it may phase out a numerical target for its risky asset buying, underscoring the rising cost of prolonged easing under Governor Haruhiko Kuroda's stimulus.It also follows the Reuters Tankan poll that found Japanese manufacturers grew more upbeat about a gradual recovery though worries about Covid-19 impact lingered.Imports rose 11.8% in the year to February, roughly matching the median estimate, following a 9.5% drop in the prior month and bringing a trade surplus of 217.4 billion yen ($2 billion).Imports marked the first annual gain in 22 months due to a pick-up in domestic demand, restocking of inventory and rises in crude oil and resources prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japans-economy-slows-weakening-of-us-china-shipments-raises-concerns-101615945875109.html
17-03-2021||World||'Don't come': Biden tells migrants after criticism over surge at Mexican border||US President Joe Biden urged migrants not to come to the United States on Tuesday, as criticism mounted over a surge in people arriving at the southern border with Mexico -- including thousands of unaccompanied children."Yes I can say quite clearly don't come over ... Don't leave your town or city or community," he said in an interview with ABC News, addressing the migrants.Speaking hours after his head of homeland security defended the administration's immigration policies, Biden also shrugged off claims that his dismantling of former president Donald Trump's tough stance had encouraged the surge, pointing out that there had been similar surges in 2019 and 2020."The idea that Joe Biden said 'come' - I heard the other day that they're coming because I'm a nice guy... Here's the deal, they're not," he said.On January 20, his first day in office, Biden scrapped several of Donald Trump's contentious immigration policies, including halting new construction of a border wall and proposing legislation to create a citizenship pathway for the nearly 11 million people living illegally in the US.Republican critics say Biden's policies caused a sharp increase in migrants seeking to cross into the US illegally.Also read: Undocumented Indian immigrants hold USD15.5 billion in spending powerThe president spoke a day after top Republican congressman Kevin McCarthy visited the border in Texas with fellow Republican lawmakers and accused Biden of creating a "crisis."- Migrant spikes 'not new' -Biden's chief of homeland security Alejandro Mayorkas on Tuesday also defended the administration's immigration policies.Mayorkas acknowledged the United States was "on pace" to encounter more migrants at the border than at any time in two decades, but said such spikes were "not new," having also occurred in 2019, 2014 and earlier."The situation we are currently facing at the southwest border is a difficult one," Mayorkas said in a statement."We are keeping our borders secure, enforcing our laws, and staying true to our values and principles."Mayorkas said the rise in unaccompanied children -- some as young as six or seven -- comes from ending the policies of Trump, whose administration "cruelly expelled young children into the hands of traffickers.""They are vulnerable children and we have ended the prior administration's practice of expelling them," he said.The Biden administration continues to expel most single adults and people traveling in families.In February, the US Customs and Border Protection agency (CBP) arrested about 100,000 people at the southern border -- including nearly 9,500 unaccompanied children -- a 28 percent jump over January.Mayorkas blasted the Trump administration for having cut aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras meant to tackle the root causes of migration such as violence and the impacts of natural disasters.Holding facilities for apprehended migrants are crowded, Mayorkas said, noting authorities had not "had the capacity to intake the number of unaccompanied children we have been encountering."Complicating conditions, pandemic-related physical distancing protocols have further reduced space, said Mayorkas, who has asked the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help activate additional facilities.Cuban-born Mayorkas said his parents, who brought him to the US as an infant, "understood the hope and promise of America.""Today, young children are arriving at our border with that same hope," he said. "We can do this."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-come-biden-tells-migrants-after-criticism-over-surge-at-mexican-border-101615957550237.html
17-03-2021||World||Woman, with history of stowaways, arrested for sneaking into Chicago airport||A woman with a history of stowing away on airliners was arrested Tuesday for attempting to sneak onto a flight at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, authorities said.The arrest of Marilyn Hartman, 69, came two weeks after a judge rejected a plea deal that would have given her probation for a previous attempt to stowaway on a flight. Hartman is being held on a trespassing charge.Hartman allegedly left the facility where she had been staying while on electronic monitoring. The device allowed Cook County sheriff's deputies to track her as she headed for O'Hare. Deputies activated an alarm on Hartman's device as she neared Terminal 1, where she was arrested.Officials of the Cook County Sheriff's Department say plans are to seek a felony escape charge for Hartman.Hartman's arrest comes two weeks after a court hearing in which Hartman's attorneys and prosecutors said they reached the plea deal on a pending case that would have imposed 18 months of probation, plus court-ordered mental health treatment.Formal plea proceedings had not begun, but Judge Peggy Chiampas put attorneys on notice that she was not inclined to agree to that sentence.Hartman, was arrested at O'Hare in October 2019 just as she was trying to pass the second of two security checkpoints, according to court records. She was released from Cook County Jail about a year ago in an effort to release low-risk detainees from contracting Covid-19.The 2019 arrest violated her probation sentence for sneaking past O'Hare security in January 2018, boarding a jet and flying to London's Heathrow Airport without a ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/woman-with-history-of-stowaways-busted-for-sneaking-into-chicago-airport-101615957530210.html
17-03-2021||World||Most Germans believe it was right to pause AstraZeneca shots, survey finds||A majority of Germans believe it was right for the government to suspend AstraZeneca's COVID-19 shots pending an investigation of cases where recipients developed unusual blood disorders, an opinion poll showed on Wednesday.Germany, along with more than a dozen European Union member states, halted AstraZeneca after its vaccine oversight body found seven people had suffered rare cerebral vein thromboses, three of whom died.According to the Forsa snap poll for broadcasters RTL and ntv, 54% of respondents said the decision by Health Minister Jens Spahn had been right. Nearly four in 10 said the reaction was excessive. Some 39% thought the suspension was wrong.The European Union's drug regulator is investigating the reports of blood clots, bleeding and low platelet counts and will report its findings on Thursday.Its head, Emer Cooke, said on Tuesday that the benefits of the AstraZeneca shot clearly outweighed its risks. It was important, she added, to maintain public trust in vaccines in order to beat the coronavirus pandemic.The willingness of Germans to be vaccinated against COVID, at 71%, has fallen by two percentage points since Forsa's last poll on March 3. The new survey covered 1,001 respondents and had a margin for error of three percentage points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/most-germans-believe-it-was-right-to-pause-astrazeneca-shots-survey-finds-101615975468744.html
17-03-2021||World||'I kneel on the streets of Myanmar and say stop the violence': Pope Francis||Pope Francis appealed on Wednesday for an end to bloodshed in Myanmar, saying: "Even I kneel on the streets of Myanmar and say 'stop the violence'".Francis made the appeal, his latest since a Feb. 1 coup, at the end of his weekly general audience, held remotely from the Vatican library because of Covid-19 restrictions.More than 180 protesters have been killed as security forces try to crush a wave of demonstrations."One more time and with much sadness I feel the urgency to talk about the dramatic situation in Myanmar, where many people, most of them young, are losing their lives in order to offer hope to their country," he said.In language symbolising what protesters have done, Francis said: "Even I kneel on the streets of Myanmar and say 'stop the violence.' Even I open my arms and say 'Let dialogue prevail'."Francis, who visited Myanmar in 2017, said: "Blood does not resolve anything. Dialogue must prevail."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-kneel-on-the-streets-of-myanmar-and-say-stop-the-violence-pope-101615974981692.html
17-03-2021||World||Nepal expecting hundreds of mountain climbers despite Covid crisis||Nepal is expecting hundreds of foreigners to attempt to scale the highest Himalayan peaks despite the pandemic.The Department of Tourism in Kathmandu said Wednesday that more than 300 foreigners have expressed interest in climbing Mount Everest this spring.There's similar interest for other mountains too, said Mira Acharya, a director at the department.Japanese and Canadians teams are already trekking their way to the Everest base camp, Acharya said.The spring season, which is popular because of favorable weather, began this month. It extends up to the end of May, when weather deteriorates and climbing becomes dangerous.Those wishing to scale mountains still have to be quarantined in a hotel in the capital and test negative for the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-expecting-hundreds-of-mountain-climbers-despite-covid-crisis-101615974641801.html
17-03-2021||World||Myanmar protesters don't relent in face of deadly crackdown||Protesters against the military takeover in Myanmar were not relenting Wednesday as the deadly crackdown on peaceful demonstrations took an increasing toll.The verified death toll among protesters since the February 1 coup ousting the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi has now exceeded 200, according to a tally compiled by the independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.“Junta forces target protesters but also ordinary people using sniper rifles regardless of the time or place,” charged the organisation.“Some injured people were arrested and died without access to medical treatment, some individuals have died due to being tortured during interrogation, some others who were shot dead in a crackdown were dragged away without mercy and their dead bodies are not being returned to their families by junta forces,” it elaborated, repeating widespread and credible allegations.The association, whose tallies include only verified cases, said that as of Tuesday, in addition to 202 fatalities, 2,181 people have been arrested or charged, with 1,862 still being detained or sought.The coup reversed years of slow progress toward democracy in Myanmar, which for five decades had languished under strict military rule that led to international isolation and sanctions.Regional media outlets and social media posts reported new peaceful protest marches Wednesday in Taungoo, Thayet, Myingyan, and Madaya, all in central Myanmar; Tamu, in the northwest near the border with India, and Pyay, on the Irrawaddy River northwest of Yangon.There were also fresh reports of the novel protest tactic of lining up rows of signboards in public streets to serve as proxies for human demonstrators, an approach that is being called “non-human strikes.”Such actions took place Wednesday in Pyinmana, a satellite town of the capital Naypyitaw, and Naungcho, a town in Shan State in north-central Myanmar.Protesters in Yangon's Kyeemyindine township put a new spin on the tactic, having coconuts stand in for people, painted word by word in Burmese, “Spring Revolution.”Police in several Yangon neighbourhoods on Tuesday night continued their aggressive patrols, firing in the air, attacking several individuals and conducting raids on the homes of suspected protesters. They also dismantled barricades put up Wednesday morning by protesters.The extent of protests Wednesday in Yangon was hard to gauge as the government further restricted communications, limiting access to timely information.The government ordered mobile internet data service shut on Sunday. Wi-Fi access, much less extensive, has been left on, but some users reported Wednesday that it has slowed to a crawl, making it difficult to upload photos and video.Several neighbourhoods in Yangon have been under martial law since Monday, putting them under complete control by the military, which has also made it difficult for protesters to organise and communicate.State television MRTV announced Tuesday evening that a leading figure in the resistance movement, Dr Sasa, has been charged with high treason, which carries a death sentence.Sasa, a medical doctor who uses a single name, is a member of the Chin ethnic minority and was appointed a special U.N. envoy by the Committee Representing Pyihtaungsu Hluttaw, comprising elected members of Parliament who were not allowed to take their seats.The CRPH, which operates underground inside the country and with representatives abroad, has established itself as a shadow government that claims to be the sole legitimate representative body of Myanmar's citizens. It was declared an illegal treasonous organization by the junta.Sasa is accused of stirring up internal conflict and acting against the junta, which claims to be the country's sole legitimate ruling body despite having ousted an elected government.Sasa said he was proud to be charged with treason, “because treason against the junta means that I am standing with the people of Myanmar, giving my life for their freedom, for federal democracy and for justice.”His statement, dated Tuesday and duplicated on his Facebook page, recounted the Myanmar military's long history of committing atrocities against ethnic minorities and putting down past protest movements, as well as the killings of civilians following last month's coup.“It is these Generals that have committed acts of treason every day. Taking what they want for themselves, denying the people their rights, and oppressing those that stand in their way,” Sasa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-don-t-relent-in-face-of-deadly-crackdown-101615972906947.html
17-03-2021||World||Biden White House kicks off Covid stimulus tour||With a promise of "shots in arms and money in pockets," President Joe Biden on Monday kicked off a week of promotion and travel for the $1.9 trillion pandemic relief bill he signed into law last week to help the country move past the Covid-19 pandemic.Biden and other advocates including Vice President Kamala Harris and first lady Jill Biden are being deployed to various states and to television as part of what the White House is calling the "Help Is Here Tour."The package, one of the largest economic stimulus measures in U.S. history, provides $1,400 direct payments to most Americans, $350 billion in aid to state and local governments, an expansion of the child tax credit and increased funding for vaccine distribution."Help is here, and hope is here, in real and tangible ways," Biden said in remarks from the White House.The legislation was Biden's first legislative priority on taking office in January. His fellow Democrats used narrow majorities in the House of Representatives and Senate to pass a large measure of what Biden originally proposed without Republican support.The Democratic president said his administration would reach two important goals over the next 10 days: 100 million coronavirus shots in people's arms and 100 million checks in people's pockets or bank accounts."Shots in arms and money in pockets. That's important. The American Rescue Plan is already doing what it was designed to do: make a difference in people's everyday lives. And we're just getting started," Biden added.The White House has said it does not believe former President Barack Obama's administration, in which Biden served as vice president, did enough to promote its more than $800 billion 2009 economic rescue program. Democrats went on to lose control of the House to Republicans the next year.Taking their case directly to the people, Harris traveled to Las Vegas on Monday, while Biden goes to Pennsylvania on Tuesday and Atlanta on Friday. He will also do an interview on Wednesday on ABC's "Good Morning America" program."We want to avoid a situation where folks are unaware of what they're entitled to and then this moment passes and they don't get the full relief," the vice president told reporters in Las Vegas.POPULAR SUPPORTDemocrats regard the bill as good policy and good politics. Opinion polls show majorities supporting efforts to shore up the coronavirus vaccination campaign, prepare schools to reopen and ease poverty after a year-long pandemic that has killed more than 535,000 Americans and put millions of people out of work.Republicans, who broadly supported coronavirus relief early in the crisis when Republican Donald Trump was president, have called the latest measure an overpriced collection of pet projects unrelated to the pandemic.Harris said she visited Nevada because of the disproportionate impact the pandemic has had on the state's hospitality industry. Speaking with workers and labor unions about the legislation's benefits, she urged people to file their taxes so they can receive such relief faster.She will visit Colorado on Tuesday. Both there and in Nevada, Democrats will be defending U.S. Senate seats in elections next year that could be critical in helping the party maintain narrow control of that chamber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-white-house-kicks-off-covid-stimulus-tour-101615971766517.html
17-03-2021||World||Sri Lanka to continue with Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine: Govt spokesman||Sri Lanka will continue to use the Oxford AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines despite its suspension in some countries over reports that the doses were causing blood clot-related complications, a government spokesman said on Wednesday.Some nations, mostly European, suspended the use of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, which also has a tie-up with the Serum Institute of India, after some reports of blood clotting.Ramesh Pathirana, the Cabinet co-spokesman, said that the vaccine halted in certain European countries was limited to one batch of the vaccine and Sri Lanka had not received doses from the same batch.“Those vaccines which are involved in that problem only belong to a certain batch in that vaccine are temporarily suspended in certain countries in Europe, that batch of vaccines was not given to Sri Lanka,” he said.He said that the public should remain calm and not fear such reports.His comments come in the wake of several European countries -- including Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Norway and Iceland -- pausing the administration of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jab. Some Asian and African countries have expressed concern. Congo and Thailand have stopped the doses.However, the UK and EU regulators and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have backed the usage of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jabs.India gifted 500,000 doses of Oxford AstraZeneca vaccines to Sri Lanka, which kicked off its vaccination programme in late January.Health officials said some 7,84,500 people out of the 21 million population had already been given the first dose of the vaccine. Pathirana said under the World Health Organization’s COVAX facility, the island would soon receive another batch of vaccines.“We are arriving at a controlled situation due to the intervention of the health officials and security forces and due to the dedication of the people,” he said.Sri Lanka has so far reported 88,524 coronavirus cases with 534 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-to-continue-with-oxford-astrazeneca-vaccine-govt-spokesman-101615965427630.html
17-03-2021||World||Myanmar's Buddhist monks urge military to end violence against protesters||Myanmar's most powerful Buddhist monks' association called on the junta to end violence against protesters and accused an "armed minority" of torture and killing innocent civilians since last month's coup, media said on Wednesday.In its most forthright condemnation of the military's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations, the government-appointed organisation also said in a draft statement its members intended to halt activities, in an apparent protest.The State Sangha Maha Nayaka Committee planned to release a final statement after consulting the religious affairs minister on Thursday, Myanmar Now news portal said, citing a monk who attended a meeting of the committee.Monks have a long history of activism in Myanmar and were at the forefront of a 2007 "Saffron Revolution" against military rule, an uprising that, although suppressed, helped usher in democratic reforms.Committee members could not immediately be reached for comment, but their reported stance would signal a significant rift between authorities and a group that usually works closely with the government.Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military ousted Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government on Feb. 1, detaining her and members of her party, drawing wide international condemnation.Ousted members of parliament, most from Suu Kyi's party, pushed for a united stand against the coup in the ethnically diverse country, saying the designation of terrorist would be lifted from all autonomy-seeking insurgents fighting for democracy.More than 180 protesters have been killed as security forces try to crush a wave of demonstrations, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners activist group says.Security forces killed a man at a demonstration in Yangon overnight, the victim's brother said. In the morning, protesters in one neighbourhood left rows of coconuts on a road, representing people, with a sign saying: "Give back our future!"While the security forces have focused on stamping out dissent in the main city of Yangon, small demonstrations erupt elsewhere.Several hundred people gathered with protest signs in Demoso in the east, Pathein in the Irrawaddy river delta and Dawei in the south on Wednesday, pictures on social media showed.Residents of the second city of Mandalay and the central town of Monywa also reported protests.A total mobile internet shutdown made it difficult for protesters to communicate and verify the information. Very few people in Myanmar have access to Wi-Fi."We have to use old ways to communicate," Chit Chit Win, a member of a women's protest group, told Reuters from Dawei."We use a guerrilla protest system. We tell people to disperse if security forces come...avoiding confrontation but doing what we can."A team of U.N. investigators on Myanmar appealed for people to collect and preserve documentary evidence of crimes ordered by the military in order to build cases against its leaders.A junta spokesman did not answer telephone calls seeking comment.Deadly pay disputeParts of Yangon have been placed under martial law and thousands of residents have fled the industrial suburb of Hlaingthaya where security forces killed 40 people on Sunday and Chinese-financed factories were set ablaze.Workers said a dispute over pay at a Chinese-owned factory in the industrial zone turned violent on Tuesday after the owner called the security forces, who shot dead a labour leader and then at least four people.Myanmar Now said six people were killed. Two doctors told Reuters there were still wounded people there, but the army had sealed off the area.Chinese state media have warned that Beijing could take unspecified action if there are further attacks on Chinese-owned businesses.Many people in Myanmar believe Beijing is backing the military. Unlike Western powers, China has not condemned the coup and, along with Russia, has prevented the U.N. Security Council from denouncing the military's actions.France said the European Union would approve sanctions against those behind the coup next Monday.The junta charged with treason an emissary of the ousted lawmakers who is attempting to re-establish the civilian government. Sasa, who goes by a single name and is abroad, issued a statement saying he was proud to have been charged and the generals committed treason every day.The ousted members of parliament said they recognised all insurgent groups committed to a "federal democratic union" and thanked them for giving refuge to coup opponents who had fled to their zones.The army, which has said for decades it is the only institution capable of ensuring national unity, said it took power after its accusations of fraud in a Nov. 8 election won by Suu Kyi's party were rejected by the electoral commission.It has promised a new election but not set a date.Suu Kyi, 75, has been detained since the coup and faces various charges including illegally importing walkie-talkie radios and infringing coronavirus protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmars-buddhist-monks-urge-military-to-end-violence-against-protesters-101615970242700.html
17-03-2021||World||Vietnam says homegrown Covid-19 vaccine to be available by 4th quarter||Vietnam's first domestically developed Covid-19 vaccine, called Nanocovax, is expected to be available by the fourth quarter of this year and put into use in 2022, the health ministry said on Wednesday.The announcement comes as more countries try to speed up development of homegrown vaccines amid tight global supply and concerns over the emergence of new strains of the virus."The containment of the pandemic depends largely on the development of vaccines," the ministry said in a statement.Four Vietnamese companies were engaged in vaccine research and production and two were undertaking human tests including on Nanocovax and the Covivac vaccine, it said.Vietnam has been relying on the AstraZeneca vaccine so far and since launching vaccinations on March 8 more than 20,000 people have been inoculated.A health ministry official said on Tuesday there were no plans to halt its use after some European countries had suspended their rollout over reports of blood clots.Health minister Nguyen Thanh Long said on Wednesday 1.3 million AstraZeneca doses will arrive in Vietnam by the end of March and be distributed across the country.Vietnam is also in talks to buy vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and the maker of Russia's Sputnik V, the minister said, adding that it may reach a deal to secure 30 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine this year.The government has previously said it would acquire 150 million vaccine doses in total, including via direct purchases from producers and through the COVAX vaccine-sharing scheme.Vietnam was praised globally for its record in containing the virus for long spells last year through mass testing and tracing and strict quarantining, though it has faced a recent rebound of infections.The country has recorded 2,560 Covid-19 infections, with about 60% locally transmitted cases. It has reported just 35 deaths due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-says-homegrown-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-by-4th-quarter-101615959176392.html
17-03-2021||World||Voters go to polls on final day of pandemic-hit Dutch election||Thousands of voting booths opened across the Netherlands early Wednesday on the final day of a general election overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic, with caretaker Prime Minister Mark Rutte seeking a fourth term in office.Rutte's conservative People’s Party for Freedom and Democracy has been leading polls by a wide margin for about a year, but the lead has been shrinking in recent weeks.If his party emerges as the largest when polls close at 9 p.m. (2000 GMT), Rutte will be first in line to lead talks to form the next ruling coalition. If he succeeds, he could become the country's longest-serving prime minister.His popularity rose sharply last year as he steered his country through the pandemic that has killed more than 16,000 people in the Netherlands and plunged the prosperous nation of just over 17 million into recession. But that popularity has eroded in recent weeks as public support for a months-long lockdown declined and his government resigned over a scandal involving tax officials wrongly labeling thousands of families as fraudsters.“What are you still doing here?” anti-immigration opponent Geert Wilders asked Rutte in a final televised debate Tuesday night. “Why don’t you stand down and let somebody else take over? We can’t let the pyromaniac put out the fire in the Netherlands.”Voters also have other issues on their minds, from the climate to housing shortages, health care funding and the Netherlands' place in Europe.A preelection version of the respected Peilingwijzer survey of different opinion polls predicted forecast Rutte’s party will win between 34 and 36 seats in the 150-seat lower house of parliament. Wilders’ party is tipped to win 18-20 seats and the centrist D66 party, led by the country's minister for foreign trade and development cooperation Sigrid Kaag, who has positioned herself in the campaign as a viable alternative for Rutte as prime minister. The Netherlands has never had a woman as prime minister.Voting began Monday and Tuesday ostensibly for people considered to be in high risk groups for the virus. People aged over 70 also had the option of mail-in voting.The procedure for opening and counting postal votes had to be changed mid-election Tuesday after what the interior ministry called “procedural mistakes” by voters mailing in their ballots.A record 37 parties are taking part in the election, with 17 forecast to garner enough votes to win at least one seat in parliament's 150-seat lower house, up from 13 at the last election. That splintering of the political landscape is likely to make coalition formation negotiations a tough and lengthy process.Election officials had to cast their net wider in their hunt for suitable locations for polling stations so that they could offer enough room for social distancing between voters. Churches, concert halls and even Amsterdam's Van Gogh Museum have been pressed into service, while voters in cars and on bikes could also cast their ballot at a drive-thru polling center in the Dutch capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/voters-go-to-polls-on-final-day-of-pandemic-hit-dutch-election-101615965365601.html
17-03-2021||World||UN investigators seek evidence of criminal orders by Myanmar junta||A UN team of investigators on Myanmar appealed on Wednesday for people to collect and preserve documentary evidence of crimes ordered by the military since a Feb. 1 coup, in order to build future cases against its leaders.More than 180 protesters have been killed in the southeast Asian nation by security forces trying to crush a wave of demonstrations since the junta seized power, says activist group the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners."The persons most responsible for the most serious international crimes are usually those in high leadership positions," Nicholas Koumjian, the head of the UN team, said in a statement."They are not the ones who physically perpetrate the crimes and often are not even present at the locations where the crimes are committed."To prove their responsibility requires evidence of reports received, orders given and how policies were set."People with such information should contact the investigators through secure means of communication, he added, citing apps such as Signal or a ProtonMail account.On Tuesday, the UN human rights office condemned the use of live ammunition against the Myanmar protesters, saying, "We call on the military to stop killing and detaining protesters."Myanmar has been in turmoil since its military ousted the elected government of Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi on Feb. 1, detaining her and members of her party, drawing wide international condemnation.The UN investigators are collecting evidence of the use of lethal force, unlawful arrests, torture, and detentions of people whose families are not told of their whereabouts, an illegal practice known as enforced disappearance, the statement said.The Geneva-based Independent Investigative Mechanism for Myanmar was set up by the UN Human Rights Council in Sept. 2018 to consolidate evidence of the most serious crimes and violations of international law committed in Myanmar since 2011.Koumjian has worked in courts prosecuting figures including former Liberian President Charles Taylor and former Cambodian President Khieu Samphan and his chief ideologist of the brutal Khmer Rouge Nuon Chea, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-investigators-seek-evidence-of-criminal-orders-by-myanmar-junta-101615969481828.html
17-03-2021||World||Over 10 million displaced by climate disasters in six months: Report||About 10.3 million people were displaced by climate change-induced events such as flooding and droughts in the last six months, the majority of them in Asia, a humanitarian organisation said on Wednesday.The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said about 2.3 million others were displaced by conflict in the same period, indicating the vast majority of internal displacements are now triggered by climate change.Though the figures cover only a six-month period from September 2020 to February 2021, they highlight an accelerating global trend of climate-related displacement, said Helen Brunt, Asia Pacific Migration and Displacement Coordinator for the IFRC."Things are getting worse as climate change aggravates existing factors like poverty, conflict, and political instability," Brunt said. "The compounded impact makes recovery longer and more difficult: people barely have time to recover and they're slammed with another disaster."Some 60% of climate-IDPs (internally displaced persons) in the last six months were in Asia, according to IFRC's report.McKinsey & Co consulting firm has said that Asia "stands out as being more exposed to physical climate risks than other parts of the world in the absence of adaptation and mitigation".Statistics from the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center (IDMC) show that on average 22.7 million people are displaced every year. The figure includes displacements caused by geophysical phenomenon such as earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, but the vast majority are displaced by weather-related events.Globally, 17.2 million people were displaced in 2018 and 24.9 million in 2019. Full-year figures are not yet available for 2020, but IDMC's mid-year report showed there were 9.8 million displacements because of natural disasters in the first half of last year.More than 1 billion people are expected to face forced migration by 2050 due to conflict and ecological factors, a report by the Institute for Economics and Peace found last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-10-million-displaced-by-climate-disasters-in-six-months-report-101615970120177.html
17-03-2021||World||US sanctions 24 China and Hong Kong officials ahead of talks||The US sanctioned an additional 24 Chinese and Hong Kong officials over Beijing’s ongoing crackdown on political freedoms in the semi-autonomous city, just ahead of the Biden administration's first face-to-face talks with China.The step reflects Washington’s “deep concern” about the erosion of Hong Kong’s autonomy following changes to its election system endorsed by China’s ceremonial legislature last week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement Wednesday.Foreign financial institutions that deal with the 24 officials would be subject to U.S. sanctions, the State Department said.The planned changes to Hong Kong's electoral law give a pro-Beijing committee power to appoint more of Hong Kong’s lawmakers. The move will reduce the proportion of those directly elected and ensures that only those determined to be truly loyal to Beijing are allowed to run for office — effectively shutting opposition figures out of the political process.The U.S. announcement was made during a visit by Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin to Japan and South Korea, both of which are wary of China's growing economic, military and political heft.While in Tokyo, the two officials delivered a joint statement with their Japanese counterparts expressing concern about Beijing’s human rights violations in the western Xinjiang region against ethnic minorities and China’s determination to alter the status of a group of uninhabited islets administered by Tokyo but claimed by Beijing. The two arrived in Seoul on Wednesday for talks.On Thursday, Blinken and national security adviser Jake Sullivan are scheduled to meet Foreign Minister Wang Yi and the foreign affairs chief of China's ruling Communist Party, Yang Jiechi, in Anchorage, Alaska.The White House has set low expectations for the meeting. A senior official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity, said the two sides would not deliver a joint statement and no major announcements were expected.The U.S. has said it will be an initial opportunity to address intense disagreements over trade and human rights in Tibet, Hong Kong and Xinjiang as well as the coronavirus pandemic.While President Joe Biden has sought to ease the harsh tone his predecessor took with China, his administration appears committed to taking a tough line on those issues.China has rejected all criticism of its policies toward Hong Kong, accusing foreign governments of interfering and saying political tightening was necessary following months of anti-government protests in 2019.Last June, Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law on the city and Hong Kong authorities have arrested most of the prominent pro-democracy supporters and outspoken critics. Many others have fled abroad and renewed their calls this week for members of the Hong Kong diaspora to keep up the fight for freedoms promised to the city after the 1997 end of British colonial rule.Among those included in the sanctions are Wang Chen, a member of the Chinese Communist Party’s elite 25-member Politburo, and Tam Yiu-chung, the Hong Kong delegate to the Chinese parliament’s standing committee, which drafted the national security law.Several officers from Hong Kong’s National Security Division were also sanctioned, including Li Kwai-wah, a senior superintendent, as well as Edwina Lau, a deputy commissioner of the Hong Kong police force and the head of the division.Starting last October, the U.S. had already sanctioned 10 officials including Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam and Deputy Director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office Zhang Xiaoming. Sanctions forbid their travel to the U.S. and block their dealings with American financial institutions.Lam said in a television interview in November last year that the sanctions meant she receives her salary in cash and has “piles of cash” at home because she was cut off from banking services in Hong Kong.Chinese officials have shrugged off the impact of sanctions, with some calling their designation a point of pride in what they view as an attempt to undermine Chinese control in Hong Kong and its rise as a competitor to the U.S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sanctions-24-china-and-hong-kong-officials-ahead-of-talks-101615969716238.html
17-03-2021||World||Multilingual team helps Berlin immigrants fight coronavirus||Three times a week, Aliye Tuerkyilmaz hits the markets and busy shopping streets of Neukoelln to hand out informational flyers on the coronavirus pandemic to residents of the German capital's crowded immigrant neighborhood that's studded with minarets, kebab stores and hookah lounges.The 48-year-old Turkish immigrant who speaks four languages is part of a team of five street workers enlisted to explain the dangers of Covid-19 to people often not reached through traditional channels in an area where infection numbers have regularly been among the highest in the city.“Especially the older immigrants don't understand German, some are illiterate, and some are still not aware of the health risks and regulations regarding the pandemic,” Tuerkyilmaz says as she roams through a Turkish market along the Landwehr canal where many had come to pick up fresh vegetables, chicken and bread.There are a combination of factors that have made Neukoelln a virus hotspot in Berlin, where low incomes mean that living quarters are often cramped, public transport is frequently the only option, and jobs are commonly in high-risk areas such as the food service industry.But it was the lack of information making it to the residents that prompted the formation of Tuerkyilmaz's “intercultural educational team,” or IKAT, in September by the Berlin NGO Chance BJS in coordination with district officials.The hope is that they will be able to break through the lack of communication, which not only has to do with language barriers but also a deep distrust of German authorities fed by a sense of nonacceptance, says Kazim Erdogan, a community leader with Turkish roots.“If we can't create a sense of belonging together in normal times, if people are existing next to or even against each other, then it is not possible to create this sense of togetherness now," Erdogan says.Around 35% of Berlin's 3.6 million residents have immigrant roots, primarily from Poland, Turkey, Arabic countries and the former Soviet Union. In Neukoelln, almost half have a foreign background.The district's number of coronavirus cases per 100,000 residents is currently at 4,828, compared to a city-wide average figure of 3,575.A study published by the Berlin state health authority in February indicated the hardest-hit districts were those with more unemployment, a greater share of welfare recipients and lower household income. The incidence of Covid-19 also rose in line with the percentage of people with a family history of migration and greater population density — factors that are linked to poverty.“Migration is not the main reason for a higher risk of catching the virus, but it is an additional one,” said Nico Dragano, a professor of medical sociology at the Heinrich-Heine University of Duesseldorf, who has been studying the disproportionally strong impact of the pandemic on underprivileged parts of society.Lacking information early on in the pandemic, many immigrant communities stuck to cherished traditions like big weddings and extended family meals in their small homes, which helped contribute to clusters of outbreaks, said Erdogan, the Neukoelln community leader.“Among my friends, there were also 20 people who got infected from one family,” Erdogan said. “They were at a celebration and didn't take the challenges seriously — it came back to haunt them.”More than 135,000 people in Berlin have been reported to have caught the coronavirus, though the estimated number of unreported cases is higher, and about 3,000 people have died.While Neukoelln was one of the city's main virus hot spots last summer, its latest number of cases — 75.5 new infections weekly per 100,000 residents — is on par with the city's current average of 75.1.It's too early to say how much initiatives like the multilingual street workers' team have contributed to bringing down the virus numbers, but district mayor Martin Hikel said that anecdotally, unconventional ways of communicating with Neukoelln's diverse immigrant communities have been important.Hikel said many residents of his district don't read German papers or watch German television stations where constantly changing virus regulations, including lockdowns, school and store closures and reopenings, are reported daily.Beyond the IKAT team, Neukoelln has sought to rectify that through other initiatives as well.City workers have painted basic rules of conduct during the pandemic — such as mask regulations — directly on sidewalks in bold letters and different languages. They've also created short multilingual videos detailing the risks of COVID-19 that feature different community leaders — including Erdogan — which can easily be shared on Facebook or via messenger services on smartphones.“We try to spread the word on social media, through social workers and local associations," Hikel said, adding that local authorities are often a step ahead of state and federal officials with their outreach methods because they are more aware of the reality on the ground.Izabella Grajkowski, a 34-year-old IKAT member with Polish roots, said people have generally been open when she approaches them in the streets.She attributes the success of IKAT's outreach work also to the fact that all members are immigrants themselves and can draw on that experience as they talk to people. They also help translate for those who have in-depth medical questions for a doctor who often joins IKAT outings and offers on-the-spot antigen tests for those who fear they’ve contracted the virus.“We all have different cultural backgrounds ourselves and we connect well with the people of Neukoelln,” she said.Topics of most concern to people are the re-opening of schools, stores and restaurants, whether they are allowed to travel abroad to visit relatives, and when and how they'll be able to get vaccinated.“The elderly have already been getting invitations for the vaccinations explaining how to register online," said Tuerkyilmaz. ”But everything is in German only — they don't understand it and don't know what to do. It's difficult."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multilingual-team-helps-berlin-immigrants-fight-coronavirus-101615968669389.html
17-03-2021||World||Britain considering best way to proceed on vaccine passports, says minister||Britain is looking at the idea of vaccine passports and discussing the best way to proceed in terms of fairness, said business minister Kwarsi Kwarteng.P&O Cruises said earlier on Wednesday that it would only accept as passengers those who have had the vaccine for trips around the UK this summer, sparking a fresh debate on the issue."We are discussing what the best way to proceed is," Kwarteng told the BBC when asked about the fairness of non-vaccinated people being denied access to hospitality, entertainment and travel.On travel in particular, Kwarteng said that any policy needed to be driven by the data."We are having debates, discussions about travel...but I think what we also have to do is be driven by the data, we've got to see how coronavirus develops," he said.Rising numbers of Covid-19 infections in some parts of Europe could derail UK plans to re-open international travel routes from mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-considering-best-way-to-proceed-on-vaccine-passports-says-minister-101615968533764.html
17-03-2021||World||Kashmir only issue in way of better ties between India and Pakistan: Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday that India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral relations by addressing Kashmir, which is the only issue standing in the way of better ties between the two sides.Khan made the remarks while addressing the first edition of the Islamabad Security Dialogue, a two-day summit organised by Pakistan’s National Security Division in collaboration with the country’s leading think tanks.These were Khan’s first public comments on relations with India since the Indian and Pakistani armies recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – an apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two countries.“There is one issue that is stopping us [from improving relations] at this time. We will make our efforts but India must take the first step because after August 5, till they take the first step, then unfortunately we cannot move forward,” Khan said, referring to India’s decision on August 5, 2019 to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and to split the region into two Union Territories.“Our issue basically is Kashmir and it is the only issue – how we can settle it through dialogue and establish a relationship as civilised neighbours,” he said, speaking in Urdu.Also Read | Pakistan must create conducive atmosphere for meaningful dialogue: Foreign SecyKhan noted that he had attempted to settle all issues with India after forming government in 2018. “Unfortunately, there was August 5 and that was a big blow and there was a total breakdown between the two countries,” he said.“We still hope that they [India] give the Kashmiris the rights they were given by the UN Security Council to decide their own lives. It will be as beneficial for India as for Pakistan,” Khan said.“If there is movement towards the resolution of Kashmir through dialogue, the whole region will change and there will be big benefits to both countries – benefits for India because there is great poverty there. So if poverty is to be removed then our trading and economic ties must be strong and our regional connectivity should increase. India will benefit from being connected to Central Asia,” he added.Khan’s remarks reflected a change from his strident criticism of India and the Narendra Modi government over the past year.On Monday, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said the onus is on Pakistan to create a conducive atmosphere for a meaningful dialogue. Shringla listed India’s relations with Pakistan as one of the challenges in the neighbourhood, India desires good neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is “committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully”, Shringla said.During his speech, Khan said Pakistan’s national security was not just about the armed forces, but included vulnerability to climate change, food security and economic matters.“As long as there is no regional peace and our relations with our neighbours and trading ties are not good, Pakistan won’t be able to take full advantage of its geo-strategic location. If there is peace in this region, Pakistan will be the biggest beneficiary because we are connected in all four directions,” he said.“We are connected to the world’s two largest markets – I mean we are connected with China and we can be connected with the other, India,” he added.Khan also spoke of Pakistan’s role in the troubled peace process in Afghanistan, saying: “After a long time, there is hope for peace in Afghanistan...No one should underestimate how difficult this is, there are big challenges in this.”He added, “We are making all efforts, I am very happy that Pakistan has done as much as it could for peace in Afghanistan but there are challenges. The Biden administration understands the war shouldn’t continue. We are trying and we hope that once Afghanistan is settled, there will be a big shift in this region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kashmir-only-issue-in-way-of-better-ties-between-india-pakistan-imran-khan-101615968728501.html
17-03-2021||World||Paris needs more coronavirus restrictions, French PM says||French Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Tuesday that time had come for additional coronavirus restrictions in the greater Paris region as the country enters a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.France is grappling with a steady rise of new cases, leading to a heavy strain on the hospital system, especially in the capital where infections have surged.French health authorities reported 29,975 new cases nationwide on Tuesday, a 4.5% weekly jump, the sharpest in a month and a half."It seems to me that the time has come to consider new measures in the greater Paris region," Castex said in an interview on BFM TV.Castex said weekend lockdowns such as those already in place in two other regions were among measures to be considered for the greater Paris region at a meeting on Wednesday."There is no reason why we shouldn't do in one region what we are doing in another," he said.Like other EU countries, France has lagged far behind the United States or Britain in vaccinating its population.President Emmanuel Macron still hopes a vaccination drive can stave off effects of a new pandemic wave triggered by more contagious variants, and prevent France from resorting to a third national lockdown.But suspension of the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine, announced on Monday over safety concerns, could jeopardise the strategy.Castex said he was ready to get the AstraZeneca vaccine if European health authorities confirmed its safety.The health ministry said there were 4,239 patients in intensive care units for COVID-19, up by 20 over 24 hours and setting a nearly four-month high. The total number of people hospitalized for the disease was at 25,492, a high since Feb 24.The number of people who have died went up by 408, at 91,170. (Reporting by Benoit Van Overstraeten; additional reporting by Leigh Thomas Editing by Geert de Clercq, Peter Graff and David Gregorio)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/paris-needs-more-coronavirus-restrictions-french-pm-says-101615945668871.html
17-03-2021||World||Brazil's Bolsonaro names 4th health minister during pandemic||With Covid-19 still raging in Brazil, President Jair Bolsonaro picked his fourth health minister since the pandemic began, this time the head of the country’s cardiology society who in the past has spoken favorably of the country’s conservative leader.Marcelo Queiroga will replace Eduardo Pazuello, an active-duty army general with expertise in logistics who landed the position last May despite having no prior health experience.Queiroga said in a press conference in capital Brasilia on Tuesday that the COVID-19 policy he will implement “is of the Bolsonaro administration, not of the health minister.”“I came to work for Brazil and other ministers of the Bolsonaro administration. The president is very worried about the situation,” said Queiroga, who insisted he is against any lockdown measures. Some Brazilian cities are implementing restrictive shutdowns to halt the spread.Pazuello had presided over the health ministry for the longest period of the three pandemic ministers before Queiroga. The revolving door reflects the challenges for the government of Latin America’s largest nation to implement effective measures to control the virus’ spread -- or even agree which measures are necessary.Queiroga has already called Bolsonaro “a great Brazilian.” His social media channels have not made any criticism of the president’s handling of the pandemic and pushed for a quick vaccine rollout.João Gabbardo, a former secretary-executive of the health ministry, said on Twitter that Queiroga will face the worst figures of the pandemic in Brazil when he takes over.“The record number of deaths today will be in a high scale. A suggestion; do not speak against a national lockdown,” said Gabbardo, who now works for the Sao Paulo state government.Tuesday night Brazil reported record 2,841 confirmed deaths by COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, which is 558 more than the previous all-time high established on Wednesday.On Monday, Pazuello acknowledged in a press conference that Bolsonaro aimed to replace him. The first candidate for the job, cardiologist Ludhmila Hajjar, rejected it.Pazuello’s two predecessors left the position amid disagreements with Bolsonaro, who criticized broad social distancing and supported the use of an unproven anti-malarial drug to treat the disease. He continues to hold those positions, despite health experts’ admonishments and studies showing the drug has no effect on COVID-19.Pazuello proved more compliant. Immediately after taking the job, his ministry backed use and distribution of the malaria pill. On several occasions, he said that his boss tells him what to do, and he obeys.Bolsonaro told supporters at the entrance of the presidential residence in Brasilia on Monday that there will be a transition period of up to two weeks with the outgoing and the incoming minister.“Pazuello’s work was well done in the management part. Now we are in a phase that is more aggressive in the fight against the virus,” Brazil’s president said.Brazil has recorded almost 280,000 deaths from the virus, nearly all of which were on Pazuello's watch. The toll has been worsening lately, with the nation currently averaging more than 1,800 deaths each day. Health care systems of major cities are at the brink of collapse, and lawmakers allied with Bolsonaro have proposed suitable replacements for Pazuello, while threatening to step up pressure for an investigation into his handling of the crisis.The country’s top court is also investigating Pazuello for alleged neglect that contributed to the collapse of the health care system in Amazonas state earlier this year. That probe will now be sent to a low court judge.In a particularly embarrassing episode, his ministry accidentally dispatched a shipment of vaccines intended for Amazonas state to neighboring Amapa state, and vice versa, after confusing the abbreviations for each state.Pazuello has faced intense criticism for Brazil’s slow vaccine rollout. According to Our World in Data, an online research site that compares official government statistics, only 5.4% of Brazilians have been vaccinated. Almost all were shots from Chinese biopharmaceutical firm Sinovac, which Bolsonaro repeatedly cast doubt upon.The only vaccine deal Pazuello had signed at the time, for 100 million doses of the AstraZeneca jab, has brought few shots to the arms of Brazilians so far. His ministry has since scrambled to cobble together agreements with other suppliers, recently concluding deals to acquire the Pfizer and Sputnik V shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-bolsonaro-names-4th-health-minister-during-pandemic-101615945323909.html
17-03-2021||World||Blacklisted Chinese firms eye lawsuits after Xiaomi win against Trump ban||Chinese companies targeted by a sweeping investment ban imposed by former President Donald Trump are considering suing the U.S. government after a federal judge on Friday suspended a similar blacklisting for Beijing-based smartphone maker Xiaomi.Lawyers familiar with the matter said some of the banned Chinese companies are in talks with law firms including Steptoe & Johnson and Hogan Lovells, emboldened by US District Judge Rudolph Contreras' preliminary order halting Xiaomi's inclusion on a US.list of alleged Communist Chinese military companies that are subject to an investment ban.The Trump administration's move to blacklist Xiaomi Corp , which knocked $10 billion off its market share and sent its shares down 9.5 percent in January, would have forced investors to completely divest their stakes in the company."Companies are reaching out to lawyers to challenge the listings and the grounds for the listings," said Wendy Wysong, managing partner of the Hong Kong office of Steptoe & Johnson, a worldwide law firm headquartered in Washington. Wysong and a person familiar with Hogan Lovells, another global law firm, declined to name the companies involved in discussions.Contreras flagged the U.S. government's "deeply flawed" process for including the company in the investment ban, based on just two key criteria: its development of 5G technology and artificial intelligence, which the Defense Department alleges are "essential to modern military operations," and an award given to Xiaomi founder and Chief Executive Lei Jun from an organization said to help the Chinese government eliminate barriers between commercial and military sectors.The judge noted that 5G and AI technologies were fast becoming standard in consumer electronics, and that over 500 entrepreneurs had received the same award as Lei since 2004, including the leaders of an infant formula company."The facts that led to Xiaomi's designation are almost laughable, and I think it absolutely is going to lead to additional companies seeking relief," said Washington lawyer Brian Egan, a former legal adviser in both the White House and State Department who also works at Steptoe.GOVERNMENT UNDECIDED ON PATH FORWARDIn a joint filing on Tuesday, the government said it had not decided on the "appropriate path forward" in the Xiaomi case in light of the judge's decision.A spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of Justice, which is defending the case, declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the Department of Defense referred questions to the White House, which has not responded.Xiaomi and 43 other companies were added https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Releases/Release/Article/2434513/dod-releases-list-of-additional-companies-in-accordance-with-section-1237-of-fy in the waning months of the Trump administration to the blacklist, which was mandated by a 1999 law requiring the Defense Department to publish a compilation of companies "owned or controlled" by the Chinese military.Seeking to cement a tough line on China and box his Democratic successor, Joe Biden, into hardline policies, Trump signed an executive order that was later expanded to bar all U.S. investors from holding securities in the named companies beginning on Nov. 11, 2021.Other companies listed include video surveillance giant Hikvision, China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) and China's top chipmaker, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.SMIC, Hikvision and CNOOC did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Luokung Technology Corp, a mapping technology company on the list, also sued the U.S. government earlier this month, and is expected to seek preliminary relief similar to that awarded to Xiaomi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blacklisted-chinese-firms-eye-lawsuits-after-xiaomi-win-against-trump-ban-101615945419836.html
17-03-2021||World||UK variant of Covid-19 spread rapidly in British care homes in span of 2 weeks: Report||The UK variant of the novel coronavirus spread rapidly in care homes in England in a span of two weeks between November and December last year, reflecting its spread across the country, according to a new study which calls for advanced surveillance systems to monitor the evolving virus.The findings, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, revealed that the proportion of infections among care home staff and residents caused by the new variant rose from 12 per cent in the week beginning 23 November to 60 per cent of positive cases just two weeks later, in the week beginning 7 December.In the south east of England, where the variant was most dominant, the scientists from University College London (UCL) in the UK said this fraction rose from 55 to 80 per cent over the same period.In London, where the variant spread fastest, they said the increase was from 20 to 66 per cent.Based on the analysis of 4,442 positive samples from care home staff and residents in England, the researchers believe the UK variant, also known as B.1.1.7, was present in care homes from early on."Our findings suggest the UK variant spread just as quickly in care homes as it did in the general population. This shows the importance of public health measures to reduce transmission in the country as a whole," said study senior author Laura Shallcross from UCL.According to the researchers, most of the samples were from people aged under 65, as staff are tested much more frequently than residents.However, they said the proportion of infections caused by the new variant rose from 14 per cent in the week beginning 23 November to 76 per cent in the week beginning 7 December among samples from those aged over 65."Our results are consistent with national trends, suggesting that the UK variant was present in care homes from early on, although our sample did not fully represent all care homes in England," said study lead author Maria Krutikov from UCL."To see how viruses like Covid-19 are changing and to respond quickly and appropriately, it is really important we have an advanced surveillance system, with gene sequencing that can identify new variants as early as possible," Krutikov said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-variant-of-covid-19-spread-rapidly-in-british-care-homes-in-span-of-2-weeks-report-101615965756215.html
17-03-2021||World||Hong Kong vaccine bookings jump on 1st day of expanded access||Hong Kong saw more than 144,000 people snap up Covid-19 vaccine appointments the first day the government expanded access to a majority of residents, a sharp increase amid its bid to boost a lackluster inoculation rollout.Some 30,800 people reserved slots to get the Chinese-made Sinovac Biotech Ltd. shot and 113,200 others booked doses of Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE’s vaccine at community vaccine centers in the 24 hours ending at 8 p.m. Tuesday, the government said. Data was not available from private clinics, some of which are also offering Sinovac’s shot.Before the expansion, only some 200,000 people -- comprising just 5.4% of priority groups eligible like the elderly and healthcare workers -- had come forward for shots since the vaccine drive started on Feb. 26.The total number of people able to access vaccines now represents some 70% of the city’s population of 7.5 million, with adults aged 30 to 59 years old now eligible. The government added 23,000 new reservation slots to daily capacity on Tuesday, and has increased the number of community centers offering the BioNTech shot from seven to 19.What Are Vaccine Passports and How Would They Work?: QuickTakeThe extended drive comes as the city grapples with a new outbreak of the virus centered on its expatriate community, including employees of international financial firms. HSBC Holdings Plc’s main Hong Kong office was ordered to close until further notice after three people working in the building tested positive for Covid-19.Countering ReluctanceWhile Hong Kong’s healthy adult population is one of the first in the world to gain eligibility for inoculation, the expanded access reflects a major vaccine hesitation problem that will likely delay the city’s ability to reopen to the world. Officials widened eligibility earlier than expected after uptake was dismal among priority groups, leaving millions of doses unused.Demand for Covid-19 vaccines has generally been lower in Asia, where contained outbreaks and low death tolls in places like Japan and Singapore has meant that people feel less urgency and more skepticism towards rapidly-developed shots.It’s unclear if the younger adult population will ultimately help boost these underwhelming numbers, after the initial burst of pent-up demand. An informal poll of 13 people in the 30 to 59 years old group on Tuesday showed that half were planning to get a vaccine now that they can.George Lin, chief financial officer at Hua Medicine Ltd. and a former banker at Bank of America Corp., said he was so excited to book a slot that he had a sleepless night. He signed up early Tuesday morning and will receive his first dose of BioNTech’s shot on Saturday in Causeway Bay.Hong Kong Tells U.S. Consulate to Test Staff After Two Cases“The first thing I would like to do is to travel internationally,” Lin said, including to the U.S to see his two daughters. “If I were in the U.S., I would not get this until May.”Others said they did not want to take the risk. Resistance among Hong Kong residents has grown after reports of several deaths among inoculated people, though experts said none of them are directly tied to the vaccine.“I don’t trust the vaccines, there’s not enough data to show it is safe, there’s not been enough testing,” said hairstylist Kei Ma, 41. “I don’t know how many other things the government is hiding.”‘Absence of Trust’Political turmoil and China’s tightening grip over the former British colony are complicating factors as city officials try to persuade people to take the vaccine. Lam received Sinovac’s shot on Feb. 22 along with other cabinet members.“The absence of trust only complicates the vaccine rollout,” said Nicholas Thomas, associate professor in health security at City University of Hong Kong. “Short of mandatory vaccinations, which would likely be resisted by the population, the Hong Kong government is facing a slower path to reopening than its earlier successes against the virus suggested would be the case.”Blood Clots, Anaphylaxis and Other Vaccine Fears: QuickTakeChina is planning to ease requirements for foreigners applying for mainland visas from Hong Kong if they’ve received a Chinese vaccine, something that reassures David Bonnet, managing partner at real estate and hospitality advisory firm Delta State Holdings Ltd. who signed up for a Sinovac shot.“If you live in Hong Kong and Macau, getting one of the Chinese vaccines probably will give some tangible benefits,” he said. “I don’t want to be subject to quarantines and I hope it will be easier to travel with Chinese vaccines. My hope is to resume business as normal.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-vaccine-bookings-jump-on-1st-day-of-expanded-access-101615950632042.html
17-03-2021||World||'Vaccines that don't require needles, cold storage may be out by year-end': WHO expert||New, improved coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines that do not require needles and can be stored at room temperature may be out by the end of this year or the next year, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) top scientist Soumya Swaminathan said.“We’re thrilled with the vaccines that we have, but we can improve further,” said Swaminathan. “I think, well into 2022, we’re going to see the emergence of improved vaccines,” she said, according to news agency Bloomberg, adding that six-to-eight new immunizations may complete clinical studies and undergo regulatory review by the end of the year.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs the virus continues to spread and its variants emerge, the demand for vaccines is increasing as drugmakers struggle to meet orders. According to Bloomberg, only 122 countries have started immunizing people. As many as 10 vaccines have been proven effective against the virus within a year of it being declared a pandemic, the agency said, adding that these are already in use and companies producing these have also begun testing the updated versions designed to defeat variants of the virus. Swaminathan further added that development of more vaccine candidates should be encouraged as the need for booster immunization of populations was not very clear at this point. “We need to continue to support the research and development of more vaccine candidates, especially as the need for ongoing booster immunization of populations is still not very clear at this point,” she said.According to a research quoted by Bloomberg, a natural infection triggers the immune response to the virus just as a first dose would, making a second injection unnecessary. This could free up more supplies, Swaminathan said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccines-that-don-t-require-needles-cold-storage-may-be-out-by-year-end-who-expert-101615963831707.html
17-03-2021||World||Russia calls US allegations over Putin-directed election meddling 'baseless'||Russia on Wednesday described US intelligence allegations that President Vladimir Putin had likely directed efforts to try to swing the 2020 US presidential election to Donald Trump as baseless.A 15-page American intelligence report, released on Tuesday, added heft to longstanding allegations that some of Trump's top lieutenants were playing into Moscow's hands by amplifying claims made against then-candidate Joe Biden by Russian-linked Ukrainian figures in the run-up to the Nov. 3 election."The document prepared by the U.S. intelligence community is another set of baseless accusations against our country for interfering in American domestic political processes," Russia's embassy in the United States said in a statement on Facebook."The conclusions of the report on Russia conducting influence operations in America are confirmed solely by the confidence of the intelligence services of their self-righteousness. No facts or specific evidence of such claims were provided."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-calls-us-allegations-over-putin-directed-election-meddling-baseless-101615963239611.html
17-03-2021||World||With crisis stricken currency, Venezuela rolls out larger denomination banknotes||Venezuela this week is rolling out larger-denomination banknotes as hyperinflation batters the crisis-stricken South American country's bolivar currency.Bills worth 200,000 and 500,000 bolivars - worth just 10 and 27 US cents, respectively, at the current exchange rate - began to circulate on Monday, according to Reuters witnesses. Venezuela's central bank said this month it also planned to roll a bill worth 1 million bolivars, just 50 US cents.The highest-denomination bill had previously been 50,000 bolivars. Annual inflation in the once-prosperous OPEC nation was running at 2,665% in January, contributing to chronic shortages of cash."These bills in a few months will not be worth anything anymore, because in this country prices rise very quickly," said Rafael Alvarez, a healthcare worker who left a bank carrying one 200,000 bolivar bill and four bills worth 50,000 bolivars each. All that is equivalent to just 20 US cents.The central bank did not respond to a request for comment.In addition to the higher-denomination bills, President Nicolas Maduro is seeking to boost digital payments in the face of the cash shortage. While Venezuelans use debit cards for many day-to-day transactions, some services - namely public transit - still only accept cash."These new bills will not resolve the cash crisis. They will only pay for transit fare," said Evelyn Mendoza, a 47-year-old cook, as she waited in a long line to withdraw cash from a bank in the capital, Caracas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-crisis-stricken-currency-venezuela-rolls-out-larger-denomination-banknotes-101615945855106.html
17-03-2021||World||Hong Kong: IPO hits almost $11 billion, close to 500% jump from 1 year earlier||Hong Kong’s bankers are working around the clock as the region’s companies rush to go public.Initial public offerings in the city have already hit almost $11 billion, a close to 500% jump from a year earlier, with video streaming platform Bilibili Inc. and search giant Baidu Inc. among companies preparing multi-billion dollar deals. Digital roadshows and clients eager to move faster to capture abundant liquidity -- especially as market sentiment has begun to sour -- means bankers are keeping dawn-to-midnight schedules, say some, even turning down deals where they’re relegated to junior roles.Companies are trying to “get the deal done as soon as they can,” said Stephanie Tang, head of private equity for greater China at Hogan Lovells. “Many of them see this as an opportunity and if they are not catching the train quickly, they might lose the opportunity.”A pandemic-induced hunger for technology stocks and the threat of US delistings have been a boon for the financial hub during a difficult political stretch, driving a surge in initial and secondary share sales. A new push by Shanghai’s Nasdaq-like STAR board to more closely scrutinize IPOs along with a pile-up of applications there may drive more of China’s unicorns to Hong Kong, taking listings to a record, Bloomberg Intelligence estimates.Also read: Jack Ma’s SCMP Joins Hong Kong media groups facing China controlUnsurprisingly, the health sector is the busiest, with deals poised for both Hong Kong and the US Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s health-care team is working on at least 20 IPOs in the $300 million to $1 billion range. Citigroup Inc. has won eight Chinese health-care mandates in the three weeks just before Lunar New Year, expecting to raise $300 million to $400 million for each in July through September. Citi has also nabbed the WeDoctor IPO, which is seeking to raise as much as $3 billion at a pre-IPO valuation of $12 billion. The details were shared by bankers and executives familiar with the deals, who asked not to be named discussing private matters.Representatives for Goldman Sachs and Citi declined to comment on the deals. WeDoctor also declined to comment.“It’s busier than ever,” said Udhay Furtado, Citi’s co-head of Asia Equity Capital Markets. “This is an attractive window for issuers and liquidity is available across financing products.”But the bustle comes loaded with execution risk as Chinese markets in early February started to stumble after a two-year rally and what’s looking like the biggest-ever quarter for initial public offerings fueled by a US-led boom in blank-check listings.In one recent deal, Autohome Inc., a Chinese online car-sales website, sold shares in the city at about a 5.5% discount to its last price in New York. Given the current volatility in the markets, only the most straightforward deals are also being pushed ahead right now, according to a banker in Hong Kong.Rushing OutMany companies pushing to sell shares have yet to establish a sustainable way to make profits, including Chinese grocery delivery apps such as Meicai and Dingdong Maicai, who are facing heavy cash burn to win market share.Liao Ming, the founder of Prospect Avenue Capital, which oversees $500 million in private equity assets, said he expects at least five of his portfolio companies to list this year, out of a total 12.“A lot of these companies including the grocery space, wouldn’t be able to find investors in a normal year,” said the Beijing-based former Morgan Stanley banker. “But because of the bullish sentiment this year, a lot of companies that aren’t ready yet are rushing to get out the door.”Charles Chau, Hong Kong-based partner at law firm Jones Day, said most clients are trying to submit IPO applications by March and supply additional financial statements by June to get a listing done by September.The rush back home by Chinese stalwarts has been going since last year, when firms such as Netease Inc. and JD.com Inc. listed in Hong Kong. And now with Chinese regulators looking at tightening rules in Shanghai, it could impact a heavy backlog of deals and bring more to the financial hub.If a slowdown in listings on the mainland pushes even more firms to Hong Kong, the hub could see a record year, wrote Sharnie Wong, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. There were 735 IPO applications in mainland China in early March, compared with 500 last year, she said.Last year, Hong Kong saw $52 billion in listings, just below the $58 billion that was raised in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Accelerated PlansThe migration to virtual roadshows means bankers are able to pack more meetings into their schedules. “IPO professional intermediaries have transformed themselves,” said Edward Au, southern region managing partner at Deloitte China.In the US, markets have boomed with the listings of SPACs, or special purpose acquisition companies. That’s also now reshaping Asian banking. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit Suisse Group AG have pulled people from corporate finance and equity capital markets to focus on those types of deals in Asia, according to people with knowledge of the moves.Credit Suisse declined to comment.Francesco Lavatelli, head of equity capital markets for Asia Pacific at JPMorgan, said the US bank has a “healthy pipeline” of deals, including SPAC IPOs and mandates from companies looking to combine with an already listed SPAC, known as a deSPAC.He said the recent stock turmoil is unlikely to derail the deals on tap. “If anything, it will accelerate plans, which might mean in some cases a deSPAC process,” the Hong Kong-based banker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-ipo-hits-almost-11-billion-close-to-500-jump-from-1-year-earlier-101615957571674.html
17-03-2021||World||UN delegation to visit remote Bangladesh island since Rohingya moved||A United Nations (UN) delegation will on Wednesday start a three-day visit to a remote Bay of Bengal island where Bangladesh has moved more than 13,000 Rohingya Muslim refugees since December despite criticism from rights groups.Bangladesh wants to eventually transfer 100,000 of the more than 1 million refugees living in overcrowded border camps to Bhasan Char island, which emerged from the sea only two decade ago and is considered vulnerable to floods."This initial three-day visit will bring together experts from UN agencies engaged in the Rohingya refugee response in Bangladesh," the UN refugee agency told Reuters in an email."The visit will look at the current situation and facilities on Bhasan Char, appraise the needs of the Rohingya refugees relocated there, as well as discuss with the authorities and others currently working on Bhasan Char."The United Nations earlier said it had not been allowed to conduct a technical and safety assessment of the island and was not involved in the transfer of refugees there.Bangladesh says the relocation is voluntary, but some of a first group to be moved spoke of being coerced.The Rohingya, a minority group who fled violence in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, are not allowed to move off the island, which is several hours' journey away from the southern port.Bangladesh has dismissed safety concerns over the island, citing the building of flood defences as well as housing for 100,000 people, hospitals and cyclone centres.It also says overcrowding in refugee camps fuels crime, while some Rohingya said frequent violence in the camps had driven them to relocate."We hope it will remove any concerns that the UN has about the relocation and they will get involve in the relocation and provide Rohingya people the support they need," a senior official at the Foreign Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-delegation-to-visit-remote-bangladesh-island-since-rohingya-moved-101615962953024.html
17-03-2021||World||Australia to ask EU to send 1 million Covid-19 vaccines for Papua New Guinea||Australia said on Wednesday it will ask the European Union to release 1 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine to help Papua New Guinea (PNG) battle a dangerous outbreak, a request that is likely to inflame tensions over vaccine supplies.Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the vaccines were contracted to Australia but were badly needed to contain a surge in coronavirus cases in the Pacific island nation, parts of which are just a short boat ride from Australian territory."We've contracted them. We've paid for them and we want to see those vaccines come here so we can support our nearest neighbour, PNG, to deal with their urgent needs in our region," Morrison told reporters in Canberra."They're our family, they're our friends. They're our neighbours. They're our partners... This is in Australia’s interests, and is in our region's interests."Australia will donate 8,000 locally produced Covid-19 vaccines to PNG as an immediate response to the outbreak, and would make a million doses available as soon as they arrived from Europe, he said.The request is likely to raise tensions with the European Union after Brussels, at Italy's request, blocked a shipment of 250,000 doses of the AstraZeneca PLC vaccine to Australia this month, citing vaccine shortages in Europe.It was the first refusal of an export request since the EU established a mechanism to monitor vaccine flows in late January.PNG recorded 97 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, but Australia's chief health officer said that figure was likely as "a major underestimate". PNG has officially recorded just 2,000 cases since the pandemic begun.PNG Prime Minister James Marape on Tuesday said Covid-19 had "broken loose" and urged people to avoid unnecessary travel.Australia's Chief Medical Officer Paul Kelly said PNG has little infrastructure to conduct mass testing, and the few that were being done were showing alarming results."When people are being admitted into hospital in Port Moresby, half of women who are coming in due to pregnancy are positive," Kelly told reporters in Canberra.Morrison warned an "uncontrolled" outbreak in PNG could produce a new variant of the virus."That would be not only a major problem for PNG but also for us and the region," Morrison said.Canberra will also suspend all travel to and from PNG from Wednesday midnight, he added.FIGHTING CHANCEA senior Australian government source said the EU had justified the blocking of the shipment to Australia earlier this month because Canberra was so successful in containing the spread of the virus, but that rationale would not hold with PNG.Aid agencies echoed the desperate need for vaccines in the impoverished country of almost nine million people."PNG needs a fighting chance to beat this, and frontline doctors and nurses could be the difference between keeping this under control or utter catastrophe for PNG's health system," said Marc Purcell, chief executive of The Australian Council for International Development - an industry body representing Australian aid agencies.The Australian government source said Canberra would lodge its request with the EU this week and an answer was likely within days. He declined to be named as he is not authorised to talk to media on the subject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-ask-eu-to-send-1-million-covid-19-vaccines-for-papua-new-guinea-101615950679094.html
17-03-2021||World||Russia tried to engineer Biden’s defeat in 2020, reveals US intelligence report||Russian President Vladimir Putin and his officials had sought to influence the 2020 US election by “denigrating” Joe Biden with “misleading or unsubstantiated allegations” pushed through people close to Donald Trump, the US intelligence community said in a declassified report on Tuesday.The intelligence report does not name any of these people, but Rudy Giuliani, the personal attorney of former president Trump, may have been among them, according to news reports.He had had contacts with Russian agents during the time he pursued the attempt to implicate then presidential candidate Joe Biden in an unproven corruption scandal involving his son Hunter Biden’s business connections with a Ukrainian company.The intelligence report, which is the first about the November election, also says the Russian operation was supportive of then president Trump, but unlike in 2016, “we did not see persistent Russian cyber efforts to gain access to the election infrastructure”.Iran also conducted a “multi-pronged covert influence campaign” intended to “undercut” then president Trump, but it did not seek to directly promote his rivals, the report says.China, on the other hand, sat it out. It considered but did not deploy influence efforts because, the intelligence community says in the report, it “did not view either election outcome being advantageous enough for China to risk getting caught meddling”. It is contrary to the Trump administration’s claims of China’s involvement in election meddling at the time.The Russian influence operation was pervasive, in a throwback to the 2016 election meddling that was confirmed by special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s investigation.“We assess that President Putin and the Russian state authorised and conducted influence operations against the 2020 US president election aimed at denigrating President Biden and the Democratic Party, supporting former president Trump, undermining public confidence in the election process, and exacerbating sociopolitical division in the US,” says the report by the National Intelligence Council.The Russian influence operation was built around a central narrative, which the report says began taking shape back in 2014 during the Obama administration’s second term. It was basically an attempt to allege corrupt ties between Biden and his family with Ukraine. Russian intelligence banked on Ukrainian proxies to build this fiction, giving themselves room for deniability.They pushed misleading and unsubstantiated allegations against Biden through, the report says, “US media organisations, US officials and US individuals, some of whom were close to former president Trump and his administration”.The US intelligence report does not name the media organisation or officials or those close to Trump, but it does identify some non-Americans who played key roles in the operations: Andriy (also spelt Andrii) Derkach, a Ukrainian legislator with links with Russia’s officials and intelligence services, and Konstantin Kilimnik, a Russian “influence agent”.The report says Putin had “purview over” the activities of Derkach, who was sanctioned by the Trump administration in September 2020 as a “Russian agent” and was described as “directly or indirectly engaged in, sponsored, concealed, or otherwise been complicit in foreign interference in an attempt to undermine the upcoming 2020 US presidential election”.Giuliani, the former US president’s personal attorney, met Derkach several times in an attempt to obtain what he believed would be material implicating Biden in a corruption case linked to Ukraine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-tried-to-engineer-biden-s-defeat-in-2020-reveals-us-intelligence-report-101615957087928.html
17-03-2021||World||China acting aggressively, repressively in Asia, says Blinken||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday that China was acting aggressively and repressively, citing its actions in the East and South China Seas where it has territorial disputes with Japan and other Asian nations.Speaking to a roundtable of Japanese journalists in Tokyo, Blinken said Beijing was "raising tensions not diminishing them" in the region by its maritime actions and posturing over Taiwan.Blinken is visiting Japan and South Korea along with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin in a bid to fortify Washington's alliances in Asia, in a first overseas trip by top level members of President Joe Biden's administration.China’s extensive territorial claims in the East and South China Seas have become a priority issue in an increasingly testy Sino-U.S. relationship and are an important security concern for Japan.Blinken said Beijing was "acting both more repressively at home and more aggressively abroad, including in the East China Sea, including with regard to the Senkakus, as well the South China sea and also with regard to Taiwan".The Senkakus, also referred to as Diaoyu in China, are islets in the East China Sea controlled by Japan but claimed by China."Japan has real interest in what happens with regard to Taiwan and Taiwan's straits and we spent some time comparing notes on that," said Blinken describing his Tuesday talks with Japanese officials.The comments echoed statements issued by Blinken, Austin and their Japanese counterparts after "2 2" talks held in Tokyo on Tuesday and come ahead of Blinken's first in-person meetings with Chinese counterparts planned for later this week in Alaska."We look forward to the opportunity to lay out in very clear terms to our Chinese counterparts some of the concerns that we have about the actions they're taking," said Blinken.Following the morning roundtable with emerging Japanese reporters Blinken and Austin were set to leave for Seoul to hold "2 2" talks with South Korean counterparts until Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-acting-aggressively-repressively-in-asia-says-blinken-101615956105096.html
17-03-2021||World||6 Asian women among 8 shot dead; suspect arrested: What happened in Georgia?||Shootings at two massage parlours in Atlanta, Georgia and one in Acworth on Tuesday evening left eight people dead and one wounded. The victims in the Georgia spa shootings included at least six Asian women, police said, as reported by news agency Reuters. A 21-year-old man, Robert Aarong Lung, has been taken into custody in connection with the shootings. Authorities are also investigating whether there was any connection between the three shootings, CNN reported.The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is assisting the Atlanta and Cherokee county authorities in the investigation of the shootings, according to agency's spokesman Kevin Rowson. So far, the authorities have not offered any possible motive for the shootings.The shootingsAround 5pm, five people were shot at Young's Asian massage parlour which is located near a rural area in Acworth. In the shooting, two people died on the scene and three were taken to a nearby hospital where two of them also died later, as per Reuters.Around 5:50pm, police received a call of a robbery in progress at the Gold Massage spa on Piedmont road in Atlanta. Upon returning the call, the police found three women dead from apparent gunshot wounds at Gold Spa. While the police were at the scene, they received another call reporting fires shot at Aroma Therapy spa, which was just across the street, where the police found one person dead.The suspectRobert Aaron Long, the suspect in the Cherokee county shootings was taken into custody around 8:30pm, three and a half hours after the shootings, and transported to Crisp county jail. He was arrested in a highway pursuit by Georgia state police and Crisp county sheriff’s deputies, after the police in Cherokee county issued a bulletin providing a description of Long and license plates of the getaway vehicle. A tactical driving maneuver was used by the police to bring the Long’s vehicle to a halt, sheriff's officials said later. According to news agency Reuters, the investigators were "very confident" that Long was involved in all three shootings.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-asian-women-among-8-shot-dead-suspect-arrested-what-happened-in-georgia-101615955540169.html
17-03-2021||World||Myanmar Buddhist group signals break with authorities after violent crackdown||The most powerful group of Buddhist monks in Myanmar called on the junta to end violence against protesters and accused an "armed minority" of torture and killing innocent civilians following last month's coup, media reported on Wednesday.In its most forthright condemnation of the military's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations, the government-appointed body also said in a draft statement its members intended to halt activities in an apparent protest.The State Sahgha Maha Nayaka Committee (Mahana) planned to release a final statement after consulting the religious affairs minister on Thursday, the Myanmar Now news portal reported, citing a monk who attended a Mahana committee meeting.Monks were at the forefront of the 2007 "Saffron Revolution" against the junta then in power in Myanmar, an uprising that helped pave the way for democratic reforms.Mahana members could not immediately be reached by Reuters for comment, but their reported stance signals a rift with authorities by a group that usually works closely with the government.Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military ousted Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government on Feb. 1 and detained her and other members of her party, drawing widespread international condemnation.More than 180 protesters have been killed as security forces try to crush a wave of demonstrations, according to the activist group the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.On Tuesday night, security forces fired shots and one 28-year-old man was killed at a demonstration in the commercial capital of Yangon, a brother of the victim said.A total mobile internet shutdown made it difficult to verify information and very few people in Myanmar have access to WiFi. A junta spokesman did not answer telephone calls to seek comment.RESIDENTS FLEEParts of Yangon have been placed under martial law and thousands of residents have fled the industrial suburb of Hlaingthaya where security forces killed 40 people on Sunday and Chinese-financed factories were set ablaze."Here is like a war zone, they are shooting everywhere," a labour organiser in the area told Reuters, saying that most residents were too frightened to go outside.Two doctors told Reuters there were still wounded people in need of medical attention in the area, but the army had blocked access.Chinese state media has warned Beijing could take unspecified action if there are further attacks on Chinese-owned businesses.Many people in Myanmar believe Beijing is backing the military. Unlike Western powers, China has not condemned the coup and, along with Russia, has prevented the U.N. Security Council from denouncing the military's actions.TREASON CHARGESFrance said the European Union would approve sanctions against those behind the coup next Monday.The junta, meanwhile, charged with treason an emissary of ousted lawmakers who are attempting to re-establish the civilian government.Sasa, who goes by a single name and is not in the country, said he was proud to have been charged."These generals have committed acts of treason every day. Taking what they want for themselves, denying the people their rights and oppressing those that stand in their way," he said in a statement.The charges, which army-run television said were for encouraging a civil disobedience campaign and calling for sanctions, carry a possible death sentenceThe Open Society Foundations, a philanthropic organisation founded by billionaire George Soros, called on Tuesday for the immediate release of a staff member held in Myanmar and said allegations of financial misconduct were false.State media in Myanmar reported that authorities had detained an official from the Open Society Myanmar and were looking for 11 other employees on suspicion the group passed funds to opponents of military rule.The army said it took power after its accusations of fraud in a Nov. 8 election won by Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) were rejected by the electoral commission. It has promised to hold a new election but has not set a date.Suu Kyi, 75, has been detained since the coup and faces various charges including illegally importing walkie-talkie radios and infringing coronavirus protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-buddhist-group-signals-break-with-authorities-after-violent-crackdown-101615955633886.html
17-03-2021||World||Uber to grant UK drivers worker status with benefits like minimum wage||Uber on Tuesday said it is granting its UK drivers worker status, with benefits including a minimum wage -- a world first for the US ride-hailing giant.Weeks after a top court ruling that could shake up Britain's wider "gig economy" of 5.5 million people, Uber said its drivers would also get holiday pay and a pension.It is a massive change in the business model of a company that had argued before Britain's Supreme Court that its drivers were self-employed.From Wednesday, "more than 70,000 drivers in the UK will be treated as workers, earning at least the national living wage when driving with Uber," the taxi app said in a statement."This is a floor and not a ceiling, with drivers able to earn more."The court ruled last month that Uber's drivers are entitled to worker's rights.The decision capped a protracted legal battle between UK drivers and the Silicon Valley taxi and delivery company.Also read: Passenger coughs on Uber driver upon being asked to wear mask. Company bans her- 'Flexibility remains' -Uber said its action over workers' rights "means drivers will earn with greater security, helping them to plan for their futures while maintaining the flexibility that is integral to the private-hire industry."The higher costs for Uber come as it faces sliding driver bookings owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, despite strong demand for the Uber Eats food delivery service during national lockdowns.Uber did not expect the change in driver compensation to affect its net income this year, the company said in a US regulatory filing."We've come to recognise that platforms like ours will work differently in different countries," Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi said in an editorial published in the Evening Standard."The future of work is too big of an issue for a one-size-fits-all solution, and that's OK," said Khosrowshahi -- who has previously argued for a "third way" to classify gig workers, rather than as employees or independent contractors.- Gig workers -The Services Employees International Union, which has been working to secure labour protections for Uber drivers in the United States, welcomed the UK development."This debunks nearly a decade of scare tactics from rideshare companies like Uber and makes clear that Uber can choose at any time to properly classify their drivers and pay them a living wage with good benefits," SEIU president Mary Kay Henry said in response to an AFP inquiry.The British ruling comes after California's top court last month upheld a referendum that let "gig workers" like Uber be treated as contractors.Drivers for ride-share and meal delivery apps had filed suit attempting to nullify the legislation known as Proposition 22.Proposition 22 -- passed in November and heavily backed by Uber, Lyft and other app-based, on-demand delivery services -- effectively overturned a state law requiring them to reclassify their drivers and provide employee benefits.The vote followed a contentious campaign with labour groups claiming the initiative would erode worker rights and benefits, and with backers arguing for a new, flexible economic model.Under the proposition, drivers remain independent contractors but Uber and Lyft are to pay them a number of benefits including a minimum wage, a contribution to healthcare and other forms of insurance. Critics of the measure said it failed to take into account the full costs borne by drivers.In a first for the European Union, Spain's government earlier this month announced a deal that will recognise riders working for food delivery firms such as Deliveroo and Uber Eats as salaried staff following complaints about their working conditions.In Italy, prosecutors have told Uber Eats and other food delivery platforms their couriers were employees and not independent workers, fining them 733 million euros for breach of labour safety rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uber-to-grant-uk-drivers-worker-status-with-benefits-like-minimum-wage-101615947569607.html
17-03-2021||World||Japan to lift emergency from Tokyo and other areas||Japan will end its state of emergency in the Tokyo region as planned on March 21, according to reports, after an improvement in the number of Covid-19 hospitalizations.Japanese Prime Minister Suga Yoshihide said he hopes to make a decision after listening to the opinions of experts and examining figures, such as the number of new cases and the hospital bed occupancy rates.The already extended measure that covers the capital plus Chiba, Saitama and Kanagawa prefectures is set to expire on Sunday. Suga will evaluate the stalled pace of decline in new cases during deliberations on whether it stays in place.The rate of decline in new cases in Tokyo, Kanagawa, Saitama, and Chiba is slowing. But increasing numbers of officials hold the view that the state of emergency should be lifted, reported NHK World.Suga is scheduled to meet on Wednesday with the minister in charge of the country's coronavirus response, Nishimura Yasutoshi, and health minister Tamura Norihisa. They will discuss the situation, reported NHK World.The government plans to hold an advisory committee meeting on Thursday to determine whether to lift the emergency declaration. It will assess the number of infections and the state of the healthcare system. It will also consider measures to prevent a resurgence of infections, such as tests for variants.On Monday, Tokyo reported 175 new cases of the coronavirus. That's 59 more than last Monday. It's been a similar picture for the past week, with each day's tally higher than a week earlier, reported NHK World.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-will-lift-emergency-from-tokyo-and-other-areas-101615952653130.html
17-03-2021||World||Japan court rules not recognising same-sex marriage unconstitutional, says Kyodo||A Japanese court has ruled that the country’s lack of legal recognition for same-sex marriage violates the constitution, a landmark ruling for a marriage equality case, Kyodo News said.The Sapporo District Court on the northern island of Hokkaido handed down the decision Wednesday, Kyodo said, in the first of a series of similar damages suits filed by same-sex couples in five courts around the country. The three couples party to Wednesday’s case said their rights had been breached because equality and freedom of marriage are enshrined in the constitution, public broadcaster NHK said earlier.“This is a landmark ruling and I hope it will be an opportunity to build awareness that marriage is a right that should be afforded to all people equally,” said Masa Yanagisawa, head of Prime Services Japan at Goldman Sachs, who is also on the board of campaign group Marriage For All.While a number of local authorities have begun to recognize same-sex partnerships, Japan has made little progress toward equal marriage by comparison with Western countries. That can leave couples without basic rights, such as the ability to visit a partner in hospital.In Asia, only Taiwan has so far recognized same-sex marriage, though Thailand could make the change as soon as this year.Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga told parliament last month that the constitution, unchanged since 1947, did not envisage the recognition of marriage between two people of the same sex. The issue “concerns the foundations of the family in this country and needs to be considered with extreme caution,” he said.A more modest bill on promoting understanding of LGBTQ people drawn up by a ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker has yet to make progress toward becoming law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-court-rules-not-recognising-same-sex-marriage-unconstitutional-says-kyodo-101615952242183.html
17-03-2021||World||China-made Covid-19 vaccine required for getting Chinese visa||The Chinese embassy has announced it will start issuing visas to travellers who have taken a Chinese-made COVID-19 vaccine and possess the certificates of vaccination.The Chinese embassy in a statement said it will facilitate measures for people wanting to travel to China to carry on their employment contracts, resume work and do other relevant works.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"For the purpose of resuming people-to-people exchanges in an orderly manner, starting from 15 March 2021, the Chinese Embassies and Consulates in India will provide the persons having taken Chinese-made COVID-19 vaccine and holding the Certificates of Vaccination with some facilitating measures," the statement said while listing the criteria.Persons and their family members going to China to carry on their employment contracts, work resumption and other relevant activities are allowed to submit their visa applications to the Chinese Embassy or Consulates in India, the Chinese embassy said.Foreigners with valid APEC Business Travel Cards (ABTC) can apply for a business visa with a valid ABTC and invitation letter from their counterpart in China through Chinese Visa Application Service Centre (VFS).Foreigners who are flying from India to China will be required to present the Electronic Health Declaration for boarding, the embassy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinamade-covid-19-vaccine-required-for-getting-chinese-visa-101615950455555.html
17-03-2021||World||'Exclusion of women in decision-making marker of flawed democracy': Kamala Harris||The status of democracy depends fundamentally on the empowerment of women, whose exclusion from decision-making is a marker of a "flawed democracy", Kamala Harris has said in her first address to the United Nations as the Vice President of the US.Harris voiced concern over the decline of democracy and freedom across the globe in her address to the 65th Session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women."Today, we know that democracy is increasingly under great strain. For 15 consecutive years, we have seen a troubling decline in freedom around the globe. In fact, experts believe that this past year was the worst on record for the global deterioration of democracy and freedom,” she said.Harris said Washington was strengthening its engagement with the world organisation and the broader multilateral system, as well as rejoining the Human Rights Council.She emphasised that even as the world confronts a global health crisis and an economic crisis, it was critical that “we continue to defend democracy”."The status of democracy also depends fundamentally on the empowerment of women. Not only because the exclusion of women in decision-making is a marker of a flawed democracy, but because the participation of women strengthens democracy. And that's true everywhere,” Harris said.The Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) is the principal global intergovernmental body exclusively dedicated to the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women.Representatives of Member States, UN entities, and ECOSOC-accredited non-governmental organisations (NGOs) from all regions of the world are virtually attending the session that will run from March 15 to 26.The theme for this year’s session is ‘Women's full and effective participation and decision-making in public life, as well as the elimination of violence, for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls.’Harris, America’s first woman and first Black and South Asian-descent Vice President, told the high-level session that the COVID-19 pandemic has threatened the economic security, the physical security, and the health of women everywhere.'As women struggle to get the healthcare they need, the pandemic appears to be reversing the global gains we’ve made in the fights against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, malnutrition, and maternal and child mortality,” she said.She cautioned that when women face obstacles to obtaining quality healthcare, face food insecurity, are more likely to live in poverty, and therefore disproportionately impacted by climate change, are more vulnerable to gender-based violence, and therefore disproportionately impacted by conflict, it is harder for women to fully participate in decision-making, which, in turn, makes it that much harder for democracies to thrive.UN Secretary-General António Guterres, in his remarks to the opening of the 65th session of the Commission on the Status of Women on Monday, said the pandemic was having a devastating impact on women and girls."COVID-19 is a crisis with a woman’s face. The fallout has shown how deeply gender inequality remains embedded in the world’s political, social and economic systems. Those disparities have themselves exacerbated the damage — and we have all paid the price,” he said.Quoting former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, who had shaped the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, Harris said: "Without equality, there can be no democracy."Harris said the status of women is the status of democracy and the United States will work to improve both.She stressed that this year, in considering the status of women, especially as it pertains to the participation of women in decision-making, nations must also consider the status of democracy.Underscoring that democracy protects human rights, promotes human dignity, and upholds the rule of law, Harris said it is a means to establish peace and shared prosperity.“It should ensure every citizen—regardless of gender—has an equal voice. At the same time, democracy requires constant vigilance, constant improvement. It is a work-in-progress,” she said.Highlighting progress in women’s empowerment in the US, Harris said in every presidential election for the last 56 years in the United States, more women have voted than men, more women than ever before serve in the US Congress and more women than ever before are their family’s breadwinner."Women in the United States lead our local, state, and national governments, make major decisions regarding our nation's security, and drive major growth in our economy. These are signs of progress. These are signs of strength,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exclusion-of-women-in-decision-making-marker-of-flawed-democracy-kamala-harris-in-first-address-to-un-as-vice-president-101615948935669.html
17-03-2021||World||Russia, Iran targeted 2020 US election: Report||Russia and Iran targeted election infrastructure during the 2020 US vote but did not compromise any of the results, the departments of Homeland Security and Justice said Tuesday."Broad Russian and Iranian campaigns targeting multiple critical infrastructure sectors did compromise the security of several networks that managed some election functions," the government agencies said in a joint report.Also Read: US Capitol siege act of domestic terrorism, says FBI chief Wray"But they did not materially affect the integrity of voter data, the ability to vote, the tabulation of votes, or the timely transmission of election results."Russian, Iranian and Chinese government-affiliated actors also "materially impacted" the security of networks associated with American political organizations, candidates, and campaigns, the report said."Several such actors gathered at least some information they could have released in influence operations, but ultimately we did not see any such materials deployed, modified, or destroyed," it said.The report said there was "no evidence that any foreign government-affiliated actor prevented voting, changed votes, or disrupted the ability to tally votes or to transmit election results."It specifically shot down a conspiracy theory floated by lawyers for former president Donald Trump's campaign that a voting tabulation company had links with Venezuela and manipulated election results in favor of his opponent Joe Biden.Also Read | Biden-Harris era begins: Some key ‘firsts’ of the new US administrationThe report said the public claims had been investigated and "determined that they are not credible."The authors of the report said they looked solely at the impact of foreign government activity on the security and integrity of election infrastructure."It did not address the effect of foreign government activity on public perception or the behavior of any voters, nor did it address the impact of non-state foreign actors like cybercriminals," they said.Democratic Senator Mark Warner, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the report "highlights the ongoing and persistent efforts by our adversaries to influence our elections.""Russia, in particular, has expended real effort, not just in 2020, but also as we all recall in 2016, to influence election results," Warner said."The problem of foreign actors trying to influence the American electorate is not going away and, given the current partisan divides in this country, may find fertile ground in which to grow in the future," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-iran-targeted-2020-us-election-report-101615947200302.html
17-03-2021||World||Georgia massage parlour shootings leave 8 dead, 1 suspect captured at Acworth||Shootings at two massage parlours in Atlanta and one in the suburbs left eight people dead, many of them women of Asian descent, authorities said Tuesday. A 21-year-old man was taken into custody in southwest Georgia hours later after a manhunt.Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said three people were killed at a spa in northeast Atlanta, while a fourth person was killed at another spa across the street. He said all four victims were female, and “It appears that they may be Asian.”Atlanta police officers responding to a call of a robbery in progress at one spa around 5:50 p.m. found three women dead from apparent gunshot wounds, police said. While they were at that scene, they learned of a call reporting shots fired at another spa across the street and found a woman who appeared to have been shot dead inside the business.Earlier, around 5 p.m., five people were shot at Young's Asian Massage Parlour in Acworth, about 30 miles (50 kilometres) north of Atlanta, Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Capt. Jay Baker said. Two of the victims were dead and three were transported to a hospital where two of them also died, Baker said.Authorities were not immediately releasing the gender or race of the victims, Baker said.A man suspected in the Acworth shooting was captured by surveillance video pulling up to the business around 4:50 p.m. Tuesday, minutes before the shooting, authorities said. Baker said the suspect, Robert Aaron Long, of Woodstock, was taken into custody in Crisp County, about 150 miles (240 kilometres) south of Atlanta.Baker said they believe Long is also the suspect in the Atlanta shootings.With two shootings at massage parlours in Atlanta and the knowledge of the Acworth shooting, Atlanta police said they dispatched officers to check nearby similar businesses and increased patrols in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-massage-parlour-shootings-leave-8-dead-1-suspect-captured-at-acworth-101615945620961.html
17-03-2021||World||'Who would have thought ...': Prince Charles takes swipe at anti-vaxxers||Britain's Prince Charles on Wednesday criticised those lobbying against coronavirus vaccines, saying they can "protect and liberate" some of society's most vulnerable members.In a wide-ranging article for the Future Healthcare Journal in which he called for an integrated approach to healthcare, the heir to the throne also took a swipe at those speaking out against Covid-19 shots."Who would have thought ... that in the 21st century that there would be a significant lobby opposing vaccination, given its track record in eradicating so many terrible diseases and its current potential to protect and liberate some of the most vulnerable in our society from coronavirus?" he wrote.The prince, 72, who tested positive for the coronavirus himself in March last year, and other senior members of the royal family have been vociferous in their support of the shots.Last month, he and his wife Camilla, 73, had their first Covid-19 doses, while Queen Elizabeth, 94, has also encouraged people to get a shot saying it did not hurt and those who were wary about it should think of others.However, the focus of the prince's article, published on Wednesday, was his message that long-term health issues needed to be addressed by integrating science, public policy and personal behaviour."I also believe that medicine will need to combine bioscience with personal beliefs, hopes, aspirations and choices," Charles wrote, calling for an open-minded approach to complementary medicine whose virtues he has long espoused despite criticism from some in the medical profession.In 2011, a leading professor of complementary medicine accused the prince of "quackery", saying that he and other backers of alternative therapies were "snake-oil salesmen" who promoted products with no scientific basis.Charles said he had always advocated "the best of both worlds" to bring evidence-informed conventional and complementary medicine together and seek a middle ground over the issue."Only then can we escape divisions and intolerance on both sides of the conventional/complementary equation, where on the one hand, the appropriate regulation of the proven therapies of acupuncture and medical herbalism is opposed, while on the other we find people actually opposing life-saving vaccinations," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-would-have-thought-prince-charles-takes-swipe-at-antivaxxers-101615940097490.html
17-03-2021||World||Iran enriching uranium with advanced machine type at underground plant: Report||Iran has started enriching uranium at its underground Natanz plant with a second type of advanced centrifuge, the IR-4, the U.N. nuclear watchdog said in a report reviewed by Reuters on Tuesday, in a further breach of Tehran's deal with major powers.Iran has recently accelerated its breaches of the deal's restrictions on its nuclear activities in an apparent bid to pressure U.S. President Joe Biden as both sides are locked in a standoff over who should move first to save the deal.Also Read: Iran produces uranium metal, IAEA says, in latest breach of dealTehran's breaches began in 2019 in response to the U.S. withdrawal from the deal and the reimposition of U.S. economic sanctions against Iran under Biden's predecessor Donald Trump, who opposed the agreement and sought to wreck it.Last year Iran started moving three cascades, or clusters, of different advanced models of centrifuge from an above-ground plant at Natanz to its below-ground Fuel Enrichment Plant (FEP). It is already enriching underground with IR-2m centrifuges. The deal only lets it enrich there with first-generation IR-1 machines."On 15 March 2021, the Agency verified that Iran began feeding the cascade of 174 IR-4 centrifuges already installed at FEP with natural UF6," the International Atomic Energy Agency said in the report to member states dated Monday, referring to uranium hexafluoride, the form in which uranium is fed into centrifuges for enrichment.Iran has indicated that it now plans to install a second cascade of IR-4 centrifuges at the FEP but installation of that cascade has yet to begin, the report said. Iran has already increased the number of IR-2m machines, which are far more efficient than the IR-1, installed at the underground plant."In summary, as of 15 March 2021, Iran was using 5,060 IR-1 centrifuges installed in 30 cascades, 522 IR-2m centrifuges installed in three cascades and 174 IR-4 centrifuges installed in one cascade, to enrich natural UF6 up to 5% U-235 at FEP," the IAEA report said, referring to the fissile purity of uranium.Iran is enriching up to 20% purity at another plant, Fordow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-enriching-uranium-with-advanced-machine-type-at-underground-plant-report-101615942128327.html
17-03-2021||World||Trump tells his supporters to get vaccine shots, says 'would recommend it'||President Donald Trump on Tuesday encouraged his Republican supporters -- one of the main groups resistant to Covid-19 vaccines -- to get their shots."I would recommend it," Trump said during an interview on Fox News."I would recommend it to a lot of people that don't want to get it and a lot of those people voted for me, frankly," he said."It's a great vaccine, it's a safe vaccine and it's something that works."This was Trump's most explicit endorsement for the national mass vaccination campaign since he left office in January.All other living former presidents, including Democrat Barack Obama and Republican George W. Bush, have delivered high profile public service announcements.But Trump has largely been silent while the man who defeated him, President Joe Biden, masterminds the vaccine rollout.Polls show that Republican men, who are overwhelmingly supporters of Trump and his "Make America Great Again" or MAGA platform, are the leading vaccine skeptics.Meanwhile, Trump remained non-committal about seeking to recapture the presidency following his one term in office."Based on every poll, they want me to run again," he said. "But we're going to take a look and we'll see."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-tells-his-supporters-to-get-vaccine-shots-says-would-recommend-it-101615940135602.html
17-03-2021||World||Putin tried to help Trump against Biden in 2020 US elections: Report||Russian President Vladimir Putin authorized influence operations to help Donald Trump in last November's presidential election, according to a declassified intelligence assessment that found broad efforts by the Kremlin and Iran to shape the outcome of the race but ultimately no evidence that any foreign actor changed votes or otherwise disrupted the voting process.The report released Tuesday from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence represents the most detailed assessment of the array of foreign threats to the 2020 election. These included efforts by Iran to undermine confidence in the vote and harm Trump’s re-election prospects as well as Moscow operations that relied on Trump's allies to smear Joe Biden, the eventual winner.Despite those threats, though, intelligence officials found "no indications that any foreign actor attempted to interfere in the 2020 US elections by altering any technical aspect of the voting process, including voter registration, ballot casting, vote tabulation, or reporting results.”The report is the latest official affirmation of the integrity of the election, even as Trump supporters continue to make false claims of interference, from foreign or domestic actors, and refuse to accept Biden’s victory. Multiple courts and even Trump’s own Justice Department refuted claims of widespread fraud. The document makes clear that even while Trump has cried foul about the legitimacy of the election, intelligence officials believe Russia sought to influence people close to Trump as a way to tip the election in his favor.The report wades into the politically charged task of ferreting out which foreign adversaries supported which candidates during the 2020 election, an issue that dominated headlines last year. Trump, whose 2016 campaign benefited from hacking by Russian intelligence officers and a covert social media effort, seized on an intelligence assessment from August that said China preferred a Biden presidency — even though the same assessment also said Russia was working to boost Trump's own candidacy by disparaging Biden.Tuesday's report, however, says China ultimately did not interfere on either side and “considered but did not deploy" influence operations intended to affect the outcome. US officials say they believe Beijing prioritized a stable relationship with the US and did not consider either election outcome as advantageous enough for it to risk the “blowback” that would ensue if it got caught with interfering.The primary threats instead came from Russia and Iran, albeit with different intentions and through different means, according to intelligence officials.In the case of Russia, the report says, Russia sought to undermine Biden’s candidacy because it viewed his presidency as opposed to the Kremlin's interests, though it took some steps to prepare for a Democratic administration as the election neared.The report also says Putin authorized influence operations aimed at denigrating Biden, boosting Trump, undermining confidence in the election and exacerbating social divisions in the US.Central to that effort was reliance on proxies linked to Russian intelligence “to launder influence narratives" by using media organizations, US officials and people close to Trump to push “misleading or unsubstantiated" allegations against Biden.Intelligence officials did not single out any Trump ally in that effort. But longtime associate Rudy Giuliani met multiple times with Ukrainian lawmaker Andrii Derkach, who in 2020 released heavily edited recordings of Biden in an effort to link the Democratic nominee to unsubstantiated corruption allegations. US officials have said they regard Derkach as an “active Russian agent,” and Tuesday's report said Putin is believed to have “purview” over his activities.Notably, though, Russia was not as aggressive as in past election cycles in trying to hack election infrastructure. The report says Russian cyber operations that targeted state and local government networks last year were probably not election-focused and were instead part of a broader effort to target US and global entities.Iran, meanwhile, carried out its own influence campaign aimed at harming Trump's re-election bid, an effort US officials say was probably approved by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.One “highly targeted operation" — the subject of an October news conferenc e by then-Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe and FBI Director Christopher Wray — involved a flurry of emails to Democratic voters in battleground states that falsely purported to be from the far-right group Proud Boys and threatened the recipients if they didn't vote for Trump.Iran's efforts, which officials say were more aggressive than in past elections and continued even after the contest was over, were focused on sowing discord in the US, likely because Tehran believed that would hurt Trump's re-election chances.Though Iran sought to exploit vulnerabilities on state election websites, and did “compromise US entities associated with election infrastructure as a part of a broad targeting effort across multiple sectors worldwide,” it did not attempt to manipulate votes or affect election infrastructure, the report concluded.The 15-page document is a declassified version of an election interference report that was provided to Trump on Jan. 7, one day after a riot at the US Capitol that occurred as Congress was gathering to certify the election results.A separate document released Tuesday from the departments of Justice and Homeland Security reached a similar conclusion about the integrity of the election, saying there was no evidence any foreign actor had changed votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-tried-to-help-trump-against-biden-in-2020-us-elections-report-101615940158514.html
17-03-2021||World||58 killed in 'barbarous' Niger attacks near Mali border||Fifty-eight people have been killed in "barbarous" attacks on a bus and nearby villages in Niger close to the country's border with Mali, the government said on Tuesday.On Monday afternoon, "groups of armed, still unidentified individuals intercepted four vehicles carrying passengers back from the weekly market of Banibangou to the villages of Chinedogar and Darey-Daye," the government said in a statement read out on public television."The toll from these barbarous acts (is) 58 dead, one injured, a number of grain silos and two vehicles burned and two more vehicles seized," it added.No group claimed responsibility, but Niger is struggling with two jihadist campaigns -- in the west near Mali and Burkina Faso, and a decade-old insurgency in the southeast on the border with Nigeria.The raids took place in the Tillaberi region located in the "tri-border area" -- a flashpoint zone where the frontiers of Niger, Burkina Faso and Mali converge.Earlier, a local resident had told AFP that the raids began with an attack on a bus travelling to Chinedogar, in which "around 20 people were killed."Another resident said those killed had been shopping at Banibangou, a major market town just a few kilometres (miles) from the Malian border."Armed bandits" then attacked villages at around 6 pm, killing about 30 people, a security source said.The government announced three days of national mourning from Wednesday.It called for "greater vigilance" from the population and reaffirmed its "determination to relentlessly pursue the fight against criminality in all its forms".Sahel violence Niger is part of a France-backed alliance of countries in the Sahel region battling militants, including some in a group aligned with the Islamic State known as ISWAP -- an offshoot of Boko Haram.Hundreds of lives have been lost, nearly half a million people have fled their homes, and devastating damage has been inflicted.On January 2, 100 people were killed in attacks on two villages in the Mangaize district of Tillaberi.The massacre, one of the worst in Niger's history, occurred between two rounds of the country's presidential election.In December 2019, 71 Nigerien troops died in an attack at Inates, and the following month 89 were killed in an assault on their base at Chinedogar.Along with central Mali, the lawless tri-border area sees the most frequent and deadliest jihadist attacks anywhere in the Sahel region.French forces working with local troops have stepped up operations in the region since early 2020, following the string of attacks on military camps that killed hundreds of soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/58-killed-in-barbarous-niger-attacks-near-mali-border-101615940535579.html
17-03-2021||World||'Not enough': UK drivers on Uber's minimum wage, pension, holiday pay move||Uber is giving its UK drivers the minimum wage, pensions and holiday pay, following a recent court ruling that said they should be classified as workers and entitled to such benefits.The ride hailing giant's announcement Tuesday comes after it lost an appeal last month at the UK Supreme Court following a yearslong court battle. The court's decision holds wider implications for the country's gig economy.Uber said it's extending the benefits immediately to its more than 70,000 drivers in the UK. Drivers will earn at least the minimum wage, which currently stands at 8.72 pounds ($12.12), after accepting a trip request and expenses, and will still be able to earn more.Drivers will also get holiday pay equal to about 12% of their earnings, paid every two weeks. And they'll be enrolled in a pension plan that both they and the company will pay into.“This is an important day for drivers in the UK," Uber's regional general manager for Northern and Eastern Europe, Jamie Heywood, said in a filing to the SEC. He noted that drivers will still be able to work on a flexible basis. “Uber is just one part of a larger private-hire industry, so we hope that all other operators will join us in improving the quality of work for these important workers who are an essential part of our everyday lives.”The drivers who filed the case welcomed the news but said it's not enough.Uber has “arrived to the table with this offer a day late and a dollar short, literally,” James Farrar and Yaseen Aslam of the App Drivers And Couriers Union said in a statement. They said the changes stopped short of the Supreme Court's ruling that pay should be calculated from when drivers log on to the app until they log off. And they said the company can't decide by itself the expense base for calculating the minimum wage, which should be based on a collective agreement.Farrar and Aslam had taken their case to an employment tribunal, which found drivers are not independent contractors, but should be designated workers, which under British law means their work terms are more casual than employees but still come with some benefits. Uber lost two rounds of appeals before the Supreme Court decision.Providing more benefits for its drivers is likely to raise costs for San Francisco-based Uber, which already was struggling to make a profit and had previously run into regulatory trouble in London, where authorities had sought to revoke its license.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uber-to-give-uk-drivers-minimum-wage-pension-holiday-pay-101615940200690.html
17-03-2021||World||UK foreign minister Raab says democracy in retreat globally||Democracy is in retreat around the world, British foreign minister Dominic Raab will warn on Wednesday in a speech setting out the danger that autocratic regimes pose to global stability and prosperity.Britain this week announced an overhaul of its foreign and defence policy to prioritise influence in the Indo-Pacific as a way to help moderate the expanding power and assertiveness of China's Communist Party leadership.Speaking to the US Aspen Security Forum to project that new agenda beyond a domestic audience, Raab will sum up the foreign policy review as a mission to be a "force for good in the world", saying that global democratic institutions are under their greatest threat since the end of the Cold War in 1989-90."Democracy is in retreat," he will say, adding that data showed that this decade the combined economic output of autocratic regimes is expected to exceed the combined output of the world’s democracies."Tyranny is richer than freedom, and that matters to us here at home because stable, freedom-respecting democracies are much less likely to go to war, house terrorists or trigger large scale flows of migrants," Raab said."They are generally, not always, but generally easier to trade with, and easier to cooperate with to solve our shared problems."Since its 2016 vote to leave the European Union, Britain have been searching for a new role on the global stage which lives up to the promise made by Brexit campaigners - namely that, outside the EU, British influence would be projected around the world and bring greater economic prosperity.Raab's speech will try to show that Britain, although dwarfed economically and militarily by China and the United States, now has a strategy to meet those expectations.Central to that plan is finding a leading role in protecting democracies and building a new international system based on democratic values."Without power, without economic, military, diplomatic, cultural clout, we can do nothing," Raab will say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-foreign-minister-raab-says-democracy-in-retreat-globally-101615933909063.html
17-03-2021||World||3 die, more than 1,000 injured as Iran citizens celebrate fire festival||At least three people were killed and more than 1,000 were hurt as crowds across Iran leaped over bonfires and fireworks in an annual fire festival ahead of the Iranian New Year, state media reported early on Wednesday.Of the 1,030 injured, 87 had lost a limb, the head of the national emergency services, Pirhossein Koulivand, told state television, with home-made fireworks and improvised explosives causing to casualties.Koulivand said three people were killed during the celebrations which started at sunset on Tuesday and went on late into the night.Many ignored authorities' warnings against gatherings in the Middle East country worst affected by the COVID 19 pandemic. Police arrested 25 people in the capital Tehran, the semi-official news agency Fars reported.The ancient Zoroastrian feast, called Chaharshanbe Suri (Scarlet Wednesday), is held on the eve of the last Wednesday of the Iranian calendar. It remains highly popular as a national tradition despite the disdain of hardline Islamists who see it a pagan relic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-die-more-than-1-000-injured-as-iran-citizens-celebrate-fire-festival-101615933485957.html
17-03-2021||World||US Congress report warns of repercussions over farmer protests in India||A new report by the US Congress’s non-partisan and autonomous research service has taken a critical view of India’s handling of the farmer protests, warning that New Delhi’s position on the ongoing stir could “present a challenge” for the Biden administration as it shapes its Indo-Pacific policy with India as a key partner.The report published by the Congressional Research Service (CRS) could potentially fuel the disquiet already voiced by US lawmakers.A congressional aide referring to the US Congress by its location, Capitol Hill, said that at the least, “if CRS has a published report on a topic, it indicates that the topic has generated some notable level of interest on the Hill”.“By some accounts, the crackdown on dissent has been excessive and reflective of a broader trend towards authoritarianism in India,” says the CRS report, drawing mostly upon news reports, commentaries and analyses in Indian and foreign media publications.“Perceived backsliding in India’s democracy and human rights record may present a challenge for the Biden administration in formulating its policies towards India and the Indo-Pacific,” the report adds.The report was published before the historic first-ever summit-level meeting of the Quad, which is singularly focused on the Indo-Pacific, called by President Joe Biden with the stated goals of making a “a clear statement of the importance of the Indo-Pacific region” and to put his “stamp” on the Quad process.As of now, Biden’s Indo-Pacific policy is on course and was rolled out seemingly unaffected by the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the farmer protests.But the CRS report, as the congressional aide quoted above pointed out, reflects simmering unease among some US lawmakers, who might have been too distracted in recent weeks with domestic compulsions, such as confirmation hearings of the president’s nominees and the passing of his $1.9-trillion Covid-19 relief bill.In early February, Brad Sherman, the Democratic lawmaker who co-chairs the House India Caucus, tweeted: “I urge the Indian government to make sure the norms of democracy are maintained and that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably, and to have access to the Internet and to journalists. All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement.”Sherman, Steve Chabot, the Republican co-chair of the Caucus, and Ro Khanna, the Indian-American who is co-chair, also raised the issue in a meeting with the Indian ambassador to the United States, Taranjit Singh Sandhu.But another congressional aide cautioned against overestimating the impact of the CRS report, contending that it should be worrying for India only “in theory”, because Saudi Arabia got away despite being a serial violator of civic norms that deny democratic rights to its people and has the blood of slain journalist Jamal Khashoggi on its hands.The Trump administration took no public position on the farmer protests in India, possibly because it could have been distracted at the time by a worsening of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the 2020 election.In its first response to the protests, which was attracting growing international attention by then, including in America, Biden’s state department said it encouraged a resolution to the agitation through dialogue, but it also showed support for underlying reforms that triggered the protests.“In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India’s markets and attract greater private sector investment,” the state department said on February 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-report-warns-of-repercussions-over-farmer-protests-in-india-101615869352898.html
17-03-2021||India||Bypolls a chance for CM to recover lost heft: Experts||Bengaluru After spending most of his term in office fighting internal discontentment, the bypolls to three constituencies on April 17 come as a fresh opportunity to Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa to not only silence the opposition but also reestablish his image as the undisputed leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. On Tuesday, the Election Commission had announced that polling for the parliamentary seat of Belagavi (Belgaum) and two assembly constituencies in Maski and Basavakalyan will be held on April 17.“The expectations will be high because the government (party in power) is expected to win the bypolls,” Narendra Pani, political analyst and faculty at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) said. “If he (Yediyurappa) wins, he will certainly know how to use the victory as it will become difficult for the dissident to go against him,” he added.In 2017, then chief minister Siddaramaiah had asserted his leadership and silenced calls to replace him after he won the Gundlupet and Nanjangud bypolls which the Congress had lost in previous elections. However, demands for Siddaramaiah’s removal were only raised within the state unit. For Yediyurappa, the challenges lay at both the state and the Centre with whom his relations have soured in recent years. Ever since he came to power, Yediyurappa has gone out of his way to fulfil his obligation towards the turncoats, fueling dissent among his core-party legislators in the process. To ensure his victory in the bypolls, the chief minister will have to get his party and divided government behind him. Of the three seats, Maski in Raichur district is a crucial one. In 2018, the Congress’s Pratapgouda Patil had won the seat with a margin of just 2013 votes against Basanagowda Turviha of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Yediyurappa will be required to convince his party leadership and its earlier candidate to lend their support to Patil who was among the 17 legislators who had resigned from the former H D Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) government and joined the saffron camp in November, 2019. The Basavakalayan seat was held by Congress B Narayana Rao but fell vacant after his demise last year. Similarly, the parliamentary seat in Belagavi fell vacant after the death of Union Suresh Angadi last year. Though Angadi had won this seat with over 63% of the vote share in 2019, analysts believe that the revival of the Belgaum border dispute by BJP’s ally-turned-rival Shiv Sena in Maharashtra is likely to play a significant factor in the bypolls. There were 58 candidates in the fray from this seat last year, a tactic used by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) to split the votes of both the national parties whom they have accused of ignoring their pleas pertaining to the region.The MES, an umbrella organisation created to integrate Marathi speaking majority districts of Karnataka with Maharashtra, has decided to neither support the Congress nor the BJP in the by-polls this year.While Yediyurappa may have reconciled with the fact that this could possibly be his last stint as chief minister, analysts believe that his reservation-based politics in recent weeks and months is in the direction to cement his legacy as the ‘sole leader’ of the party and possible face of the next assembly elections as well.With no second-rung leadership to match the chief minister’s stature, the BJP is digging deep to find a credible replacement or lose a state which is key to its plans of penetrating deeper into Tamil Nadu and Kerala where it has little or no presence at all.Yediyurappa is also the leader of the dominant and politically-influential Lingayat community and any efforts to unseat him before his term is likely to trigger a backlash like it did in 2013. A disgruntled Yediyurappa had quit the BJP in 2012 (just before the elections in 2013), bringing the party down from 110 seats in 2008 to just 40 in 2013, thereby giving an edge to the Congress led by Siddaramaiah. Besides, the bypolls are also crucial for Yediyurappa to placate his second son B Y Vijayendra. “His son has been given the responsibility of the Maski assembly constituency and the intentions of Yediyurappa are very clear,” a north Karnataka-based political analyst said on condition of anonymity. Vijayendra has been accused of running a parallel administration with the Yediyurappa government, earning the ire of ministers and several seniors within the party fold. A senior office bearer of the state BJP, Vijayendra had registered his first victory during the KR Pete bypolls in December 2019. Meanwhile, the bypolls also pose a challenge to the opposition, mainly the faction-hit Congress, which had two of the three seats in the previous elections. “The Congress has to win at least one of the three bypoll seats for D K Shivakumar (state party chief) to be counted as a leader,” the analyst said. The infighting within the Congress in the state has dented the party’s chances of cornering a government which is already facing pressure from its dissidents. While Siddaramaiah has refused to cede control of the Congress in Karnataka, Shivakumar is battling to assert himself and his plans to switch from a caste-based support to mass-based support like the BJP. Both assembly seats are also in the Kalyana-Karnataka (formerly Hyderabad-Karnataka) area, one of the most backward regions in the country. This region has not received much attention and it remains to be seen if the Congress can iron out its internal differences and cash in on these weaknesses. The role of the JD(S) will also be crucial as regional outfit led by former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy share an on-and-off partnership with the BJP. While the JD(S) does not have a strong presence in all the three constituencies, it remains to be seen which way the supporters will swing since the outfit has so far skirted the possibility of contesting any of the three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-a-chance-for-cm-to-recover-lost-heft-experts-101616005750107.html
17-03-2021||India||Jan Shatabdi train runs in reverse for over 20 km in Uttarakhand as brakes fail||In a bizarre incident, the Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi express train ran backwards between Tanakpur-Pilibhit railway line on Wednesday evening for over 20 km, a railway official said. The train which was on its way to Tanakpur in Uttarakhand from Delhi was finally stopped near Khatima in US Nagar district.Rajendra Singh, public relation officer, North Eastern railway division Izzatnagar, Bareilly said, “A cow had been killed near home signal in Tanakpur by the Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi train while heading to Tanakpur in the evening on Wednesday. The train was stopped due to an accident but suddenly it started running towards Pilibhit due to slope and the pilots’ effort to stop the train went in vain.” The train’s brakes failed due to leakage in the pressure pipe which left the pilots helpless to stop it and sparked panic among the passengers, said an official. Railway crossings were shut to avoid any untoward incidents on the track. The train crossed Banbasa and Chakarpur railway stations before railway officials managed to stop it close to Goshikuaon village near Khatima of US Nagar district at about 5 pm.Singh said, “The train was stopped by putting soil and aggregates on the track between Banbasa and Khatima. All passengers were safe and were sent to Tanakpur by roadways buses. Railway officials are repairing the fault and the train will be sent to Tanakpur.” He said, “A committee of three senior officers has been constituted to ascertain the cause of the incident. Action will be taken against those responsible accordingly.” The Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi train service between Tanakpur and Delhi was flagged off on February 26. It leaves from Tanakpur at 11.25 am for Delhi and another train arrives at Tanakpur railway station from Delhi at 4.15 pm daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jan-shatabdi-train-runs-in-reverse-for-over-20-km-in-uttarakhand-as-brakes-fail-101616005450655.html
17-03-2021||India||CPI(M) took right approach in Sabarimala case: Yechury||Thiruvananthapuram: Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s remarks on Wednesday that the party, the head of the incumbent LDF government in the state, adopted the right approach to the Sabarimala temple row in 2018, triggered a political storm with the party’s rivals in the state pointing out that this comment, and the “regret” expressed by a state minister on the government’s response to the controversy exposed the party’s “double standards”. Speaking to a news channel in New Delhi, Yechury wondered why Kerala temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed ‘regret’ over the “incidents” at the Sabarimala shrine in 2018 over the entry of women of all ages, as decreed by the Supreme Court that year. “I don’t know in which context Surendran said this. As far as the party is concerned, its position on the issue remains the same. We believe in equality. The elected government was duty-bound to implement the verdict of the highest court of the country,” he said. “The Supreme Court verdict upheld equality. The government had no other option but to implement it,” he added.Last week, Surendran said that the protests over the entry of women devotees “pained everyone” and “shouldn’t have happened”. Surendran said he did not want to respond to Yechury’s comments. The minister is seeking another term from Kazhakootam, on the outskirts of the state capital. Surendran’s main opponent and BJP leader Shobha Surendra, however, emphasised that the temple would be an important poll issue. “How can he shed tears now? He presided over the brutal attack on the devotees,” she said. Accusing the ruling party of having “double standards”, state BJP chief K Surendran told reporters: “The party’s double standards are exposed yet again. Several devotees are making regular rounds to the court for chanting hymns during the protests. Yechury has now made it clear that the party does not stand with the devotees. The devotees cannot be deceived in this manner.” Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said Yechury’s remarks showed that the minister’s regret was only aimed at garnering votes. “The party has insulted the devotees again. The state minister’s regret was only aimed at some votes.” In a 4-1 verdict on September 28, 2018, the Supreme Court overturned the decades-old norm of not allowing women in the 10-50 age group from entering the shrine of the bachelor God. The court noted that the rule had violated the women’s right to equality and right to worship. The state witnessed high drama and violence after at least 18 women belonging to the age group were prevented from entering the temple by protesting devotees. Kerala also witnessed five shutdowns during the three-month pilgrimage season that year. In 2019, the court referred several revision petitions to a nine-member bench which is yet to begin hearings. The judgement itself has not been stayed, although the protests have died down because of an informal understanding that no woman will try to break the norm.Ahead of the assembly polls, the Left Democratic Front government in the state withdrew close to 5,000 cases registered in connection with the Sabarimala agitation, last month. Its handling of the temple issue was one of the reasons behind its drubbing in the 2019 Parliamentary elections where it lost all but one of the 20 Lok Sabha seats. The Congress, its main rival in the state and the head of the UDF was the biggest beneficiary. The party had recently instructed its leaders to refrain from making any comments on the issue. Reacting to the comments of the minister, former chief minister Oommen Chandy of the Congress asked the government to withdraw its affidavit in the court, saying that this was one of the main reasons that led to the verdict in 2018.“If the government is sincere enough, it has to withdraw its affidavit and ask for status quo at the temple. The affidavit filed during the regime of the last government was the main cause of all troubles.” Polling for the 140-member assembly will be held on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-took-right-approach-in-sabarimala-case-yechury-101616004790066.html
17-03-2021||India||Man sentenced to death for raping 5-yr-old||Jaipur A local court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) in Jhunjhunu district on Wednesday completed trial in a rape case in record 16 days and awarded death penalty to a 20-year-old man who had raped a five-year-old girl last month.The entire process was completed in 26 days, police said. While pronouncing the judgment on Wednesday, justice Sukesh Kumar Jain told the accused: “During the course of hearing, the court did not see repentance in your eyes. Your punishment could have been different had it seen the repentance in your eyes.” The court also lauded the efforts of the Jhunjhunu police for its speedy investigation. “The investigation done by the police is an example of a very good investigation in which every evidence, including scientific, electronic and physical evidence were corroborated very well… it could be considered as an idol investigation. The senior officials of the police department should use this investigation as a case study,” the judgment read. The statement of more than 40 witnesses was collected and around 250 documents were submitted as evidence, inspector general of police (Jaipur range) Hawa Singh Ghumariya said. According to the police, the minor was playing outside her house with her cousins when she was abducted and raped on February 19. She was later found around 27 kilometres away from her home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-raping-5yrold-101616003711667.html
17-03-2021||India||Cancellation of ration cards a serious issue: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Central government on a plea regarding cancellation of around 30 million ration cards across India between 2013 and 2016, leading to alleged denial of rations and starvation deaths. “It is a very serious issue. We expect you not to treat it as adversarial,” the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, told the counsel for the Centre. The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by a woman from Jharkhand, has alleged starvation deaths following denial of food after her ration card was cancelled. Appearing for petitioner Koili Devi, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves claimed that around three crore [30 million] ration cards of poor people were cancelled by authorities across the country as they were not linked with Aadhaar cards and the petitioner’s 13-year-old girl died of starvation in September 2017 after they were denied ration. When the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, suggested that the issue could be heard by respective high courts, Gonsalves pointed out that the proceedings before the top court were justified since ration cards were cancelled at the central level due to the Aadhaar linkage process initiated by the Centre. Representing the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi opposed the plea and stated that the PIL was based only on newspaper reports and that there were no reliable statistics adduced by Gonsalves to corroborate his contentions. “There is a grievance redressal system under the Food Security Act. This court has already sought responses from the state governments on this. The plea, as being pressed, is completely misconceived because there is an absolute clarity that if Aadhaar is not available, alternative documents can be submitted. We have clearly said Aadhaar or no Aadhaar, it will not deny right to food,” said Lekhi. Attorney General KK Venugopal, also appearing for the Centre, supported Lekhi’s arguments. After hearing the counsel, the court said it would hear the PIL in detail after three weeks. In November 2019, the court had called upon all states to apprise it of steps taken by them to put in place the grievance redressal mechanism, as provided under the National Food Security Act. Venugopal had then cited Sections 14, 15, 16 and 40 of the Act that mandate every state government to have internal grievance redressal mechanism and nodal officers for effective and expeditious redressal of food grievance. During a hearing on February 24, the Centre had denied allegations of starvation deaths in Jharkhand and arbitrary cancellation of ration cards across the country, pointing out the cancellation between 2013 to 2016 pertained to ‘ghost’ ration cards. Venugopal had said that the statistics referred to in the petition were completely wrong and that the Centre was ready to prove the averments as incorrect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancellation-of-ration-cards-a-serious-issue-sc-101616003649939.html
17-03-2021||India||India must take first step to improve ties: Imran Khan||New DelhiPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday that India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral relations by addressing Kashmir, which is the only issue standing in the way of better ties between the two sides. “There is one issue that is stopping us [from improving relations] at this time. We will make our efforts but India must take the first step because after August 5, till they take the first step, then unfortunately we cannot move forward,” Khan said, referring to India’s decision on August 5, 2019 to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and to split the region into two Union Territories. “Our issue basically is Kashmir and it is the only issue – how we can settle it through dialogue and establish a relationship as civilised neighbours,” he said, speaking in Urdu. These were Khan’s first public comments on relations with India since the Indian and Pakistani armies recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – an apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two countries.Khan made the remarks while addressing the first edition of the Islamabad Security Dialogue, a two-day summit organised by Pakistan’s National Security Division in collaboration with the country’s leading think tanks.Khan noted that he had attempted to settle all issues with India after forming government in 2018. “Unfortunately, there was August 5 and that was a big blow and there was a total breakdown between the two countries,” he said. “We still hope that they [India] give the Kashmiris the rights they were given by the UN Security Council to decide their own lives. It will be as beneficial for India as for Pakistan,” Khan said. “If there is movement towards the resolution of Kashmir through dialogue, the whole region will change and there will be big benefits to both countries – benefits for India because there is great poverty there. So if poverty is to be removed then our trading and economic ties must be strong and our regional connectivity should increase. India will benefit from being connected to Central Asia,” he added. Khan’s remarks reflected a change from his strident criticism of India and the Narendra Modi government over the past year. On Monday, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said the onus was on Pakistan to create a conducive atmosphere for a meaningful dialogue. Shringla listed India’s relations with Pakistan as one of the challenges in the neighbourhood. “India desires good neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully,” Shringla said.During his speech, Khan said Pakistan’s national security was not just about the armed forces, but included vulnerability to climate change, food security and economic matters. “As long as there is no regional peace and our relations with our neighbours and trading ties are not good, Pakistan won’t be able to take full advantage of its geo-strategic location. If there is peace in this region, Pakistan will be the biggest beneficiary because we are connected in all four directions,” he said. “We are connected to the world’s two largest markets – I mean we are connected with China and we can be connected with the other, India,” he added. Khan also spoke of Pakistan’s role in the troubled peace process in Afghanistan, saying: “After a long time, there is hope for peace in Afghanistan...No one should underestimate how difficult this is, there are big challenges in this.” He added, “We are making all efforts, I am very happy that Pakistan has done as much as it could for peace in Afghanistan but there are challenges. The (U.S President Joe) Biden administration understands the war shouldn’t continue. We are trying and we hope that once Afghanistan is settled, there will be a big shift in this region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-take-first-step-to-improve-ties-imran-khan-101616003590436.html
17-03-2021||India||Eye on Covid-19 surge, CM Nitish Kumar says Bihar to hike testing||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that the state government was keeping a watch on the recent spurt in cases of Covid-19 in various states and will hold a high-level meeting soon to plan strategies to curb the outbreak.Kumar was addressing the media in the state legislature premises after participating in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with CMs to assess their preparedness in the wake of a possible second wave of Covid-19 across states.The Bihar CM said that the situation in the state was not alarming yet, as the state was witnessing about 20 to 48 cases of Covid-19 infection on a daily basis. “Yet, the health department has decided to ensure testing of nearly 70,000 people daily for the disease. Arrangements are being made to conduct the maximum testing through the RT-PCR mode,” said Kumar, adding that vaccination against the disease was also being conducted properly.Regarding the ruckus in the assembly, the CM said that he got to know that some of the members acted against the dignity of the House, after he got free from the PM’s meeting. “We will discuss the issue. The members shall also ensure that business of the house shall not be disrupted. All of them, whether of the treasury or in the opposition, should cooperate with the chair to conduct the proceedings,” said Kumar.About the opposition’s demand to sack his cabinet minister Ram Surat Rai over recovery of liquor from the school of his brother, Kumar said that the minister had clarified his position in the case. “Rai had stated that his family got separated with his brother. Rai never said that those responsible for breach of the prohibition law would be spared,” the CM said.Kumar said that he had been reviewing the issues of law and order and cases of violation of liquor law regularly. “The home department in its reply in the House yesterday categorically stated that the incidence of crime has come down. People should remain alert for violation of the liquor law. I assure that those involved in illegal trade of liquor will not be spared,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-covid-19-surge-cm-nitish-kumar-says-bihar-to-hike-testing-101616003351160.html
17-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports over 900 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 945 new Covid-19 infections and eight deaths. With this, the caseload to 8,62,374 while the fatalities took the toll to 12,564, the Health Department said.The state has been reporting new infections above 500 since March 5 while recoveries have been remaining low. Recoveries were lesser today as against the new infections with 576 patients being discharged, taking the cumulative number to 8,43,999 leaving 5,811 active cases, a health bulletin said.Chennai accounted for most of the new infections with 395 cases being reported, aggregating 2,39,878 till date.The metropolis also leads in the number of fatalities with 4,187.Among the eight fatalities, Chennai accounted for five while Chengalpet, Vellore and Thiruvannamalai recorded one each.A 30-year-old woman ailing with diabetes mellitus was among the deceased due to Covid-19 pneumonia, the bulletin said.A total of 71,888 samples were tested today, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 1,84,85,460.Chengalpet and Coimbatore reported new cases in triple digits with 103 and 107 people contracting the contagion respectively.Perambalur was the lone district to clock nil fresh cases while active infections were at seven.Seven individuals, who returned from the West Bengal, Kerala and Bihar were among those who tested positive today, the bulletin said.Earlier in the day, Chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and senior officials representing health and family welfare, revenue and police, among others, took part in an online video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the pandemic situation and ongoing vaccination drive.Later talking to reporters after reviewing the Covid-19 ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the government has requested the Centre to decrease the vaccination age- limit from the current 60 and above to 50 years and above to cover a larger section of people."We have requested the Centre to reduce the age-limit from 60 to 50 years to get vaccination. We appeal to those engaged in public activity and are above the age of 45 with co- morbidity to get vaccinated", he said.What medical experts have identified is that there is a laxity among the public since the fresh cases have come down while fatality was also below 10 a day, he said."In February, there were weddings, birthdays and funerals and in March there is increased political activity. However, people while taking part in those functions tend to avoid wearing masks and maintaining social distancing," he said.The appeal from the government is that it is a virus and can affect anyone.People who are part of gatherings should follow the government laid down standard operating procedures, he said.Districts like Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpet, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Tiruppur, Thanjavur were posing a challenge in containing the spread of virus, he said in reply to a query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-over-900-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-101616001557332.html
17-03-2021||India||Watch: Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi train runs backwards, passengers safe||A video of the Purnagiri Jan Satabdi train running in the opposite direction has emerged on social media while the reason for this strange incident remains unknown. There was a cattle runover incident between Khatima and Tanakpur section in Uttarakhand, news agency ANI reported, after which the train started running in the reverse direction. According to the report, the incident took place early on Wednesday.#WATCH | Purnagiri Jansatabdi train runs backwards due to cattle run over b/w Khatima-Tanakpur section in Uttarakhand. Incident happened earlier today.There was no derailment & passengers were transported to Tanakpur safely. Loco Pilot & Guard suspended: North Eastern Railway pic.twitter.com/808nBxgxsaIn the video, it can be seen that the train was running in the opposite direction. From the video, the train doesn't appear to be crowded, but it has been confirmed that all 64 passengers have been transported to Tanakpur safely by the road. The loco pilot and guard have been suspended, ANI reported quoting north eastern railway sources.In other videos that are doing the rounds on social media, local people can be seen shouting in an attempt to raise an alarm over the train moving in the reverse direction.According to a report of Live Hindustan, the train (05326) was going from Delhi to Tanakpur via Pilibhit. It reached Tanakpur when a cow got hit by the train. The driver applied the brakes and after that when the vacuum was drawn to move the train ahead, the train started running in the opposite direction.The train could not be stopped before Khatima. It is not yet clear how the train could be stopped there either.All the gates of the train were closed and all regional officers were alerted. Railway doctors too came to the spot after the train finally stopped at Khatima, but there was no untoward incident. Izzatnagar railway division's public relations officer told Live Hindustan that an inquiry committee has been constituted to look into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-purnagiri-jansatabdi-train-runs-backwards-passengers-safe-101616002119266.html
17-03-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, bus services in Ahmedabad suspended till further orders||Officials in Ahmedabad said on Wednesday that due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city, bus services of the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System will remain suspended from Thursday, till further orders, according to news agency ANI.“In wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System buses’ operation to remain suspended from tomorrow until further orders,” reported ANI.Gujarat: In wake of the increasing number of #COVID19 cases, Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System buses operation to remain suspended from tomorrow until further orders.On Wednesday, Ahmedabad contributed 271 of Gujarat’s 1,122 new infections of the viral disease. The city also saw one related death, of the three fatalities reported in the western state. Wednesday also marks the first time since December last year that Gujarat logged more than 1,000 new daily coronavirus cases. Its caseload stands at 281,173, including 271,433 recoveries, 5,310 active cases and 4,430 deaths.Surat reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases on the day, 353, followed by Ahmedabad, Vadodara (114) and Rajkot (112).Earlier, the Gujarat government extended night curfew in these four major cities till March 31; the curfew was first imposed in November last year and has, since then, witnessed six extensions. However, this time, the night curfew will be in place from 10pm to 6am, as against the earlier 12am-6am.Also Read | Covid-19: Commercial activity to cease in 8 wards of Gujarat’s Ahmedabad post 10pm“The state government has decided to impose a curfew from 10pm to 6am,” the government had said in an official statement.The last three matches of the ongoing India vs England T20I series in Ahmedabad were also ordered to be played behind closed doors; initially, crowds up to 50% were allowed in the Narendra Modi Stadium for the five-match series. The third match was played on Tuesday, while the remaining two will be played on March 18 and 20.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-10-cases-rise-bus-services-in-ahmedabad-suspended-till-further-orders-101616001788001.html
17-03-2021||India||MP police announce cash reward for arrest of BSP MLA’s husband in murder case||After a rap from the Supreme Court, Madhya Pradesh police have announced a cash reward of ₹50,000 for the arrest of BSP MLA Rambai Parihar’s husband Govind Singh, who is wanted in connection with a murder of a local Congress leader in Damoh, director general of police (DGP) said on Wednesday. The police swung into action after the Supreme Court pulled up the state government last week for failing to arrest Govind Singh in connection with the murder of a local Congress leader Devendra Chaurasiya of Hata town of Damoh district. Govind Singh has been absconding since January 20.The apex court reprimanded the state government for poor law and order situation in the state after additional session judge RP Sonkar, who is conducting the trial in the murder case, alleged the police were supporting Govind Singh and maligning his image by making false accusations. The Supreme Court also asked DGP to hold an inquiry in the matter. Following the reprimand by the top court, additional director general of police, special task force (STF) Vipin Maheshwari reached Damoh to lead the search operation. Maheshwari also met additional session judge RP Sonkar on Tuesday night to inquire into the matter, said a police officer on condition of anonymity.The MP police has formed 15 teams to nab Singh. The police on Wednesday also raided the residence of Rambai Parihar at Damoh town. Additional superintendent of police, Shiv Kumar Singh said police arrested Govind’s elder brother Mahendra Singh and nephews Jai Pakash and Ved Prakash for helping him flee. “We are interrogating them to know about the possible location of Govind Singh.” Meanwhile, a heavy police force has also been deployed at Rambai Parihar’s residence as the district administration has started demolishing the part of her house built on encroached land. DGP Johri said, “A technical team is helping the police in the search operation. We will nab him soon.” Govind Singh and four others are accused of killing Chaurasia in front of his son in March 2019. Criminal charges were earlier dropped against Govind Singh after a police investigation in August 2019 while the four others were arrested the same month. He was again named accused in January this year on the orders of additional session judge Sonkar who also issued an arrest warrant against Govind Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-announce-cash-reward-for-arrest-of-bsp-mla-s-husband-in-murder-case-101616001550440.html
17-03-2021||India||CM Mamata promises minimum earning guarantee for families in TMC manifesto||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a minimum income guarantee for every family in the state if the Trinamool Congress is voted to power for the third time. The TMC chief released the party’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls which begins from March 27. The manifesto promises a slew of other schemes and developmental measures including credit cards for students, free ration at door-step, reducing unemployment by half, generating five lakh jobs every year, hiking assistance to farmers from ₹6,000 to ₹10,000 annually, setting up a task force to bring some caste groups under the Other Backward Classes among others. “This is not a political manifesto. This is a developmental manifesto. This is a manifesto of the people, by the people and for the people,” Banerjee said while speaking to the media at her Kalighat residence. Under the minimum income guarantee scheme the government will provide a monthly assistance to the senior-most female member of a family. If the family belongs to the general category it would get assistance of ₹500. SC, ST and OBC families would get assistance of ₹1000. This is in line with the Congress’s Universal Basic Income scheme which was promised by Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The manifesto also promises a student credit card through which a student could avail a loan of up to ₹10 lakh at four per cent interest and the government would become his guarantor. Buoyed by its success in the Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) scheme where camps were set to deliver benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes, the TMC has promised in the manifesto to introduce Duare Ration to provide free ration at people’s doorsteps. The manifesto speaks of promises in 10 sectors including economy, social justice and security, youth, food for all, farming and agriculture, industries, health education, housing and electricity, roads and water. The BJP, however, criticized the manifesto saying that the TMC lacks vision.“The TMC manifesto proves why a double engine government is needed in West Bengal. Most of the announcements are central projects. Just their names have been changed. These would not materialize without the Centre’s help. There is no proper measure to increase employment. This government has no roadmap and it only depends on announcements without any base,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. Political experts said that it is a very populist model which has been earlier adopted by political parties in Delhi and Tamil Nadu. “This is an extreme form of populist politics without ensuring substantial job opportunities for voters. We have seen such populist models earlier being followed by the ruling parties in Delhi and Tamil Nadu. This is bound to have some effect on the voters because the TMC will use its strong ground-level machinery to reach out to the voters with this. The BJP lacks this machinery at the grass root level,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. The chief minister who was sitting in a wheel chair with her leg in a cast also mounted an attack on the BJP. “The BJP is a high-loaded virus. It is playing a dirty game. Khela Hobe (A game will be played) and the BJP will get its first jolt from Jangalmahal when the game starts from March 27,” she said. The BJP which had made deep inroads in the state winning 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had won all the five seats in Jangalmahal area in the western parts of the state. The eight-phase election starts from Jangalmahal on March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-promises-minimum-earning-guarantee-for-families-in-tmc-manifesto-101616000950366.html
17-03-2021||India||EC orders transfer of Tamil Nadu IG, South Zone, to non-election post||The Election Commission on Wednesday ordered the transfer of Tamil Nadu's Inspector General, South Zone S Murugan to a non-election post with immediate effect.It also asked the state government to send a list of names of officers for appointment as IG, South Zone in place of Murugan, official sources said.Also, based on the inputs of the special police observer, the commission has ordered the transfer of various ACPs and DSPs in the southern state with a direction to attach them with the DGP, Headquarters. It has also directed the Tamil Nadu government that these officers should not be assigned with any election-related duty.The Tamil Nadu Assembly polls are scheduled to be held on April 6 and the results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-orders-transfer-of-tamil-nadu-ig-south-zone-to-non-election-post-101615997168350.html
17-03-2021||India||Stop vaccine wastage, increase RT-PCR tests: What Centre told states on 2nd Covid peak | 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the current Covid-19 situation of the country and interacted with the chief ministers of states and Union territories on Wednesday. The Union health ministry too on Wednesday presented a report assessing the situation between March 1 and March 15. What came up in both discussions is that there has been negligence in testing, tracking of cases, which has worsened the Covid-19 situation in the country. The states’ reliance on the rapid antigen test37 per cent hike in Covid deaths, 150 per cent increase in cases in 70 districtsUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there has been a 43 per cent week-on-week increase in the number of daily cases. The death toll has also registered a 37 per cent week-on-week increase. A total of 70 districts across 16 states recorded a 150 per cent spike in new cases since March 1. These states include Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Some districts have reported around a 200 per cent hike in the last 15 days.Western and northern India most affectedPresenting the overall case graph of the last 15 days, the secretary noted that the rise of daily infections is concentrated in western and northern India.'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTsPositivity rateIndia’s current Covid-19 case positivity rate is 5 per cent and the weekly positivity rate is 3 per cent. But Maharashtra’s positivity rate is significantly higher than the national average. From the 11 per cent positivity rate a few weeks ago, it has now increased to 16 per cent. Punjab’s positivity rate has also doubled from 3.4 per cent to 6.8. These rates are worrying, the ministry said.Laxity in testing, trackingUnlike last year, when local administrations were rigorously following up with the close contacts of an infected person, now only family members are being tested. “Close contact are not family members. Close contacts are people with whom an infected person have interacted in the previous days,” Bhushan said adding that states have been asked to track, test and isolate at least 30 close contacts of an infected person within three days.Vaccine wastage: Telangana, Andhra Pradesh topAccording to health ministry data, Telangana’s vaccine wastage is 17 per cent, while Andhra Pradesh has wasted 11 per cent of the vaccines. Uttar Pradesh has also reported some vaccine wastage. “Vaccines are public health goods and hence they are to be optimally used. Vaccine wastage needs to be drastically reduced. Any reduction means you end up inoculating more people. That is the advice to states,” Bhushan said.PM Modi too emphasized this point and said vaccine wastage can be reduced if the vaccines that have come before are used first.70 per cent of tests should be RT-PCRCiting the instances of Kerala, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, PM Modi said many states are primarily depending on rapid antigen tests. The ministry too quoted data of Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh where RT-PCR percentage is below 40 per cent and urged all states and UTs to take the number to 70 per cent.Focus on small towns—referral systemsThe second peak of the disease is mostly affecting tier-2, tier-3 cities, which indicates that villages need extra protection from the spread, PM Modi said in his meeting. “We need to pay special attention to referral systems and ambulance networks in small towns. The virus is being spread in a dispersed manner right now. This is because the whole country has opened up for travel, the number of people coming from abroad has also increased," PM Modi said.Local containmentSeveral states have identified outbreak areas and imposed local lockdowns. PM Modi encouraged the district administrations to increase surveillance and not to relax the option of creating micro-containment zones under any circumstances. “The option of creating a micro containment zone should not be relaxed under any circumstances. The Pandemic Response Teams working in the districts can also go for a re-orientation of containment and surveillance SOPs," he said.No shortage of vaccineHealth secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there is no vaccine shortage in the country. On being asked to comment on West Bengal seeking more vaccines from the Centre, Bhushan said, “I can’t comment on what a chief minister has said. But there is no shortage of vaccines. Every day we check our supplies to the states and what the states have utilised so far.”No fear-mongeringThe Covid-19 situation in some states is worrying, the health ministry has noted but PM Modi emphasised that there is no need to panic. “Our confidence should not become over-confidence, our success should not lead to carelessness. There is no need to push people into panic mode," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-vaccine-wastage-increase-rt-pcr-what-centre-told-states-on-2nd-covid-peak-101615995203919.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel says budget allocation to MEA inadequate considering foreign policy objectives||The budgetary allocation to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is inadequate, considering the extent and magnitude of India's diplomatic outreach and foreign policy objectives, a parliamentary committee said in a report on Wednesday.The panel said the budgetary resources will play a "determining role" in India's pursuit of a permanent seat at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as it requires adequate global presence and expansion of diplomatic outreach.The report of the committee on external affairs was tabled in both houses of Parliament.It mentioned that the rise of China is a major geostrategic development of the current time and it has caused a rearrangement of the global balances of power and capacity that developed after World War II and during the Cold War.The committee said the nature of threats has changed and the conventional war has been supplemented by the rising security challenges from terrorism, social violence, climate change and other biological and non-traditional threats.The international polity is characterised by extraordinary rates of change and India's diplomatic strategy is adjusting to it with agility and flexibility, and building capacities to maintain "decisional autonomy", it added.Referring to resource allocation to the MEA, the panel noted that against the ministry's demand for ₹22,888 crore for 2021-22, it has been given a budgetary outlay of ₹18,154 crore, which is merely 0.52 per cent of the government's overall budget."Keeping in view the extent and magnitude of India's diplomatic outreach and foreign policy objectives, the committee strongly feel that the allocation is incommensurate and inadequate," it said.The committee said the provisioning of adequate finances is critical to ensure that India's global footprint and diplomatic outreach is "not circumscribed"."The committee, therefore, strongly recommend that the allocation to the Ministry of External Affairs, mandated with managing India's external relations, should further be suitably and appropriately enhanced from what is being provisioned now," it added.The panel said the MEA should also make a strong case for the same.The 30-member committee, headed by BJP MP P P Chaudhary, includes Meenakashi Lekhi, P Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Preneet Kaur, Abhishek Banerjee and Poonam Mahajan.Referring to the outlay to the MEA for 2021-22, the committee, however, mentioned that the allocation is the highest ever to it and is 4.66 per cent more than the budgetary estimate in 2020-21 and 21 per cent more than the revised estimate of allocation in the year."Notwithstanding these figures, the percentage of MEA's budget during 2021-22 as a percentage of the government's budget is merely 0.52," it said."While the increased allocation to MEA in absolute term is a fine development, however, it is continuously slipping down as a percentage of the government's total expenditure," the panel said.Recognising the significance of a focussed budgetary planning process, the committee emphatically stressed upon the need to develop a well-defined and focused budgetary planning process by the MEA.It criticised the MEA for its "casual approach" towards the panel's earlier recommendation for conducting a cross-country comparative study of the budgetary allocations of the ministries and departments entrusted with the task of managing foreign affairs.The report said the MEA informed the committee that a preliminary report of a study conducted is under examination and that its comprehensive assessment has been completed. The MEA also informed the panel that more comparative study variables are being included in the report.The committee strongly recommended that the findings of the preliminary report should be furnished to it "instantly" and the final report should be compiled within three months."The ministry should also ensure that the comparative data and figures are used to bolster its case for enhanced budgetary allocation in the next financial year," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-says-budget-allocation-to-mea-inadequate-considering-foreign-policy-objectives-101615994840557.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka records 1,275 new infections, highest single-day spike in 2021||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,275 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state's tally to 9,63,614. This is the highest one-day rise in the cases in the state so far in 2021. With four fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the current death toll stands at 12,407, according to the state’s department of health and family welfare.Bengaluru Urban recorded 786 total cases on Wednesday, continuing with its trend of reporting the highest number of cases in the state. Dakshina Kannada trailed right behind with 72 new cases, followed by Kalaburagi, which reported 61 new cases. Bengaluru Urban also accounted for three out of four fatalities reported today, pushing the district’s death toll to 4530.These three districts reported the highest number of cases on Tuesday too. Karnataka chief minister was advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to focus on the districts of Bengaluru, Kalaburagi, and Belagavi at today’s meeting between the Prime Minister and all state chief ministers on the Covid-19 situation all over the country.Karnataka also witnessed 479 recoveries on Wednesday, with Bengaluru urban’s 271 discharges leading the count. The total recoveries in the state till date has breached the 9 lakh mark.On Tuesday, Karnataka had reported 1,135 Covid-19 cases, and 6 fatalities, a 30% increase from the day before. While the daily tally of cases has gone up by 140 cases in the span of 24 hours, the fatality has come down by 2.The Karnataka state government has made RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from the states of Kerala and Maharashtra. Chief minister BS Yedyiruppa told reporters at a press conference on Wednesday that the possibility of lockdowns and night curfews have been ruled out and the state will concentrate on accelerating the rate of vaccination, and keep on encouraging people to abide by Covid-19 preventative behaviour to help curb the increasing number of cases in the state.The state health department has also decided to step up their testing and tracking measures by conducting 1,00,000 tests daily, in order to prevent a second wave of Covid-19, reported news agency ANI. Currently, Karnataka is conducting 60,000 and 75,000 tests every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-records-1-275-new-infections-highest-single-day-spike-in-2021-101615994274450.html
17-03-2021||India||4 passengers deboarded from Alliance Air flight for not heeding Covid-19 protocols||In a first, four passengers on board Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to New Delhi on Tuesday were deboarded for not following Covid-19 protocols inside the flight, according to Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The passengers were charged as ‘unruly/disruptive passengers’ and handed over to security agencies at Delhi Airport.“It was observed during Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to Delhi on 16 March 2021 that four (04) passengers … were not wearing their masks. Repeated instruction requests were made by the crew including the Pilot In Command through PA system. They were not following the Covid-19 related protocols irrespective of repeated instructions,” the airline said in its communication to the DGCA on Wednesday. “These four passengers were treated as unruly passengers as per CAR Section 3 Series M Part VI and all the recommended procedures were followed by the crew. All the four unruly passengers were handed over to security agencies on arrival at Delhi Airport,” it added.This is the first such instance following DGCA’s order issued last week directing airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes.The government on Saturday directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes. Those found flouting rules may be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. “The Airport Director/Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the Airport premises. In case, any passenger is not following “Covid-19 Protocol”, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt as per law,” the DGCA said in an order issued on Saturday.This also comes days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing their mask properly and to be put on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”. The judge had taken note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and passed directions to the DGCA.“Alliance Air briefs passengers at every touch point, makes regular in-flight announcements. However, on constant request, when the passengers did not adhere to the laid down guidelines and could have endangered other fellow passengers, we apprised the concerned authorities,” the airline said in a statement on Wednesday.On Wednesday the DGCA also informed the Delhi High Court that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-passengers-deboarded-from-alliance-air-flight-for-not-heeding-covid-19-protocols-101615994829992.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: EAM S Jaishankar says vaccine maitri initiative created global goodwill and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Vaccine Maitri created great global goodwill’: S Jaishankar in ParliamentThe Vaccine Maitri initiative, which has so far supplied Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries, demonstrated the quality of the country’s products and generated great international goodwill, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Read more'His failure is pushing the entire team into a whirlpool': Ramiz Raja expects better from India batsmanIn the three T20Is, Rahul has registered scores of 1, 0 and 0, and although he has received the backing from captain Virat Kohli, even he is aware that he cannot take his place in this Indian team to be granted. Read moreNavya Naveli Nanda on Uttarakhand CM's 'ripped jeans' statement: 'Change your mentality before changing our clothes'Amitabh Bachchan's granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda has expressed her disappointment with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat's comment on ripped jeans. Read moreSamsung launches Galaxy A52, Galaxy A52 5G, Galaxy A72 smartphonesSamsung today hosted its second Galaxy Unpacked event of the year. At the event that was held virtually owing to the pandemic, Samsung launched three new Galaxy A-series smartphones. Read moreFitness addict Bhagyashree schools fans about Omega 3 health benefits, sourcesFans can vouch that no health enthusiast makes vitamins and minerals talks’ sound fun and interesting like the way Bhagyashree does which is why her weekly “Back to Basics” videos are eagerly anticipated. Read moreWatch: Encroachment at Nepal border, India sends strict message amid map rowAmid differences between India and Nepal over the latter's 'artificial' territorial claims, authorities found encroachment near the two countries' border. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-eam-s-jaishankar-says-vaccine-maitri-initiative-created-global-goodwill-and-all-the-latest-news-101615993929540.html
17-03-2021||India||Maharashtra closes all hostels, school and colleges in Palghar as Covid spikes||The district administration in Maharashtra’s Palghar has ordered the indefinite closure of all schools and colleges in the Vasai-Virar civic jurisdiction from Thursday and government and private hostels in the district from March 23 till further notice amid a spike in Covid-19 cases.District Collector Dr Manik Gursal’s order came after 31 staffers and children of a Nandore ashramshala (government hostel) tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. On Saturday, 79 people in three ashramshalas in Hiradpada, Dabhosa and Vinwal areas in Jawhar taluka had tested positive for the virus.The Nandore ashramshala is run by the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) Dahanu and houses around 193 boys and girls studying in Class 9 to Class 12. “Thirty students including 24 girls and 6 boys have tested positive. A tutor at the ashramshala also tested positive. We have also sealed the hostel. Nine girls have been kept in an isolation ward of a government hospital while the rest are in quarantine in the hostel itself,” said Dr Abhijit Khandare, Taluka Medical Officer,Palghar.Meanwhile irate parents of the tribal inmates gheraoed the staff of the Nandore ashramshala and blamed them for the lapses in not controlling the spread of the virus.Palghar Tehsildar Sunil Shinde pacified the angry parents and assured them that all medical help for the students as well as the teaching staff will be provided following which the gherao was called off.As of Wednesday, there are a total 46,967 positive cases in Palghar district with 30,959 cases in Vasai-Virar civic area,and 16,008 in Palghar rural areas. The pandemic has claimed 1,207 lives in the district so far. Nine hundred of the deaths were in Vasai-Virar civic area alone and 307 in Palghar rural said an official of the District Information Office (DIO) Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-closes-all-hostels-school-and-colleges-in-palghar-as-covid-spikes-101615994529952.html
17-03-2021||India||No signal of concern so far: Govt on Oxford Covid vaccine side-effects||There is no signal of concern regarding the use of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in the country, said Dr VK Paul, Member (Health) of the Niti Aayog, on Wednesday amid speculations and subsequent review of possible side-effects of the vaccine."There are reports on AstraZeneca's vaccine relationship with thrombotic events in people who received the vaccine. But the European Medicines Agency (EMA, Europe's top drug agency) says that it (suspension of the vaccine) is only a precautionary measure," Paul said while addressing the weekly press briefing here.Paul added, "There is no data to believe, as of now, that there is a causal relationship, and part of the assessment is still being done. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that the investigation should go on but they have said categorically that the vaccine scale-up and implementation should not be suspended in general."This comes days after several European countries, including Spain, Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, suspended the use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine over blood clot concerns.Paul further informed that India's group, which looks at the adverse effects of Covid-19 vaccines, is aware of the issue and is tracking the information in a systematic matter."I assure you that we have no signal of concern in this regard," he said, adding that the inoculation of Covishield, AstraZeneca's vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute, will go on with full vigour, but will be mindful of developments in this regard.Regarding the issue, Emer Cooke, executive director of the EMA, had earlier said that the agency remains "firmly convinced" the benefits of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine outweigh the risks of side effects, reported The Hill.As of March 10, the EMA had received 30 reports of blood clotting events from about five million vaccinated people. The safety committee was also looking at "serious thromboembolic events" from the UK, she said.Sweden and Latvia on Tuesday joined Spain, Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Ireland, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway in the suspension of the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-signal-of-concern-so-far-govt-on-oxford-covid-vaccine-sideeffects-101615991927353.html
17-03-2021||India||Massive Covid-19 spike in Maharashtra: 23,179 cases in 24 hours; 2,377 in Mumbai||Breaking all the records of this year, Maharashtra on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases as it recorded 23,179 cases in the last 24 hours. Mumbai's daily infection tally too breached the 2,000-mark as the city recorded 2,377 new infections on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the state reported 17,864 new cases and Mumbai’s single-day hike was 1,922. Against Tuesday’s tally, Wednesday’s figures register a sharp spike. The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is worrying, the health ministry reiterated in its weekly briefing.While Maharashtra's daily infections have been on the rise for quite some time, the state's toll is also emerging as a cause for fresh concern. On Wednesday, the state reported 84 deaths. On Tuesday, the toll was 84.This is the sixth-highest one-day spike of infection in Maharashtra since the outbreak of the pandemic. All the previous highest daily cases were recorded in September. On September 11 last year, the state had reported 24,886 cases; on September 17, the single-day tally was 24,619 cases were added. The third, fourth and fifth-highest figures were reported on September 9 (23,816), September 6 (23,350) and September 10 (23,446), according to news agency PTIPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with state chief ministers to review the Covid-19 situation of the country. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was present at the meeting where the state's Covid-19 situation came up for a special mention.Maharashtra, UP, Telangana: What PM Modi observed about Covid-19 in these statesCompared to India’s case positivity rate of 5 per cent (weekly rate of 3 per cent), Maharashtra’s positivity rate of 16 per cent is worrying, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Some districts of Maharashtra have recorded even over 200 per cent spike in the number of cases between March 1 and March 15, the health secretary said.Maharashtra’s Nanded has recorded a 385 per cent rise in the number of cases, followed by Nandurbar (224%), Beed (219%), Dhule (169%), Jalgaon (147%), Bhandara (140%), Nagpur (122%), Chandrapur (95%), Ahmednagar (72%), Buldhana (65%), Aurangabad (58%) and Akola (20%)According to city-wise daily infection data, Pune on Wednesday recorded 1,954 cases, Nagpur city 1,951, Buldhana 435, Navi Mumbai 251 and Thane 373. Nagpur district, on the other hand, accounted for 3,370 fresh cases -- in the highest single-day spike in 2021.Several districts of Maharashtra, including Nagpur, Pune, have imposed restrictions, but no decision has been taken on whether the entire state should bring back lockdown in some form. While Maharashtra ministers have dismissed a statewide lockdown at this moment, PM Modi has advised states and UTs to give district authorities a free hand to create micro-containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-covid-19-rise-in-maharashtra-23-179-cases-in-24-hrs-2-377-in-mumbai-101615991528301.html
17-03-2021||India||Nagpur district adds 3,370 new coronavirus cases, highest since the start of the pandemic||Maharashtra’s Nagpur district on Wednesday added 3,370 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 16 related fatalities, 1,216 recoveries which took the caseload to 1,78,756, news agency ANI said quoting a district official. More than 4,500 people have succumbed to the disease while recoveries have climbed to 1,53,133. Wednesday’s case count in Nagpur has been the highest since the start of the pandemic last year. The new cases are also 783 (23.23 per cent more) more than that of Tuesday’s- when 2,587 people tested positive for the infection- which was the highest single-day spike earlier. This is also the fifth time the district’s daily breached the 2,000-markCases in Nagpur have been increasing since mid-February leading to the imposition of a week-long complete lockdown in the district which started from Monday, to curb the spread of the infection. An order issued by the district administration stated that shops selling essential items such as fruits, vegetables along with milk booths are allowed to be open during the week. All private offices have been closed while the government ones are functioning at a capacity of 25 per cent. Hospitals are operating and residents are allowed to take vaccines against the disease.Also Read| Covid-19: In Maharashtra’s Aurangabad, gatherings banned till April 4As the lockdown started on Monday, some residents were seen venturing outdoors for several reasons and in a few cases were also seen arguing with police personnel, according to a report by Hindustan Times on March 15. Speaking to HT, Nagpur police commissioner Amitesh Kumar said all Covid-related curbs would be implemented in an effective manner adding those found violating them will not be spared. Nearly 3,000 police personnel have been deployed in the district to ensure that lockdown restrictions are adhered to.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 23,179 fresh Covid-19 disease cases-- the highest single-day spike since mid-September last year, and 84 more deaths taking the caseload and death toll to 23,70,507 and 53,080, respectively. Nearly 21.7 lakh of the state’s residents have recovered so far while active cases are over 1,38,000-- with the Union health ministry pointing out that 60 per cent of all active cases are coming from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-district-logs-highest-single-day-spike-of-3-370-new-cases-101615989743882.html
17-03-2021||India||Rail employees advised to convert their debit, ATM cards to RuPay-based cards||The railways has advised its over 12 lakh employees to convert their existing debit or ATM cards to RuPay-based cards, a move aimed at giving fillip to the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign and the 'Digital India initiative', Parliament was informed on Wednesday.The railways was also facilitating promotion of this move, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said in a written reply in Lok Sabha.Asked whether the railways has advised its 12.54 lakh workforce to convert their debit/ATM cards to RuPay-powered cards, the minister replied,"Yes, sir.""The zonal railways and production units have been asked to facilitate conversion of existing Debit/ATM cards issued to railway employees by banks to the RuPay-based cards in order to give boost under 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Digital India initiative'."All railways are facilitating the banks in their promotional activities and setting up camps to give wide publicity in this regard to encourage the employees to opt for RuPay cards. Apart from this, State Bank of India has also been advised to replace all existing imprest cards issued to Railway Imprest holders to RuPay-based imprest cards," Goyal said.RuPay is a Indian multinational financial and payment service launched by the National Payments Corporation of India, an umbrella organisation for operating retail payment and settlement systems in the country.RuPay was created to fulfil the Reserve Bank of India's vision of establishing a domestic, open and multilateral system of payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-employees-advised-to-convert-their-debit-atm-cards-to-rupay-based-cards-101615988829198.html
17-03-2021||India||Active Covid cases cross 1,000 mark once again in Jammu and Kashmir||Active Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir crossed 1,000 again on Wednesday for the first time since January 27 after 126 fresh infections, the highest daily count in two months.The new infections took the number of active cases to 1,008 while the tally since the pandemic began went up to 1, 27,957.The death toll reached 1,977 with one casualty in Kashmir division.In the past 36 days, the union territory has added 415 active cases taking the total active cases to 1,008 on Wednesday from 593 on February 9, which was the lowest since May, 2020. Since the first Covid-19 cases were detected in Jammu and Kashmir in March 2020, the active cases had crossed 1,000 mark in the last week of May 2020 when the pandemic was wreaking havoc across the globe.By the end of the year, the cases had started to decline. The New Year ushered a constant decline in cases coupled with an increasing number of recovery of patients that pushed the active cases to plunge below the 1,000 mark again on January 28.The decline of active cases had continued till February 9 when the number of active cases reached the lowest point of 593 patients.Then the cases started marginally increasing again and the recoveries of patients started to reduce. Over 80% of the total Covid-19 infections in Jammu and Kashmir in the month of March so far have been reported in Kashmir valley, official data shows.“There has been an increase but many of these are travellers. We are taking precautions and increasing testing,” said director health, Kashmir Samir Mattoo.Officials said as many as 20 positive cases of novel coronavirus were reported from Jammu division and 106 from Kashmir division, including 29 travellers.Moreover, 90 more Covid-19 patients recovered and, including 10 from Jammu division and 80 from Kashmir.The officials said that 1,24,972 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 97.69%. There are now 1,008 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 56.34 lakh.A total of 1,246 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 731 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 62 more people tested positive, including 23 travellers, while 23 more cases were reported in Baramulla.In Jammu division, 15 cases were recorded in Jammu district and four in Doda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-cases-cross-1-000-mark-once-again-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101615988829729.html
17-03-2021||India||‘Vaccine Maitri created great global goodwill’: S Jaishankar in Parliament||The Vaccine Maitri initiative, which has so far supplied Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries, demonstrated the quality of the country’s products and generated great international goodwill, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.While making similar statements on the initiative in both houses of Parliament, Jaishankar also appeared to reject criticism from the West about the government’s handling of certain issues and the status of democracy in the country by saying Indians are “naturally internationalist by virtue of our culture, traditions, heritage and history”.The planning and execution of Vaccine Maitri was guided by a “determination to make a difference at a difficult moment for global society”, he said. “Our reputation as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ has been reinforced in that process. So indeed has the faith in ‘Make in India’,” he added.“But more than the vaccines themselves, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world. They can see that there is at least one major nation that truly believes in making vaccines accessible and affordable to others in dire need,” Jaishankar said.Vaccine Maitri began in India’s immediate neighbourhood, starting with the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles, and this was followed by the extended neighbourhood, especially West Asia. India then reached out to smaller and vulnerable countries by sending vaccines to African and Caribbean nations, and also fulfilled contracts with other countries or through the Covax initiative.“The House should recognise the enormous feeling for India that our initiative has generated...In the truest sense, this has been people-centric diplomacy at work,” Jaishankar said.“The world sees not just the selfless outlook of India but also of the quality of our products and capabilities...the Prime Minister’s initiative of such deep friendship has raised India’s standing and generated great international goodwill for us,” he added.All vaccine supplies abroad are based on an assessment of adequate availability at home. “This is continuously monitored and takes into account the requirements of our domestic vaccination programme as it unfolds in different phases,” he said.Jaishankar said Indians are “naturally internationalist” and have “never seen a contradiction between this internationalism and the nationalism that was the driver of our independence struggle”. He added: “In recent years, as democracy struck deeper roots, we have found our own cultural expressions and identities that define us in a diverse world. In fact, drawing from our heritage, we have become even stronger voices for international cooperation and solidarity.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision provided a framework for practical initiatives and activities such as humanitarian assistance and disaster responses over the past few years, and India developed a reputation as the “first and reliable responder in the region”, he said. This approach of human-centric cooperation is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri, he added.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India ramped up its capabilities and met the growing demands for hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other drugs across the world. India supplied 150 nations with medicines, 82 of them as grants, and also provided PPE and diagnostic kits to other countries.India’s move to start helping its neighbours within days of rolling out its domestic vaccination programme in January has its basis in the prime minister’s assurance in his address to the UN General Assembly last September, when Modi declared that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity.“We also offered to enhance cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines...As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has greater expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maitri-created-great-global-goodwill-eam-jaishankar-in-parliament-101615988589742.html
17-03-2021||India||No decision yet on nationwide NRC, govt tells Rajya Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday said it has not taken any decision on the nationwide roll-out of the National Register of Citizens (NRC).Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai was replying to a question in the Rajya Sabha on whether the central government had any plans to implement the NRC throughout the country."Till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens at the national level," Rai said in a written reply.The NRC was updated in Assam under the supervision of the Supreme Court. When the final NRC was published on August 31, 2019, a total of 19.06 lakh people were excluded out of the total 3,30,27,661 applicants, which created a ripple across India.The NRC is an Assam-specific data of bonafide Indian citizens living in the state.Replying to another question, Rai said there is no provision of detention centres under the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the National Register of Indian Citizens.He said the Supreme Court on February 28, 2012 had directed that foreign nationals who completed their sentence shall be released from jail immediately and be kept in an appropriate place with restricted movement pending their deportation or repatriation.Following that directive, Rai said, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued instructions on March 7, 2012 to state governments and UT administrations to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court.The minister said detention centres are set up by the state governments and UT administrations as per their local requirements to detain illegal immigrants and foreigners, some of whom may have completed their sentence and their deportation to their native country may be pending for want of proper travel documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-yet-on-nationwide-nrc-govt-tells-rajya-sabha-101615987832453.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel suggests use of ‘officials of the Union of India’ in place of central government officials||A parliamentary committee has suggested the use of the term “officials of the Union of India” in place of “central government officials” for those serving in all the three organs of governance – the executive, the legislative and the judiciary.In its report, the panel observed that the executive, the legislature and the judiciary have well defined roles and they all function under the Constitution.The Committee is of the considered opinion that these three organs of governance, by and large, constitute the Union government, it said.“The Committee feels that it is inappropriate to use the term ‘Central Government Officials’ to those serving the executive wing alone,” the Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice said in its 106th report on Demands for Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, tabled in Parliament on Tuesday.The Committee desires the term ‘Central Government’ to be substituted by ‘Union of India’ and the officials of the three organs of governance of the Union government, henceforth, be referred to as “Officials of the Union of India”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-suggests-use-of-officials-of-the-union-of-india-in-place-of-central-government-officials-101615987649298.html
17-03-2021||India||Centre says Covid-19 vaccine wastage in India at 6.5 %, calls for optimal usage||The average of Covid-19 vaccine wastage in India is 6.5 per cent, with Telangana and Andhra Pradesh recording 17.6 and 11.6 per cent wastage respectively, the Centre said on Wednesday as it called for optimal utilisation of the jabs.Addressing a press conference, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 3.51 crore vaccine doses have been administered till now in the country, which include 1.38 crore beneficiaries aged 45-60 years with specific co-morbidities and those above 60 years who have been given the first dose.On March 15, 8.34 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered worldwide, of which India alone administered 36 per cent of doses, he said.Bhushan said Covid-19 vaccine wastage in five states -- Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir -- is higher than 6.5 per cent, which is the national average."The message we have shared with states is that vaccines are invaluable commodities. They are public health goods and therefore vaccines have to be optimally utilised. Vaccine wastage has to be drastically reduced. Any reduction in wastage means that you end up inoculating more people and therefore the chances of disrupting the chain of infection grow that much more," he said.On the increase in daily Covid-19 cases from March 1-15, he said about 70 districts in 16 states have registered more than 150 per cent increase in active cases, while 55 districts in 17 states have registered 100-150 per cent rise in cases.Most of these districts are in west and north India.Elaborating on the rise in cases in states, he said, "If we look at Maharashtra, 60 per cent of all active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra and 45 per cent of new deaths are concentrated in Maharashtra.""On March 1, an average of 7,741 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 13,527.The positivity rate on March 1 used to be 11 per cent which rose to 16 per cent by March 15," he said.Noting that the high positivity rate is a matter of concern, he said the tests numbers are not increasing at the same rate as the positivity rate is increasing."So our advice to the states, specially Maharashtra, is that there is a need to increase the testing rate, specially the RT-PCR rate," he said.In Punjab on March 1, an average of 531 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 1338. The positivity rate has doubled and RT-PCR share is 89 per cent, he said.In Chandigarh on March 1, an average of 49 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 111. The positivity rate has increased from 3.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent and RT-PCR share is 40 per cent."We would want a distinct increasing trend of tests in which RT-PCR share is substantially higher than the current 40 per cent share," he said.In Chattisgarhh on March 1, an average of 239 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 430. The positivity rate increased from 1.4 per cent to 2.4 per cent and RT-PCR share is 34 per cent. So, again, we would want the RT-PCR tests to increase to up to 70 per cent and also an overall increase in testing.In Gujarat on March 1, an average of 398 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 689. The positivity rate increased from 2.4 per cent to 4 per cent and RT-PCR share is 50 per cent.In Karnataka, on March 1, an average of 443 new cases were being reported. By March 15, the number increased to average 751. The positivity rate increased from 0.8 per cent to 1.3 per cent and RT-PCR share is 93 per cent.To handle the increasing cases especially in 12 states, states have been advised to ensure strict adherence to mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene along with greater vigilance and monitoring at the highest levels for all potential events where crowds gather.They have asked to ensure clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and efficient implementation of 'test, track and treat' strategy.There should be significantly increased testing in all districts and an increase in the proportion of RT PCR tests to a minimum of 70 per cent."We are advising the states to ensure all close contacts of any positive person are traced, isolated and tested in 72 hours. They have asked to identify clusters, focus on surveillance and stringent implementation of containment zone approach and undertake priority vaccination of identified groups in districts reporting higher cases," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-in-india-at-6-5-calls-for-optimal-usage-101615986583744.html
17-03-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes Appropriation Bill, completing two-thirds of budget exercise||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Appropriation Bill 2021-22, authorising the government to draw funds from the Consolidated Fund of India for its working as well as implementation of its programmes and schemes.This completes two-thirds of the exercise for approval of the Budget for 2021-22.The Appropriation Bill authorising payment and appropriation of specified sums from the Consolidated Fund of India for 2021-22 was introduced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.The bill was later approved by voice vote.The Lok Sabha earlier discussed demands for grants of different ministries, including railways, education and health.Speaker Om Birla later applied the guillotine, after which all the outstanding demands for grants, whether discussed or not, were put to vote at once and passed.After that, the Appropriation Bill was taken into consideration and passed by the lower house of Parliament.The Lok Sabha will now discuss the Finance Bill, which essentially contains the government's tax proposals.Once the Finance Bill is passed, the budget exercise is complete.Both appropriation and finance bills are classified as money bills which do not require the explicit consent of the Rajya Sabha. The upper house only discusses them and returns the bills.After passing the Finance Bill, it enters the statute as the Finance Act. Thus, the final Budget gets approved.While guillotine literally is a large, weighted blade used for executing a condemned person, in legislative parlance, to ''guillotine'' means to bunch together and fast-track the passage of financial business.It is a fairly common procedural exercise in Lok Sabha during the Budget Session.After the Budget is presented, Parliament goes into recess for about three weeks, during which the House Standing Committees examine demands for grants for various ministries, and prepare reports. After Parliament reassembles, time is allotted for discussions on the demands for grants of some ministries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-appropriation-bill-completing-two-thirds-of-budget-exercise-101615987070578.html
17-03-2021||India||No concern regarding AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, says govt||The Centre on Wednesday said that the adverse effects surveillance group is aware of the concerns raised by many countries over AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines and is tracking the information available on the events. Assuring that there is nothing to be concerned about, Dr VK Paul member (health) in Niti Aayog said, "I assure you that we have no signal of concern in this regard."The vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Oxford University is being produced by AstraZeneca in Europe and Serum Institute of India in India.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"Therefore, our programme with Covishield implementation, vaccination will go on with full rigour, but at the same time, we are mindful of the fact to address this concern as an ongoing activity based on the data available to us as well as we are watching the information being made available from other sources. But as of today, there is no concern at all with regard to Covishield," Paul added.Noting the reports on AstraZeneca's vaccine relationship with thrombotic events in people who received the shot, Paul, during the health ministry's press conference, said while ten countries have paused the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccination programme, the European medical agency (EMA) has said it is just a precautionary measure and there is no data to believe, as of now, a causal relationship and part of the assessment is still being done.He also cited the World Health Organisation (WHO) that has said the investigation, precaution in the matter should go on but vaccination programme, scale-up and implementation should not be suspended.Reports about adverse effects like blood clotting after receiving AstraZeneca vaccine came to light recently, as a result of which countries like Denmark and Norway paused the vaccine as a precautionary measure. Other EU members like Germany, France and Italy also followed the suit and suspended the use of the vaccine.Along with the WHO and EMA, the UK has also said the AstraZeneca shots are safe and there is no link between the vaccines and blood clots.The EMA has said that it is investigating 30 cases of blood disorders out of 5 million recipients of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, reported Reuters."A careful review of all available safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the European Union (EU) and the UK with Covid-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca has shown no evidence of an increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or thrombocytopenia, in any defined age group, gender, batch or in any particular country," AstraZeneca said last week on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-concern-regarding-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-says-govt-101615982047477.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary committee calls for uniform flight cancellation charges across airlines||A parliamentary committee on Wednesday expressed anguish over the lack of uniformity in cancellation charges levied by airlines and said there is a need to prescribe an upper limit."Time and again, the committee's attention has been drawn towards the high cancellation charges levied by the private airlines operating in the country," the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture said in a report tabled in Rajya Sabha."The committee underlines the need for rationalising the cancellation charges and prescribing an upper limit of cancellation charges that can be collected from the passengers," the report noted.The committee reiterates its recommendation in this regard made in its 276th report, requiring the airlines to restrict not more than 50 per cent of the base fare as cancellation charges, it stated."The tax on fuel surcharge collected should be refunded to the passengers on cancellation of tickets. The committee hopes that the ministry would be able to persuade the airlines for such rationalisation in the interest of the passengers," the report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committee-calls-for-uniformity-in-flight-cancellation-charges-101615986214873.html
17-03-2021||India||Jagan names his physio as YSRC nominee for by-poll to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat||Maddila Gurumoorthy, the personal physiotherapist of YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, will be the candidate for the by-elections to the Tirupati parliamentary constituency. The 35-year-old physiotherapist from Manna Samudram village in Chittoor district, accompanied Jagan Reddy all through the latter’s marathon 3,600-km-long padayatra between November 2017 and January 2019. He conducted regular physiotherapy sessions for him during the walkathon. On Wednesday, Gurumoorthy met the chief minister at the latter’s camp office in Tadepalli in Amaravati and accepted the party ticket for the by-polls to the Tirupati parliamentary seat, scheduled to be held on April 17. The nomination process will begin on March 23 and the results will be declared on May 2. The by-election was required due to the death of sitting YSRCP MLA Balli Durgaprasada Rao, who died of Covid-19 in September 2020. Gurumoorthy, who pursued his Bachelor’s degree in physiotherapy and Certified Manual Therapy, had been a close follower of former chief minister Y S Rajasekhar Reddy since 2006 and later became an associate of Jagan. He campaigned for the YSRCP in 2014 and 2019.“Jagan has chosen Gurumoorthy for the Tirupati seat because of his dedication and loyalty to the party since the beginning,” a statement from the party said. The Telugu Desam has already announced the candidature of former Union minister Panabaka Lakshmi for the Tirupati by-poll. The Bharatiya Janata Party announced that it would contest the elections in alliance with Jana Sena--- the party of actor Pawan Kalyan, but is yet to announce its candidate. In Telangana where by-election to the Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency will also be held on April 17, the Congress announced the name of veteran leader and former home minister K Jana Reddy as its nominee. The seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah in December..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-names-his-physio-as-ysrc-nominee-for-by-poll-to-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-101615985950741.html
17-03-2021||India||No proposal to appoint regulator for social media, says Union minister Prasad||The government on Wednesday informed Parliament that there is no proposal with the IT ministry to set up a regulator for social media. Union IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, however, said that the government has released Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, under the IT Act that specifies the due diligence to be followed by all the intermediaries, including the social media intermediaries. "The social media platforms are enjoined to develop a robust grievance redressal system. Presently, there is no proposal with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to appoint a regulator for social media," Prasad informed the Lok Sabha. The government in February had announced sweeping regulations for social media firms like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country. The new rules related to social media platforms are to be handled by the IT ministry while the Information and Broadcasting ministry will look after content related issues on entertainment apps and online news portals. Prasad said under provision of section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks unlawful and malicious online content including social media account, in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to above. "Under this provision, 9,849 URLs/accounts/webpages, mostly on social media platforms, were blocked during the year 2020," Prasad said. In response to question whether the government has conducted any study regarding the impact of government's control over social media vis-a-vis right to freedom of expression enshrined in the constitution, Prasad denied any such study undertaken by the government. He said that the government welcomes criticism, dissent and also the rights of people to ask questions on social media. "However, this needs to be acknowledged that the fundamental right of speech and expression under article 19(1) is also subject to reasonable restrictions under article 19(2) of the Constitution which can be imposed in the interest of security, safety and sovereignty of India, public order, friendly relations with foreign countries etc," Prasad said. The minister said it is equally important that social media should not be abused or misused to defame, promote terrorism, rampant violence and compromise the dignity of women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-to-appoint-regulator-for-social-media-says-union-minister-prasad-101615985503740.html
17-03-2021||India||Man raped 5-yr-old last month. Judge fast-tracks trial, orders death penalty||A Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in Jhunjhunu district completed trial in a rape case involving a five-year-old in 16 days and awarded death penalty to the 20-year-old accused on Wednesday. He was held guilty a day ago. The entire process was completed in 26 days, police said.The POCSO court judge Sukesh Kumar Jain, while pronouncing the sentence on Wednesday, said, “During hearing, the court didn’t see repentance even once in your eyes. If there had been repentance in your eyes, your punishment could have been different.” According to police, on February 19 around 6.25pm, a minor was allegedly abducted from her house when she was playing with her cousins. The accused identified as Sunil Kumar (20) had abducted the minor and then raped her at an isolated place, said police. The court lauded the police for speedy investigation. “The investigation done by the police is an example of a very good investigation in which every evidence, including scientific, electronic and physical, was corroborated very well which could be considered as an ideal investigation. The senior officials of the police department should use this investigation as a case study,” the judgment read. Hawa Singh Ghumariya, inspector general of police (IGP), Jaipur range, said statements of more than 40 witnesses were collected and around 250 documents were submitted as evidence. “In order to present the chargesheet at the earliest, the police worked in this case for 12 to 13 hours daily and presented it within 10 days. The death punishment was also pronounced within 16 days. This is the first case of rape with a minor where death sentence was announced so quickly,” he said. Ghumariya added that the verdict will send out a strong message in the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-20-given-death-penalty-for-raping-minor-in-rajasthan-101615985529379.html
17-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat’s possible candidature spices up Salt bypoll||Both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress have expressed confidence of winning the April 17 bye-election in Salt constituency of Almora district amid speculation that Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat could be a candidate.The seat had fallen vacant after BJP MLA Surendra Singh Jeena died of Covid-19 last year. The state election commission on Tuesday declared that the bye-election would be held on April 17 and the result would be declared on May 2. The bypoll is seen as the first major test ahead of next year’s assembly election in 2022. The importance of the bypoll has increased because of the possibility of the BJP nominating the CM as its candidate to become a member of the state assembly. He is now a Member of Parliament from Pauri Garhwal constituency. The Congress has already appointed observers for the bypoll including its MLA from Ranikhet and deputy leader of opposition in the assembly Karan Mahara. On Wednesday, he along with the other observer Harendra Sharma held meetings with party members in Salt to decide on the party’s candidate. “The party will fight the bye-election with all its might despite the fact that the government and system would be with BJP as they are ruling the state,” Mahara said.“It would be a very important election for us because it would be an opportunity for us to test the waters before next year’s state assembly elections. We would come to know the tilt of the public considering the burning issues of unemployment, corruption, price rise and the recent incident of lathi charge against the women in Gairsain during the budget session which was an insult to our mothers and sisters,” said Mahara. He said that the observers are meeting the local leaders and party workers before taking any decision on the party’s candidate. “After filtering out the names, we would inform the high command which will take the final decision,” said Mahara.He also claimed that it would make no difference if chief minister Rawat contests from Salt.“It will hardly matter if CM Rawat decides to contest from Salt, because he would have to answer the public on the misdeeds of previous CM Trivendra Singh Rawat,” he said.The BJP is also equally confident of winning the bye-election. The party’s state president Madan Kaushik said, “Our government has done many development works in the past four years and the public knows that. In Salt, we are confident of winning because the public is supporting us and have completely rejected the Congress.” Political experts however, said that the Salt bye-election would not be a cakewalk for the BJP. MM Semwal, political expert who is also a professor of political science at Garhwal Central University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal district said, “It will not be easy for the BJP. They will have to fight hard as it is a very tricky seat because people there are well-read and aware of the present political scenario.” “At the same time, it will also be an actual test for Congress’ unity before the 2022 assembly elections. If they fight unitedly then they can give a tough fight to the BJP and even win it,” said Semwal. The BJP has 56 members in the 70- member House while the Congress has 11. There is one independent MLA and a nominated member from the Anglo Indian community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-s-possible-candidature-spices-up-salt-bypoll-101615985469474.html
17-03-2021||India||'Within 3 days': Centre's order to states on tracking contacts of Covid patients||The Union health ministry has asked all states and Union territories to step up their tracking and testing mechanism and said at least 30 close contacts of a Covid-19 infected person should be tested, isolated within 72 hours. This is nothing new, but states have been lagging in contact tracing, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a video conference with the heads of states and Union territories and urged the authorities that this second peak needs to be stopped.“Close contacts do not mean only family members. Close contacts are people with whom we are counteracting daily. They may be our officer workers, our newspaper vendor, our vegetable vendor. This was done last year. But now district administrations have become lax and are only testing family members just for the sake of it. As a result, other close contacts are moving freely spreading the infection to more people,” Rajesh Bhushan said.'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTs“We are also asking states if the number of cases is on the rise, then why the number of containment zones is not going up,” the secretary said.Urging states to minimise reliance on antigen test and increase RT-PCR tests, the secretary said at least 70 per cent of tests should be RT-PCR, but states have even less than 40 per cent of RT-PCR share.In his meeting with state and UT heads, PM Modi too emphasised the point of increasing RT-PCR tests and said states like Kerala, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh are largely dependent on rapid antigen tests, but it is not the ideal scenario, as the country has adequate infrastructure for RT-PCR tests.“PM Modi's meeting with the states has been the most significant development of the day. Emerging second peak has to be addressed with confidence. There is no need to panic. We have tools. It is time to combine all these tools and find a way out. This is what PM Modi said,” Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/track-test-30-close-contacts-of-covid-19-infected-person-in-3-days-centre-101615982161559.html
17-03-2021||India||General insurance, LIC employees observing strike on March 17, 18. All you need to know||The two-day nationwide bank strike ended on Wednesday while the employees of public sector insurance companies went on a strike on March 17, which will continue on March 18 as well.The unions of the insurance companies are observing the strike on different dates. The Joint Front of Unions in public sector general insurance companies decided to go on a one-day strike on March 17 against privatisation and FDI hike in insurance. The unions of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) have decided to go on a one-day strike against the initial public offer (IPO) of the public insurance giant on March 18. The National Federation of Insurance Field Workers' of India (NFIFWI) has decided to go on a two-hour walk-out strike on the same day.Also Read | Vaccine stock to last 10 days: Maharashtra health minister Tope to JavadekarServices like claim settlement, premium collection, payments at the offices of these insurance companies and underwriting of policies are likely to get affected due to the strike.The joint strike called by public sector general insurance companies unions and LIC unions was announced by the All India Insurance Employees Association (AIIEA) on March 5."It is a matter of great satisfaction that all the Unions in LIC have decided to go on One Day Strike against the IPO of LIC on the 18th of March 2021. The NFIFWI has decided to go on a two hours walk-out Strike on the same day. Similarly, the Joint Front of Unions in PSGI Companies has decided to go on One Day Strike on 17th March 2021 against privatisation and FDI hike in insurance," the AIIEA circular signed by joint secretary Shreekant Mishra read.Farmers' umbrella union Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has also pledged support to the strike of LIC and PSGI employees during a joint meeting with the central trade unions."The alliance between insurance employees and the central trade unions on the one hand and the farmers on the other is a classic display of peasants’-workers’ alliance in the cause of public sector and self-reliant economic development of India," the union said.The AIIEA representatives had also met with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other MPs last month to oppose the IPO of LIC.The Joint Front Union comprising of AIIEA, Federation of Class I Officers’ Associations, NFIFWI and All India LIC Employees’ Federation, on March 8, wrote a letter to the Lok Sabha speaker requesting him to advise the government of delinking the amendments to the LIC Act 1956 as part of the Finance Bill that facilitates the listing of LIC on stock markets.Also Read | Uttarakhand CM’s statement on ‘ripped’ jeans draws flak"The listing of LIC will have far-reaching consequences to the interests of its 40 crore policyholders and the national economy as a whole. The proposed amendments through a Finance Bill will escape close scrutiny of a very important economic decision," the letter read.During the Union Budget presentation, Sitharaman said that the government will privatise two more public sector banks and list LIC on bourses. The government has merged 14 public lenders in four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-insurance-lic-employees-observing-strike-on-march-17-18-all-you-need-to-know-101615975382146.html
17-03-2021||India||60% of all Covid-19 active cases concentrated in Maharashtra: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday said that 60% of all Covid-19 active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra. "60% of all active cases are concentrated in Maharashtra. Mortality Rate is less than 2% even when certain States/UTs are seeing a surge," Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.The health ministry said that the lowest point of new Covid-19 cases was on February 9. "Today, nearly 43% week-on-week increase in new Covid-19 cases and nearly 37% week on week increase in new deaths," it added.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a rise while nearly 70 districts in the country have seen an increase in the positivity rate by over 150 per cent of late."If we do not stop it here, then a condition for a nationwide outbreak may emerge," he said.The Maharashtra government has admitted that it is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections and has begun taking measures to contain the spread of the disease.Maharashtra recorded 17,864 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday which took the state’s toll to 2,347,328. The ctive cases rose to 138,813. With 87 deaths, the death toll reached 52,996. The state government said that 264,897 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine, which was the highest since the state began the inoculation drive.Maharashtra is among the five states listed by the union health ministry that continue to report a high number of daily fresh Covid-19 cases. Nagpur, Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Thane are the top five districts of Maharashtra that contribute most to the active cases of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-of-all-covid-19-active-cases-concentrated-in-maharashtra-health-ministry-101615979393531.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi asked Karnataka to focus on 3 areas bordering Maharashtra, says BS Yediyurappa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the Karnataka government to pay special attention to Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar in the wake of the rising number of cases in the state, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa told reporters on Wednesday after the Prime Minister held a meeting with the chief ministers of states and Union territories to discuss the Covid-19 (coronavirus) situation in the country.“PM Narendra Modi has asked Karnataka to focus on Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar in view of rising coronavirus cases in these regions,” said news agency PTI quoting Yediyurappa.Yediyurappa also told reporters that the reason the Prime Minister emphasised on these three areas is because of their proximity to Maharashtra as all three places are located at the Maharashtra-Karnataka border. As Maharashtra has been witnessing a recent resurgence of Covid-19 cases, Karnataka made RT-PCR tests mandatory for passengers arriving from Maharashtra and Kerala.Also Read: Karnataka will conduct 1 lakh Covid-19 tests daily to stop '2nd wave'"As cases are going up in Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Bidar which are located at the border of Maharashtra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked us to focus on these three districts," Yediyurappa told PTI.News agency ANI reported that the chief minister apprised PM Modi during the meeting about Karnataka’s preparedness to vaccinate three lakh individuals every day, and the decision to open three Covid care centres in Bengaluru.“We have decided to open three Covid care centers in Bengaluru. We'll be vaccinating 3 lakh people every day, in the state,” ANI said quoting Yediyurappa.On Tuesday, Karnataka reported the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases in the last three months. The state recorded 1,135 new cases of Covid-19 and 6 fatalities. Bengaluru urban recorded 710 cases, leading the count. Kalaburgi reported 46 new cases. The total number of cases is currently over 962,000 with 12,403 fatalities till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-asked-karnataka-to-focus-on-3-areas-bordering-maharashtra-says-bs-yediyurappa-101615979953237.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT| Cancellation of ration card not linked to Aadhaar a serious issue: SC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cancellation of ration card not linked to Aadhaar a serious issue: SC tells govtThe Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Central government on a plea regarding cancellation of around 30 million ration cards across India between 2013 and 2016, leading to alleged denial of rations and starvation deaths. Read moreBHU, Reliance rebut reports that Nita Ambani was invited to be visiting facultyReliance Industries Limited (RIL) on Wednesday refuted news reports on a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting faculty at Uttar Pradesh's Banaras Hindu University, reported news agency ANI. Read moreUttarakhand CM’s statement on ‘ripped’ jeans draws flakWomen rights activists and the opposition Congress on Wednesday criticised Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s comments a day earlier that wearing ripped jeans is not Indian culture but aping of the West. Read moreUS pinpricks China over strings attached ‘vaccine diplomacy’, packs in a warningUS secretary of state Antony Blinken has set the tone for the first face-to-face meeting with senior Joe Biden administration officials and their Chinese counterparts to be held in freezing Alaska this week. Read moreIs Virat Kohli the best T20 batsman in the world?In a fickle format where 4-5 balls can change the entire course of a match and a number of top-rung contenders like Rohit Sharma, David Warner, Martin Guptill or Aaron Finch in the fray, that may seem like a tough question to answer. Read moreWhen Twinkle Khanna revealed Karan Johar was in love with her in school: 'He found my moustache hot'Twinkle Khanna and Karan Johar might be cracking up viewers with their hilarious banter, courtesy of their recent television commercial. Read moreSkoda Kushaq to make world debut on Thursday: Five things to expectThe much-awaited Skoda Kushaq is going to be revealed for the very first time on Thursday (March 18th, 2021). It is going to be the production-spec version of the Vision-IN SUV which was revealed for the first time at the Auto Expo 2020. Read moreKajal Aggarwal channels hot vibes, promotes Mosagallu in sequins top-slit skirtMaking jaws drop in awe with one sartorially elegant look after another, Kajal Aggarwal has set Mosagallu promotions on fire ahead of the film’s grand release that co-stars Vishnu Manchu. Read moreLittle girl has meltdown at parents’ wedding. What happens has everyone laughingWhen it comes to a wedding, a whole lot of meticulous planning is done to ensure the ceremony goes through without a hitch and the day is the most special for the bride and groom. Read moreWatch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cancellation-of-ration-card-not-linked-to-aadhaar-a-serious-issue-tells-sc-to-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101615978160049.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: 70 districts across 16 states saw cases spike by over 150% between March 1 and 15||Covid-19 cases increased by over 150 per cent in 70 districts spread across 16 states in the country in the 15-day period starting March 1, the government said on Wednesday. In addition, 55 districts in 17 states witnessed a spike of anywhere between 100 and 150 per cent, the Centre also observed. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, addressing a press conference on Wednesday evening, said that most states and districts, where the increasing trend has been observed, are located in the central and western parts of India.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍India: Percentage change on new COVID cases as on 16th March, 2021.#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaWillWin pic.twitter.com/cHIZ4L4wWQDuring his presentation, the health secretary also said that the number of daily new cases reported in India was at its highest in September 2020 with 97,894 cases reported on a single day. However, the cases started to decline until February 2021, after which it again witnessed an upward trend, calling it a “matter of concern".The health secretary’s remarks came after India, earlier in the day, reported its highest daily new cases this year. With 28,903 cases and 188 deaths, the country’s Covid-19 tally reached 11,438,734 cases and the death toll climbed to 159,044, as per the Union health ministry’s data.Also read | Covid-19 positivity rate in Punjab has doubled, says health ministryIn Maharashtra, which remains the worst-affected state by the pandemic so far, Nanded district witnessed an increase of 385 per cent in the number of cases reported between March 1 and 15, followed by Nandurbar with a 224 per cent increase and Beed with a 219 per cent increase. In the same period, Dhule, Nashik, Jalgaon, Bhandara and Nagpur districts, the increase was less than 200 per cent, while in Chandrapur, Ahmednagar, Buldhana, Aurangabad and Akola, it was less than 100 per cent.According to data from the health secretary, among other states, cases increased by 500 per cent in Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, by 425 per cent in Surajpur in Chhattisgarh and by 367 per cent in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur districts in the mentioned period. Rupnagar in Punjab also reported a spike of 256 per cent, the ministry’s noted.Earlier in the day, the ministry also said that an upward trajectory of cases is being observed in Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-70-districts-across-16-states-saw-cases-spike-by-over-150-between-march-1-and-15-101615979738538.html
17-03-2021||India||With BJP’s steady rise in Odisha, CM Patnaik turns to religion, culture||On February 27, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik tabled a resolution in the state assembly seeking the support of the House for early completion of the ₹3200 crore Jagannath Heritage Corridor project. He called Lord Jagannath the symbol of Odiya esteem and pride.“The greatest identity of Odiya community is Lord Jagannath. Our history, culture, tradition, and belief system are all centered around the Almighty. Visiting the Jagannath Temple once in a lifetime and getting a glimpse of the Lord is the only prayer of millions of devotees. All devotees, who come to the Jagannath Temple in Puri to see the Lord, have a desire in their hearts to see deities in a calm, beautiful and spiritual environment. This plan is not only for the government or for the temple administration, but also the plan of 4.5 crore [45 million] Odiyas,” said Patnaik before the resolution was unanimously approved with support from opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress.Also Read | Odisha CM plans to counter BJP’s Jagannath temple donation driveThe project seeks to create a buffer zone around the 12th century Jagannath Temple and to build pilgrim centres, multi-level car parking, integrated command, and control centre, and parks.Patnaik, 74, who has been the chief minister since 2000 and has never been known as overtly religious, has been busy seeking divine help of late. His visits to the Jagannath Temple would mostly be during the launch of poll campaigns and after winning elections. But since 2019, his politics has evolved to keep pace with the BJP’s ambitions. His focus on religion and culture is seen to be part of his attempt to keep the BJP’s ploy of painting opponents as insensitive to Hindu aspirations in check.Patnaik also announced a ₹200-crore package for the development of Sambalpur’s Maa Samaleswari Temple in February. In the 2021-22 Budget, his government announced a ₹742 crore allocation for the development of Jagannath and Lingaraj Temple (Bhubaneswar). There have also been announcements of support for temples in Mayurbhanj and Kendrapara.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Ali Kishore Patnaik said Naveen Patnaik is practising soft Hindutva. “By pitching Jagannath Temple as a symbol of Odiya pride and esteem and using state’s budget for the development of temples, he may be trying to upstage the BJP’s plan of using religion for political gains. But he is treading a dangerous path.” Hindus constitute an overwhelming 93.6% of Odisha’s 42 million population. Christians and Muslims form a mere 2.77 and 2.17% of the population. There has never been any large-scale mobilisation based on religion in the state barring a handful of constituencies. There has not been overt political mobilisation on the basis of caste or class either. The politics of three major parties— Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD), BJP, and Congress— has revolved around leadership and local issues.BJD has been a dominant force on the back of social welfare schemes and Patnaik’s incorruptible image. Ahead of the 2019 polls, it announced Kalia Scheme for cash assistance to 5.7 million small and marginal farmers. The state runs around 60 social assistance programmes for tribals, youths, slum dwellers, farmers, women, weavers, and artisans.Also Read | Warehouses in Odisha running out of space as FCI slows down lifting riceThe BJP’s steady rise has had the BJD worried. It won 9 out of the 30 zilla parishads in 2017; 8 of the 21 Lok Sabha seats; and 23 of 147 assembly seats in 2019. The BJP’s vote share rose to 38.37% in 2019.The BJP is expected to focus on Odisha once the Bengal elections are over. “Hindutva forces have been active in Odisha for more than two decades and Naveen Patnaik realises that the BJP would use the religion card. He has the women voters firmly behind him and now probably hopes that soft Hindutva turn would stop any erosion in his vote base,” said Rabi Das, a journalist.The beautification drive of temples has earned Patnaik praise among middle-class Odiyas as commercial and several crumbling structures around them have been bulldozed. The families, who have lost their homes to the demolition around the temple, have supported the drive after getting lucrative rehabilitation packages.Sociologist Rita Ray said in the name of religion, people are being distracted from real issues. “There are other pressing issues such as rising unemployment... The increasing focus on religion would serve no purpose other than making them more obsequious.”State Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik questioned whether beautification was absolutely necessary when the economy is in a shambles? “If BJD wanted to save the cultural heritage, why did not it do it a few years earlier when the state’s finances were in better shape? The beautification drive is just for votes.”BJD lawmaker Amar Patnaik said the beautification should be seen in the context of the state’s cultural traditions. “Jagannath culture is the identity of Odisha since times immemorial and includes the Odiya identity of Muslims, Jains, Buddhists. More than the religious part, we are celebrating the cultural traditions of Bhubaneswar and Puri,” he said. He added money has been given for the development of mosques and churches too.But will the temple beautification drive appeal to the state’s tribals, who account for the state’s 22% population? Anthropologist Jayant Nayak of Central University, Koraput, said there is no difference between the Hindus and tribals. “During Rathyatras in tribal-dominated Koraput and Mayurbhanj districts, maximum participation is from tribal communities. The Hindu and tribal identities are interchangeable.”Union minister and BJP’s most prominent face in Odisha, Dharmendra Pradhan, has proposed a donation drive for the beautification. “The magnificent Sri Mandir was constructed 1,000 years ago with people’s participation... The role of state and administration is secondary. Today, people have to come forward to collaborate and participate in promoting our rich culture and age-old traditions,” said Pradhan at a webinar with Odiyas in 35 countries and Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingh Dev.The state government plans to counter BJP’s plan by installing donation boxes at major airports and railway stations across the country.For BJP, Puri and Jagannath temple are key to their scheme of things. The party has been trying to blend the Jagannath culture with Hindutva. BJP leader Sambit Patra lost the Puri seat to BJD’s Pinaki Mishra in the 2019 national polls. In June last year, when it seemed the annual Rath Yatra festival of Lord Jagannath would not happen due to Covid guidelines, the Centre facilitated it by moving the Supreme Court that allowed it with some restrictions.The National Monument Authority brought draft heritage by-laws for Jagannath, Ananta Basudeva and Brahmeswar temples under the provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010. The draft proposed to prohibit construction activities within the 100-metre radius of the monuments, effectively derailing Patnaik’s plans of development of the corridors around Jagannath and Lingaraj temples. After much protest, the byelaws were put on hold.Also Read | Odisha told to enforce prohibition of fishing around turtle nesting sitesGyana Ranjan Swain, a political science professor, said the BJP is aware that BJD is trying to snatch its religious card through the development of old temples in a deeply religious state like Odisha.The BJP does not want to be publicly seen to be opposing the temple beautification drive. It cannot also let the BJD use the religion card a year before the panchayat polls. The BJP has started a debate on the demolition of old Hindu mutts and monuments in Puri and Bhubaneswar. Last month, BJP lawmaker Aparajita Sarangi wrote to Naveen Patnaik asking him who advised him on demolishing sacred Emar, Mangu and Languli mutts.“It is painful to learn that mutts associated with the most revered saints have been razed to the ground. People are left with a sense of disbelief that Mathas/heritage monuments which were so closely associated with our religious belief system, integral to the daily and special rituals of Lord Jagannath have been demolished,” she wrote.Sarangi demanded the setting up of a committee to assess the scale of destruction.Pradhan on Sunday proposed devotees of Lord Jagannath should unite to preserving the rich heritage. “I proposed the development of a Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan (funds collection) like mechanism for galvanising the spirit, emotion, and devotion of the entire Hindu Samaj and facilitating large-scale participation in spearheading the pious work of promoting Lord Jagannath’s culture,” Pradhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-bjp-s-steady-rise-in-odisha-cm-patnaik-turns-to-religion-culture-101615979708999.html
17-03-2021||India||Maharashtra, UP, Telangana: What PM Modi observed about Covid-19 in these states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday virtually interacted with the chief ministers of states and Union territories and reviewed the Covid-19 situation of the country. This is the first meeting between the PM and the state authorities after India began its vaccination drive. During his interaction with the CMs which comes in the backdrop of a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the prime minister mentioned certain states in various regards.'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTsMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, PunjabPM Modi mentioned Maharashtra, Punjab as a few states where cases have been increasing. “In many states, cases are increasing after coming down briefly. Some names were mentioned like Maharashtra, Punjab,” he said. Then he said the case positivity rate is very high in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The number of cases is also increasing, he said.Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Uttar PradeshThe contacts of every infected person have to be tracked as soon as possible. Taking the name of Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh, PM Modi said that these states are mostly depending on an antigen test, instead of RT-PCR tests. This needs to be changed. RT-PCR tests must be 70 per cent of all tests, PM Modi said.Telangana, Andhra Pradesh“Over 10 per cent vaccines of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been wasted. Uttar Pradesh too has similar figures. Vaccine wastage should be reviewed. It should be monitored every evening,” PM Modi said urging states to concentrate on local planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-up-telangana-what-pm-modi-observed-about-covid-19-in-these-states-101615978734790.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19 taught us no nation is immune to global disasters: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has taught that no country is immune to effect of global disasters. "We are witnessing an event that is being termed a once-in-a-hundred-year disaster. Covid-19 pandemic has taught us that in an interdependent and interconnected world, country-rich or poor, in the east or west, north or south- is immune to the effect of global disasters," PM Modi said at the International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.PM Modi addressed the opening ceremony of International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure t video conference. Prime Minister of Fiji, Italy and the United Kingdom were also present on the occasion.Terming the current situation "unprecedented", the Prime Minister noted that the Covid-19 pandemic has shown how the world can come together. “The pandemic has shown us that innovation to address global challenges can come from anywhere."PM Modi called for fostering a global ecosystem that supports innovation in all parts of the world, and its transfer to places that are most in need. "The year 2021 promises to be a year of swift recovery from the pandemic," he added.The Prime Minister cautioned that the lessons from the pandemic must not be forgotten. "They apply to not only public health disasters but other disasters as well. It will take sustained and concerted efforts to mitigate climate change," PM Modi said.PM Modi said that countries that are making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure that this is an investment in resilience, and not in risk."Many infrastructure systems- digital infrastructure, shipping lines, aviation networks- cover the entire world and the effect of disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across the world. Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system," he added.PM Modi said 2021 is particularly an important year. "We are approaching the mid-point of the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris agreement and the Sendai Framework. The expectations from COP-26, to be hosted by the UK and Italy later this year, are high. This partnership on resilient infrastructure must play its important role in helping meet some of those expectations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-taught-us-no-nation-is-immune-to-global-disasters-pm-modi-101615977318210.html
17-03-2021||India||Envisaged for a year, Chandrayaan-2 orbiter likely to last for 7 years||The life of the orbiter of Chandrayaan-2 was initially envisaged for a year but the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) expects it to last for seven years, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Wednesday.In a written response to a question in the Lok Sabha on India's second lunar mission, Jitendra Singh, the minister of state in the Prime Minister's Office, said Chandrayaan-2 was a highly complex mission to develop and demonstrate the key technologies for end-to-end lunar mission capability, including soft-landing and roving on the lunar surface.The mission comprised an orbiter, lander and rover.Planned to land on the South Pole of the Moon, Chandrayaan-2 was launched on July 22, 2019. However, the lander Vikram hard-landed on September 7, 2019, crashing India's dream to become the first nation to successfully land on the lunar surface in its maiden attempt."But for achieving soft landing at the intended spot, the other objectives of the mission have been significantly attained. So much so, that against an initially envisaged one-year life of orbiter, we expect it to be serving for seven years," Singh said.The mission has accomplished the objective of expanding lunar scientific knowledge through detailed study of topography, mineralogy, surface chemical composition, thermo-physical characteristics and tenuous lunar atmosphere leading to a better understanding of the origin and evolution of the moon, it added.In August last year, Singh had announced that Chandrayaan-2 orbiter has captured the images of craters on the Moon. They were christened "Sarabhai crater" after Vikram Sarabhai, father of the Indian space programme.The Sarabhai Crater captured in 3D images shows that it has a depth of around 1.7 kilometres, taken from its raised rim, and the slope of crater walls is in between 25 to 35 degree. These findings will help space scientists to understand further the process on the lunar region filled with lava, Singh had said.ISRO's missions are known to have an enhanced life than what is earlier envisaged.The planned life span of Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM)/ Mangalyaan after its insertion into the Mars orbit on September 24, 2014 was six months and it was to complete on March 24, 2015. However, the MOM is still functioning and sending pictures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/envisaged-for-a-year-chandrayaan-2-orbiter-likely-to-last-for-7-years-101615976950661.html
17-03-2021||India||Inter-state gang selling PG medical seats busted; scores of students cheated||Madhya Pradesh police busted a high-profile, inter-state, Delhi-based gang involved in duping MBBS pass outs on the pretext of getting them admission in post graduate (PG) courses in different medical colleges. Management of some colleges and even police officials are believed to be part of the gang, which used to charge up to ₹1.5 crore to offer admissions, according to initial investigation by the police.“Employees of government and private medical colleges in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan Police are also part of the gang. Police are trying to identify the employees with the help of doctors,” said Rewa inspector general of police, Umesh Joga.The gang of 12-14 persons cheated more than 150 students of amounts ranging from ₹80 lakh to 1.5 crore in the past four years across 15 states, said police. Rewa police arrested a manager of a consultancy company from its Bali Nagar office in Delhi in the case and was trying to nab the alleged kingpin, Vishal Kumar, a resident of Dwarka in Delhi.The lid was blown off the elaborate network in March first week, when Dr Raghvendra Tiwari from Rewa lodged a police complaint claiming he was duped of ₹42.50 lakh by a Delhi-based consultancy company named Royal Immigration and Students Consultancy.Tiwari told police he was approached in January 2020 by the firm, promising help in securing admission to PG courses in prestigious medical colleges in exchange for ₹80 lakh. Tiwari, who completed his MBBS degree in 2013, said he paid an advance of ₹9.50 lakh and was told to appear in Medical Education Common Entrance Examination (MECEE) for PG courses in Nepal.“The admission process was delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown in April last year. In January this year, I appeared in MECEE in Kathmandu, Nepal and the consultancy manager told me in February that I had qualified and will get admission to Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi. They called me in Delhi and introduced me to two employees of the medical college. They explained allotment details and also provided a receipt and an allotment letter. Later, I gave ₹33 lakh to the consultancy. After this, the consultancy manager stopped taking my calls and when I contacted the medical college in March, they told me that the receipt and the allotment letter were fake,” said Tiwari.The investigating officer Shivpooran Sharma said a team of police contacted the consultancy posing as a dummy candidate.“We told them that we wanted to fix the deal, the office staff called a manager, Lalit Gupta, a resident of Rohtak, Haryana. He explained to us that they have connections at many prestigious colleges in India and will ensure 100% admission to the colleges. We raided the office immediately and arrested him on Sunday,” said Sharma.Sharma said details of several students, who were in touch with the agency were obtained in the raid and the name of the kingpin, one Vishal Kumar was revealed. Lalit Gupta also confessed to have duped at least 150 students, mostly from small cities of states like Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Rajasthan and others. He also confessed to have got some students admitted through management quota with the connivance of the management of some medical colleges, Sharma added.“Gupta made startling revelations, but we can’t share it without proof,” Sharma said.The police have seized 16 accounts opened in the name of the consultancy and found a list of 35 students, who made a deal with the firm to procure admissions in exchange for money. “We will take Tiwari and other students to the colleges to identify the employees involved in the racket, said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interstate-gang-selling-pg-medical-seats-busted-scores-of-students-cheated-101615977429564.html
17-03-2021||India||YSR Congress confident of winning Tirupati Lok Sabha seat in by election||Buoyed by the landslide it secured in the just-concluded elections to urban local bodies in Andhra Pradesh, the ruling YSR Congress seems to be taking success in the coming bypoll to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat for granted and only betting on the victory margin. The YSR Congress on Sunday swept the elections to the ULBs, literally burying the main opposition Telugu Desam party in 75 municipalities and 11 municipal corporations."We hope to win Tirupati by a majority of at least three lakh votes. It will be higher than the last time (2019), going by the people's mood that has reflected in the ULB elections," state Panchayat Raj Minister P R C Reddy, who hails from Chittoor district, said.Notification for the by-election will be issued on March 23 and the last date for filing nominations is March 30.Polling is scheduled to be held on April 17 and counting of votes on May 2.The YSRC won the Tirupati Lok Sabha (Scheduled Caste reserved) seat in 2014 and again in 2019, improving its vote share from 47.84 per cent to 55.03 per cent.Balli Durga Prasad Rao, who won in 2019 by a record margin of 2.28 lakh votes, died of COVID-19 on September 16 last year, necessitating the bypoll.The YSRC nominated party chief Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy's physiotherapist M Gurumurthy as its candidate for the bypoll.The TDP chose former Union Minister of State Panabaka Lakshmi again.Lakshmi lost the election in 2019 to Durga Prasad Rao.The BJP is jumping into the fray in alliance with the Jana Sena and is seeking to reclaim the seat it won only once in 1999, then in the company of the TDP.In the 2019 general election, the BJP polled a mere 16,125 votes.In fact, the BSP polled 20,971 votes here.Names of former IAS officers K Ratna Prabha and Dasari Srinivasulu are being tipped as the BJP's prospective candidates.Ratna Prabha retired as Chief Secretary of Karnataka while Srinivasulu retired as a Principal Secretary in the AP government.The Congress is expected to field former Union Minister Chinta Mohan yet again, the old warhorse who previously represented Tirupati for five terms in the Lok Sabha.Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency is spread over seven Assembly segments in Chittoor and Sri Potti Sriramulu Nellore districts.Over 25 per cent of the 15.75 lakh voters in the parliamentary segment belong to the Scheduled Castes while there are about five lakh electors belonging to the backward classes.Sullurpeta (SC), Sarvepalli, Guduru (SC) and Venkatagiri Assembly segments fall in SPS Nellore district and Tirupati, Satyavedu (SC) and Srikalahasti are in Chittoor district.The YSRC, by and large, appears to be in a comfortable position in all the segments but it is said to be facing some internal trouble in Guduru, where former MP from Tirupati V Varaprasad is now the MLA.The ruling party is, however, unperturbed, given the current political trend in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-confident-of-winning-tirupati-lok-sabha-seat-in-by-election-101615974294851.html
17-03-2021||India||Polygraph test can only be conducted with consent of the accused: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ruled that polygraph tests, popularly known as 'lie-detector tests', can only be conducted after the accused concerned has provided their consent for the same. The court noted that the silence of the accused does not amount to consent, according to a report by Bar and Bench.A polygraph or a lie detector test is a procedure to record physiological indicators like blood pressure, pulse, respiration, and skin conductivity while a person is asked to answer a series of questions.In its judgment, a single bench of the Karnataka High Court detailed the set of circumstances under which authorities were permitted to conduct a polygraph test. As per a copy of the judgment posted by the legal portal, it reads:
17-03-2021||India||Received complaints citing violation of FDI against some e-comm firms: Goyal||The government has received complaints against certain e-commerce companies alleging violation of foreign direct investment (FDI) policy and necessary actions have been taken for investigation by the Enforcement Directorate, Parliament was informed on Wednesday.In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said no representation from All India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (AICCI) was received regarding banning of some big e-commerce companies from operating in India."The government has received complaints against certain e-commerce companies alleging violation of FDI policy and necessary actions under the provisions of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 have been taken for investigation by the Enforcement Directorate," he said.Replying to a separate question, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Hardeep Singh Puri said there are 1,569 tea gardens in the country covering total area of 4,20,671 hectares.He said the Tea Board has provided financial assistance of ₹217.77 crore to tea companies from 2017-18 till February 1, 2021.In another reply, Singh said the top five countries from where India has imported goods during 2020 (January- December) include China, the US, UAE, Saudi Arabia and Iraq.India has imported goods worth USD 143.5 billion from these five nations during the period, which is about 39 per cent of India's total inbound shipments."The major items of import from China are products such as telecom instruments, computer hardware and peripherals, fertilizers, electronic components/instruments, project goods, organic chemicals, drug intermediates, consumer electronics, electrical machinery," he added.To a separate question, Singh said the government has received representations regarding under invoicing and smuggling of raw human hair."The matter has been referred to the Ministry/Agencies concerned for necessary action," he said.To a question on exports, he said ₹43,493 crore has been refunded to exporters on account of export of goods with payment of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) as on March 11, 2021 this fiscal year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/received-complaints-citing-violation-of-fdi-against-some-e-comm-firms-goyal-101615969450733.html
17-03-2021||India||Hit by pandemic, gig workers plan to create umbrella union||Following the job losses during the lockdown and an increase in instances of harassment from employers and customers, multiple gig worker groups are planning to create an umbrella union of gig workers across the country.Tanveer Pasha, president of the Ola-Uber Drivers Association in Bengaluru, said on Tuesday that a meeting will be held next week to finalise the plan for the new platform. He said the new union will include those employed in courier services, food delivery, cabs aggregators and other services.“We have a core team for now and we are looking at creating a network across India. We believe that it is time to look beyond individual unions and create a union for the gig workers, where everyone comes under one umbrella as gig workers,” Pasha told Hindustan Times.Even though this is an informal economy without enough data on various jobs, once a union is established, it will attract those working across the industries to the union, Pasha said. “We are aware of the harassment delivery boys and others are facing from police, customers and companies. But (those issues) don't come out in the public,” he said.Pasha said a verdict of the UK Supreme Court on February 19, classifying ride-hailing app Uber’s drivers as its employees and not self-employed, has been a wakeup call. “A similar order was passed by a court in California (USA) last year. We have been asking for such a law here, but the government is not responding. At the same time, we realised these issued are faced by other gig workers as well,” he said.In a 2019 report, human resources firm TeamLease estimated that 1.3 million Indians joined the gig economy in the second half of 2018-19, registering a 30% growth compared to the first half of the fiscal year. According to the report, between the first half of 2019 and the end of its second half, the number of gig workers in Bengaluru increased from 194,400 to 252,300.At the same time, as per the ‘Impact of COVID-19 on Livelihoods of informal sector workers and vulnerable groups in Bengaluru’ report released by the Azim Premji University on 21 February, 15% of informal sector workers in Bengaluru are still unemployed after losing their previous jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic.The study report added that 23% of informal sector workers experienced a break in employment during the pandemic, and about 46% are currently engaged in the same job but with less pay. Only around 6% are in the same job with either the same or more income.The study was conducted by over 10 civil society organisations in association with Azim Premji Foundation. The study arrived at the conclusions through a combination of personal interviews, secondary data and surveys, comparing the situation of the informal sector workers and vulnerable groups of the city now to that of before the lockdown beginning March 2020.Around 50% or more migrants (including those from Karnataka) left Bengaluru in the first few months. “They were mainly from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and other districts of Karnataka. Of the approximate 50% of migrants who left Bengaluru, around 32% are still not back. Half of this 32% who have not returned indicated that they will come back by January 2021 the study revealed.In principle, gig workers are independent contractual workers who are into flexible agreements with companies or through platforms for on-demand work completion. However, Kaveri Madappa, a researcher on gig economies, said workers in the informal sector are not exactly gig workers. “They are not doing a gig for a company and moving on. Most of these workers depend on these jobs for their livelihood. To call them gig workers is in fact problematic,” she said.“The industry claims that it is up to the workers to choose how long they want to work and there is no limit on how many hours they can work. When the income and perks start to fall, they have no option but to extend their work to learn little over ₹1,000,” Madappa said.She added that the aggregators and other app-based companies offload the risk of the business on the workers. “Even though industry experts claim the gig economy is formalising the informal sector through technology, the fact is that it is a digitally enabled informality,” said the researcher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-pandemic-gig-workers-plan-to-create-umbrella-union-101615974515141.html
17-03-2021||India||Cancellation of ration card not linked to Aadhaar a serious issue: SC tells govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Central government on a plea regarding cancellation of around 30 million ration cards across India between 2013 and 2016, leading to alleged denial of rations and starvation deaths. “It is a very serious issue. We expect you not to treat it as adversarial,” the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told the counsel for the Centre and the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). UIDAI is the authority that issues Aadhaar cards. The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by a woman from Jharkhand, has alleged starvation deaths following denial of food in the absence of ration card. Appearing for petitioner Koili Devi, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves claimed that around three crore [30 million] ration cards of poor people were cancelled by authorities across the country as they were not linked with Aadhaar cards and the petitioner’s 13-year-old girl died of starvation in September 2017 after they were denied ration. Representing the UIDAI and the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi opposed the plea and stated that the PIL was based only on newspaper reports and that there were no reliable statistics adduced by Gonsalves to corroborate his contentions. Also Read | ‘Old consumer cases won’t be transferred,’ says Supreme Court“There is a grievance redressal system under the Food Security Act. This court has already sought responses from the state governments on this. The plea, as being pressed, is completely misconceived because there is an absolute clarity that if Aadhaar is not available, alternative documents can be submitted. We have clearly said Aadhaar or no Aadhaar, it will not deny right to food,” said Lekhi. Attorney General KK Venugopal, also appearing for the Centre, supported Lekhi’s arguments. After hearing the counsel, the court said it would hear the PIL in detail after three weeks. In November 2019, the court had called upon all states to apprise it of steps taken by them to put in place the grievance redressal mechanism, as provided under the National Food Security Act. Venugopal had then cited Sections 14, 15, 16 and 40 of the Act that mandate every state government to have internal grievance redressal mechanism and nodal officers for effective and expeditious redressal of food grievance. During a hearing on February 24 last year, the Centre had denied allegations of starvation deaths in Jharkhand and arbitrary cancellation of ration cards across the country, pointing out the cancellation between 2013 to 2016 pertained to ‘ghost’ ration cards. Venugopal had said that the statistics referred to in the petition were completely wrong and that the Centre was ready to prove the averments as incorrect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancellation-of-ration-card-not-linked-to-aadhaar-a-serious-issue-sc-tells-govt-101615975448932.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi meets CMs to discuss resurgence of Covid-19: Here’s what he said||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a meeting with the chief ministers of states and Union territories as alarm grows over the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India. Here are the key points he made at the meeting:• Modi said India needs to take quick and decisive steps soon to stop an emerging second peak of Covid-19 infections.• He added the world is talking about how India has tackled the disease with 96% recoveries.• Modi said in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, positivity rates are suddenly increasing.Also Watch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMsAlso Read | PM Modi holds key meet on Covid-19 with CMs; Mamata, Bhupesh Baghel skip• He added in 70 districts, there has been an over 150% increase in new cases. “If we do not stop the second wave quickly, we will face troubles.”• He highlighted some local administrations were not very strict in ensuring the wearing of masks. The issues must be resolved, he underlined.• Modi said it is also to be seen why in some places, testing and vaccination rates are low.• He added the fight against Covid-19 has given the country some confidence. Modi cautioned it should not turn into overconfidence or laxity. “We have to be proactive in this phase. We have to focus on creating micro-containment zones and [ensure] there is no laxity.”• Modi said over 3 million people have been vaccinated and underlined vaccines should not be wasted. “There should be daily monitoring. More beneficiaries should be mobilised to stop wastage. States must target zero wastage of vaccines.”• Modi said in some states, the emphasis is on rapid antigen tests. It must be changed immediately to RT-PCR, he added.• Modi warned tier 2 and 3 cities are getting affected. “If this spreads to rural India, our resources might fall short.”• He underlined the need for both vaccination and strictness. “There is also a need to increase the number of centres for vaccination. If more centres can work on a mission mode, we will reduce the wastage of vaccines. Also, keep in mind the expiry date of the vaccines. Use the earlier batches first.”• He also called for the need to maintain social distancing.• Modi said people have always cooperated. “India is winning [the fight against Covid-19] because of the cooperative spirit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-cms-to-discuss-resurgence-of-covid-19-here-s-what-he-said-101615975268863.html
17-03-2021||India||Passengers not wearing masks properly to be de-boarded, treated as unruly: DGCA to Delhi HC||The DGCA informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.The high court expressed satisfaction over the steps being taken by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and said it hoped that the action would continue in the same spirit considering the safety of passengers from Covid-19 infection.A bench of Justices Navin Chawla and C Hari Shankar observed that the court was initially planning to keep the suo motu case open to continue monitoring the implementation of directions issued by the court earlier.However, after noticing the proactive action by the DGCA, the court decided to close the case and observed that initiation of punitive action against the violators is a welcome step, the bench said.Justice Shankar had on March 8 taken suo motu cognisance of the situation after witnessing passengers not wearing masks properly during transportation from airport to the flight and their stubborn reluctance to wear masks properly.The court, which had issued various guidelines to DGCA and all other airlines for immediate compliance, said it was constrained to pass the order because of an alarming situation which was witnessed by the judge himself during the Air India flight from Kolkata to New Delhi on March 5.DGCA, represented through Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and advocate Anjana Gosain, informed the court that following its directions, it issued a circular on March 13 relating to strict guidelines to be followed in the airports."On board the aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing of mask properly even after repeated warning, he/ she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure," the circular stated."In case, any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear mask or violates the ‘Covid-19 Protocol for passengers’ even after repeated warnings, during the course of the fight, such passenger may be treated as ‘Unruly Passenger’ as defined... Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR)...and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airlines,” it said.Advocate Gosain also informed the court that in a Jammu to Delhi flight, on March 16, four passengers were declared unruly for not properly wearing masks and were handed over to the security officials.She said the authorities have also decided to conduct surprise checks.To this, the bench said, “You have done a wonderful job. We are really impressed”, and asked the ASG to ensure that such steps are also taken in respect of railways and buses.When the counsel for Air India said they have also issued a circular with necessary guidelines, the bench asked the DGCA to ensure that other airlines also follow the guidelines.“This court is not interested in seeing passengers de-boarded,” the bench said, adding that their concern was that passengers adhere to Covid-19 guidelines which are necessary for their safety as well as for the safety of co-passengers.The DGCA has also said in its circular that passengers shall wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel. The mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances, it said.“CISF or other police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport shall ensure that no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask,” it said.The circular said that the Airport Director/ Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the airport premises.In case, any passenger is not following ‘Covid-19 Protocol’, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warning. If required, they may be dealt as per law, it said.DGCA had issued another circular on March 15 where directions have been issued for strict compliance by all stakeholders.It also informed the court that DGCA website has been suitably modified and a separate button in respect of ‘Covid Protocol for passenger’ has been created wherein all the relevant guidelines and circulars in respect of ‘Covid-19 Protocol’ have been uploaded.The high court had earlier taken strong note of an “alarming situation” of passengers not properly wearing masks in flights and issued guidelines to all domestic airlines and DGCA for strict compliance, including penal action for offenders and periodical checks of the aircraft.The court had said a situation when the country is seeing a resurgence of Covid-2019 cases, after they had shown signs of ebbing, is completely unconscionable.“Passengers in a flight are in a closed air-conditioned environment, and, even if one of the passengers suffers from Covid-19, the effect on other passengers could be cataclysmic. It is a matter of common knowledge that being within arm’s length distance of a Covid-19 carrier, even if he is asymptomatic and is merely speaking, is more than sufficient to transmit the virus,” it had said.If despite being reminded, he or she refuses to follow the protocol, action should be taken against the passenger in accordance with the guidelines issued by the DGCA or Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, including placing him or her on a 'no-fly' regimen, either permanently or for a stipulated, sufficiently long, period, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-not-wearing-masks-properly-to-be-de-boarded-treated-as-unruly-dgca-to-delhi-hc-101615973457422.html
17-03-2021||India||Government says India's engagement with China is 'complex'||India on Wednesday said its engagement with China is "complex" and the two countries agreed that the future direction of ties should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations.Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said in the Lok Sabha that India will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points.His written response came when asked whether India-China relations are being affected due to violation of negotiations made in the past by China and "unfruitful efforts" to cross the LAC again and again.Referring to the eastern Ladakh row, Muraleedharan said the Chinese side, since April/May last year, undertook several attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC in the region and India's armed forces responded to them appropriately."It has been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are unacceptable. These actions have seriously disturbed the peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector," he said.The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as western sector."India's engagement with China is complex. The two sides agree that the future direction of India China relations should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations," he said on the overall ties."The two sides have also agreed to manage their differences and not allow differences on any issue to become disputes," Muraleedharan added.On the border row, the minister said the two sides have maintained communication through both diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement from all friction points and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas."The two sides were able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake, which has been completed. There are however still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh," he said.The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry.As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with the agreement on disengagement last month."Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas at an early date," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-india-s-engagement-with-china-is-complex-101615971809094.html
17-03-2021||India||Enact law to make Facebook, Google pay for news: BJP MP in Rajya Sabha||Taking a cue from Australia, India should enact a law to make tech giants such as Facebook and Google pay local publishers of news content, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi demanded in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar said, "The government must make Google, Facebook and YouTube pay to print and news channels for the news content they are using freely."The Indian government should take a cue from the Australian parliament that passed the world's first law last month to ensure news media businesses are fairly remunerated for the content they generate, he said."I would urge the government of India that the way they have notified Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code to regulate social media and OTT platforms, they should enact a law on the pattern of Australian Code so that we can compel Google to share its revenue with traditional media," he added.India, Modi said, should take the lead in making Google and Facebook pay a fair share of their earnings from domestically produced news content on the internet to the publishers.Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu remarked that the suggestion is "worth considering".Modi said the traditional print and news broadcast media, whose content is freely available on platforms run by the tech giants, are passing through their worst phase in recent history as advertisements have shifted to tech platforms."They are in deep financial crisis. Earlier, it was because of the pandemic and now it is because of tech giants like YouTube, Facebook and Google," he said.The traditional news media, Modi said, make heavy investments employing anchors, journalists and reporters who gather information, verify it and deliver credible news.But advertisement, which is their main source of revenue, has in the past few years shifted away from them with the advent of tech giants like Google, Facebook and YouTube, he said."Advertising earnings are going to these tech giants (and) because of this print media, news channels are passing through a financial crisis," Modi said."I would urge (that) we should follow a country like Australia which has taken the lead by enacting a law -- News Media Bargaining Code -- by which they have compelled Google to share advertisement revenue with the news media," he said.Google threatened to blackout news from its portal but ultimately surrendered, the BJP leader said."Australia has set a precedence and now France and other European countries are making laws for advertisement revenue sharing," Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enact-law-to-make-facebook-google-pay-for-news-bjp-mp-in-rajya-sabha-101615971199635.html
17-03-2021||India||BHU, Reliance rebut reports that Nita Ambani was invited to be visiting faculty||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) on Wednesday refuted news reports on a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting faculty at Uttar Pradesh's Banaras Hindu University, reported news agency ANI.A company spokesperson said that the reports were fake and "no proposal or invitation to make her a visiting lecturer of BHU has been received", ANI reported.The university too issued a clarification in this regard. "Many media houses approached the university for details after reports on a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting faculty at BHU began doing the rounds. For one to be appointed as a visiting lecturer at the university, approval of the authority is mandatory and this is to clarify that no such proposal was made in front of the authority," a notification issued by the BHU read.Several media houses had reported that students staged a demonstration at the university on Tuesday opposing a proposal to make Nita Ambani a visiting professor.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhu-reliance-rebut-reports-that-nita-ambani-was-invited-to-be-visiting-faculty-101615969784539.html
17-03-2021||India||ED, IT teams raid Haryana Congress MLA Chhokar’s properties||Joint teams of officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax Department (IT) raided Congress’ Samalkha MLA Dharam Singh Chhokar’s house at Haryana’s Panipat and other properties in the state on Wednesday morning, said officials.As per the initial information, three teams are conducting raids in connection with alleged disproportionate assets and tax evasion by the Congress lawmaker.It is learnt that the raids are being carried out at his residence in Samalkha, a fuel station in Panipat and other properties in Hisar, Gurugram and Chandigarh.Dharam Singh, now known as a loyalist of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, won his first election on Haryana Janhit Congress (BL) or HJCBL ticket in 2009 and defeated Congress’s Sanjay Chhokar. Later, he along with other HJCBL MLAs extended support to the Hooda-led Congress government.In 2014, Ravinder Machhroli, who contested as an independent, defeated Chhokar. But in 2019, Chhokar won on the Congress ticket from Samalkha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-it-teams-raid-haryana-congress-mla-chhokar-s-properties-101615970948486.html
17-03-2021||India||'We have to stop Covid-19 second wave': PM Modi's 5-point plan to states, UTs||Urging all states and Union territories to take quick and decisive steps against the spread of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the second wave of Corona has to be stopped immediately. District authorities can create micro-containment zones, wherever necessary, PM Modi told state and UT authorities, as he handed out a five-point plan to fight what is being called the second wave of the Covid-19 infection.Reiterating his famous slogan 'Dawai bhi, kadai bhi' (yes to medicine, yes to caution), PM Modi said states will have to step up testing, focus on maximising vaccination and minimising wastage. In his five-point plan, the first is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In addition to that, the states will have to scale up RT-PCR tests, creating micro-containment zones, increase vaccination in both private and government hospitals and stop vaccine wastage.Also Watch | ‘If we don’t stop Covid right now…’: PM Modi’s warning after meet with CMsSpeaking at the interaction with Chief Ministers. https://t.co/s0c7OSK8zKAbout 70 districts of the country have seen an increase of more than 150 per cent in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks, PM Modi said adding if the spread can’t be contained now, a situation of a nationwide outbreak can come up. But at the same time, he emphasised not to create panic among people.Comparing India’s Covid-19 situation with the rest of the world, PM Modi said that most of the Covid-affected countries in the world had to face several waves of Corona, while India's journey has been a success.Referring to the situation in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, PM Modi said the positivity rate in both the state is high and the number of daily cases in these states is also rising. “This is also a test of good governance. We need to think why there is less testing in some areas or why there is less vaccination in some states,” PM Modi said urging the state administrations to take stock of the situation every day. “Our confidence should not become overconfidence. Our success should not turn into negligence,” he said.On how this 'second Covid-19' wave is different from the first one, PM Modi said, "Tier-2 and tier-3 cities are being affected now. In the first phase, we could contain the spread as the infection did not spread to the villages. But now as the small cities are being infected, villages need to be protected more."Talking about the vaccines, PM Modi said states should probe why vaccines are being wasted. "Over 10 per cent vaccines have been wasted in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh too reported some wastage. If we waste vaccines, we are depriving some people of their rights.""We have to get out of this situation quickly. Otherwise, this will go on and one..one year, two years. Now we have a weapon against it. As far as the expiry of the vaccines is concerned, you should use the vaccines which have come to you first. That will also address the issue of vaccine wastage," PM Modi said.The meeting between the PM and the state heads comes in the wake of a sharp rise in the number of daily Covid-19 infections in the country, a trend that started in February and became more acute in March. On Wednesday, India recorded 28,903 Covid-19 cases, registering the highest single-day spike in this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-of-nationwide-outbreak-can-come-up-pm-modi-tells-cm-at-covid-19-meet-101615970510789.html
17-03-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge Ahmedabad zoo, lakefront, gardens closed||The Ahmedabad civic body on Wednesday announced the closure of the city zoo, lakefront and all public gardens here in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.On Tuesday, the city recorded 241 new cases of coronavirus, a sharp increase from 40 cases reported a month back on February 16.The Covid-19 tally in the city has gone up to 60,992, as per official figures."It has been decided to close all the gardens, Kankaria Lakefront, zoo, etc from March 18 till further orders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic," the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said in a release.The Gujarat government on Tuesday increased the night curfew timings in Ahmedabad and three other major cities -- Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot -- by two hours.The curfew will now remain in force from 10 pm to 6 am, instead of the previous timings of 12 am to 6 am, till March 31.As of Tuesday, there were 60 'micro-containment' areas (where a number of Covid-19 cases have been found) in the city, the civic body said.Ahmedabad has so far reported 2,269 deaths due to Covid-19, while 58,043 have recovered from the disease.The Covid-19 recovery rate in the city stood at 95.3 per cent, as per the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-ahmedabad-zoo-lakefront-gardens-closed-101615968516705.html
17-03-2021||India||Centre's telemedicine service crosses 3 mln consultations; 35k patients daily||The National telemedicine service - eSanjeevani - marked another milestone as it completed 3 million consultations on Wednesday, according to a statement released by the government. The service is currently operating in 31 states and union territories of the country and is consulted by over 35,000 patients, added the statement.“In a short span of time the government of India’s National Telemedicine Service has started aiding the Indian healthcare delivery system by plugging the digital health divide that exists in urban and rural India. It is also addressing the shortage of doctors and specialists at ground level while reducing the burden on secondary and tertiary level hospitals. In line with the National Digital Health Mission eSanjeevani is also boosting the digital health ecosystem in the country,” the statement said.Read more: GMCH: Walk-in OPDs begin for Chandigarh residentsThe service which was started by the Union ministry of health and family welfare is of two kinds: eSanjeevani AB-HWC and eSanjeevani OPD. The eSanjeevani AB-HWC is a doctor to doctor telemedicine platform which is being implemented under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. According to the statement, the platform will be made operational at 155,000 health and wellness centres by December 2022.The eSanjeevaniOPD is a patient to doctor telemedicine platform which aims to provide health services to patients using online OPDs. The statement said that 2,100,100 patients have used the platform for health consultations since its rollout in April 2020.Read more: How Covid-19 can transform health care“Nationally, over 31,000 doctors and paramedics have been trained and on boarded eSanjeevani, of these around 14,000 doctors practice telemedicine on eSanjeevaniOPD and over 17,000 doctors and community health officers use eSanjeevaniAB-HWC,” the statement said.The government also said that eSanjeevaniOPD services will soon be available on the iOS application store to increase the coverage of the national telemedicine service in the country.In terms of the number of consultations, Tamil Nadu leads the list in the country with 642,708 patients consultations using the eSanjeevani platform. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh (631,019), Karnataka (607,305), Andhra Pradesh (216,860) and Madhya Pradesh (204,296).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-telemedicine-service-reaches-3-mln-consultations-35k-patients-daily-101615968656415.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi holds key meet on Covid-19 with CMs; Mamata, Bhupesh Baghel skip||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is interacting with chief ministers of states across the country to evaluate the Covid-19 situation amid the resurgence in the number of cases.The meeting has been called as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government seeks to ramp up the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive, which began on January 16.Here are the latest updates on PM's meeting:West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not attending the meeting, news agency ANI reported. Banerjee has decided to skip the meeting as she has an election meeting pre-scheduled for Wednesday ahead of the West Bengal polls, according to ANI.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has also skipped the Prime Minister's meeting, ANI further reported.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is also not present at the virtual meeting as he is camping in Assam for the upcoming Assembly polls, according to ANI.Also Read | 'Vaccines that don't require needles may be out by year-end': WHO expertThe Prime Minister is meeting with the chief ministers through video conferencing. The exercise meant to assess the Covid-19 situation has been held regularly by the Prime Minister during the Covid-19 situation.PM Modi held the last interaction with the chief ministers in January ahead of the launch of the vaccination drive.In the last meeting, he announced that the Centre will bear the expenses of inoculating nearly three crore or 30 million healthcare and frontline workers in the country during the first phase of the vaccination drive. The vaccination drive for frontline workers began on February 2.The nationwide drive moved into the next phase from March 1, with those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities were given vaccines. The Prime Minister, President as well as various chief ministers and other Union ministers have been inoculated till date as part of this phase of the drive.India on Wednesday reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country this year. The 28,903 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours took the active case tally to more than 2.34 lakh. India has also administered more than 3.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses till date, as per the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-key-meet-on-covid-19-mamata-banerjee-bhupesh-baghel-not-present-101615965725170.html
17-03-2021||India||MiG-21 crashes in central India, pilot killed, says Indian Air Force||A pilot of Indian Air Force (IAF) was killed after his MiG-21 met with a "fatal accident" on Wednesday morning in Central India, the force confirmed on Twitter.The accident took place when the aircraft was taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India.A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning, while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India."The IAF lost Group Captain A Gupta in the tragic accident. IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident," the air force said in a tweet.This is a developing story. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-mig-21-crashes-in-central-india-pilot-killed-101615962345447.html
17-03-2021||India||'Witnessed Saddam-like time during Emergency': Minister attacks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's comment about downgrading India's democracy by Sweden-based institute Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem) has been slammed by Union minister Prakash Javadekar. Reacting to the V-Dem report, Gandhi said during an online interaction that Iraq's dictator Saddam Hussein and Libya's Muammar Gaddafi used to win elections as well."Giving comment on Rahul Gandhi’s opinion is worthless. Comparing India’s democracy with Gaddafi and Saddam Hussein is an insult to the 80 crore voters. Only during the year of Emergency, we witnessed a time like that of Gaddafi and Saddam," Javadekar said.Gandhi was speaking to Professor Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University on different issues, when he was asked about the recent report which downgraded India to an "electoral autocracy" and Freedom House analysis which shifted India's status from a 'free' country to 'partly-free.'"Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. It wasn't like they weren't voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote," Rahul Gandhi said in the online interaction.Watch: 'Even Saddam, Gaddafi won elections', says Rahul Gandhi"Bharatiya Janata Party MPs in Parliament tell me that they cannot have an open discussion. They say they are told what to say," he further said.The government has disproved the report by Freedom House and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced."External affairs minister S Jaishankar also slammed global bodies for their "hypocrisy" and called them "self-appointed custodians of the world, who find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval".On a question on should others become leaders in the Congress, Gandhi said, "Absolutely, 100 per cent. I am more than happy to push as many leaders as possible and make as many of them successful and that is my record...that is all I do all day long. I push people and push them forward."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witnessed-saddam-like-time-during-emergency-minister-attacks-rahul-gandhi-101615965902979.html
17-03-2021||India||SC rejects farmers’ plea on land acquisition for Delhi-Katra national highway||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL), which sought a direction to the Centre to have a dialogue with agitating farmers whose lands have been reportedly acquired for construction of ₹25,000 crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra national highway. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, heard attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal before turning down a plea for issuing directives to the government to treat these farmers on par with Samyukta Kisan Manch (SKM), an unregistered body of farmers with whom the Centre has held 11 rounds of talks over the recently enacted three contentious farm laws. The A-G, reading out the prayers by the petitioner organisation, Bharat Bhoomi Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, called the plea as “political”, adding “it would throw open floodgates” if such petitions were entertained by the apex court. “Look at the second prayer in this petition. It talks about giving equal opportunity to the farmers to be heard as a matter of right and in terms with what the government has done with the other set of farmers. This is absolutely vague,” Venugopal submitted before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Also Read | Old consumer cases won’t be transferred,’ says Supreme CourtThe bench told the A-G that it had asked the petitioner to serve a copy in Venugopal’s office since the government was already negotiating with the farmers on the farm law. “Land acquisition is often connected with the farmers. We thought since you people have been negotiating with the farmers, this could also be looked into by you,” it told the A-G. Venugopal, however, asserted that the prayers in this petition were ambiguous and even though the PIL named farmers from various states, there was no description of the land owned by them. Representing the PIL, advocate MC Dhingra urged the bench to consider the request for a dialogue with the government. “We are the farmers peacefully engaged,” he said. But the bench said it could not admit the petition in view of Venugopal’s statements. “We are not casting any aspersions on you. You remain peaceful...that is all. The petition is dismissed,” ordered the court. The plea contended that lakhs of poor farmers from Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, whose lands are being acquired for the 650 km road project, were waiting for the government to initiate a dialogue with them since January but in vain. Apart from alleging that they have been treated unequally in comparison to the SKM, the organisation claimed that the farmers had been denied adequate compensation in lieu of the lands acquired from them for the highway project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-farmers-plea-on-land-acquisition-for-delhi-katra-national-highway-101615966149774.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: If BJP pushes farm laws expect social upheaval, says Rahul and all the latest news||Expect social turbulence if BJP pushes through farm laws, says Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that the country can witness some serious social turbulence if the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) pushes through the implementation of three contentious farm laws which have provoked agitation from thousands of farmers across India. Read More34 top officials transferred in major reshuffle in J&KThe Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday transferred 34 bureaucrats in one of the biggest administrative reshuffles since August 2019 when the erstwhile state was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and split into two Union territories. Read MoreMayawati welcomes PM Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene CMs meet on Covid-19Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Mayawati welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene a meeting of chief ministers to discuss the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Read More'This is just beyond me': Sanjay Manjrekar surprised at India's opening combination in 3rd T20I against EnglandIndia’s decision to open with Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul and drop Ishan Kishan to No.3 in the third T20I against England was ‘beyond’ former India batsman Sanjay Manjrekar. Read More'Made in India' Jeep Wrangler launched at Rs.53.90 LakhJeep India on Wednesday announced the launch of the India-made Wrangler SUV in the country. Read MorePriyanka Chopra sends her filmography to Australian journo who questioned her qualification as Oscar nominees announcerPriyanka Chopra has clapped back at an Australian journalist who questioned her and her husband Nick Jonas' qualifications as worthy announcers of Academy Awards nominees this year. Read More‘Women’s participation strengthens democracy’: US VP Kamala Harris addresses UNUS Vice President Kamala Harris addressed the 65th session of the UN Commission on the status of women. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-if-bjp-pushes-farm-laws-expect-social-upheaval-says-rahul-and-all-the-latest-news-101615963650088.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi 'pained by' Ram Swaroop Sharma's death, says he worked tirelessly for society||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Ram Swaroop Sharma and said that Himachal Pradesh leader was committed to solving people's problems.Sharma was found dead at his residence in Delhi on Wednesday, police said."Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," PM Modi said in a tweet.The circumstances of the death are in the initial stages of the investigation, the police said. "It looks like a case of suicide, but we are continuing to probe. We'll know better once we have the autopsy report and have questioned people," said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 1 PM after an obituary reference to Sharma.Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP.He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from Mandi parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019 respectively.According to the police, a call was made to the Police Control Room (PCR) around 7.45 am by his aide after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door.A police team reached the spot and forced open the door and found Sharma dead in his room.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pained-by-ram-swaroop-sharma-s-death-says-he-worked-tirelessly-for-society-101615964070305.html
17-03-2021||India||Kerala Congress Thomas faction leaves NDA ahead of assembly polls||With just three weeks left for the assembly elections, the Kerala Congress Thomas faction on Wednesday left the Bharatiya Janata Party -led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and merged with Kerala Congress (Joseph), which is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Party chief P C Thomas, minister of state for law in Vajpayee cabinet, claimed he was forced to leave the NDA since the BJP was not ready to give it even a “single” seat against his demand for four. “The BJP has asked me to contest from Pala constituency in Kottayam district and I told them I have some personal reasons for not contesting from there,” he told newsmen in Kottayam. He said the BJP failed to respect the coalition dharma, forcing him to quit the alliance. He said his party has decided to merge with the Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress, and he will be the deputy leader of the new party. Joseph faction leader and MLA Mons Joseph also confirmed the merger. The BJP said Thomas was “inactive” in the NDA for quite some time and was in talks with UDF leaders. The election for the 140-member Kerala assembly will be held in a single phase on April 6. Thomas wields influence in certain Christian pockets in Kottayam and Idukki districts and has left the NDA when the BJP was trying to curry favour with the minority community. A Lok Sabha MP from 1989 to 2009 from Muvattupuzha, Thomas helped the NDA register its maiden electoral victory in Kerala in 2004.He joined the NDA after falling out with his mentor K M Mani in 2001, following which, he formed the Indian Federal Democratic Party (IFDP). Later, he was inducted into the Vajpayee cabinet. There are at least six parties bearing the name of Kerala Congress in the state. Both the UDF and ruling LDF had liaison with some of the splinter groups. At one point, when Mani was alive, he was ready to cross over to the LDF camp but the move was thwarted by the CPI, second biggest partner in the LDF. Desperate to get a foothold in the state, the BJP also tried to woo Jose K Mani but he finally joined the LDF last year. Last week, former All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary PC Chacko quit the party, alleging rival factions within the party’s state unit were giving tickets to their loyalists. He joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-congress-thomas-faction-leaves-nda-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101615965428492.html
17-03-2021||India||5 states account for more than 71% of India's Covid-19 tally, says health ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday listed five states that continue to report a high number of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The ministry said that Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu not only report a hike in the daily number of cases but also accounted for more than 71 per cent of the 28,903 fresh coronavirus cases reported in the country on Wednesday morning.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Maharashtra, with 17,864 cases in the last 24 hours, alone accounted for more than 61 per cent cases, followed by Kerala contributing 1,970 cases and Punjab reporting 1,463 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours.The country's active coronavirus caseload has reached more than 2.34 lakh as it reported 28,903 cases. The active cases now account for 2.05% of the country's total caseload.The top three states that contribute the most - more than 76 per cent - to the active caseload of the country are Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab; Maharashtra leads by contributing a staggering over 60 per cent to the tally, according to the health ministry. However, the report also showed that Kerala has been reporting a consistently declining trend over the last one month.Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Aurangabad in Maharashtra are the top five districts that contribute most to the active cases of the state. In Kerala, the top five districts are Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Kannur, Thrissur and Palakkad. In Punjab, Jalandhar, Hoshirapur, SAS Nagar, Patiala and Ludhiana have the highest number of active cases, the data showed.The states that have been reporting a surge in the number of cases have started imposing restrictions to contain the spread. At least two districts of Maharashtra have returned to lockdown, while some have night curfew imposed. Punjab and Gujarat have also imposed night curfew in a few districts.The spread of the virus in the country is on a rise as two months before the active caseload of the country used to be less than 1.50 per cent with less than 1.45 lakh active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-more-than-71-of-india-s-covid-19-tally-says-health-ministry-101615960495765.html
17-03-2021||India||Expect social turbulence if BJP pushes through farm laws, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that the country can witness some serious social turbulence if the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) pushes through the implementation of three contentious farm laws which have provoked agitation from thousands of farmers across India.Gandhi made the remarks in his conversation with Professor Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University via video conference where the two discussed farm laws, report by Sweden-based institute Varieties of Democracy which downgraded India to "electoral autocracy" and other issues.Terming the legislations as "extremely destructive", Gandhi said, "I feel, BJP will not have the power to push the farm bills through and if they do, we are going to head into some serious social turbulence.""We agree that there is a need to improve the agricultural system. We believe that any improvement of the agricultural system should be done by negotiating with the stakeholders of that system such as farmers," he added.We think it is going to be extremely destructive. I feel, BJP will not have the power to push the farm bills through and if they do, we are going to head into some serious social turbulence: Shri @RahulGandhi#DemocracyAndDialogueWithRahul pic.twitter.com/WMhogsvAVtLaying out his three problems with the issue, Gandhi said, "Our first problem with the farm laws is that there is no conversation with the stakeholders. They have not been explained what is happening.""Second thing is, you have to empower the producer, make him efficient. You have to make his negotiation more effective. Here there is a full scale assault on the producer. So literally, the producer is now going to be negotiating with Mr Adani and Mr Ambani with nobody in between," Gandhi said in his video dialogue."The first law basically says no farmers markets. The second law says as much hoarding as you want and third law says you cannot go and contest it in court," Gandhi explained.The video was shared by Congress on Twitter.Commenting on decline in India's democracy, Gandhi on Tuesday said Iraq's dictator Saddam Hussein and Libya's Muammar Gaddafi used to win elections as well."Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. It wasn't like they weren't voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote," Rahul Gandhi said in online interaction with Brown University.Rahul Gandhi further said, "Bharatiya Janata Party MPs in Parliament tell me that they cannot have an open discussion. They say they are told what to say."The Indian government, however, had disproved the report by Freedom House and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced".On the farm laws too, the government has said that Congress and other opposition parties are "misleading" the farmers who have been protesting against the three laws for more than 100 days now. The Centre has said that these laws are historic and will bring about a much-needed change in the agriculture sector. The government has said that it is ready to put these laws under suspension and held multiple rounds of talks with the protesting farmers, but the impasse is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-social-turbulence-if-bjp-pushes-through-farm-laws-says-rahul-gandhi-101615957554609.html
17-03-2021||India||34 top officials transferred in major reshuffle in J&K||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday transferred 34 bureaucrats in one of the biggest administrative reshuffles since August 2019 when the erstwhile state was stripped of its semi-autonomous status and split into two Union territories. Also Read | Pakistani intruder shot dead in Ramgarh in J-K’s Samba districtRaghav Langer has been named as Jammu’s new divisional commissioner. He was earlier posted as the deputy commissioner of South Kashmir’s Pulwama district. Mohammad Ajaz Asad will be Srinagar’s new deputy commissioner in place of Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, who has been named as the chief executive officer, Mission Youth. Choudhary has also been given the additional charge of mission director, Skill Development Mission in place of Syed Abid Rasheed Shah.Officials aware of the matter said a major reshuffle was also on the cards in the police department and many officers were expected to be transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/34-top-officials-transferred-in-major-reshuffle-in-jk-101615964108278.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Highest single-day spike in cases in Maharastra since Sept||Days after the Central team’s visit to six Maharashtra districts, the state government admitted that it is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections and has begun taking measures to contain the spread of the virus. Tuesday saw the state’s highest single-day spike in 167 days with 17,864 fresh cases (18,317 cases were logged on September 30). The state saw the peak of the first wave on September 17 last year with 24,619 cases. The daily caseload in the state dropped to fewer than 2,000 cases in the first week of February. As of March 15, 65.72% of the day’s cases (9,893 of 15,051) and 65.64% of the active cases (85,696 out of 130,547) were from eight districts — Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai, Nashik, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, and Aurangabad — which are being closely monitored.Also Read | India has supplied about 60 million Covid vaccine doses to other countriesOn Tuesday, the state also reported 87 deaths, taking the toll to 52,996. The state’s tally stands at 2,347,328 with 138,812 active cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stands at 2.49% and the recovery rate at 95.66%.A team of three senior officers attached to central institutions from the public health sector visited Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Aurangabad between March 7 and 12. The Central team said it was the beginning of the second wave in Maharashtra. In a letter by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the Centre pointed at limited contact tracing, poor rate of institutional isolation, and fewer tests. It also asked the state to ramp up its health infrastructure, earmark the most infected areas as containment zones and chalk out a strategy for the better clinical management of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-in-maharastra-since-sept-101615963748438.html
17-03-2021||India||Mayawati welcomes PM Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene CMs meet on Covid-19||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Mayawati welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative to convene a meeting of chief ministers to discuss the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. She also demanded that the poor and the middle class get free vaccination and the drive’s pace is quickened.“Considering fresh outbreak of cases, the initiative by the PM is a welcome one. I will also reiterate the need to ensure that the poor and the middle class are vaccinated free of cost,” she tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday. At present, the Covid vaccine is being given free of cost at government hospitals, while it’s price has been fixed at ₹250 per shot for private healthcare centres identified for the purpose. Mayawati recently announced that her party will contest 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh on its own, ending speculations of a possible tie-up with the BJP. Several of her party leaders have joined the Samajwadi Party in the past few months.Mayawati got vaccinated at Lucknow’s TS Misra Medical College and Hospital at Amausi on Saturday. Her second shot of Covishield is due on April 9, said hospital’s nodal officer (vaccination) Dr Sudhanshu Tiwari. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state executive committee meeting, had urged the party cadres to encourage people to get vaccinated and said that his government was providing the vaccine free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-welcomes-pm-narendra-modi-s-initiative-to-convene-cms-meet-on-covid19-101615962128049.html
17-03-2021||India||India concerned with escalation in hostilities in Yemen||India has expressed concern over the recent escalation in hostilities in several parts of Yemen, saying it is "worrisome" that this situation will provide opportunities for terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State to spread their presence in the strife-torn country.Speaking at the UN Security Council monthly meeting on Yemen on Monday, India's Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Nagaraj Naidu termed as "deeply concerning" the reports of military confrontations in Taiz, Al Jawf and Sana’a governorates, asserting that it has resulted in several casualties, extensive destruction and renewed displacement of civilians."We are concerned at the recent escalation in hostilities in several parts of Yemen, especially in Marib which hosts a large number of internally displaced Yemenis,” Naidu said."The current escalation will also provide opportunities for terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State to spread their presence in Yemen, which is worrisome,” he said.Naidu also condemned the drone and missile attacks launched by Ansarallah into Saudi Arabia and the deliberate targeting of civilian and energy infrastructure in the country, calling upon all parties to the conflict to eschew violence and to take meaningful steps towards dialogue and negotiations for a political settlement.Special Envoy for Yemen Martin Griffiths told the Council that there has been a “dramatic” deterioration of the conflict in Yemen and Ansar Allah’s offensive on Marib governorate continues, putting civilians, including an estimated one million internally displaced persons, at risk."Cross-border attacks have also increased significantly in recent weeks. I am like all of us concerned by the intensification of the missile and drone strikes, including ones that have targeted civilian and commercial infrastructure in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Subsequently, airstrikes took place within the confines of Sana’a city, endangering civilians there as well,” he said.Griffiths stressed that there should be no preconditions for resuming the political process. “Resuming the process, and engaging seriously in it, is an obligation upon the warring parties anywhere. They need to engage constantly and seriously at all stages with the United Nations to make this happen,” he said.He said they owe it to the people that they represent to provide hope even in these days that there is an end in sight to this conflict."I am alarmed, to be very frank, that the mere fact of meeting across the table to discuss with us or with others or with each other the contours of ending the war is being framed by some, not by all, as a concession rather than an obligation, as a transaction rather than a priority,” the UN special envoy said.Naidu recalled that two years ago, when Yemen was faced with a perilous situation in Hudaydah, the international community had acted swiftly and decisively, which resulted in the signing of the Stockholm Agreement and averted a humanitarian catastrophe."A similar focused diplomatic push is required now, not only to stop the battle for Marib, but also conflicts elsewhere in the country,” he said.Underlining that the already dire humanitarian situation in Yemen requires the full attention of the international community, Naidu said pledges from Yemen’s regional partners to support humanitarian and aid operations in the country and the enhanced contribution of some donor countries give reasons for hope.India expressed disappointment over recent talks on exchange of prisoners and detainees ending without any agreement between the parties, voicing hope that there is resumption of talks in the near future.Expressing support for the contribution made by Yemeni women to peace efforts in the country, Naidu said India has consistently held that greater participation of women in areas of conflict resolution, peace negotiations, peacekeeping and peacebuilding is conducive for lasting peace and security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-concerned-with-escalation-in-hostilities-in-yemen-101615961120315.html
17-03-2021||India||BJP leader Dilip Gandhi dies; PM Modi, other ministers pay tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extended his condolences on the demise of former Member of Parliament (MP) and Union minister Dilip Gandhi, who died at the hospital in New Delhi earlier in the day.Remembering the minister's contributions to community service, the Prime Minister said, "Saddened by the demise of former MP and Minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti."Saddened by the demise of former MP and Minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.Gandhi held the portfolio minister of state for shipping in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government.The minister who died at the age of 69 recently tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was under treatment for multiple ailments, news agency PTI reported.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh also took to the microblogging site Twitter to pay his condolences. He commended Gandhi's contributions to the welfare of farmers and weaker sections of the society and said the minister was an able administrator and parliamentarian."Anguished by the demise of former MP and Minister, Shri Dilip Gandhi ji. He distinguished himself as an able administrator and Parliamentarian. He worked towards the welfare of farmers & other weaker sections of our society. Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti," Singh tweeted on Wednesday.Also Read | Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Himachal's Mandi, found dead in DelhiThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP began his career as a corporator in late 80s, emerged victorious in Lok Sabha elections thrice from Ahmednagar in Maharashtra since 1999.Home minister Amit Shah also expressed his grief on hearing the news of the demise of the former minister."The sad news of the demise of former Union Minister and senior party leader Mr. Dilip Gandhi was received. Dilip ji's entire life was devoted to public service and organization. May God give his family the power to bear this unbearable pain. ॐ shanti shanti shanti," Shah's tweet, in Hindi, read.पूर्व केंद्रीय मंत्री व पार्टी के वरिष्ठ नेता श्री दिलीप गांधी जी के निधन का दुःखद समाचार प्राप्त हुआ। दिलीप जी का पूरा जीवन जनता की सेवा व संगठन कार्यों में समर्पित रहा। ईश्वर उनके परिजनों को यह असहनीय पीड़ा सहने की शक्ति प्रदान करे। ॐ शांति शांति शांति||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-dilip-gandhi-dies-pm-modi-other-ministers-pay-tribute-101615958284276.html
17-03-2021||India||'Saddam, Gaddafi used to win elections too', says Rahul Gandhi||Lambasting the Centre over reports claiming decline of democracy in India, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said Iraq's dictator Saddam Hussein and Libya's Muammar Gaddafi used to win elections as well."Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi used to have elections. They used to win them. It wasn't like they weren't voting but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote," Rahul Gandhi said in online interaction with Brown University.He made this comment while reacting to a question of Professor Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University on reports by Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem), a Sweden-based institute which downgraded India to an "electoral autocracy," citing a decline in democratic freedoms and Freedom House analysis which shifted India's status from a 'free' country to 'partly-free.'Rahul Gandhi further said, "Bharatiya Janata Party MPs in Parliament tell me that they cannot have an open discussion. They say they are told what to say."The Indian government, however, had disproved the report by Freedom House and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddam-gaddafi-used-to-win-elections-too-says-rahul-gandhi-101615958939018.html
17-03-2021||India||Don’t make child a pawn to settle scores: SC to couple seeking divorce||The Supreme Court has allowed a hostile couple to part ways with a piece of advice – not to make their child “a pawn” to settle scores. “The appeal accordingly stands disposed of with an advice to the parties that they may now live their life separately without any acrimony but should never endeavour to make the child a pawn in their past dispute,” said the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy in an order last week. The bench passed the decree of divorce after noting that the marriage between the couple had “irretrievably broken down” and both of them had sought dissolution of their marriage by mutual consent. However, the court was critical of the couple’s acrimony for each other, casting a shadow on the well-being of their six-year-old daughter. It noted that the girl was torn between her father and the mother, as the latter sought to put certain bizarre conditions for the father to meet her daughter. One of these conditions was that the father could meet the daughter only in the presence of someone from the maternal side. The bench also took a grim view of the fact that the trial court judge, who had in March 2017 ordered that the custody of the child be with the mother, became a lawyer for her after his retirement. Also Read | Top court seeks EC, Centre opinions on repoll possibility if NOTA winsOn this aspect, the mother had filed an affidavit tendering an apology while claiming that she did not know that the lawyer was the same person who had once passed an order in her favour as a judge in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad court. Her affidavit had stated that the retired judge had also returned the litigation fees after realising that it was a case he had once heard. Representing the father, advocate Prem Prakash agreed to let this episode pass but he raised strong objections to the caveats on a father against meeting his child. The bench agreed with Prakash. “What kind of conditions are these? He is the girl’s father after all. How can such weird conditions be put? The girl should be able to meet her father freely. These conditions must go,” it told the woman’s lawyer, senior advocate V Shekhar. The court ordered that the father could see the girl twice a month over the weekends – for six hours on one weekend and for an overnight stay on another. Additionally, the bench said that summer and winter vacations, festivals such as Holi and Diwali, shall be equitably shared between the parents and that the father should also encourage the girl’s interaction with her paternal grandparents. “The school fee of the child shall be shared by both the parties. As and when the child comes of age and desires to get married, both the parties will contribute equitably towards the marriage functions of the child,” stated the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-make-child-a-pawn-to-settle-scores-sc-to-couple-seeking-divorce-101615959008205.html
17-03-2021||India||'Champion of human rights': PM Modi pays tribute to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute to former President of Bangladesh Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and called him a 'hero for all Indians'. The Prime Minister also said that he will be honoured to participate in the celebrations of birth centenary of Rahman."My heartfelt homage to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, a champion of human rights and freedom, on his birth anniversary. He is a hero for all Indians too. It will be my honour to visit Bangladesh later this month for the historic Mujib Borsho celebrations," PM Modi said in a tweet. PM Modi will be on a two-day visit to Bangladesh from March 26 to participate in three "epochal" events. This will be his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.The visit to the neighbouring country comes after Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina extended an invite to PM Modi, the ministry of external affairs said. "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events - Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," the MEA said.The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that this first foreign trip after the coronavirus disease pandemic highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh. "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events - Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," a statement by the PMO read.Modi had last visited Bangladesh in 2015.During the visit, Modi will attend the National Day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour.Besides holding bilateral consultations with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Modi's programmes includes a call on President of Bangladesh Abdul Hamid.Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen will also call on Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/champion-of-human-rights-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-sheikh-mujibur-rahman-101615956455582.html
17-03-2021||India||Covid-19: India has supplied about 60 mn vaccine doses to other countries||India has supplied close to 60 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses to other countries so far, to support their Covid-19 immunisation programme. The immunisation programme against Covid-19 started in India, and in other countries, in a phased manner to cover the health care providers, front line workers and the most vulnerable individuals above a certain age. Since India is manufacturing a couple of Covid-19 vaccines locally, the ministry of external affairs has received requests from various foreign countries for their supply. “Keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased roll-out, India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner. It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” informed Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of state (health and family welfare), in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Also Read | 38k get Covid-19 vaccine jabs in Capital; Experts call for more inoculationsThe vaccines have been supplied to close to 70 countries, and several others have shown interest in getting vaccines made in India to inoculate their vulnerable population. India currently has two vaccines against Covid-19 approved for restricted emergency use: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which the company has co-developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that Serum Institute of India is locally manufacturing as Covishield. Covaxin is a two-dose whole virion inactivated vaccine that is to be given 28 days apart as per the current recommendations. The company announced its interim phase 3 results recently that showed 81% overall efficacy, and it was also effective against mutant Sars-Cov-2 strains. Covishield, scientifically known as ChAdOx1-S, is a recombinant vaccine, with a proven efficacy of about 70%. India has administered close to 35 million Covid-19 vaccine doses since it started the national immunisation drive on January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-has-supplied-about-60-million-vaccine-doses-to-other-countries-101615958227815.html
17-03-2021||India||Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Himachal, found dead at Delhi residence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma was found dead at his residence in Delhi on Wednesday, police said.The circumstances of the death are in the initial stages of investigation, police added."It looks like a case of suicide, but we are continuing to probe. We'll know better once we have the autopsy report and have questioned people," said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP from the district. He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha in 2014 and 2019, respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the 'untimely' death of the leader and praised him for working tirelessly for the betterment of society."Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti.Sharma was a member of the standing committee on external affairs and the consultative committee, ministry of external affairs.Meanwhile, after the death of the BJP MP, the meeting of the BJP parliamentary party to be held today has been cancelled.(With agency inputs)If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramswaroop-sharma-bjp-mp-from-himachal-pradesh-s-mandi-found-dead-in-delhi-101615955606647.html
17-03-2021||India||Odisha told to enforce prohibition of fishing around turtle nesting sites||Taking note of the high mortality of Olive Ridley marine turtles on Odisha coast due to fishing trawlers, a division bench of Orissa high court on Tuesday asked the state government to enforce prohibition of fishing activities by trawlers near Devi river mouth with the help of marine police station and Coast Guard. The bench headed by chief justice S Murlidhar also ordered the state government to provide the three marine police stations of Talachua, Tantiapal and Jamboo with sea-patrolling boats and additional force for the protection of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary that has the largest rookery of the Olive Ridley sea turtles.“The mortality of the turtles along the Odisha coast is mainly due to trawling operations. There is incidental killing of the turtles due to suffocation in fishing nets of trawlers or by injuries inflicted by the propellers of the trawlers. Enforcement activities should be continued to prevent the movement and fishing by trawlers in the prohibited area of Devi River mouth and Gahirmatha,” the HC said.The court last month registered a PIL suo motu over media reports that 800 Olive Ridleys perished in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary since January this year. The Olive Ridleys, protected under Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, come to Odisha coast every year for mass nesting when lakhs of pregnant females choose narrow beaches at Gahirmatha, Devi river mouth and Rushikulya river mouth to lay eggs. Each adult female lays approximately 100-140 eggs at a time. In March this year, around 8 lakh turtles laid eggs in Rushikulya and Gahirmatha sites.Accepting the recommendations of a three-member committee that it had formed to look into the issue of deaths of Olive Ridley sea turtles along the Odisha coast, the HC said no-fishing zones should be clearly demarcated.“The nesting beach at Gahirmatha should be fenced up at the landward side at the end of the beach with temporary wire mesh over a length of 3 kilometres to protect the nesting Olive Ridleys, eggs and hatchlings from predators like feral dogs, wild pigs, jackals and hyenas. The existing temporary fencing at Goharkuda Purunabandha beach should be strengthened likewise,” the HC said.The court also said the boundary of Gahirmatha marine sanctuary with its geo-coordinates should be uploaded in GPS systems of all fishing boats by the fisheries department so that their movement in the sea can be clearly recorded.“The state government will initiate a discussion with the Indian Space Research Organisation on the feasibility of installing transponders in all mechanized fishing vessels and trawlers to enable their tracking in the sea. This has already been done in Tamil Nadu,” the HC said.Quoting the reports of chief wildlife warden of Odisha, the HC said more than 46,000 Olive Ridley turtles have been killed on Odisha coast in last 10 years, of which, 60% deaths have happened at the rookery near Devi river mouth. It wasestimated that the current mortality continues to be at the rate of about 4,000 to 7,000 Olive Ridley sea turtles every year.Earlier, the HC-appointed committee said in their report to the court that there was no point in emphasising the use of Turtle Excluder Devices on fishing trawlers on the coast as its enforcement has been extremely difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-told-to-enforce-prohibition-of-fishing-around-turtle-nesting-sites-101615954267851.html
17-03-2021||India||India records 28,903 Covid-19 cases in highest daily spike this year; active cases soar||India on Wednesday recorded 28,903 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, adding to the cumulative tally which now stands as 11,438,734, the Union health ministry said.This is the highest daily spike seen in the country so far this year.The country also saw 188 deaths from the viral disease in the said timespan, pushing the fatality toll to 159,044, the health ministry data updated at 8am showed. This is a sharp rise from 131 deaths recorded on Tuesday.Surging for a week now, India's active cases rose to 234,406, which now accounts for 2.05% of the country's total cases, the health ministry said. The active cases rose sharply by 10,974 on Wednesday, data showed.India's rising tally, which experts point out could be due to an ongoing second wave underlined by an increase in positivity rate and active cases, is being driven by five states which account for almost 80% of the daily new cases being reported. These five states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, health ministry had said on Tuesday.Three states - Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab - cumulatively account for 76.57% of India’s total active cases.Eight states, the health ministry said, are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 11,045,284, according to the health ministry.Scaling up the fight against the viral contagion on a massive scale, India has concentrated efforts on vaccination. More than 3.50 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country till Tuesday evening from January 16, when the nationwide drive started.A total of 3,50,64,536 vaccine doses have been given to people in the country, health ministry data updated at 8am on Wednesday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-28-903-covid-19-cases-in-highest-daily-spike-active-cases-soar-101615950971469.html
17-03-2021||India||PM Modi to meet CMs over Covid-19 today: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to hold a meeting with the chief ministers of all states and Union territories on Wednesday as alarm grows over the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India. Here is all you need to know about the meeting and the pandemic situation:•The situation is particularly alarming in Maharashtra, which is at “the beginning of its second wave” as the Centre has urged the state to step up containment efforts.• Modi is expected to raise the issue of states where the virus appears to be taking hold once again and is likely to stress the need to accelerate vaccinations.• A detailed directive has been issued to states such as Maharashtra to curb the transmission cycle and intensify disease surveillance by effective testing and tracing to identify cases. • States reporting a surge have been asked to quickly expand their vaccination coverage and deal with vaccine hesitancy among the target group. Also Read | 38k get covid-19 vaccine jabs in Capital; Experts call for more inoculations• Infection trends in at least eight states show they are in a new wave of infections. • Except for Kerala, Odisha, and Bihar, almost all regions are showing an increase in their outbreak, according to the University of Michigan’s India Covid-19 metrics tracker. • Since a low of roughly 11,000 cases a day in the second week of February across India, there are now approximately 23,500 a day on average (over the last seven days). • The trends threaten to quickly erode India’s advantage of starting its vaccination programme while the outbreak was largely under control.• The Union government on Monday rushed a three-member team of experts to Haridwar, Uttarakhand, to review medical care and public health arrangements for the Kumbh Mela that begins from April 1. • Experts said a lack of restrictions on how many people can gather for a dip in the river threatens to turn the religious event into a Covid-19 super-spreader. • The resurgence brings the focus back on coronavirus vaccinations, which have averaged around 1.4 million doses over the last week. • The country has targeted delivering 300 million doses by the end of July, with a little over 33 million done since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-meet-cms-over-covid-19-today-all-you-need-to-know-101615953248082.html
17-03-2021||India||Cong’s digital outreach campaign focuses on NRIs, PIOs||The Congress has launched an outreach campaign to boost its image among non-resident Indians (NRIs) and the persons of Indian origin (PIOs) globally, functionaries familiar with the matter said. The party’s unit in poll-bound Kerala has enlisted 1,000 volunteers as part of the campaign in West Asia, where millions of people from the state work and live, they added. The volunteers include professionals who work from one to eight hours daily to create digital outreach tools and improve the party’s messaging abroad.The push comes ahead of polls in Kerala next month and the 2022 elections in Punjab and Gujarat, which are among other states with a large number of expatriates abroad.The party’s Punjab and Gujarat units have held meetings to discuss ways for outreach in countries such as Canada, which has a significant Punjabi diaspora population. “The hope [is] that it will help us gain financial contributions and increase the party’s social capital,” said a functionary said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Anti-BJP ‘storm’ spills out of cup at Kolkata’s iconic Coffee HouseAccording to the external affairs ministry, 32 million NRIs and PIOs live around the world. Congress’s arch-rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has chapters across the world, and supporters in 20 countries helped the party in the 2019 national election campaign.A Congress leader said their campaign was part of a larger initiative to help improve the party’s image abroad and make the party’s presence felt among the diasporas. “The exercise is not just constrained to the elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes abroad regularly, and BJP has its own outreach model. Congress also wants to ensure that it makes its message heard. ”A second functionary said the party is also working out strategies to reach out to the diaspora in the European Union (EU) and that it has an active chapter in Germany. Around 2.5 to 3 million Indians live in West Asia alone and the party is extremely active there, the functionary added. “After the Covid-19 pandemic... Zoom calls and online meetings became the norm. This has helped us reach out to more and more Indians overseas. We have a few hundred volunteers in the European Union as well.”The Congress has been particularly focused on its social media outreach, with the party launching a campaign with over 50,00,00 volunteers. It is also working to change its style of messaging by roping in social media influencers, especially in the poll-bound states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and by live streaming Rahul Gandhi’s events.The second functionary said the volunteers they have overseas are professionals like engineers and doctors. “These are essentially task forces that help us mine data, edit videos...”Bobbin Philip, 41, who started working for the Congress in 2019, said the social media campaign has also been strengthened in the UK. “Our initiative Empower Congress, a Facebook page, has gained 25,000 followers within a year,” Phillip, who is based in the UK, said. “We also do studies and have sent these to All India Congress Committee secretaries in India. This includes creating a better, more comprehensive communication system.”Phillip said better communication can help bring back the voters the Congress has lost. “Rigorous communication from Rahul Gandhi also makes a significant impact,” he said. Philip said the UK chapter of the Indian Overseas Congress is focusing on the Kerala elections. “We are trying to get the associations to donate as well. We are trying to reach out to people from across the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congs-digital-outreach-campaign-focuses-on-nris-pios-101615952227751.html
17-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Don't think complete lockdown is necessary', says Pune mayor and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Don't think complete lockdown is necessary', says Pune mayorThe mayor of Pune has said that there is no plan to impose a complete lockdown in the city due to the Covid-19 situation. Pune is among the cities in Maharashtra which is badly affected by the resurgence of the coronavirus disease. Read moreRain, thunderstorms to affect western Himalayan region for next 2-3 daysA fresh feeble Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from today. Under its influence, scattered rainfall or snowfall is very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand ) on March 17 and 18 and over the adjoining plains of northwest India on March 18 and 19. Read moreCase cracked, says NIA: ‘Vaze did it for lost glory’Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was behind the bomb scare outside billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful cop, senior officers in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) told HT on Tuesday, contending that the mystery around the explosive-laden vehicle has been solved. Read moreNavya Naveli Nanda shares family portrait to wish Shweta Bachchan on birthday, Amitabh Bachchan drops cutest pics of herShweta Bachchan, daughter of Amitabh Bachchan, turns 47 on Wednesday and has received a loads of wishes from her family, friends and well wishers. Among the first ones to wish her was her daughter Navya Naveli Nanda and Amitabh. Read more'KL Rahul is the best batsman we have in T20s': India batting coach Vikram Rathour backs under-fire openerOpening the batting for India is a hard task, perhaps the hardest when you have players like Shikhar Dhawan and Ishan Kishan fighting for that same spot. Despite being one of India’s most consistent performers in the T20Is, KL Rahul is under scrutiny after he registered 1,0,0 in the three T20Is against England. Read moreSidharth Malhotra flaunts incredible body strength as he 'hang's out' on MM setIf you are in need of some persuasion to go out on your daily walk, let seeing Sidharth Malhotra hanging upside down from a tree on gymnastic rings be it. The fitness enthusiast gave fans a glimpse of his intense core and shoulder strengthening workout on Mission Majnu set and we are inspired to hit the grind this mid-week. Read moreThis delivery order with sweet messages is what you need to see todayThere are several things on the Internet that can make you feel happy or leave you smiling from ear to ear. This post, showing a wholesome delivery note, may make you feel both. The post, shared on Reddit’s ‘MadeMeSmile’ subreddit may make your day a bit brighter. Read moreRussia, Iran targeted 2020 US election: Report"Broad Russian and Iranian campaigns targeting multiple critical infrastructure sectors did compromise the security of several networks that managed some election functions," the government agencies said in a joint report. Read more'Exclusion of women in decision-making marker of flawed democracy': Kamala HarrisThe status of democracy depends fundamentally on the empowerment of women, whose exclusion from decision-making is a marker of a "flawed democracy", Kamala Harris has said in her first address to the United Nations as the Vice President of the US. Read moreAlso watch: 'Why was Ganguly's six famous?': Rajnath Singh's poll pitch in Bengal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-don-t-think-complete-lockdown-is-necessary-says-pune-mayor-and-all-the-latest-news-101615950522797.html
17-03-2021||India||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, night curfew in Bhopal, Indore from today||Owing to a sudden surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew in the cities of Indore and Bhopal from March 17 until further order. The directive said that the night curfew will be in effect from 10pm to 6am in the two cities. The government order also stated that markets in eight other cities - Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Betul and Khargone - will also be closed after 10pm starting Wednesday.“Night curfew will be implemented in Bhopal and Indore from March 17, until further order. Markets in eight cities-Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Burhanpur, Chhindwara, Betul, Khargone to shut at 10pm from March 17. There won’t be curfews in these cities,” the Madhya Pradesh government order said.The decision was taken in a state cabinet meeting which was conducted to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh and was headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Prior to the meeting, the chief minister expressed concern at the increasing Covid-19 cases in the state and advised people to follow all the guidelines. “The way Covid-19 positive cases are increasing in the state, it is becoming a matter of concern for us… I appeal to the public to take this pandemic seriously, wear masks and follow all the rules,” Chouhan said.Read more: 8 states contributing the most Covid-19 cases to India's surging tallyChouhan had also held a meeting with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday with respect to the Covid-19 situation in the state.Indore and Bhopal, the two biggest cities in Madhya Pradesh, have been consistently reporting a high number of coronavirus cases. Indore reported 264 new cases on Tuesday with which the caseload of the city reached 62,675. Bhopal, on the other hand, reported 196 new cases which took the caseload to 45,731. The active caseload in Indore and Bhopal on Tuesday stood at 1,752 and 1,066 respectively.Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 817 fresh cases which took the tally of the state to 2,70,208, while the death toll stood at 3,891 after one Covid-related death was reported. Total people recovered from Covid-19 in the state stood at 2,61,031, while the active cases in the state stood at 5,286.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-night-curfew-in-bhopal-indore-from-today-101615950852082.html
17-03-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms to affect western Himalayan region for next 2-3 days||Rain and thunderstorms are likely over the entire western Himalayan region for the next 2-3 days, according to India Meteorological Department.A fresh feeble Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from today. Under its influence, scattered rainfall or snowfall is very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand ) on March 17 and 18 and over the adjoining plains of northwest India on March 18 and 19.Also Read | 22 of 30 most polluted cities in the world are in India: ReportThunderstorms with lightning are also very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh on March 17 and over adjoining plains of northwest India on March 18. Under the influence of interaction between mid-level westerlies and lower level easterlies, scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely over Madhya Pradesh during the next five days; over Vidarbha during March 17 to 20, and over Chhattisgarh on March 18.Hailstorms are also very likely over east Madhya Pradesh on March 16 and 18; over West Madhya Pradesh during March 18 to 19 and over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on March 19.Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure) in westerlies, scattered rainfall is very likely over northeast India during the next three days. Thunderstorms and lightning are also very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-to-affect-western-himalayan-region-for-next-2-3-days-101615949227380.html
17-03-2021||India||5 drown in septic tank in Agra's Fatehabad, CM Adityanath announces compensation||Three minor brothers and two others drowned in a septic tank in Agra’s Fatehabad area on Tuesday, according to police.According to SSP Bablu Kumar, the incident took place at Pratappura village in the Fatehabad police station area when 10-year-old Anurag fell into the septic tank while playing.The others, identified as Sonu (25), Ram Khiladi, Harimohan (16) and Avinash (12), drowned while trying to save him.Harimohan, Avinash and Anurag were brothers.They were brought out from the tank by villagers who took them to a hospital where they were declared brought dead.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the incident and announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased, according to a release.The chief minister also prayed for peace to the departed souls, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-minor-brothers-two-others-drown-in-septic-tank-in-agra-s-fatehabad-101615948041892.html
17-03-2021||India||India should not go back to licence raj regime: Economist Paul Krugman||India should not go back to the 'licence raj' regime and the country should have a deliberate policy for fostering industries, Nobel prize-winning economist Paul Krugman said on Monday.Addressing a virtual event organised by Ashoka University, Krugman further said the income inequality issue is a severe one in India."Don't go back (to) Licence Raj regime... country Like India might want to have a deliberate policy for fostering industries," he said.The licence raj, which involved an elaborate system of licences and regulations that were required to set up and run businesses in the country, was dismantled with the liberalisation policy introduced in 1991.Replying to a question on why India is not well in labour-intensive industries, Krugman said India is not as well suited as some other players are to produce labour-intensive manufacturing products."Internal geography (of India) may be one of the reason...Indian does have a kind of non-industrial ecology," the eminent economist noted.He further said India does not have a great transport infrastructure and that is going to pose some problems.Krugman pointed out that India has not really done well in the labour-intensive aspects, but the country was very successful in the services sector and high skill manufacturing."Services sector generates a lot of GDP, but they do not generate a lot of jobs," he opined.The Nobel laureate said he is an optimist about export-oriented growth for developing countries even as the process of globalisation is slowing down."Income inequality issue is a severe one in India. If the USA has an extremely hard time to tackle extreme inequality, then I got to worry about India," he observed.Krugman won the Nobel Prize in economics in 2008 for his work on international trade theory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-not-go-back-to-licence-raj-regime-economist-paul-krugman-101615948264476.html
17-03-2021||India||'Must visit': PM Modi tweets as Statue of Unity crosses 5 million visitors mark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to visit the Statue of Unity as the world's tallest statue crossed the 5 million visitor's mark. PM Modi took to Twitter to share the development. "Excellent! Statue of Unity in Kevadia is a must visit. Do plan a trip there whenever you can," the Prime Minister said in a tweet. An official account of the statue said on Twitter, "Statue of Unity crosses 5 million visitors mark in just 553 working days, making it a greatly popular international tourist destination !!"Situated in Kevadia in Gujarat's Narmada district, the statue has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups, Gujarat's Additional Chief Secretary (Forest and Environment) Rajiv Gupta said in a tweet.The 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, billed as the world's tallest and built on the Sadhu Bet islet near the Sardar Sarovar Dam in Kevadia, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018."#StatueofUnity crosses five million visitors mark !!! Built under visionary leadership of Hon.@PMOIndiait has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups. @narendramodi @tourismgoi@souindia," Gupta tweeted.In a bid to make the destination more accessible, the government plans to improve rail and air connectivity to Kevadia. The government recently added eight new trains from different parts of the country and a seaplane service from Ahmedabad.The Covid-19 disease outbreak punctuated the flurry of visitors last year when the tourist spot was shut for more than seven months but picked up rapidly after the statue was again opened for public visiting in October last year. During his address on January18 this year after flagging off eight trains to Kevadia from across India, Prime Minister Modi said more tourists visit the Statue of Unity in Gujarat than the Statue of Liberty in the US.He had said that with increased connectivity, over a lakh people will visit Kevadia daily, as per a survey.On Patel's birth anniversary last year, Modi had also launched a seaplane service between the Statue of Unity and the Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad, further improving connectivity to the tourist attraction in Kevadia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-visit-pm-modi-tweets-as-statue-of-unity-crosses-5-million-visitors-mark-101615943443631.html
17-03-2021||India||BJP condemns plea in Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 Quran verses||Senior BJP leader Syed Shahnawaz Hussain on Tuesday slammed former chairman of UP Shia Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi for approaching the Supreme Court seeking removal of some verses of Quran, and said that his party is firmly against those who insult any religious texts.Hussain, the national spokesperson of the BJP, said Rizvi should not vitiate the atmosphere of the country by indulging in such an act."I strongly object and condemn Wasim Rizvi's petition seeking removal of 26 verses from Quran. It is my party's stand that saying absurd things about any religious texts, including Quran, is a highly condemnable act," Hussain told PTI.The BJP is firmly against those who insult any religious texts, he said.Rizvi has moved the Supreme Court seeking the removal of 26 verses from Quran, claiming they promote violence."The BJP is not in favour of any changes to any verses of Quran or any other religious texts," he said.The BJP does not approve of Rizvi's views as it hurts the sentiments of the people, Hussain said."Wasim Rizvi does not have any right to hurt religious sentiments of the people," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-condemns-plea-in-supreme-court-seeking-removal-of-26-quran-verses-101615941491096.html
17-03-2021||India||India mulls new democracy report, freedom index by local think tank||The ministry of external affairs is mulling a “world democracy report” as well as a “global press freedom index” to be brought out by an independent Indian think tank, according to people familiar with the matter and government documents reviewed by HT. The discussions to do this were going on before recent reports by Freedom House and V-Dem Institute downgraded India’s democratic rankings.“We may encourage one of the Indian independent think tanks to bring out its own annual world democracy report based on comprehensive parameters as well as an annual global freedom of press index,” an internal note prepared by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) earlier this year said.Also Read: India downgraded from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’ in democracy reportThe ministry of external affairs did not respond to queries seeking a comment on the matter.To be sure, the matter is still being considered and HT learns that no decision has been taken.The ministry of external affairs began discussions late last year after the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) forwarded to it a letter written by former Prasar Bharti chairman and current executive member of the Nehru Memorial Museum & Library (NMML), A Surya Prakash, on November 20, suggesting that India should counter reports such as the report from the Sweden-based V-Dem Institute and the Press Freedom Index by defining its own parameters on democracy, two officials aware of the development confirmed.HT has reviewed a copy of Prakash’s letter, written on November 20, 2020 – months after V-Dem report of the year 2020 was released. The report had said that India “has continued on a path of steep decline to the extent it has almost lost its status as a democracy”.Last week, in its 2021 report, the V-Dem Institute classified India as an “electoral autocracy” alongside Hungary and Turkey because of “restrictions on multiple facets of democracy” such as civil society groups and free speech. came close on the heels of the annual report on global political rights and liberties by US-based Freedom House, which downgraded India’s status as a democracy and free society to “partly free”.Also Read: In 7 points, India rebuts US NGO’s ‘partly free’ downgrade in democracy reportIn its internal note, MEA also suggested that missions across the world could actively engage with NGO/institutes such as the RSF and V-Dem and provide them with material which will help them put “India at the rightful place on the democracy and press-freedom index, in future reports”.At India Today’s conclave last week, minister for external affairs S Jaishankar slammed the two reports calling out the outlets for their “hypocrisy” and for acting like “self-appointed custodians of the world who find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval”.In his letter addressed to the PMO last November, Surya Prakash wrote: “Earlier this year, my attention was drawn to a World Press Freedom Index published by a French NGO with the acronym RSF. This report placed India at a lowly 142, while a number of nations which are theocracies and non-democracies, are way above us. More recently, I saw a report published by a Swedish Institute called V-Dem. This institute places India at number 90 among democracies. Here again, a large number of nations where there is no separation of powers between the state and religion, which do not have a republican form of government, and where the concept of equality before law does not exist, are way ahead of us. In fact, many countries in the top ten nations have different forms of Christianity as their state religion, whereas the secular ideal is embedded in the preamble of our Constitution.”He added: “This has gone on for many decades and remained uncontested. I feel that as the world’s largest and most vibrant democracy, we must define democracy and judge other nations and not the other way round... I am of the view that a pristine democracy must contain the following eight fundamentals: An inviolable commitment to freedom of expression and freedom of conscience an unambiguous commitment to secularism; separation of religion and states republican form of government; constitutional right to equality before law; gender equality; right to life and personal liberty; and universal adult suffrage. All these eight essentials exist in the Indian Constitution and are part and parcel of our democratic way of life. Therefore, the time has come for us to challenge these western postulates and assert our position at the pinnacle of democracies… I do hope that in this age of Atma Vishwas and Atmanirbharta that you have ushered in, India will begin to assert herself in the field of democracy as well.”The PMO forwarded the letter to the ministry of external affairs. The MEA note appears to be a listing of possible ways in which Prakash’s suggestions could be implemented.“I have listed what in my view constitutes a democracy in my article. There are eight elements for a full-fledged democracy to function and we have all of them. Among the most important is the republican form of government. V Dem is from Sweden, look at the constitution of Scandinavian countries. Its constitution says the head of state ‘shall be a king or queen’. More importantly, the Constitution says the king or queen cannot be prosecuted for his or her actions, which means equality before law (Article 14 in our Constitution) has no place in Sweden. Further, the constitution says the king ‘shall always profess the pure evangelical faith’. It also does not allow the prince or princess to marry at will. They have not separated the religion from the state…We can also judge; we are the largest democracy and the most diverse society in the world. We must define democracy and judge democracies across the world. We may not be at the receiving end. We may have a point of view as well,” Prakash said when contacted by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-mulls-new-democracy-report-freedom-index-by-local-think-tank-101615938955923.html
17-03-2021||India||Serum CEO Poonawalla says vaccine nationalism threatens WHO's 2021 goal to deliver 2 billion doses to poorer nations||Vaccine nationalism in countries including the US and India is likely to derail efforts by the World Health Organization to deliver 2 billion doses to poorer and middle-income nations by the end of the year, according to the head of the world’s biggest vaccine maker.Countries are holding tight to their supplies and restricting access to materials needed to make more, said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India Ltd. The company is responsible for providing more than half of the shots used so far in the WHO-backed Covax program that aims to provide equitable vaccine access across the world.Many manufacturers, including Serum, already have missed timelines and commitments, Poonawalla said in an interview with Bloomberg Live that aired on Wednesday for the Bloomberg Equality Summit. It will take two to three months for shipments to Covax to really pick up, and reaching the 2021 target of 2 billion doses will be challenging, he said, predicting it will “spill over by a few months.”Poonawalla’s comments highlight the continuing challenge of vaccine inequality that threatens to prolong the pandemic after richer nations raced to stockpile supplies. Few African nations received a single shipment of shots before March, while more than 20% of the population in countries including Israel, the UK, Bahrain and the U.S have received at least one shot.As a manufacturing giant, India has sought to portray itself as a generous benefactor through targeted vaccine diplomacy, while seeking to outdo regional rival China. At the same time, New Delhi has tightly controlled the deployment of the doses it has, mostly supplied by Serum, which is making the shot developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University.Indian officials have also requested more vaccines than initially expected from the company, said Poonawalla.“We had to dedicate a lot of our capacity, which was not originally planned for India,” he said. “We’re trying to balance it out as much as possible, but again for the first few months we have been directed to prioritize supplies to India and certain other countries that have a high disease burden.”Daunting GapCovax has been slow to get off the ground, which WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has linked to companies and countries prioritizing bilateral deals ahead of the health body’s approval process.Poonawalla reiterated his concerns over impending bottlenecks caused by “raw materials nationalism” after the US invoked the Defense Production Act this month to safeguard supplies of items, such as bags and filters, for its own manufacturers.“I’ve sent this message to all the decision makers in the US -- please do not put a ban on critical raw materials that other global vaccine manufacturers need,” Poonawalla said.The Serum CEO earlier this month said the export ban could hit his plans to produce about a billion doses of Novavax Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine this year. Despite those warnings, Poonawalla said he expects India’s regulators to grant approval for an August launch of the Novavax candidate, which Serum will begin stockpiling starting next month.By then, Poonawalla hopes that a fully privatized vaccine market will have opened up across India. Currently private hospitals and clinics are allowed to charge 250 rupees ($3.45) a dose, but they have to purchase those vaccines directly from the government and can only inoculate people aged 60 and above or those 45 and older who are high risk.Serum wants a liberalization of the rules to allow corporate clients to negotiate directly and potentially buy supplies at a higher cost, as its vaccines are now being provided through the government at “very low subsidized price”.Though opening up the private market would help accelerate India’s vaccination effort -- it’s only administered about 32 million doses so far, behind the pace needed to reach a goal of 300 million people by August -- there are concerns that doing so will lead to price gouging and unequal access across a country with enormous wealth divides.A free market would allow corporations to immunize their workforces quickly and “speed up the opening of the economy,” said Poonawalla.“This is an ongoing issue, which we’ve taken up with the highest levels of the government,” he said. “It’s a tough call for the government or anyone to make.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-ceo-poonawalla-says-vaccine-nationalism-threatens-poorer-nations-101615933916578.html
17-03-2021||India||Govt says 2nd wave in Maharashtra; PM’s meet today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a crucial meeting with the chief ministers of all states and Union territories on Wednesday as alarm grows over the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in India, particularly in the state of Maharashtra, which is at “the beginning of its second wave”, according to central officials who prodded the state to step up containment efforts.The PM is expected to raise the issue of states where the virus appears to be taking hold once again, and is likely to stress on the need to accelerate vaccinations, according to officials who asked not to be named.“A detailed directive was issued by the health ministry on measures that states such as Maharashtra should take in order to curb the transmission cycle. It includes intensifying disease surveillance by effective testing and tracing to identify cases. States that are reporting a surge also need to quickly expand their vaccination coverage and deal with vaccine hesitancy among the target group. The review is likely to focus on these details,” said one of the officials cited above. “And it is not just regarding states that are reporting a surge, others will also have to keep their guard up,” he added.Infection trends in at least eight states show they are in a new wave of infections. Except for Kerala, Odisha and Bihar, almost all regions are showing an increase in their outbreak, according to the University of Michigan’s India vid-19 metrics tracker that shows all of the other regions with an R number of above 1. Since a low of roughly 11,000 cases a day in the second week of February across India, there are now approximately 23,500 a day on average (over the last seven days). The trends threaten to quickly erode India’s advantage of starting its vaccination programme while the outbreak was largely under control.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the Maharashtra chief secretary after the central team’s visit last week. “Maharashtra is in the beginning of a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Efforts to track, test, isolate cases and quarantine contacts are limited there with no adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among people both in rural and urban areas,” Bhushan wrote in the letter.Maharashtra’s R number is at present 1.34. The R number, or the effective reproduction number of the virus, is an epidemiological measure that indicates the number of people each case infects on average – if it is above 1, it means onward infections, and thus the outbreak, is continuing to grow. The outbreak in Maharashtra is particularly serious in the regions of Nagpur, Aurangabad, Amravati, Thane and Mumbai. Nagpur civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patulkar said several factors may have contributed to the rise. “After December 2020, the public had let their guard down. They did not follow precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distances. Soon, the chain of infection started which is now spreading across the district,” he said. “However, so far, we haven’t received any case of virus mutation in the district,” he added.Dr Sundar Kulkarni, civil surgeon from Aurangabad, too said public carelessness was to blame.The letter highlighted what the central team said were lapses in the contact tracing process. Officials in Maharashtra reported they were tracing 20 contacts for every positive case, but, “a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by field level staff”, the health secretary said. The central government recommended the state should plan for surges while it still has time and that the practice of auditing deaths be brought back. “Surveillance needs to be strengthened by active house to house search for active cases/contacts in containment zones (as per the containment plan),” said the letter. Contact tracers were mainly listing immediate family and neighbourhood contacts for the sake of listing, the official said in the communication. “The high-risk contacts in workplace settings, social settings and family settings were not investigated and listed,” the official said, citing the report.The central team also highlighted vaccine hesitancy among health workers. Experts said the government must step up efforts to identify variants of the Sars-Cov-2. “We have assurance from government that there are no imported variants, but given the scale of the rise in cases, the possibility of a local high transmission variant cannot be ruled out,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of India’s top vaccine scientists.The Union government on Monday also rushed a three-member team of senior experts to Haridwar, Uttarakhand, to review medical care and public health arrangements for the Kumbh mela that begins from April 1. Experts said a lack of restrictions on how many people can gather for a dip in the river threatens to turn the religious event into a Covid-19 super-spreader. The resurgence brings the focus back on coronavirus vaccinations, which has averaged around 1.4 million doses over the last week. The country has targeted delivering 300 million doses by the end of July, with a little over 33 million done since January 16. “Expanding vaccination will help in two ways. It will protect the many who are still vulnerable to severe disease if infected and will reduce the transmission,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India. “Ensuring adherence to public health measures, especially masks and avoiding gatherings in ill ventilated places, is also crucial. These measures will guard against various forms of the virus, including mutants,” he added.Reddy also called for the need to step up genomic sequencing. “The rising case count in Maharashtra is worrisome. Mutant strains may be contributing but without extensive genomic analyses of virus samples from new cases, we cannot say to what extent the mutants are propelling this acceleration.”In a letter to the Union government, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state needs at least 22 million doses of coronavirus vaccines, with at least 2 million being sent each week.“The state is planning to immunise 60-plus age group and 45-plus population with co-morbidities. It needs supply of 2.20 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield and Covaxin) during the next three-and-a-half months. You are requested to supply 20 lakh doses per week to Maharashtra,” Tope said in the letter sent on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-2nd-wave-in-maharashtra-pm-s-meet-today-101615929656625.html
17-03-2021||India||Hoax bomb threat message brings Silchar airport to a standstill||A bomb threat, which later turned out to be a hoax, delayed a Silchar-Guwahati-New Delhi flight by more than six hours on Tuesday, a statement issued by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said.A piece of paper with a threat message written on it was found at the rear end of the SpiceJet aircraft, which had arrived at the Silchar airport from Guwahati with 109 passengers on board at 1.58 pm, it said."All agencies were alerted... As per the Stand Operating Procedure, passengers were stopped from exiting the arrival lounge," the statement said.A team of police officers and bomb disposal squads subsequently reached the airport and an "extensive checking" was carried out, the AAI said.The flight was finally cleared for takeoff at 9 pm, the statement added.P K Gorai, the director of Silchar airport, said all mandatory checks were carried out and flight was found to be safe for takeoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hoax-bomb-threat-message-brings-silchar-airport-to-a-standstill-101615920757265.html
17-03-2021||India||B’luru Metro to begin charging of power lines||BengaluruThe Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) on Tuesday said it will begin the charging the power lines on the Nayandahalli-Kengeri stretch as it moves closer to the June 2021 deadline for the completion of the project. “The power system is being charged. First we will test this system and then the trials will go on,” an official from BMRCL said requesting anonymity. The power lines on the stretch run along the tracks.The 7.5-km long stretch connecting Nayandahalli station on Mysuru Road and Kengeri on the outskirts of India’s IT capital is crucial for reducing the traffic density on the stretch – one of the busiest roads leading to Bengaluru.While most of the construction work on the stretch has been completed, the initiation of charging of power lines has raised hopes that the project, which has seen several delays, will be completed by the June 2021 deadline. “As of today, June 2021 is the target and we are trying to achieve the same,” the official cited above said.The BMRCL has managed to operationalise just under 50 kms in the past 13 years, with at least 128 kms under various stages of construction. The Metro project was envisioned to help decongest Bengaluru, adjudged to have the world’s worst traffic globally in 2019.According to government data, the city has a population of over 10 million with 9.4 million vehicles, which also raises concerns about pollution, increasing traffic snarls and crumbling infrastructure.According to IQAir’s World Air Quality Report 2020, released on Tuesday, Bengaluru witnessed an average 15.6% dip in PM2.5 levels in which period.“However, the pollutant levels were above the WHO prescribed limit in 46.7% of the days. None of the Indian cities met the prescribed annual limit of 10 µg/m3. The IT city’s annual average stands at 27.5 µg/m3, nearly three times the prescribed limit. Also, Bengaluru’s PM 2.5 levels in December 2020 surpassed the January 2020 levels, indicating that the ‘better air quality’ has already faded away,” the report said.The residents in the city, touted as India’s fastest growing urban centres, have reported a deteriorating quality of life due to rising air and water pollution caused by vehicle emissions, dependence on coal-based energy, construction, industrial discharges and waste and stubble burning.Spread over 824 sq kms, Bengaluru has seen a rise in problems with barely any long-term solutions as civic and other agencies work independently of each other, exposing the lack of coordination required to find holistic solutions, urban experts said.BMRCL said it has managed to take 141,000 vehicles off the road so far in which period?.The Union government in the budget this year decided to extend funds worth ₹14,788 crore to construct 58.19 km of metro rail in Bengaluru city.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Union Budget said that Central funding will be provided to Phase 2A and 2B of the Bengaluru metro rail.Phase 2A is the 18.23 km long elevated line that proposes to connect KR Puram and the Central Silk Board along the outer ring road (ORR) which is one of the busiest and most congested stretches in Bengaluru. The route also houses a significant number of technology and other corporations along the ORR which witnesses some of the worst traffic jams in Bengaluru. Phase 2B connects KR Puram to Bengaluru airport, extending about 37 km.The Asian Development Bank (ADB) in December last year approved a $500 million (about ₹3,685 crore) loan for Phase 2A and 2B.The Union government also said that the 278 km Bengaluru–Chennai Expressway work will be initiated in the current fiscal and construction will begin in 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-metro-to-begin-charging-of-power-lines-101615919942244.html
17-03-2021||India||Mother of Walayar girls to contest against Vijayan||ThiruvananthapuramThe mother of the two minor girls, who were found dead in Walayar in Kerala’s Palakkad district in 2017, on Tuesday announced her candidature for the upcoming assembly polls from Dharmadom constituency. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking reelection from the north Kerala constituency. Accusing the CM of not keeping his word, the woman said, “Four years [have] passed since my daughters were killed. I am yet to get justice. The CM never kept his words. I am out for all mothers.”The eldest of the siblings, aged 13, was found hanging inside their hut in Walayar in Palakkad district on January 13, 2017 and her nine-year-old sister died on March 4 in the same manner. The parents alleged that the girls were murdered. Post-mortem examinations of the two girls revealed that they were subjected to sexual assault before their deaths. Following protests, five people were arrested by the police. One of the accused died by suicide last year.“Some of the police officers who weakened the case were later promoted. Let people know what he [chief minister] did to the mother who lost two children. I am firm on contesting against him,” she said in Thrissur, adding she was not prompted by political parties. Last month, the woman tonsured her head to protest the “failure of the government” to act against police officials who allegedly compromised the probe. Rights activists have said that the government was forced to slow the progress in the case as some of the accused were connected with the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist).The CPI(M) on Tuesday alleged that the woman has been made a political pawn. “We are with the suffering mother. We did whatever is possible in the case. Now the CBI is investigating it. It seems she was misled by some forces,” said the CM. State law minister A K Balan also said she was turned a pawn in hands of some vested interests. Chief minister Vijayan was not available for comment. The opposition Congress, meanwhile, welcomed the woman’s candidature. “We welcome her bold decision,” said party state president Mullapally Ramachandran. He said the Congress will talk to UDF allies and will take a decision on supporting her. While Dharmadom is a Left stronghold, the woman’s entry into the fray will embarrass the CM, political observers said.“It will invite enough embarrassment to the party and government. She can pose a stiff challenge to the CM and attract sympathy of women voters,” said political observer Sunnykutty Abraham. A division bench of the Kerala high court, in January this year, set aside the verdict of a Pocso court acquitting all the accused and ordered a re-trial in the case. The court also handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation. In an October 2019 order, a Pocso court acquitted the five accused due to lack of evidence after several witnesses turned hostile. The police officer, who headed the investigating team, was promoted by the state government in March last year. Lawyer N Rajesh, who represented one of the accused in the case, was also appointed the president of the district’s child welfare committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-of-walayar-girls-to-contest-against-vijayan-101615919762143.html
17-03-2021||India||‘Differing views only exist in Cong’: Rahul addresses dissent in party||In his first public remarks about the so-called G23 leaders who have sought sweeping changes within the Congress, party leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that such differing points of view can only survive in his party.In an interaction with a group of faculty members and students of the Brown University, Gandhi said: “In our party, 20 people have different views. Do you think they can exist in the BJP, BSP or Trinamool Congress?” He added that “negotiation can’t stop” inside the party even as a section has different viewpoints.In August last year, 23 senior Congress leaders including former Union ministers Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari shot a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking sweeping changes in the party’s functioning and visible leadership, deepening the rift in the organisation.On Tuesday, Gandhi, who is widely expected to return as the party’s president, said the Congress will remain “chaotic and constant” and never be a cadre-based organisation such as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). “The Congress is not the Nazi party. It’s not RSS. Our problem is negotiation between different sections have fractured. We are chaotic, we are constant. We are the conversation. That’s our system...,” he said.In the virtual interaction, weeks before assembly elections in five states, Gandhi also said that elections are about institutions ensuring framework, but that is no more available.The Wayanad MP also cautioned that if India can’t create jobs, it would face a “catastrophic” problem and said the ruling BJP and the RSS have destroyed institutional frameworks that would have protected people.The BJP has, in the past rejected Gandhi’s allegations that the party and its ideological parent, RSS, have “destroyed the country’s institutional framework”. Last month, an RSS pracharak and BJP leader in Tamil Nadu, L Ganesan said, “RSS means discipline, nationalism and all other good qualities. If somebody says that RSS is influencing the judiciary or any field, people should feel happy that something good will happen. It is a compliment given by Rahul Gandhi to the judiciary...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differing-views-only-exist-in-cong-rahul-addresses-dissent-in-party-101615918742121.html
17-03-2021||India||Parliamentary panel raises issue of cyberattacks with MHA, IT ministry||The parliamentary panel on information technology on Tuesday asked the ministry of electronics and information technology and the ministry of home affairs about the prevalence of cyber attacks in the country and the steps being taken to tackle them, people familiar with the matter said.The move comes amid reports of an increase in cyber attacks, including those potentially orchestrated by state actors, and targeting of vital installations.The panel met officials from both ministries and was informed about the various schemes in place to tackle the cyber attacks.“We are seeing an increasing number of cyber attacks,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “That trend is undeniable.”The officials told the panel that the country is well-equipped to rebuff any such attacks, one of the people cited in the first instance said on condition of anonymity. The panel also inquired about the number of cyber attacks that have taken place in the country in the last year, but the ministries did not put a number to them.The people added that the IT ministry told the panel that it has directed all central and state ministries and departments, as well as state-owned companies in critical sectors to earmark 10% of their IT budget to increase their IT security capabilities to combat such incidents.Opposition MPs, including the panel’s chairperson and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and another Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, flagged news reports of cyber security incidents across 10 power organisations earlier this month, flagged by the US security firm Recorded Future.“The MPs wanted to be apprised of the facts of the case,” said the first person.Hindustan Times on March 5 reported that cyber operations by state actors and the abuse of social media for “narrative warfare” are some of the particular threats likely to be recognised by the government in the National Cyber Security Strategy, 2021, a policy paper that could also make it mandatory for any business or government department with a significant IT interface to set up a cyber safety cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-raises-issue-of-cyberattacks-with-mha-it-ministry-101615917661988.html
17-03-2021||India||Sunni body’s proposed nikahnama calls for right to divorce for women||The Sunni Ulema Council, a prominent body of Sunni Muslims, has proposed a new nikahnama (marriage contract) that bars triple talaq in one sitting and provides safeguards to women, including the right to divorce.In a first, the document will be made available in both Urdu and Hindi.“We are giving them (new nikahnama) to the clergy to build a consensus on it and also promote it in place of the old one that had none of the conditions mentioned in this one,” said Haji Mohammad Salees, convener of the Sunni Ulema Council.According to the draft, seen by HT, the nikahnama gives the woman the right to divorce and binds the clerics and witnesses to give their testimony in case the issue reaches a court. The name and address of the cleric who solemnises the marriage would also be mentioned in the contract, the draft states.The draft of the nikahnama states that a husband will not be able to give triple talaq in one sitting and the method of divorce would be in accordance with the Quran, Salees said. The old version was only available in Urdu and did not have any instructions on divorce which is why triple talaq happened, he said.“The new nikahnama has detailed that divorce can only take place as per the method outlined in the Quran -- the husband cannot give triple talaq in one sitting,” he said. Getting it in Hindi would make it easier to understand for everyone who are not well-versed in Urdu, he said.Salees said that the old version of the nikahnama needed to be changed to with respect to the change in time. He said that old version was just an announcement of marriage declaring that the woman would get a mutually agreed amount, meher, in lieu of the marriage. Unlike the old version, Aadhar numbers of the man and woman, along with those of the witnesses, would be mentioned in the marriage contract, he added.“The new nikahnama is being discussed among clerics, who are likely to reach a decision before Ramzan,” he said.The All India Muslim Women Personal Law Board (AIMWPLB) has given its consent to the new nikahnama, which is likely to be effective from Eid this year, president of the board Syeda Tabassum said. “The nikahnama will formally be in use from Eid this year; the draft is ready and it will be an effective instrument in checking cases of triple talaq,” said Tabassum.The AIMWPLB, on its part, would organise pre- and post-marriage counselling and distribute books on rights of the husband and wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunni-body-s-proposed-nikahnama-calls-for-right-to-divorce-for-women-101615917542051.html
17-03-2021||India||Govt to soon give nod for indigenous stealth fighters||The government is likely to approve India’s homegrown fifth-generation fighter programme - the advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) - by mid-year, with design, development and first prototypes set to cost around ₹15,000 crore, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.The Indian Air Force’s modernisation map envisages the deployment of around 120 stealth fighters (six squadrons) 2032 onwards, with the stealth planes forming an important element of future air combat, said a senior official, one of the people cited above.AMCA will be developed in two phases.“The first two squadrons will consist of Mk-1 version of AMCA. The remaining four squadrons will be raised with a more advanced Mk-2 version with a raft of sixth-generation technologies,” said a second official. Sixth-generation technologies are more advanced than those in any fighter jet currently in service globally.The stealth fighter could be put into production in the next seven to eight years, Hindustan Times has learnt.The Mk-1 stealth fighters will be powered by American GE 414 engines, with indigenous engines likely to replace the imported power plant in the Mk 2 version, said a third official. “AMCA is a top focus area for the Defence Research and Development Organisation, and IAF is firmly backing the project,” he said.DRDO is looking at incorporating sixth-generation technologies in AMCA. There is a possibility of equipping AMCA with directed energy weapons, superior anti-missile systems, advanced missile approach warning systems and teaming it with unmanned systems, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said at Aero India-2021 last month.Experts said AMCA will be a crucial indigenous project.It will take Indian research and development and defence manufacturing to a much higher scale in terms of technology, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “It is imperative that the timeline laid down for the project is practical since breakthrough technologies will be getting implemented and the IAF’s operational plans will depend on it,” Bahadur added.India was earlier planning to co-develop a stealth fighter with Russia, but the proposed multi-billion dollar fifth generation fighter aircraft (FGFA) project was abandoned after IAF expressed strong reservations about the project due to high cost and the extent of technology transfer.Boosting indigenisation in the defence sector is a top priority for the government. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore -- 63% of the military’s capital budget for 2021-22 -- for buying locally produced weapons and systems.The allocation for indigenous procurement - made for the second consecutive year - will power the purchase of Tejas LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jets, light combat helicopters, basic trainer aircraft, Arjun Mk-1A tanks, Astra beyond-visual-range missiles, Pinaka rocket systems and anti-tank missiles, as previously reported by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-soon-give-nod-for-indigenous-stealth-fighters-101615917481953.html
17-03-2021||India||UK PM Boris Johnson to visit India in April to ‘unlock opportunities’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India in April as part of his government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific under a comprehensive revamp of foreign and security policies to unlock new opportunities across the region. The UK on Tuesday unveiled its widely anticipated integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, first announced after the 2019 election as “the most radical assessment of the UK’s place in the world since the end of the Cold War”. The integrated review set out several shifts in foreign policy, including a tilt to the Indo-Pacific, and Johnson will visit India at the end of April to “unlock opportunities in the region,” an official statement said. Presenting the review in Parliament, Johnson said he will travel to India to “strengthen our ties with the world’s largest democracy”. This will be Johnson’s first major international visit following Britain’s exit from the European Union (EU). Johnson was earlier set to be the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in January but he called off the trip to remain in Britain to focus on the response to a new Coronavirus variant. At the time, the UK had announced that Johnson hoped to visit India in the first half of 2021, and ahead of the UK’s G7 Summit in June that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is due to attend as a guest. The British high commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, played a key part in drafting the integrated review in his previous role as deputy national security advisor. Also read: UK’s Covid-19 vaccine is safe and works extremely well, says Boris JohnsonThe document described India-UK relations as “already strong” and said Britain will “seek transformation in our cooperation across the full range of our shared interests” over the next decade. It referred to India as an “international actor of growing importance” and spoke of the strong cultural links between the two sides, including 1.5 million British nationals of Indian origin. India-UK trade more than doubled between 2007 and 2019, and the investment relationship supports more than half a million jobs in each other’s economies. “The ability to strike our own trade deals will allow us to grow our economic relationship further, including through increased bilateral investment flows,” the integrated review said.“Our vision is for re-energised trade and investment, rooted in S&T and supporting levelling up in the UK and India alike; enhanced defence cooperation that brings a more secure Indian Ocean Region, building on the existing biannual Ministerial Defence Dialogues; and UK-India leadership to tackle global challenges like climate change, clean energy and global health,” it said. A major step towards boosting ties will be the launch of the “Enhanced Trade Partnership” this year, which will act as a roadmap to a potential comprehensive trade deal. With Britain looking at the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly the geopolitical centre of the world”, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth will undertake its first operational deployment to the region this year. The UK is also applying for partner status at the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) as part of its foreign policy shift. The deployment of HMS Queen Elizabeth, the UK’s largest warship, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean, has been described by officials as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The reset of Britain’s international priorities with deeper engagement with the Indo-Pacific is also aimed at creating a democratic counterweight to China. “China’s military modernisation and growing international assertiveness within the Indo-Pacific region and beyond will pose an increasing risk to UK interests,” the integrated review said. The UK will “do more to adapt to China’s growing impact on many aspects of our lives as it becomes more powerful,” and this includes investing in “enhanced China-facing capabilities” and improving Britain’s “ability to respond to the systemic challenge that [China] poses to our security, prosperity and values – and those of our allies and partners,” the document said. The 114-page integrated review, which addressed issues related to national security, foreign policy and the global economy, is meant to implement Johnson’s “Global Britain” agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-to-visit-india-in-april-to-unlock-opportunities-101615908121941.html
17-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm||Several lawmakers from opposition parties like the RJD and Congress have given notices in Parliament over the nationwide strike called by bank unions against the Centre's proposal to privatise two public sector banks.On Tuesday morning, Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha gave a notice in the Rajya Sabha under rule 267 to discuss the strike and agitation of bank employees against the proposed privatisation of government banks."This House agrees to suspend the listed business on March 16 to discuss the strike and agitation of bank employees against proposed privatisation," read Jha’s notice.Congress leader and member of Parliament from Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar constituency Manickam Tagore has given an adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha over "strike and agitation of bank employees against proposed privatisation".Meanwhile, the president of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Duarte Pacheco also addressed the MPs at the Central Hall and thanked India for its support for Portugal's election to the IPU.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that India is the world's largest working democracy and represents 1300 million citizens of the country adding that the Central Hall is a witness to that independence.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm todayRajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm today.Railways will never be privatised, it will always remain with govt of India: Piyush Goyal in Lok SabhaWe're accused of privatizing Railways, but people never say that only govt vehicles should run on roads, it's so because both private and government vehicles help economically. Private investment in Railways should we welcomed as it'll improve services: Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in Lok SabhaGovt of NCT (Amendment) Bill 'unconstitutional', says Kapil SibalSenior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Tuesday slammed the Centre over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, calling the bill "unconstitutional"."The NCT of Delhi ( Amendment Bill ) 2021 is unconstitutional, violates Federal structure, hems in the elected government, and makes MLAs caged representatives," Sibal tweeted.Don't propose to make Sanskrit as official language: MHA in Lok SabhaThe government does not propose to make Sanskrit as link language and official language. As per Article 343, the official language of the Union is Hindi in Devanagri script: Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in Lok SabhaIndia, Portugal are brothers, says IPU president; extends support for UNSC membershipThe President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union President, Duarte Pacheco, on Tuesday addressed Members of Parliament at the Central Hall and thanked India for its support for Portugal's election to the IPU stating that New Delhi and Lisbon are brothers."I came to New Delhi to show that you have a friend -- a special friend in IPU. This special relationship is not just personal. We have a special relationship between our two countries. Portugal and India have over 500 years old relations, so we know each other so better that I may say that we aren't just friends, we are brothers," Pacheco said.AAP MPs to protest in Parliament against NCT BillAam Adami Party (AAP) Members of Parliament will protest on Tuesday in Parliament's premises at Gandhi statue against the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Earlier today, Congress leader Kapil Sibal termed this Bill "unconstitutional" and "yet another instance of arrogance of power".Cong MP gives adjournment notice in LS over bank employees' strikeCongress leader and Member of Parliament from Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar constituency Manickam Tagore has given an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over "strike and agitation of bank employees against proposed privatisation".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-updates-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-march-16-2021-101615869614658.html
17-03-2021||Today's||Save the Himalayan river systems||This February was unusually warm. Delhi experienced average temperatures of 4.3 degree Celsius above normal, recording the warmest February (barring 2006). Less noticed was that many Himalayan states witnessed below-average rainfall. From January to mid-February, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand had 56%, 24% and 33% less precipitation, respectively. I spent much of February in Uttarakhand. Every local villager or forest guard I spoke to mentioned low rains and their concerns about water availability through the spring and summer.The Himalayas-Hindu Kush region (known as the Third Pole because of the amount of water stored as ice) is home to 10 major river systems. More than half of India’s water resources are supplied by the tributaries of these river systems. The melting glaciers supply year-round water and the average economic productivity of the Himalayan rivers is nearly twice that of peninsular river systems. Beyond the large rivers are three million springs, which feed 64% of the irrigated land in the Indian Himalayan Region (IHR). These springs are the lifeline of mountain communities (50 million people across 12 Himalayan states), even as the larger rivers support the livelihoods of more than 500 million in the Indo-Gangetic plains. But they are facing multiple stresses.First, reduced water flow. The Himalayan glaciers have been receding at alarming rates. In 2001, NASA images showed that Gangotri had shrunk by 850 metres since 1975. Later, an Isro analysis of 2,190 Himalayan glaciers found that three-quarters of them were rapidly retreating, by 3.75 km on average in 15 years. Low rainfall and absent snowfall impact the springs, rivulets and rivers that moderate the hydrogeology of the region. In 2018, NITI Aayog reported that nearly half the springs in IHR were drying up. In Almora, 83% of springs had dried up over 150 years. Even in more pristine Sikkim, the water supply from half the springs had reduced.Second, pollution. It is well-known that we treat our major rivers as drains. More than six billion litres of sewage is dumped into the Ganga daily, but the capacity to treat it is just a fifth of that quantity. The Yamuna’s course through Delhi is just 2% of its length but it receives 70% of the river’s pollution. Less known is that water pollution is affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayan rivers. A 2016 study found the water quality index to be unsuitable for drinking purposes for rivers supplying half the water in Uttarakhand.Third, construction and deforestation. The construction of large dams, canal diversions and hydropower projects has direct and indirect impacts. Obstruction of the river flow, even for run-of-the-river projects, increases siltation, reduces the efficacy of hydropower projects over time, while reducing farm productivity downstream. When hydropower projects divert rivers into underground tunnels, such as for the tributaries of Indus or Alaknanda or Mandakini, the surface water flow recedes. For non-glacial rivers (such as Gomti, Panar, Kosi), deforestation is the main threat, thanks to ill-planned construction. In Uttarakhand, 45,000 hectares of forest land have been diverted to other uses since 1980. As a result, water infiltration into the ground reduces. So, even when erratic rains arrive, mountain springs do not get recharged nor do non-glacial rivers get their water supply.Fourth, the climate crisis. The World Meteorological Organization estimates that the decadal rise in temperatures in the Himalayan region is 0.4°C higher than the global average. The Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change had stark warnings: Himalayan glaciers would retreat 45% by 2100 if surface temperatures rose by 1.8°C. Basically, even if the goals of the Paris Agreement were met, IHR is likely to face severe impacts. If temperatures, instead, rose to 3.7°C (closer to the trajectory that the world is currently on), glaciers would be 68% smaller by 2100, fragmenting rivers, impacting flows and affecting seasonal water availability. Pollution concentrations would also increase during droughts; warmer water temperatures and reduced dissolved oxygen reduce the self-purifying capacity of Himalayan rivers.There are no silver bullet solutions, but two approaches should be at the core of the response. First, IHR needs alternative development pathways, the absence of which makes the construction industry the default option. More sustainable models — high-valued-added agriculture, less water-intensive natural farming, food processing, ecotourism, investments in non-hydropower forms of renewable energy, or monetising the preservation of natural capital — cannot be restricted to pockets or pilots. Alternatives must be designed and deployed at scale to get buy-in from communities and policymakers. Secondly, decentralised water governance, especially of springs, is imperative. Then communities can understand the conditions of their spring waters, determine appropriate use, and protect or increase forest cover, because their livelihoods depend on replenished water resources. Our mythology is replete with stories about the origins of the Himalayan rivers and their holiness. But it is a myth that our rivers can continue to be self-cleaning, self-healing and self-flowing beyond a point. The Himalayan water systems are under increasing stress and they need our attention — and course correction.Arunabha Ghosh is CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/save-the-himalayan-river-systems-101615994653731.html
17-03-2021||Today's||On Delhi, the Centre’s move goes against the spirit of federalism||There is a renewed political slugfest between the Centre and Delhi government, on the issue of the Union home ministry’s bill to amend the Government of National Capital Territory. The statement and object of the bill says the amendment will give effect to the Supreme Court’s judgment in 2018. Among other measures, the bill equates the term “government” in any law made by the legislative assembly to mean the Lieutenant- Governor (L-G). Importantly, the bill says that Delhi government will have to seek the opinion of L-G before it takes any executive action, whether by the Cabinet or individual minister.However, an analysis of the 2018 verdict indicates that the proposed bill is a contravention of the spirit of an important judgment. The five-judge bench dealt with the ambiguous Article 239AA of the Constitution, which allows L-G to refer any matter in case of differences to the President of India, effectively allowing the Centre to have a veto. It gave prominence to the Delhi government over L-G on all issues other than reserve subjects; land, police and public order. Supporting greater autonomy for the elected government, Justice DY Chandrachud observed, “In a democratic form of government, the real power must subsist in the elected arms of the state”. The Centre’s move betrays the spirit and sanctity of the 2018 judgment, which, notwithstanding many fine points, was a limited verdict. It avoided venturing into substantive issues of land and policing and the Delhi government’s longstanding demand to have a say in these critical matters. The bill, which is likely to be passed soon, will not only reopen the old tussle between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government. It will also make it difficult for an elected government to carry on routine work and provide governance in a mega-city. By making it mandatory for an elected government to take permission from L-G on subjects that are within its jurisdiction, the bill takes away the legitimate governing space and autonomy guaranteed to an elected government.Global trends show that while most national governments are apprehensive of sharing power with national territory governments, yet for administrative and governance convenience, they have gradually been sharing these powers with these city governments. In a survey of nine major national capitals of the world, I found that no other capital territory government has such limited jurisdiction to govern a mega-city. Delhi is one of the most constricted national capitals in the world.Even in Washington DC, with limited mandate, the DC Police has a say in city policing and law and order issues. A more recent example is that of London. The British Home Office, which earlier had the last word on the London Metropolitan Police, has over the years, conceded such supervisory powers to the elected mayor of London.Another glaring example of the governance mess (which is largely the contribution of the United Progressive Alliance government) is the little or no role for the Delhi government in matters related to municipal bodies. A review of various capital cities suggests that Delhi is probably the only capital city where the elected government has no organic link with the municipal bodies. The home and urban development ministries of the federal government administratively control municipal bodies.In short, the principle of subsidiarity demands that India’s national government take some cues from global trends and cede more powers to the city government in capital territory. The current bill by the Centre not only betrays the concept of “cooperative federalism” often espoused by the Union government, but will further complicate governance in India’s fastest growing mega-city. While it is inbuilt that there will be varying degrees of tensions and fluidity between the central governments and the governments of the national capitals everywhere, they have to be managed politically and in an institutionalised manner, India is taking the opposite direction.Niranjan Sahoo is senior fellow, politics and governance, Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-delhi-the-centre-s-move-goes-against-the-spirit-of-federalism-101615994116888.html
17-03-2021||Today's||Locating Quad in geopolitical history||For almost six centuries, the leaders of England (and later Great Britain) saw France as their primary strategic challenge. The Anglo-French rivalry was so all-consuming — from the Hundred Years War through the Napoleonic Wars — that it resulted in the consolidation of territory and national identities in both countries, shaped dynastic successions, altered religious and linguistic developments, determined alliances and military involvement, and fuelled colonial competition.But centuries of rivalry came to an end in 1904, when Britain and France signed a series of agreements, known as the Entente Cordiale. The impetus was the rise of a new European power — Germany — which both France and Britain perceived to be a shared challenge. The Entente Cordiale was not a commitment to each other’s defence. Contradictions remained. Later that year, France’s ally, Russia, and Britain’s ally, Japan, were to wage war against each other. Nonetheless, Germany was sufficiently motivated by the new Anglo-French condominium to attempt to test the Entente. This resulted in a crisis over the status of Morocco, which only brought London and Paris closer.Understandings such as the Entente Cordiale were, in fact, a common feature of international relations prior to World War II and the nuclear age. The Cold War infused new thinking that alliances had to be credible and watertight to deter adversaries and thereby preserve peace.Critics argued that this logic was costly, and that it resulted in over-extension, fuelled unnecessary conflict, and gave reason for allies to engage in risky behaviour. Debates about international security commitments — whether in the United States (US) or Europe, or indeed in India or even China — reflect vestiges of these competing worldviews.But in many respects, we have experienced a reversion to a pre-alliance era. The motivations are different. Democratically elected leaders — or any leadership responsive to its people — will confront difficulties in making open-ended security commitments to another sovereign State. Publics are more sensitive to the presence of foreign troops on their soil, including the legal complications that might arise. Despite nationalist impulses, public opinion surveys generally reflect a scepticism of overseas military involvements and a preference for greater spending on social welfare and services at a time when defence spending is already at historic lows. (According to the World Bank, 2018 marked the lowest year on record for military expenditure around the world at 2.18% as a proportion of global Gross Domestic Product.)The need to adapt to new strategic challenges amid fiscal and political constraints is resulting in a return to ententes as an important feature of international relations. Successive governments in the US have now made it clear that the relationship with a non-ally such as India matters much more than some of its formal treaty alliances. Quad — involving India, the US, Japan, and Australia — is emerging as perhaps the most prominent new entente. But the relationship between China and Russia is also exhibiting similar features, much as the China-Pakistan relationship has for decades.Nonetheless, criticism of these new relationships often continues to raise the bogey of an alliance. For example, some American critics of Quad have implied that this arrangement will somehow contribute to Indian tensions with China and Pakistan, and risks dragging the US into conflicts in the Indian Ocean region. Similarly, Indian critics fear that the US’s free and open Indo-Pacific strategy would entangle India in unnecessary competition in the Pacific. Such criticism is misleading, and perhaps deliberately so. Priorities will continue to differ among Quad countries. This is clearly reflected in the relative importance India has granted to South Asia and the Indian Ocean when it comes to maritime security, foreign assistance, and vaccine diplomacy. Ententes are also not useless, as some seem to believe. Those who contend that Quad is simply a talk shop have not been paying sufficient attention to its accompanying activities. Despite last year’s quadrilateral Malabar exercises and the recent announcement of new working groups, Quad cooperation on naval interoperability, critical technologies, and Covid-19 had been manifest previously. Moving forward, arrangements such as Quad could play a pivotal role in coordinating responses, reducing frictions, and enabling participant-States to concentrate more on their core competencies and geographies.The return of ententes in plain sight (although to little fanfare) reflects the yawning gaps between public opinion, academic scholarship, and actual policy on matters of international relations. A closer examination of the long history of “strategic partnerships short of mutual defence” would be instructive. For example, the Anglo-French partnership, which became the Triple Entente with the addition of Russia, failed to deter Germany, resulting in the outbreak of World War I. But it contributed significantly to the victorious outcome for its members (although at great cost, especially to Russia and France). By contrast, it was the seemingly more ironclad Triple Alliance of Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy, which crumbled. The parallel suggests that debates about the wisdom of international partnerships and commitments are unlikely to abate. But a sense of precision and perspective about the nature of new and emerging strategic arrangements is sorely needed. Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director, ORF America The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/locating-quad-in-geopolitical-history-101615993210253.html
17-03-2021||Editorials||India needs to get its environment management right||Two reports related to India’s environmental management, published in this newspaper on Wednesday, raise more questions than answers. First, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, set up in October 2020, became non-functional last week after the ordinance constituted for it lapsed. Managing the problem will now be entrusted to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards (SPCBs), even though this is an inter-state issue and CPCB and SPCBs don’t have the financial and human resources to tackle it effectively. The Centre also failed to come up with a sound explanation for the scrapping of CAQM and its plans to tackle air pollution, even as new data released by a Swiss organisation, IQAir, said that 22 of the 30 most polluted cities in the world are in India.Second, India could soon have a single law governing air, water, and environment-related activities. The TSR Subramaniam Committee, which was set up in 2014, proposed a new model umbrella law, Environment Law (Management Act) or ELMA, incorporating the concept of “utmost good faith” where applicants of environment or forest clearance are responsible for their statements. This self-certification on the environmental impact of a project is untenable because the company may not know the impact or choose not to reveal it. While the implementation of green laws has been weak, the proposed dilution of the precautionary principle is even more unfair to victims of pollution. The government must ensure a transparent and collaborative effort for framing a new law, which puts the environment and people at the forefront.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-needs-to-get-its-environment-management-right-101615993390439.html
17-03-2021||Editorials||The battle over Delhi’s status||On Monday, the Centre tabled a bill introducing an amendment to the legislative framework that forms the basis for governance in Delhi — the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. This has three elements. One, the expression “government” in any law passed by the Delhi legislative assembly would mean the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) — this collapses the conceptual distinction that existed, so far, between L-G and the government of Delhi. Two, it, effectively, expands L-G’s powers, from the realm of police, public order and land, to include all other decisions by the elected government, which will now have to go to L-G for prior consultation. Three, it weakens the power of the Delhi assembly and its committees to take up issues related to day-to-day administration of the Capital and conduct inquiries in relation to administrative decisions. All of this, the Centre claims, is consistent with a Supreme Court (SC) judgment of 2018 and will provide structural clarity to governance in Delhi.It won’t. To be sure, Delhi is the national Capital — and demands for full statehood to Delhi are not justified. Global examples show that most federal governments, for reasons of security and administrative ease, retain a substantial degree of control over capital territories, even if there is variation in the scope of powers. In India, too, given the presence of Parliament, diplomatic missions, all central ministries, and the impact of events in one part of the Capital on its overall functioning, the Centre, through L-G, needs to retain a degree of control. Indeed, the District of Columbia’s residents (Washington DC) have no representation in the Senate. But there is little sense in diluting the existing (and limited) powers of the state government, and taking Delhi back to a framework of centralised control, which is what the amendment may do. Delhi’s experiment with having an elected government has been positive — from the time of Madan Lal Khurana through Sahib Singh Verma to Sheila Dikshit and Arvind Kejriwal — for it has forced a more responsive administration. The 2018 SC judgment limits L-G’s role. The Centre must not let political considerations and its uneasy relationship with the Delhi government dictate a change that will set the clock back for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-battle-over-delhi-s-status-101615992610114.html
