18-03-2021||Other||Two arrested for spitting in dough while making rotis in Khyala||New Delhi: Delhi police have arrested two men for allegedly spitting into the dough while making rotis at a restaurant in west Delhi’s Khyala. Senior police officers said that the two men have been booked under sections dealing with act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life and for selling food unfit for consumption.Police identified the two arrested men as Sabi Anwar and Ibrahim. Both the men live in Vishnu Garden and hail from Bihar and worked at the same restaurant in west Delhi.A senior police officer said they had received information through Twitter reporting about an incident wherein two men were spotted spitting in the flour while preparing rotis. “A video was widely shared in which two men, Sabi Anwar, was spotted wearing a white vest and Ibrahim, wearing a blue T Shirt, can be seen making roti. Of the two, Ibrahim can be seen spitting while preparing the dough for rotis,” the officer said, wishing not to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said based on the video, the staff of Khyala police station was directed to locate the food outlet. “We found that the incident took place at Hotel Chand in Vishnu Garden. We found that the eatery is run by one Aamir, who also lives in the same area,” Goel said.The DCP said, after preliminary probe, a case was registered under IPC sections 269 (likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 273 (whoever sells or offers food or drink which has been rendered unfit) and other relevant sections. “Both the men have been arrested,” she said.Police are also taking legal action against the owner of the restaurant, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-spitting-in-dough-while-making-rotis-in-khyala-101616092096759.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal to address farmers in Haryana’s Jind on April 4||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal will be addressing a gathering of farmers in Haryana’s Jind on April 4 on the three contentious farm laws against which a large number of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders for more than three months now, said AAP’s Rajya Sabha member and Haryana co-in charge Sushil Gupta on Thursday.“The Aam Aadmi Party has been supporting farmers on the issue since Day One; from the streets to the Parliament. We will continue with our protest and our party chief Arvind Kejriwal will be addressing a gathering at Huda Maidan in Jind on April 4 in this regard. It will be a mahapanchayat and we demand that the central government repeal the three laws,” Gupta said in a press conference.Last month, Kejriwal addressed a similar farmers’ gathering in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut.Thousands of farmers from states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have gathered at Delhi’s borders for nearly three months now, protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which were passed in the Parliament in SeptemberWhile the government said the new laws are supposed to reform the agriculture sector, the protesting farmers fear that the laws will do away with agricultural markets, favour industrialists, and affect prices of crops which would further bring down their income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-to-address-farmers-in-haryana-s-jind-on-april-4-101616092097303.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||12-year-old girl kidnapped, tortured and forced into prostitution rescued by police; 4 held||A 12-year-old girl who was kidnapped from south-west Delhi in January, burnt with cigarette butts, forced into prostitution, and raped by several men, was rescued by the Delhi Police on Tuesday. Police also arrested two men, Sanjay Rajput and Anshu Sharma, and two women, Sapna Goyal and Kanika Roy, who allegedly kidnapped and forced the girl into prostitution. Police said there could be a wider prostitution racket run by the four persons ,who operated through WhatsApp groups and had clients across the country. The police are now probing the racketeers to know if they had kidnapped other children and forced them into the sex trade. The identities of the men, who allegedly raped the minor girl, are also being ascertained as it appears that some of the men knew that the girl was a minor and that she had been forced into prostitution. According to the police, the child lived with her mother in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera. Police said her father had died and she was an only child. Her mother reported her missing on January 21 after which a kidnapping case was registered at Kapashera police station.The police probe has now revealed that the girl was kidnapped when she went out to buy chips from a local shop. The four kidnappers -- two of them from her own neighbourhood -- took her to a nearby house on the pretext of offering her a piece of a birthday cake. The cake, however, was spiked and the girl fell unconscious after eating it, said Urvija Goel, deputy commissioner of police (west). Thereafter, to force the girl into prostitution, they tortured her and offered her pills and drugs, the details of which are yet to be ascertained, the DCP said. “There were cigarette burns on her arms. She was forced to drink alcohol,” said another investigator who did not want to be identified. Once the girl was not in a position to resist, she was pushed into prostitution and raped by men in Delhi and Bihar. “There are text messages to reveal that some men looking for young women were offered the child and informed that she was a minor,” said the unnamed investigator quoted above. The prostitution gang dealt with their customers through WhatsApp. “There were over 150 WhatsApp groups of this racket and had a thousand customers from across India,” Goel said. Police said a team from Rajouri Garden police station in west Delhi was trying to trace some missing children when this girl’s name cropped up. Sometime last month, the police team got in touch with the girl’s mother and realised that the girl was kidnapped by traffickers. “About a month after her disappearance, the kidnappers allowed the girl to make a 30 second phone call to her mother. Her mother wasn’t told about her location,” said a second investigator, who did not want to be identified. A subsequent phone call followed in which the kidnappers urged the mother not to pursue the girl’s disappearance any further. Police said the kidnappers were worried that the police would track them. “They offered her any amount she wanted. But we were in touch with the mother and she only demanded that her daughter be returned to her,” the officer said. Eventually, the police used the communication between the mother and the kidnappers to pursue an online trail left by the suspects. The police traced the girl to Majnu ka Tilla in North Delhi on Tuesday from where she was rescued and her captors arrested. Last year, on average, eight cases of kidnapping of women and children, six incidents of molestation and over four rapes were reported daily in Delhi. There were also 65 cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. However, according to Delhi Police data, all crimes under these particular heads, were considerably lower than in 2019.Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said local police as well as the crime branch, have been pursuing prostitution rackets, particularly those suspected of trafficking women and minor girls. “We also take every missing complaint related to children very seriously. Even this child was traced due to our constant efforts to trace all missing children,” he said.The officer said anyone suspecting the trafficking or abuse of any child must immediately call the police control room on 112. “The aim should be to bring such crimes to the notice of the police immediately,” Biswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/12yearold-girl-kidnapped-tortured-and-forced-into-prostitution-rescued-by-police-4-held-101616092039280.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Ministry issues guidelines to keep pollution from making Covid-19 infections worse||In a bid to prevent high levels of air pollution from increasing the severity of Covid-19 infections, the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) released a set of guidelines and best practices to be adopted by state governments and citizens to control the spread of infections. RP Singh, secretary, MoEFCC, said Covid-19 is known to seriously impact human health, especially a person’s respiratory system. With Covid-19 cases rising again in several states, Singh said it was important to come up with guidelines to keep vulnerable sections of the population such as senior citizens and children safe. “Creating awareness about air pollution sources, indoor as well as ambient, and associated health impacts in Covid-19 times has become crucial. Addressing the issue of air pollution will lead to a decline in morbidity and mortality, as well as a decline in respiratory related illnesses during the pandemic,” Singh said. Listing in detail the link between high pollution levels and the severity of coronavirus infections, the guidelines said, “Poor air quality affects our lungs and other body organs. It increases the risk of chronic diseases such as COPD, asthma, pneumonia etc.” It added, “Air pollution can exacerbate respiratory and circulatory diseases in patients and vulnerable populations, and can also increase the severity of development of more serious illnesses.” The guidelines have been prepared by Suman Mor, associate professor and chairperson of the department of environment studies, Panjab University, and Ravindra Khaiwal, additional professor of environment health department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER. This document will also be circulated among state governments and agencies so that the awareness message is disseminated to the public, ministry officials said. In a list of things that citizens can do to control emissions indoors, the guidelines suggested keeping indoor plants, avoiding smoking in closed spaces, using cleaner fuels for cooking, avoiding use of mosquito coils, incense sticks and room freshners, and using micro fibre cloths for dusting furniture. The document also reiterated that people need to ensure proper ventilation in homes and the city administration must ensure strict adherence to the graded response action plan (Grap)—a set of emergency measures to tackle air pollution. Dr Vikas Maurya, head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh, said that it extremely important that people adhere to all Covid prevention norms to prevent cases from rising further. “Such guidelines are important because cases have started rising again in several states. We should take lessons from other countries, where the moment people and the governments let their guards down, another wave started. Vulnerable groups are still at risk and it is everyone’s duty to protect them,” Dr Maurya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ministry-issues-guidelines-to-keep-pollution-from-making-covid-19-infections-worse-101616092038663.html
18-03-2021||Other||DU teachers march to L-G office over govt’s ‘pattern of assistance’||New DelhiThe Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Thursday requested Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to order the government to withdraw the “pattern of assistance” document issued by to 12 fully funded government colleges in DU. The teachers’ body took out a protest march from DU Vice Chancellor’s office to the L-G office on Thursday against the introduction of a new pattern of funding in these 12 colleges.Delhi government’s higher education department last week had asked the governing bodies of these colleges to pass a resolution stating that the pattern of assistance, as suggested by the Delhi government, and not that of the University Grants Commission (UGC), will be followed for the release of grant-in-aid.The resolution was also to state that colleges can use “surplus funds” available with them for the purpose of paying salaries. The student society fund was to be excluded from “surplus funds”, since a legal case on whether student funds may be used for salary purposes is pending before the court. The governing bodies of two colleges, out of the 12, last Saturday had passed such a resolution.Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with the principals of these colleges and assured that the government will meet the DU officials to discuss the matter. He had also ordered to release of all pending funds to these colleges. “The strength of the teachers’ collective came to the fore when DUTA protests and mass action programs forced the chief minister to release the much-delayed grant-in-aid to the 12 colleges. He has also promised to release the pending amount in a meeting with principals and chairpersons of these 12 colleges. However, the danger is far from over. The Delhi government is forcing these 12 colleges to adopt in their governing bodies the pattern of assistance issued by the directorate of higher education...The pattern of assistance document needs to be immediately withdrawn,” DUTA said in a statement.The DUTA appeals L-G to intervene and resolve this matter at the earliest, the statement added. A senior government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The government has already assured the principals of 12 colleges that it will take every effort to resolve the matter and discuss it with the university administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-teachers-march-to-l-g-office-over-govt-s-pattern-of-assistance-101616092037502.html
18-03-2021||Other||AAP-BJP trade barbs over air pollution report||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre of failing in its fight against air pollution, while citing the World Air Quality Report 2020 published earlier this week by IQAir – a Swiss organisation – which said that 22 of the world’s 30 most polluted cities are in India.In a press conference, the AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said that Delhi’s air quality has witnessed some improvement, which he said was due to the AAP government’s efforts. He also thanked Delhi residents for their contribution in combating pollution.In a series of tweets, Union minister Prakash Javadekar, however, dismissed the claims and hit back saying pollution levels in Delhi reduced because of the Central government’s intervention. In a separate statement, Delhi-BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor accused the AAP of complete failure in combating air pollution.“Delhi was once the most polluted cities in the world. Because of the AAP government’s efforts in fighting air pollution, Delhi is now in the tenth spot. I congratulate Delhi residents for their fight against pollution. However, 22 Indian cities rank among the 30 most polluted in the world because the BJP-led Central government has failed,” said Bhardwaj.He further said, “Whenever it comes to air pollution in Delhi, the Central government has always conveniently washed its hands-off. Only a person who knows and understand the importance of environment should head the concerned ministry.”Javadekar, however, hit back and said, “AAP is equal to advertisement and plagiarism… Reduction in pollution in Delhi is largely due to Central government initiatives like leapfrogging to BSVI, Eastern and Western express peripheral ways, closing the Badarpur plant, shifting 3,000 industries on PNG and many such efforts.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Kapoor said, “The AAP government in Delhi does not have any concrete study on the causes of air pollution in Delhi. They have been a complete failure on this front. They should focus on scientific studies and developing strategies, instead of engaging in such misleading things.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapbjp-trade-barbs-over-air-pollution-report-101616092036370.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to double vaccination centres, extend their timings to cover 125,000 people daily||Keeping vaccination centres open for 12 hours and increasing the number of inoculation sites across the city are two of several measures that the Delhi government is taking to increase the daily vaccination numbers from the current nearly 40,000 to 125,000. “Currently, we are vaccinating 30,000 to 40,000 people a day and are planning to increase this to 125,000 soon. The number of centres will also be doubled from the existing 500. At present, Covid-19 vaccination centres operate daily from 9am to 5pm, but their timings will be extended to 9am to 9pm daily,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference on Thursday. Towards that end, the Delhi government on Thursday also ordered all its hospitals to extend the timings of their centres from Monday. “It is hereby ordered that with effect from 22.03.2021, all Delhi government hospitals will operate vaccination sites functioning on their premises up to at least 9pm. All facilities will ensure deployment of adequate manpower at these sites to ensure proper functioning of vaccination sites. Non-compliance shall be viewed seriously,” read the order from special secretary (health) SM Ali. In addition, all Delhi government-run hospitals have also been asked to increase the number of sites on their premises to at least six. Even the Lok Nayak Hopsital currently has five vaccination sites while the Rajiv Gandhi superspeciality hospital has four. One of the vaccination centres at the 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, which was the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in Delhi, already runs round the clock. But, it is only meant for front-line workers who can get shot once their duty time is over. “Currently, we get around 30 to 40 people each day after hours at the centre. Now, everyone in the priority group will be allowed to come between 9am and 9pm to get the shots. From Friday, the hospital will start assessing the space needed for the additional centre and the manpower to keep it open till 9pm,” said a senior administrative official from the hospital, requesting anonymity.INCREASING CENTRESTo increase the number of centres, Delhi will start the immunisation drive at all its dispensaries from next week. “Inspection of dispensaries has been completed and in the next couple of days, all of them will start the vaccine drive -- people will have centres closer to their homes,” said a senior district official, on condition of anonymity. There are around 260 dispensaries run by the Delhi government in the city and currently, they operate only between 9am and 5pm. “We have to see about staff availability and other logistical issues before extending the timings of dispensaries,” the official said. There are, at present, 550 vaccinations sites -- in 208 hospitals and 40 dispensaries -- in Delhi, according to the CoWIN portal. Of them, 325 are in government facilities and 225 in private centres. When the vaccination drive was opened to the general public at the beginning of March, most of the centres (136) were given to the private sector. The government is now looking to bring on board several private sector hospitals as well. “One round of inspection has been conducted at several small hospitals and they are likely to be added to the centres’ list next week. Additionally, we have received requests from private hospitals to keep centres open on Sundays. That is also likely to happen soon,” said another senior district official, also on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-double-vaccination-centres-extend-their-timings-to-cover-125-000-people-daily-101616091979448.html
18-03-2021||Noida||Special surveillance to start in residential areas showing a rise in cases||Ghaziabad: Fresh Covid-19 cases have started to emerge in several residential clusters of Ghaziabad in March, according to data of the district health department. Officials said that they have started with a plan to contain the spread of infection and that five surveillance teams will be deployed in each cluster showing increasing trend of positive cases. According to the data, Raj Nagar residential segment had nine Covid-19 cases in February, but has seen a spike with 38 cases till March 17. Likewise, Ghookhna near Delhi-Meerut Road stood with one case last month, but it has witnessed 16 new cases till March 17. In Sahibabad (II), there were five cases last month and the tally in the current month has gone up to eight till March 17. The officials said that the cases have failed to decline in segment of Shastri Nagar which now has 32 cases as against 38 in February. They further said that Vaishali is also under scanner with 10 cases as against 14 last month. “We have identified the five clusters in which we will deploy five surveillance teams to take up door-to-door surveillance and find out cases of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness, besides tracking other persons having comorbid conditions. This will help us detect early the suspected cases,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “For immediate testing, we have decided to deploy one mobile van each to these localities. These will be apart from the static testing booths,” Gupta added. The officials said that the plan to deal with rising cases will also be put forward before the chief minister who will take up video conferencing of Covid preparedness on Thursday night. According to the official records, trans-Hindon localities like Indirapuram and Vasundhara which were among the high incidence localities have started to show decline. The records indicate that there were 41 cases in Indirapuram last month while the fresh cases stood at 10 till March 17. In Vasundhara too, the cases were 20 last month and only seven in first 17 days of March. On Thursday, district nodal officer Senthil Pandian C also took a review meeting and directed officials to take up enhanced testing of people coming from other states. “The nodal officer has asked us to undertake testing outside the railway station. We have one booth which was working during the day. Now, we will have two booths on two exits of the station, and they will operate round-the-clock. Further, we have also decided to rope in two teams to track passengers at ISBT Kaushambi. They will be deployed during peak hours and will take up testing,” Gupta said. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. During the first 17 days of March, the district has conducted average of 2,035 tests per day while they conducted about 1,936 average tests per day during the same period in February. The district has a daily target of conducting 3,500 rapid antigen tests and 1,700 RT-PCR tests. The officials said that testing will also be expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/special-surveillance-to-start-in-residential-areas-showing-a-rise-in-cases-101616091796175.html
18-03-2021||Noida||Covid crisis: Sample positivity rate starts to rise in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The reducing trend of fresh Covid cases in the district has reversed in March as the sample positivity rate stands at 0.44% in the first 17 days of the month as against 0.31% in February, according to data of the district health department. Officials said that they have taken up measures of increased testing and surveillance in order to check the rise in Covid-19 cases. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. Sometimes patients take more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples can be higher than total positive cases, the officials explained. According to the official records, the positivity rate saw a constant decline since November last year when it was 4.14% (4,822 positives out of 116,399 total test reports) and came down to 2.99% (3,034 of 101,496 reports) in December and further to 0.74% January (501 of 67,847 total reports). The records indicate that the trend has reversed with rise in positive cases in the month of March. During the 17 days of March, the district had 173 positive reports out of 39,336 taken up for testing, while in February the number of positive reports was 171 (out of 54,800 total reports).“The trend is somewhat increasing in March and we are trying to track areas where more cases have started to arrive. Recently, 30 positive cases were detected at the national academy of the Central Public Works Department and the area is now contained. We will increase surveillance as well as testing to detect suspected cases and will also resort to micro containment in order to control spread of the infection,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The data also indicates that the overall positivity in the district from March last year to March 17 this year has stood at 3.81% with 29,810 positive test reports resulting from a total of 782,659 test reports. “On one hand we are trying to keep check on the rising cases, while on the other we are trying to increase our vaccination coverage for senior citizens and persons with comorbidities as they are highly susceptible to Covid infection,” Gupta added. Experts are of view that even if the cases may rise in future, the best strategy is to start implementation of measures and strict enforcement. “We already know what actions need to be taken up. So, they must start implementing them immediately, along with strict enforcement. Contact tracing becomes vital in present conditions, along with tracing, testing and treatment,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). So far as the vaccination is concerned, Ghaziabad’s overall coverage is about 2.01% with 90,819 persons receiving the shots from January 16 to March 17, according to the figures of the health department. The district has an estimated population of 4.5 million.In the first phase, the district vaccinated 20,282 beneficiaries out of 27,280 health-care workers while 15652 have also received their second dose till March 17. similarly, 11,756 of 20,259 front-line workers have received their first dose till March 17 and 3,047 have also taken up their second dose. For the vaccination of the third category -- senior citizens and people having comorbid conditions -- that started on March 1, the figures indicate that 35,398 of senior citizens and 4,684 of beneficiaries having comorbidities were given shots till March 17. The overall target for the category is 93,480 for the month of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-crisis-sample-positivity-rate-starts-to-rise-in-ghaziabad-101616091736225.html
18-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Prohibitory orders in Noida to prevent large gatherings||Noida: The police commissionerate in Gautam Budh Nagar has imposed Section 144 in the district till April 30 in the view of multiple upcoming festivals during the coronavirus pandemic.The commissionerate had imposed Section 144 (which prohibits a gathering of over four persons without a permission) for the first time on February 15, 2020, and it was set to conclude on March 15, 2020, (during the festival and examination season). It was, however, extended with fresh unlock guidelines, and imposed till January 31, 2021, following bomb hoaxes, farmers’ movement and Republic Day in the city.According to an order signed by Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Section 144 has been imposed from March 17, 2021, to April 30, 2021, amid the surge in coronavirus cases ahead of festivals like Holi, Good Friday, Navratri, Ramzan among others during the next month.According to a notice issued by the police department, “No one will be allowed to conduct protests, demonstrations, chakka jam, etc. without a permission from a competent authority. No one shall carry sticks, rods or weapons apart from authorised government officials, which won’t be allowed in public or private offices. Government provided gunners won’t be allowed to enter offices.”Police officials are now urging people to refrain from sharing audios/videos that can cause unrest/public disturbance in the district; and celebratory firing and consumption of alcohol at public places are also banned.“We have urged people to maintain social distance and wear masks in all crowded places like malls, parks, places of worship, restaurants among others in the view of Covid-19,” said Dwivedi.People violating Section 144 will be booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). A senior police official has said that people organising Holi parties or get-togethers in residential areas will have to take a prior permission from the same, otherwise action will be taken against them. Meanwhile, the police have ramped up patrolling across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-prohibitory-orders-in-noida-to-prevent-large-gatherings-101616091676203.html
18-03-2021||Other||140 more test Covid positive, 1 dies in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 140 fresh coronavirus infections, the highest daily tally in the past two and a half months, taking the total cases to 1,28,097 while the death toll reached 1,978 with one death in Kashmir division.Officials said that as many as 115 positive cases, including 33 travellers, were reported from Kashmir division while 25 from Jammu division.Since Wednesday, Kashmir has been witnessing over 100 daily cases. Previously, it was on January 3 that the valley had reported 103 cases.Moreover, 74 more Covid-19 patients recovered, including 58 in Kashmir and 16 in Jammu division.So far, 1,25,046 people have recuperated in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 97.61%. There are now 1,073 active cases while the total number of tests conducted has crossed 56.63 lakh.Kashmir division has 829 active cases, including 536 in Srinagar district alone. There are 244 active cases in Jammu division. As many as 1,247 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 731 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar, where 75 more people tested positive, including 28 travellers, while 17 cases were reported in Baramulla. In Jammu division, 20 cases were recorded in Jammu district.The active cases in Jammu and Kashmir crossed 1,000 again on Wednesday for the first time since January 27. The UT has added 480 active cases since February 9, 2021, when this figure was 593 — the lowest since May, 2020.Chief secy urges people to get vaccinated quicklyAmid the surge in Covid cases, J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam on Thursday urged the people to get vaccinated as soon as possible.He was chairing the third meeting of the UT steering committee to review the progress of Covid-19 vaccination drives that were rolled out in January.It was informed that so far 77% of healthcare workers, 78% of frontline workers, and 12.28% of elderly people and co-morbid patients, totalling 4,39,910, have been vaccinated in J&K with no reported case of extreme adversity. Arrangements have also been put in place for on-spot registration and inoculation of the remaining healthcare and frontline workers.Moreover, Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) in the UT are being gradually enhanced to 3,034, including 34 private centres. All the CVCs will be connected through 873 cold chain points with a total vaccine storage capacity of over 50 lakh doses and vaccination capacity of 3 lakh doses per day. The vaccines are being administered free of cost at all government CVCs and at private centres against the payment of ₹250 per dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/140-more-test-covid-positive-1-dies-in-jk-101616089818233.html
18-03-2021||Other||Apex trade body hails J&K budget||The Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) here on Thursday hailed the ₹1.08 lakh crore budget for J&K claiming it to be a step towards the overall development of the union territory.In a statement issued here, CCI president Arun Gupta welcomed the sops and provisions given in the budget for the industries and commerce sector saying this time, the allocation of funds ( ₹648 crore) is ₹291 crore more than last year’s budget, thus raising hopes of all the stakeholders that soon their problems shall be mitigated.He said that ₹400 crore for the reimbursement of GST by state taxes department is also a significant step for trade and industry fraternity as this will prove to be a boon for the MSME sector besides other stakeholders. He said the government through such initiatives is doing its bit in providing much required stability to the sickening industry and businesses grappling to overcome recession caused due to curbs imposed on account of Covid-19.Gupta also appreciated the mentors of this year’s budget for announcing a food park in Kud area of Udhampur district claiming that it would go a long way in boosting the economy and generating employment avenues in the hilly part of the district.Budget short of expectations: Cong Jammu and Pradesh Congress Committee has said the budget allocations were short of the people’s expectations and needs on various fronts in view of the numerous challenges post downgrading of the state into a UT. Expressing dismay over the lack of initiatives to boost the economically distressed region, senior party leaders said a meagre increase from ₹1,01,428 crore to ₹1.08 crore compared to last year was even below the routine enhancement expected by the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/apex-trade-body-hails-j-k-budget-101616089817270.html
18-03-2021||Other||Question hour: Himachal earned ₹2,831.5cr from VAT on petrol, diesel||Himachal urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Thursday said that drug addiction in the state was on a rise.He was replying to a query by Chintpurni legislator Rajesh Thakur in the state assembly.The minister said that a meeting of the north Indian states to curb drug menace was called last year at behest of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.Bhardwaj, the third most senior ministers in the cabinet, was responding on behalf of the CM as the latter was in Jogindernagar to attend the cremation of Mandi Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma.Giving details on the drive against drug menace, the minister said that in the last three years up to January 31, 2021, a total of 238 cases of narcotic smuggling were registered in the state, besides 516 cases of liquor smuggling. He said the government was resolute to curb drug smuggling in the state and the police were focused on apprehending drug smugglers in Kullu, where ₹40-crore drug consignment was hauled. The minister informed that with a changed strategy, the police were attaining success in catching drug smugglers from outside the state.Rajesh Thakur said chitta, charas and liquor have been caught in large quantities in the state and this has become a cause of concern in the border area. He said Damtal village has become a hub for drug smugglers.During the last three years up to January 31, 2021, revenue amounting to ₹2,831.5 crore has been generated through Value Added Tax (VAT) on the sale of petrol and diesel in Himachal, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur stated in a written reply to a query by Theog legislator Rakesh Singha.To a question raised by Mandi MLA Anil Sharma, the CM said the tourism and civil aviation department has released ₹40 crore for the first phase of Shiv Dham proposed to come up at Kangni Dhar in Mandi. Work on the first phase will be completed by September 18, 2022, the CM informed in a written reply.The CM said a graphical video of Shiv Dham has been made by the consultant appointed by Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) and released by the Mandi deputy commissioner.However, for Phase-II of the project, the design along with the cost estimation is being finalised, so that the final cost of the project could be determined.In a written reply to Jwalamukhi legislator Ramesh Dhawala, the chief minister said pension funds are being deducted, and the government employees’ share has been included in the gross salary, and now the latter will have to pay income tax on this amount.However, exemption is available on employer contribution, he said. An exemption of 14% of government contribution is allowed only for central government employees and not for state government employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/question-hour-himachal-earned-2-831-5cr-from-vat-on-petrol-diesel-101616089756954.html
18-03-2021||Other||BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma cremated with state honours||BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, who was found hanging from the ceiling in his official residence in New Delhi, was cremated with full state honours at Machhial village in Mandi district on Thursday.His son Shanti Swaroop Sharma lit the pyre.Sharma’s body was brought to his native village Jalpehar early morning where hundreds of people turned up to pay tributes to their leader. It was then taken to the Machhial crematorium where chief minister Jai Ram Thakur along with his cabinet colleagues and leaders of both BJP and Congress paid floral tributes to him by laying wreaths.Among others who attended the funeral included former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur, social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Rajinder Garg, MP and BJP state president Suresh Kashyap, MP Kishan Kapoor, MLA Vinod Kumar, Hira Lal, Jawahar Thakur, Prakash Rana and vice-chairman of state finance commission Satpal Singh Satti.Jai Ram meets bereaved family CM Thakur also visited Sharma’s native village to express his condolences with his family members. He prayed to the almighty to give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members to bear this irreparable loss.Thakur said Sharma’s untimely death was not only a big loss to Mandi parliamentary constituency but also to the state and the BJP.“He would always be remembered for his humility, simplicity and dedication,” said Thakur.He said Delhi police was investigating into his death and if the family members wished so, the state government would request a probe by an investigative agency.JP Nadda pays tributes Earlier on Wednesday evening, national BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda had paid tributes to the late MP during a wreath-laying ceremony at Himachal Sadan in New Delhi.Nadda also met Sharma’s family members and expressed his sympathy with them.Cong demands CBI probe into MP’s death The Himachal Congress has demanded a CBI probe into the death of the Mandi MP. Party president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said, “The CM and BJP’s veteran leader Shanta Kumar have stated that when they spoke to Sharma a few days ago he appeared to be fine, then what went wrong all of a sudden that he was forced to end his life? This is a serious matter,” he said.“There should be a thorough probe to ascertain the veracity of the facts that forced him to take the drastic step,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-cremated-with-state-honours-101616089696926.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||Rural areas account for only 13% of vaccinations under second drive||Rural health facilities of the district account for only 13.2% of the 76,699 Covid-19 vaccines administered between March 1 and 16 under the second phase drive, for people aged above 60 years and those aged 45-59 having comorbidities, according to the data available with the health department.Officials cited obstacles like lack of awareness, the distance between villages and vaccination sites, poor internet connectivity as well as limited sites to administer the shots has hindered the overall turnout in rural blocks of Sohna, Farukkhnagar and Pataudi.There are almost 14 facilities, including two subdivisional hospitals and 12 primary health centres (PHCs) that cover rural areas. As per the data, from March 1 to 16, over 10,172 people took the shot at rural facilities. Overall, 33,090 vaccine doses were administered at government set-ups, while 43,609 were administered at private facilities.Ghangola, a health centre that covers over 50 villages in the Sohna block, has administered only 32 doses in the last two weeks, marking the lowest turnout in the district.Dr Mayank Khanna, medical officer, community health centre, Ghangola, said that technical problems such as poor internet connectivity and lack of awareness among people led to poor footfall. “People are not even aware that they have to carry their mobile phone. During the registration process, an OTP is sent on their mobile number that has to be shared with the data entry operator at the site. Therefore, many of them returned without taking the vaccine shot,” said Khanna.“Some frequent problems related to internet connectivity and access to mobile phones have also hampered the vaccination drive in the area,” he said.Likewise, at Garhi Harsru PHC in Farrukhnagar, which covers over 13 villages, the footfall over the last two weeks was 421. Officials cited poor awareness as the main reason.Dr Shalini Goyal, medical officer of the PHC, said, “First, they were reluctant to get tested and now, equally hesitant to take the vaccine shot. There has been a hitch but it is gradually getting loosened. In the early days of vaccination, only 20 doses were administered in a day. This has now improved to nearly 80 doses in the last few days.”According to Khanna and Goyal, healthcare workers have been trying to motivate people in villages. “But the mindset of the people is that they don’t need to be vaccinated as they live in a healthy environment,” said Khanna.Even among the people who took the shots, many feared losing their monthly pension if they didn’t do so. Ombeer Singh, a 70-year-old farmer in Ghangola, said, “Message has been conveyed through healthcare workers that our pension will be stopped if not vaccinated. That’s why I am taking the vaccine.”Since each PHC in the rural areas caters to a large number of villages, the distance between the PHC and villages has also emerged as a problem. According to Goyal, people from distant villages are yet to visit the vaccination site.To address the issue, the health department has been trying to set up subcentres across Sohna, Pataudi and Farukkhnagar blocks. “At least 80 subcentres across the district will be active before the next mega vaccination drive to be held in the city. A few subcentres have been made functional this week to increase turnout in rural areas,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.According to him, the issue will be discussed in the district task force meeting on Friday.In other semi-rural areas like Rajender Park, Gandhi Nagar, Khandsa, Fazilpur, Basai Enclave, Mullahera, Firoj Gandhi Colony, Laxman Vihar and Sukhrali, the cumulative inoculation of the two weeks varies from 100 to 240. Officials at these centres attributed the low numbers to migratory populations not falling in the prioritised groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rural-areas-account-for-only-13-of-vaccinations-under-second-drive-101616089218042.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 case count crosses 100, officials call for adherence to safety norms||The district continued to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases, with 104 new infections being confirmed on Thursday. With Gurugram being one of the eight worst-affected districts of Haryana reporting an increased prevalence of infection in recent weeks, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and health minister Anil Vij are likely to hold a meeting with the district administration on Friday to curb the transmission. “The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and police department have been directed to increase challans of people found violating mask discipline. Containment zones have also been increased. The health department has also been directed to raise the vaccination coverage,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner. Health officials said the transmission has become rampant from March 9, when the daily infection climbed to 75 from 36 cases reported on March 1. Data from the district health bulletin shows that on average, 84 new cases have been confirmed per day over the last week. In the previous week, the daily average cases stood at 62. Currently, the active case count has reached 659, while the total tally stands at 60,201. The new infection count crossed 100 almost after three months. The last time the number of cases was higher was on December 23, 2020, when at least 110 cases were confirmed. Noticing the upward trend after months, the district health department increased its testing to 4,321, with the test positivity rate, positives out of the total samples tested, hovering around 2.1%. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Despite ongoing vaccination, people should follow all Covid-19 norms, basic respiratory hygiene and mask discipline. At a time restrictions are no longer imposed, people should be cautious. We have already increased testing following the basic rule of tracing and isolating close contacts of a confirmed case within 72 hours.” As reported by HT, districts of Yamunanagar, Karnal, Faridabad, Panchkula, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Gurugram have been reporting a spike in cases across Haryana. States noticing a spike in cases were directed to curb the Covid-19 wave during a meeting held with the Prime Minister on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-case-count-crosses-100-officials-call-for-adherence-to-safety-norms-101616089217497.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||June 30 deadline to revive rainwater harvesting structures||The Gurugram administration set June 30 as the deadline for civic agencies to ensure that all rainwater harvesting structures in the district are made functional. “Departments or agencies concerned will be mobilised from now so that the rainwater can be managed in the district well before the arrival of monsoon. After checking the functionality of the rainwater harvesting system, they should be mapped and their coordinates uploaded on One Map Gurugram,” said deputy commissioner (DC) Yash Garg. In a meeting on Wednesday, deputy commissioner Yash Garg was apprised that 413 rainwater structures are installed in areas under the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and that the same would be made functional.“We will be working on cleaning, de-silting and retrofitting of the available rainwater harvesting systems in the city. We will also be working towards developing new rainwater harvesting systems across Gurugram,” said an MCG official who attended the meeting on Wednesday, requesting anonymity.In March first week, the district administration launched a comprehensive campaign for water conservation to improve the groundwater level in the district. As part of the campaign, the district administration will be checking rainwater harvesting structures on priority, especially at large-scale residential and commercial establishments. In May 2020, the MCG had made it mandatory for all residential buildings, group housing societies, schools, hotels and industrial establishments falling within the limits of the civic body to install rainwater harvesting systems. As per clause 8.1(1) of the Haryana Building Code, rainwater harvesting systems must be installed by the plot owner, in buildings having a rooftop area of 100 square metres or more.The campaign will be carried out by a five-member committee, with representatives from the MCG, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the member-secretary of GuruJal Society, who is also the district development and panchayat officer. The DC also said that a target of building 150 more rainwater harvesting systems in rural areas has been set for the upcoming financial year. “First public notice/order would be taken out mentioning the rainwater harvesting campaign. Non-functionality of rainwater harvesting structures or violation of the norm will lead to the cancellation of occupation certificate,” Garg said. The administration also aims to clean drains through which rainwater can be harvested naturally to increase the groundwater table. On March 1, in a meeting between the district town planners for planning and enforcement and GuruJal, officials decided that a legal framework for the implementation of rainwater harvesting structures in Gurugram will be prepared and a rainwater harvesting enforcement drive will be conducted in the city. Between 2014 and 2018, the groundwater table in Gurugram district reduced by two-and-a-half metres. In 2014, the district recorded an average groundwater level of 26.3 metres. By 2018, this level had dipped to 28.9 metres across four monitoring blocks of Gurugram, Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar. The latest data obtained from the agricultural department’s groundwater cell revealed that between June 2019 and June 2020, the groundwater table in Gurugram district dropped by 0.27 metres and stood at 29.86 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/june-30-deadline-to-revive-rainwater-harvesting-structures-101616089216860.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||Bhondsi jail selected for prison radio initiative||The Bhondsi jail in the district is among four jails in Haryana to be selected for the second phase of prison radio programme in the state. The other three jails are Rohtak district jail, central jail at Hisar and the district jail of Karnal. As part of the prison radio initiative, 26 inmates have been trained to prepare radio programmes that will be aired on jail radio. The range of the radio service will be limited and only available for jail inmates. The training programme of the inmates was concluded at Bhondsi jail on Thursday, amid the presence of superintendents of all the four jails and the director general of prisons, K Selvaraj. K Selvaraj said that the launch of radio in the three jails in the state yielded positive results and other jails would get their prison radio soon. Haryana has 19 jails and the state is planning to have jail radios in all of them. The first prison radio was launched at the district jail of Panipat on January 16 this year. In a press release shared by the district administration, Vartika Nanda, who is the brainchild of the prison radio initiative, said that inmates were selected after auditions and subsequently trained for the radio service. “Initially, the jail radio will run on a trial in the four jails,” said Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bhondsi-jail-selected-for-prison-radio-initiative-101616089216171.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG Budget: Highest collections from property tax, water bills in three years||Despite the coronavirus outbreak, the revenue collection of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) from property tax and water bills was the highest in three years, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said during the civic body’s House meeting on the budget presentation on Thursday.According to Singh, in the 2020-21 fiscal, the MCG has so far collected ₹225 crore in property taxes, which is ₹67 crore higher than the previous fiscal. Similarly, in terms of revenue through the generation of water bills, the MCG has so far netted ₹25.5 crore this fiscal, compared to ₹10 crore in 2019-20.“Despite Covid-19, MCG has managed to generate a lot of revenue. In regard to property tax collection, the MCG has had a higher recovery than the three previous fiscals. Last fiscal, the MCG had recovered around ₹158 crore; in the 2018-19 fiscal, the MCG had collected ₹207 crore and in the 2017-18 fiscal, ₹220 crore. Despite two weeks of the fiscal remaining, the MCG has already netted ₹225 crore,” said Singh.Singh told the House that the MCG is in the process of generating more revenue through property tax collections and is aiming to break its highest annual collection of ₹345 crore, recorded in 2016-17 fiscal, in the next fiscal.Singh also said that the MCG has now turned its attention to generating revenue by issuing water meter bills. He said that in 2018-19 fiscal, the MCG had generated only ₹4.5 crore through this, but that it has been increasing. He said that the revenue further increased to ₹10 crore in 2019-20 fiscal.“For 2020-21 fiscal, the MCG had set a target of collecting ₹20 crore through the issuance of water bills. We have already crossed this figure and generated ₹25.5 crore so far. In the upcoming fiscal, we have set an expected collection of ₹40 crore through this mode, however, this is just a safe figure. We are anticipating a final collection of around ₹50 crore,” said Singh.For the 2021-22 fiscal, the MCG has estimated a revenue collection of ₹4,899.26 crore and an expenditure of ₹2,538.31 crore.The maximum allocation of funds has been reserved for solid waste management, garbage clearance and sanitation services category, amounting to a total of ₹250 crore.The allocation for water bodies (bundh/pond) has seen the highest change in the allocation. From an allocation of ₹20 crore in the current fiscal, ₹37 crore has been allocated for the upcoming fiscal. The category of rainwater harvesting was added to the MCG’s budget and the civic body reserved ₹8 crore for the same in 2021-22 fiscal.Besides the approval of the 2021-22 fiscal budget, agendas such as allotment of land in Babupur village for building a new police station in Rajendra Park, regularising city’s banquet halls, MCG’s pending taking over of Maruti Vihar and Saraswati Vihar, constructing MCG’s office on MG Road was also approved by the House.An agenda asking details on the total number of street vendors under MCG’s street vending policy, the revenue collected from vendors by respective agencies, and the steps taken for generating revenue turned out to be a topic of conflict among both MCG officials as well as councillors.The MCG House meeting had commenced with this agenda, with the commissioner seeking details from Dr Vijay Pal Yadav, the deputy municipal commissioner. Yadav said that he had only assumed charge of the street vending project a few months ago and passed the blame on to his predecessor. Singh found his reply on the matter to be dissatisfactory.The discussion became heated when Yadav started speaking out of turn on various occasions and continued to reiterate his stance even after the mike had been taken away from him. Singh cautioned him repeatedly that such type of behaviour has no place in the House meeting and warned that he would be ejected.Finally, Singh told Yadav to submit a report on the street vending policy within seven days and also cautioned MCG officials that any negligence or dishonesty found on their part regarding this project could invite an FIR being registered against them.The agenda has been pushed forward for the next House meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-budget-highest-collections-from-property-tax-water-bills-in-three-years-101616089156716.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Parents wait for school admission under EWS category||As private school authorities are preparing to start the new academic session from April, parents are seeking admission under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category. They are also worried about the lack of clarity regarding the admission schedule.Prospective applicants said, due to the coronavirus crisis, they could not secure admissions under the EWS category last year and are worried about missing out the chance this year too.The EWS students in classes 2-12 can take admission in private schools, under Section 134A of the Haryana School Education Rules (HSER), 2003. As a part of the admission process, applicants are required to fill up a form and sit for an assessment examination, followed by draw lots.The education department starts the admission process every year between February and March. The admission process could not be completed in 2020 due to a sudden coronavirus-induced lockdown.Vikas Kumar, a parent, had filled the forms for admission in March 2020, but was left in the lurch by the lockdown. Kumar said he was keeping a track of the admission portal this year, but there was no information about the process that usually starts in March. “It seems the admission portal has not been updated yet. It’s displaying information about last year’s admission cycle. We are not sure if the process will start this year, since it was called off in 2020, and there was no subsequent communication from the government about it,” said Kumar, who is hoping to secure his daughter’s admission this year.Another parent, Rakesh Kumar, whose daughter is studying in a private school under the EWS category, said his acquaintances have been enquiring about the admission cycle this year. “The department had initiated the admission process last year but couldn’t complete it. The admission notification for the new session is yet to be issued. Many parents, who are waiting for the admission cycle to start, are mired in troubles. The government should issue directions at the earliest, so that parents can plan accordingly,” said Kumar.Officials from the education department, however, said that the academic schedule had been affected due to the coronavirus outbreak, and the timeline of admissions was bound to change.Premlata Yadav, district elementary education officer, said admissions under the EWS category would take place only after government schools are done with the annual examinations. “The academic calendar has been disrupted due to the coronavirus pandemic. The ongoing session is likely to continue till April/May, after which annual examinations will be held at schools. EWS admissions are conducted on the basis of scores secured by students in the school examination, so we will have to wait for the session to end, after which we can initiate the admission process,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-parents-wait-for-school-admission-under-ews-category-101616089156105.html
18-03-2021||Pune||Maharashtra's Pune district records 4,965 fresh Covid cases;||Pune district in Maharashtra reported as many as 4,965 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, which pushed its cumulative tally to 4,53,532 so far, a health official said.As the virus claimed the lives of 31 patients during the day, the district's death toll reached 9,486, he said."Of the total number of new cases, 2,752 were reported from the areas located within the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, where the overall tally reached 2,26,549," the official said.A total of 885 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day in the district.With 1,296 new cases in neighbouring industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad, the caseload there mounted to 1,18,192, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtras-pune-district-records-4-965-fresh-covid-cases-101616088022343.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Election of civic body posts: Cong caught between rulebook and local leaders’ preferences||Some MLAs of the ruling Congress and a few cabinet ministers are upset with the local bodies department’s proposed method for election for the office-bearers of 117 civic bodies that went to polls on February 14. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had categorically conveyed to a sub-committee led by state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar dealing with the election of office-bearers that 50% reservation for the women candidates should be implemented in true spirit. Ahead of the 2017 state polls, the Congress party had promised 50% reservation for women candidates. Of the 2,302 wards that went to polls this time, 1,151 women were elected as councillors. Khanna MLA Gurkirat Kotli reportedly approached the CM on Thursday and apprised him of a tough political situation arising when the roster is being applied and reservation for office-bearers is done on rotation. He demanded that the decision should be taken after clearance from the party’s local MLA. “By rotation, a councillor of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is getting a chance to become an office-bearer. Does this carry any political wisdom,” Kotli asked. “We have to devise a legitimate method so that the there can’t be anything arbitrary,” cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told HT. Qadian MLA Fateh Bajwa also felt the same, saying politicians’ suggestions should be taken into consideration. The department, according to its director Puneet Goyal, has moved the case as per the law and provisions in the Punjab Municipal Act-1911. Section 8-A of the Act speaks about the reservation of offices of president (and mayors and other office-bearers). “Offices of president (of the municipalities in the state shall be reserved by rotation in the prescribed manner in the following ration: 5% for Scheduled Castes, 5% for women including women belonging to SCs, and 2% for backward classes,” says the Act. The sub-committee met on Wednesday to ponder over the crucial issue and has sought a legal opinion on if the roster for the election of office-bearers can be tweaked. “We have referred the matter to our seniors for advice,” added Goyal. The local bodies department is expected to receive gazettee notification from the state election department this week after which the local bodies department will give a notice of 14 days to hold the elections of office-bearers. The elections are expected to take place in the first week of April. In a municipal corporation, a woman mayor has been proposed as per the rotation roster, however, a cabinet minister is pushing for his brother to lead a particular civic body. Cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary, who is part of the sub-committee, said a suggestion has been sought from the legal wing of the local bodies department so that the system of rotation can also be followed to the satisfaction of party MLAs and other leaders. The committee is expected to meet next week, before going to the CM for final clearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/election-of-civic-body-posts-cong-caught-between-rulebook-and-local-leaders-preferences-101616087719454.html
18-03-2021||Other||Lucknow records its highest single-day vaccination count||A total of 15,607 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine jab in the state capital on Thursday, the highest single-day figure in Lucknow since vaccination began on January 16.The beneficiaries included UP’s finance and medical education minister Suresh Khanna and Vidhan Sabha speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit. The previous highest vaccination count here was recorded on February 15 when 14,324 beneficiaries took the jab.“I took the first dose of the Covid vaccine at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU). The Indian vaccine is safe and all should take the vaccine to make our society Covid-infection free,” the medical education minister tweeted afterwards.There were 13,628 beneficiaries who took the shot at government hospitals and 1,979 did so at private hospitals, said Dr MK Singh, the officer in charge of the vaccination in Lucknow.During the day, 6,327 frontline workers got their second dose to complete their vaccination. This was maximum number among all categories of people vaccinated on the day.“The elderly are showing great enthusiasm for Covid vaccination. Those vaccinated in the first week of March, whose second dose is due in the fourth week, have already started enquiring about their second dose,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.There were 125 vaccination sites in the district, including 70 at government hospitals and 55 in private hospitals. Over 32 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered across the state so far since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-records-its-highest-single-day-vaccination-count-101616087655995.html
18-03-2021||Noida||8 fresh cases push Noida's Covid-19 tally to 25,701||Noida (UP), Mar 18 (PTI) Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded eight new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday that pushed the district's infection tally to 25,701, official data showed.The active cases in the district came down to 67 from 76 the previous day, according to the data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.Another 17 patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 25,543, the fifth highest in the state, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The recovery rate of patients reached at 99.38 per cent, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in UP rose to 2,217 from 2,014 on Wednesday, while the overall recoveries reached 5,95,259 and the death toll reached at 8,753 on Thursday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/8-fresh-cases-push-noida-s-covid-19-tally-to-25701-101616087085686.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||More than 40k people vaccinated on Thursday in Delhi||Over 40,000 beneficiaries received shots of the COVID-19 vaccine in the national capital on Thursday, a significant rise from the corresponding figures a day before, as per official data.On Wednesday, 28,394 people were vaccinated, a major fall in number from the 38,437 people who had received the vaccine shots on Tuesday.In the age bracket, 45-59 years, 2,892 beneficiaries received the jabs, while 18,976 senior citizens also got their first shots on Thursday, a senior official said, adding a total of 40,564 people were vaccinated.One case of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) was recorded, officials said.  On Friday, 30,575 people were vaccinated, as per the official data shared by the health department. On Saturday, 39,853 beneficiaries got the jabs, and on Monday, the count was 39,742.Addressing a virtual press conference, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday acknowledged the rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital in the last few days, but said it was not a matter of worry, even as he announced that capacity of inoculation per day in Delhi will be augmented from 30,000-40,000 to 1.25 lakh.He also said the number of vaccination centres will be doubled to 1,000 from about 500 at present spanning both government and private facilities, and the closing time for vaccination would be extended to run from 9 AM to 9 PM from 9 AM to 5 PM currently.An order was also issued later by the government on the extension of timing.Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one.In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi.Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive began in the national capital.As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi.People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the vaccination, the officials said.People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter card.On Thursday, second doses were given to 14,010 people, officials said, adding, 2,842 frontline workers and 1,844 healthcare workers got their first shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-than-40k-people-vaccinated-on-thursday-in-delhi-101616087361143.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records over 600 cases of Covid-19 for fourth time this year||The spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued unabated in the national capital Delhi, which recorded 607 new cases of the disease on Thursday, according to the health department. This comes on a day when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired a meeting over a possible fresh wave of the pandemic in the national capital.Also Read | Can vaccinate Delhi’s adult population in 3 months if norms relaxed: KejriwalThe national capital’s infection tally rose to 645,632 after Thursday's spike in cases, while the death toll increased to 10,949 with one related fatality, the health department bulletin showed. Also, the city’s active caseload reached 2,924, an increase of 222 cases from Wednesday. Recovered cases, meanwhile, are at 631,759, with 384 more patients recovering from the viral disease.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 18th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/SjjVazIsPbThursday’s rise means that Delhi has recorded more than 500 Covid-19 cases in a day five times in 2021: 654 cases were detected on January 6, the highest for the city this year, while on two other days that month, more than 600 infections were found in Delhi. On Wednesday, the city’s infection tally had gone up by 536, the first time in nearly 10 weeks that the capital saw more than 500 daily new cases.The national capital’s new Covid-19 cases on March 18 were from 80,253 samples that were tested for the viral disease, less than 80,856 from a day ago. A total of 13,589,523 tests have been conducted in Delhi thus far, including 48,737 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 31,516 Rapid antigen tests.Addressing a virtual press conference on Thursday evening, Kejriwal urged people not to panic, assuring that his government was monitoring the situation closely. The chief minister further requested people to get vaccinated against the disease and called upon the central government to relax vaccination norms, promising that if norms are relaxed, the Delhi government would get all residents of the city vaccinated in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-600-cases-of-covid-19-for-fourth-time-this-year-101616085045394.html
18-03-2021||Ranchi||HC quashes two FIRs lodged against BJP MP Nishikant Dubey’s wife||The Jharkhand high court on Thursday quashed two FIRs lodged by the police against BJP’s Godda parliamentarian Nishi Kant Dubey’s wife and her company Online Entertainment Pvt Ltd for allegedly inking illegal land deals.The matter relates to a complaint lodged by one Vishnukant Jha with the Deoghar town police station on July 13 last year against Dubey’s wife Anamika Gautam and others allegedly for conspiring with government officials to purchase a property named ‘Elokeshi Dham’ worth ₹20 crore at an undervalued rate of ₹3 crore.Acting on his complaint, the police registered an FIR against Gautam under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).A second FIR was lodged by one Kiran Devi on July 16 last year against Online Entertainment Pvt Ltd, represented by Anamika Gautam, and others allegedly for fraud committed in purchase of the aforesaid same piece of land. Devi alleged that she had purchased this land in 1994 and she was in peaceful possession of the property. But, Anakima Gautam had purchased the same property from two other persons in 2019.Aggrieved by the two FIRs, Gautam moved the Jharkhand high court by filing a petition to quash the criminal proceedings initiated against her.The bench of justice Ananda Sen on Thursday quashed both the FIRs observing that it came to the notice that none of the documents related to registration of land and others were manufactured.“...No offence under different sections of the Indian Penal Code is made out from bare perusal of the FIRs...The dispute, if any, is absolutely civil in nature for which a civil suit is already pending between the parties before a competent court. So, continuation of criminal proceeding is sheer abuse of the process of the court,” the bench said in its judgement.Earlier, Gautam had argued that false and fabricated cases were lodged against her. Moreover, the matter is connected with civil dispute and no criminal offences are made out, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hc-quashes-two-firs-lodged-against-bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey-s-wife-101616085436671.html
18-03-2021||Ranchi||J’khand launches mask checking drive amid rising Covid cases Intro: Sixteen shops get notices for flouting norms||Amid gradual spike in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, a fresh mask checking and Covid protocol implementation drive kicked off across the state on Thursday on directive of the state health department, an official said. Mask checking drive was launched in different districts of the state including Ranchi where state’s 60% Covid active cases have been recorded. The drive in Ranchi was led by the deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjanj from Mahatma Gandhi road.The DC appealed business community to follow Covid guidelines and also make the consumers to follow them as number of cases is on rise. Reiterating the slogan ‘No mask, no entry,’ he warned the traders that they might face action under Disaster Management Act,2005, if they allow customers in their shops without masks. “Covid cases are rising again in the state. So, ensure no consumer enter the shop without mask. Besides, ensure proper social distancing of customers inside the shop. Keep arrangement of sanitizers in shop,” Ranjan told a shopkeeper at MG Road. According to the Covid bulletin of state health department, weekly positivity rate soared to 0.48% in between March 8-14 from 0.30% between February 15-21. The state has 599 Covid-19 active cases, of which 361 active cases recorded in Ranchi. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday evening hinted for tightening the noose in a bid to check spike in Covid cases in Ranchi. The DC visited the shops of footwear, garments, jewellery and stationeries and said, “Shop keepers need to ensure sanitisation of customers’ hands frequently before they touch anything in the store,” he said. The DC also appealed the people of Ranchi to follow the social distancing, mask and sanitization (SMS) norms in a bid to check the rise of cases. In another drive, Ranchi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sameera S issued notice to 16 business establishments for violating the Covid-19 protocols. In a bid to ensure strict implementation of the protocols, the administration’s team also launched checking drive at different business establishments and malls. They issued notice to three shops at Nucleus Mall, four at Panchwati Plaza, three each at Atal Vendor Market, Hari Om Tower and Circular road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-launches-mask-checking-drive-amid-rising-covid-cases-intro-sixteen-shops-get-notices-for-flouting-norms-101616085436012.html
18-03-2021||Ranchi||In the house/ in wake of ‘fraud, corruption’ in land, revenue dept Every plot of land to get unique code: CM||The Jharkhand government is working to introduce unique IDs for all landholdings in the state’s records in wake of the repeated complaints of frauds and corruption in the state land and revenue department. Chief minister Hemant Soren said in the assembly on Thursday that the state government is planning a massive exercise and it will be implemented soon. “We are working towards giving a unique code to all plots of land in the state. We will be installing some devices across the state for the purpose. We often hear of land mafias playing tricks with the land records and selling land illegally. Goverment is serious towards the issue, but there is no quick fix solution to it. It’s a massive exercise, hopefully I will be in a better position to say something about it with authority by the next assembly session,” said Soren. The chief minister made the announcement in reply to a question by BJP legislator and former minister Neelkanth Singh Munda, highlighting complaints against the land and revenue department and online mutation of land. Several other legislators on different days have raised the issue of land records and corruption in the land and revenue department during the ongoing budget assembly session. There have been repeated complaints of tampering with the land records during the digitisation process. Govt might increase number of administrative blocksOn a separate issue, the chief minister said that the state government was preparing to hold a household survey to take feedback from people about problems they face in reaching out to government offices. The CM said they would assess the situation after the survey and, if required, they would increase the number of administrative blocks wherever required. Currently there are 260 administrative blocks across the 24 districts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/in-the-house-in-wake-of-fraud-corruption-in-land-revenue-dept-every-plot-of-land-to-get-unique-code-cm-101616085375837.html
18-03-2021||Other||AIIMS faculty facing termination charge, quits||Ruchir Kumar ruchirkumar@hindustantimes.com PATNA: A senior faculty member of Patna AIIMS, facing termination charges, resigned from service recently. Sushmita Das, associate professor in the department of microbiology, AIIMS-Patna, resigned on March 4, citing personal reasons. The institute’s governing body, which is the apex authority on appointment and termination of services of doctors at AIIMS, had on February 18 ratified a proposal to terminate the services of three senior faculty members for lacking basic qualification on the date of their appointment. Das was one of them. A month on, the institute, was yet to finalise the minutes of the meeting. In her letter to PK Singh, director of AIIMS-Patna, Das cited that she wanted to discontinue her job as she sought to relocate to Kolkata with her family after the superannuation of her husband from government service on August 31, last year. She also requested that her resignation be accepted with one month’s notice period, effective from March 4. As per AIIMS rules, faculty members are supposed to give three months’ notice period. Though her resignation had been accepted, it was still not clear if the institute had agreed to her request for serving only one-month notice period. “Das has tendered her resignation. I’ve sent the file to the dean office. Let it be processed and we will take a call on it soon,” said Dr Singh. Talking about the minutes of the governing body meeting, Dr Singh said, “We are working on it. We expect it to be ready next week.” Show-cause notice with chargesheets will be issued to the three faculty members, in the dock over their basic qualification at the time of appointment in 2012-13, after the proceedings of the governing body meeting are finalised. An inquiry will be conducted before the institute finally takes a call on termination of their services, said Dr Singh. The faculty members were issued show-cause notices three years back as well, on the insistence of the health ministry, but they became infructuous after the ministry constituted a four-member high-power committee, comprising the directors of AIIMS Bhubaneshwar and Patna, the deputy director and the registrar of AIIMS-Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aiims-faculty-facing-termination-charge-quits-101616085316574.html
18-03-2021||Other||Minor among 2 held for molesting women while stealing their phones||PUNE A minor boy was among two people apprehended by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Wednesday for molesting women and stealing their phones in Wakad.Four phones were recovered from them in the course of the investigation during which the minor boy revealed that he used to molest the women from whom he nicked the phones, according to senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station.“He (minor) agrees that he did it. Only one woman has come forward about it. There is a possibility in other cases too as the owners of all the phones are women,” said senior PI Mugalikar.The minor boy is 16-year-old while the adult man has identified as Mukuldev Devendrasagar Singh (23), a resident of Shrinagar, Dehu road.Of the four phones found in their possession, cases of missing mobile phone have been registered for three while the police are tracking the owner of the fourth phone.The three cases are registered at Wakad police station in the past month. While one case is under Section 392, 354, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), two others are under Sections 392 and 34 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-among-2-held-for-molesting-women-while-stealing-their-phones-101616085315897.html
18-03-2021||Other||As Covid cases surge, ACS asks dist officials to take strict measures||Nodal officer of Varanasi additional chief secretary agriculture Dr Devesh Chaturvedi on Thursday instructed chief medical officer and district surveillance officer to take strict precautionary measures in view of surging Covid-19 cases. He also instructed the administrative and police officials to enforce mask wearing and social distancing with immediate effect. Steps required to stop gathering of crowd should also be taken, he said. During a meeting with top administrative and medical officials, Chaturvedi instructed CMO Dr VB Singh that people who are over 45 years with co morbidities and those above 60 years should get vaccinated first and then vaccination of more and more people should be ensured. Dr Chaturvedi said the people who missed the second dose of Covid vaccine should be traced through command control centre and given the jab otherwise the vaccine will be ineffective. He said screening of people coming from Maharashtra should be done at railway station and airport in Varanasi and antigen and RTPCR test of people with Covid symptoms should be done. Such people should be kept in home quarantine. He also instructed district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma to make the monitoring committees fully functional so that people could be alerted and spread of Covid-19 could be prevented by identifying the patients and providing them treatment. From the last week of March 2020 till date, a total 22,112 people were tested Covid positive in the district. Of them 21,638 have been cured, 377 died and 97 are active cases in the district. Out of 97, 11 were tested positive during the last 24 hours and they are under treatment, said Dr VB Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-covid-cases-surge-acs-asks-dist-officials-to-take-strict-measures-101616085195852.html
18-03-2021||Patna||In a first; Rajgir, Bodh Gaya set to be green energy towns||Rajgir and Bodh Gaya are set to become the country ’s first fully green energy efficient towns, as Bihar vies with Delhi, Goa and Odisha to supply 24x7 clean power round the year through the first of its kind renewable energy hybrid model. The Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), a central government PSU, which will develop the system in Andhra Pradesh, has agreed in principle to Bihar’s proposal to feed clean power to the two towns and some important government installations in Patna, including the Raj Bhawan, chief minister’s house, Legislative Assembly, MLA quarters, Patna high court, Gyan Bhawan, Bihar museum and the Vidyut Bhawan. It is now in advance stage of deliberations to grant approval, said an official. “Bihar has opted for a bundle power plan, using solar energy during the day and hydel power through pump storage facility in evening to meet its full requirement of clean power for Rajgir and Bodh Gaya,” said Sanjeev Hans, Bihar’s energy secretary and also the chairman-cum-managing director of the Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited (BSPHCL). The hybrid power will be available to the two towns from June 2023, said Hans. “The excess solar energy generated during the day will be used to run the turbines to pump and store water in the reservoir upstream and generate hydel pump storage power through it in the evening,” he said. Bihar will purchase 200 MW hybrid power through the SECI. It hopes to get 160 MW solar power during off-peak hours (9.30am to 5.30pm) and 39.93 MW hydel pump storage power during peak hour power demand (5.30pm to 9.30am).At an effective cost of ₹ 4.03 per unit (kWh), Bihar will pay the SECI ₹2.77 billion annually for procurement of the renewable energy power, he added. The state pays an annualised average power purchase at the cost of ₹4.90 to ₹4.96 per unit, with thermal power contributing to 78% of the state’s power share. “Purchasing energy through the power market exchange during peak hours invariably results in incurring more expenditure than the ₹2.77 billion required for renewable energy through the hybrid model. The arrangement with SECI will benefit our DISCOMs (distribution companies),” said Hans. The Centre has also waived off the ₹1 per unit inter-state transmission charges to encourage renewal energy projects commissioned by June 2023. It will also bear the transmission and distribution loss, which is generally up to 2%, in ferrying power from the south Indian state. The SECI had floated the tender last year, inviting stakeholders to avail of green power round the clock through renewable energy. Bihar showed interest in February, this year. What is delaying the SECI nod, said officials, was Bihar’s insistence on customised power supply — 160 MW solar and 39.93 MW hydel — as against the SECI formula to give 37.5 MW through hydel pump storage plant in a 200 MW renewable energy hybrid package. “We are waiting for the power sale agreement with the SECI,” Hans said. Non-conventional energy projects in the state were restricted so far to supply of clean power partially, with backup of thermal power.The SECI said it was in advance level of talks for approval. “We are in final phase of approval. We may finalise the document on power sale agreement with DISCOMs in Bihar hopefully within a week or two,” said a SECI official, who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-a-first-rajgir-bodh-gaya-set-to-be-green-energy-towns-101616085137811.html
18-03-2021||Other||Liquor haul: After Tejashwi turns heat, police move court for arrest of minister’s brother||MuzaffarpurAmid unrelenting pressure from leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav who has been demanding the arrest of land and revenue minister Ram Surat Kumar’s brother in whose school a huge liquor consignment was seized in November last year, the Muzaffarpur police on Wednesday moved a local court seeking an arrest warrant for the absconding accused in the case, which includes Hanslal Rai, the minister’s brother.At the time of seizure, five persons, including school’s principal Amarandra Kumar, were arrested while six other accused named in the FIR, including Rai, have been at large. Sale and consumption of liquor has been banned in Bihar since April 2016.Senior superintendent of police of Muzaffaprur, Jayant Kant, said decision to move court for arrest warrants was taken after primary investigation was completed by the Bochaha police station, under whose jurisdiction the school concerned falls. “I have reviewed the progress in the case and found the allegations made against Hans Lal Rai and 10 others true. I have directed the investigating officer in the case to file an application for getting an arrest warrant against all the accused in the case,” he said.The school, Arjun Memorial, is named after the minister’s father, Arjun Rai. The minister, however, has been pleading innocence, saying the piece of land housing the school belongs to his brother Hans Lal Rai after partition of their ancestral properties among his four brothers.On Wednesday, chief minister Nitish Kumar had backed his minister, saying he had already explained his position that he had no relation with his brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/liquor-haul-after-tejashwi-turns-heat-police-move-court-for-arrest-of-minister-s-brother-101616085137194.html
18-03-2021||Patna||HAM-S, VIP sulk, say hoped for Council seats||The nomination of 12 members to Bihar Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota on Wednesday has led to strong resentment in two of the ruling NDA constituents, the HAM-S and the Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP).HAM-S and VIP have four members each in Assembly.“The nominations to Council have made us dejected. This should not have happened. We should have been accommodated,” said HAM-S president and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi. He, however, said, “We joined the alliance without any precondition.” Before the Cabinet expansion, the former CM had demanded one more ministerial berth. On Wednesday, HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan had spoken about “drastic action” after the party’s claim was overlooked.VIP too expressed its displeasure. “We oppose this. VIP should have been consulted on the issue,” spokesperson Rajiv Mishra said, adding that party president Mukesh Sahni had earlier demanded that a person from Nonia community be made an MLC. The two parties are crucial for the NDA government’s survival in the state as they have 126 members in the House. Newly appointed MLC Upendra Kushwaha, when asked about Manjhi’s objection to nominations, said, “I can’t comment as I am unaware of conditions on which HAM-S joined the NDA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hams-vip-sulk-say-hoped-for-council-seats-101616085136416.html
18-03-2021||Patna||Assembly passes 5 bills, false complaints to Lokayukta to invite penal action||The Bihar Legislative Assembly on Thursday passed five bills, including the Bihar Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, with a voice vote without any amendment as proposed by Opposition members. Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, who was also in-charge of the law department, moved the Bihar Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which proposes to curb fabricated complaints against public servants. As per the Bill, false complaints will lead to punitive action, including imprisonment up to three years and fine, for the complainant. Though many Opposition leaders, including Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma and RJD’s Lalit Yadav, said such harsh punishment could discourage whistle-blowers and embolden the corrupt, the amendments were rejected. “It has come to light that fictitious complaints are also being lodged before the Lokayukta, which leads to wastage of time of the institution. As there is no provision in the present Act under which action could be taken against those lodging false complaints, the amendment Bill has been necessitated in keeping with such provision in the Lokayukta Act of other states,” says the Bill. Another Bill is the Bihar Taxation Disputes Resolution Bill, 2021, moved by deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio. It proposes to identify ways for growth in state’s resources affected due to the pandemic. It repeals the Bihar Taxation Disputes Resolution Ordinance (second), 2020. “In view of Covid-19 pandemic, which has affected economic activities across the country, it was necessary to bring a new taxation dispute settlement bill with some modifications, though a law in this regard was in place since 2015,” he said. The third Bill is the Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which provides greater autonomy to the civic bodies to ensure smooth, transparent and uniform recruitment process on created posts. It also proposes effective curb on encroachment on public roads. The fourth Bill is the Bihar Civil Courts Bill, 2021. So far, Bihar was included in the Bengal, Agra and Assam Civil Courts Act, 1887, enacted during the British rule. “It is a historic day for the Bihar civil courts,” said Bijendra Prasad Yadav. The House also passed the Bihar Appropriation Excess Expenditure (1984-85) Bill, 2021, to regulate the excess expenditure of ₹39,910 crore through the consolidated fund on the recommendation of the public accounts committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/assembly-passes-5-bills-false-complaints-to-lokayukta-to-invite-penal-action-101616085135890.html
18-03-2021||Other||Allegations of fraud against Salman, Satish Kaushik: Spl court asks police to submit report||Alleging fraud by film-maker Satish Kaushik and actor Salman Khan, one Lal Bihari Mritak, on whose life Hindi movie “Kaagaz” was made, on Wednesday filed an application in the court of special judge Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Azamgarh. The court accepted the application and directed Mubarakpur police of Azamgarh district to present a report by March 30 while asking the police whether any FIR in this regard was registered at the police station. While Satish Kaushik has directed the movie, actor Salman Khan has produced it. The court’s direction came after Lal Bihari, a farmer who struggled for 18 years to get corrected the official records in which he was declared dead in 1976, moved the court accusing Kaushik and Khan of going back on the promises made to him for his consent to the making of the movie.Urging the court that a case should be registered against the film’s director Satish Kaushik and Salman Khan, Lal Bihari filed the application through his advocate Madan Mukund Rai. Rai said the application was filed under Section 156 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc). “Impressed by my life and story, Kaushik along with scriptwriter Imtiaz Hussain met me in 2003. After a long conversation, I gave them my consent for making the film on my life,” Lal Bihari said. He said Kaushik did not keep his promise of narrating the movie script before filming it. he further said Kaushik promised to call the film Main Zinda Hu. “But he titled the movie Kaagaz. Kaushik did not take my permission to change the title,” he alleged.Lal Bihari said he was a respected farmer and a weaver but had been portrayed as a member of a band party. “I have strong objection to it. Kaushik promised me that my name will remain the same in the film. But in the movie, my name has been changed and I have been shown as Bharat Lal Mritak. I have a strong objection to this too. Certain highly objectionable words have been used in the film. These words hurt my sentiments.”He alleged that Kaushik cheated him by getting an agreement signed for his consent for making the movie. “As per promise, I gave consent to Kaushik to produce the film on my life and struggle. But the film’s producer is Salman Khan. That is why they did fraud with me.”The makers of Kaagaz were not immediately available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-of-fraud-against-salman-satish-kaushik-spl-court-asks-police-to-submit-report-101616085015903.html
18-03-2021||Other||Realtor in police custody for allegedly cheating 66-year-old of ₹1.9 crore||PUNE A realtor was arrested by Pune police on Wednesday for allegedly duping a 66-year-old of ₹1.9 crore in a property-related investment scheme.The arrested man has been identified as Kagdish Unecha while the complainant is an architect living in Manikbaug on Sinhagad road.The complainant submitted that in 2015, he invested ₹1 crore in Unecha’s company called “Unecha Associates” to earn regular returns with attractive interest rates.Sometime later, the complainant had asked for a part of the principal amount to be returned to him, according to him.However, the accused man then convinced him to not pull out the investment as the returns on it were going to increase. In the form of assurance, Unecha allegedly told the complainant that the project in which the money was invested is close to completion and that booking in the scheme had picked up the pace. However, the complainant found that no part of the project was completed and that the construction had shut down.While the complainant got returns for some time, the payment stopped coming since September 2016, he told the police.With the interest he was promised, the realtor allegedly owes the complainant a total of ₹1,91,00,000, according to the police.“There are two others booked in the case along with Unecha. He has been remanded to police custody till March 22,” said senior police inspector Murlidhar Karpe of Deccan police station.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act was registered at Deccan Gymkhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/realtor-in-police-custody-for-allegedly-cheating-66-year-old-of-rs-1-9-crore-101616084895815.html
18-03-2021||Other||₹118 cr estimate sent for incomplete Begum Bazaar ROB||Starting its efforts again to complete the remaining work of Begum Bazaar railway over bridge (ROB) here, the UP State Bridge Corporation has sent a fresh estimate of ₹118 crore to the state government for approval, say officials privy to the development. The ROB from Bhagwatpur to Begum Bazaar being constructed at the time at a cost of ₹48 crore was almost 90 percent complete when the Indian Air Force (IAF) objected to it just before the Kumbh 2019, saying that no NOC had been taken from it for the construction and that the ROB would affect take-offs and landings of its aircraft. The construction work had started in 2017.They claim that just a pillar and connected work remains to be constructed of this 850-metre ROB which has a height of 10 metre. Efforts were made by the officials of the bridge corporation as well as the district administration but the standoff continued and the no objection certificate (NOC) needed from the IAF to proceed ahead did not materialise, officials said.Project manager Amit Verma said out of this estimate, ₹70 crore was for the IAF in lieu of the land needed for the construction while the remaining ₹48 crore was for the ROB construction.Either the IAF will have to be given an alternate land or money. The state government would take a call on this, the official claimed.He said completing the ROB was a high priority of the UP Bridge Corporation and state government.Once complete, the over bridge is expected to greatly improve rural and rural connect of Prayagraj region by providing better connectivity to Kaushambi district and also permanently solve the traffic snarls witnessed in the area, the officials add.The issue of delay in completion of the Begum Bazaar ROB was even raised in Parliament by Phulpur MP Keshari Devi Patel last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-118-cr-estimate-sent-for-incomplete-begum-bazaar-rob-101616084715870.html
18-03-2021||Other||Woman robbed of jewellery worth ₹1 lakh||PUNE A 70-year-old woman was robbed by two men who took her to a locality in Rasta peth with a false promise of “free medicine.” The incident took place on Wednesday afternoon.She was walking past a jewellery shop in Rasta peth to get her medicines when two men in their early 20s approached her and said that their employer was distributing free medicine in the celebration of his son’s birth.The woman followed them near a garment shop and drank the water that one of them offered. One of the men then allegedly pressed a handkerchief to her face while the other pulled the gold bangles from her hand and fled the spot.The bangles collectively cost ₹1,00,000, according to the police.The police are now checking the nearby CCTV footage to find out who robbed the woman of her jewellery.A case under Sections 392, 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-robbed-of-jewellery-worth-rs-1-lakh-101616084356544.html
18-03-2021||Other||‘No Covid deaths in Prayagraj in over 5 weeks’||Despite the recent spike in corona cases in different parts of the country, Sangam city has not reported any deaths due to Covid-19 infection in the past over 35 days. Giving this information, district surveillance officer Dr Rahul Singh said the analysis of Prayagraj Covid-19 statistics revealed that the percentage of people who tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 infection was merely 2.58 per cent right since outbreak of the pandemic. Chief medical officer, Prayagraj, Dr Prabhakar Rai said statistics also reveal that the death percentage among Covid-19 positive patients in the district was 1.39 per cent. Moreover, around 99.90 per cent of patients have recovered from the infection through home isolation method itself.However, the infection rate reported in March 2021 so far has been mere 0.15 per cent of the total samples collected in the past fortnight of this month, inform district health officials. After analysing the records, officials of the district health department claim to have collected a total of 11,35,335 samples for Covid-19 tests and 29,394 of these testing positive for Covid-19 infection in the past one year, they say.Data show that 21,756 patients recovered in home isolation while 7,189 others were discharged after recovery from various Covid hospitals, the CMO added. As many as 48,122 samples were collected for testing including 32,922 samples for antigen test, 13,764 for RT-PCR test and 1,436 for Truenet Covid test since March 1, 2021. Till March 16, 74 of them tested positive. “This means that the infection rate after March 1 till March 16 has been 0.15 per cent,” Dr Rahul Singh added.Expressing satisfaction over the constant fall in infection levels in the city in the past fortnight, Dr Singh appealed to locals to maintain social distancing and use of facemask and sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-deaths-in-prayagraj-in-over-5-weeks-101616084355835.html
18-03-2021||Other||Yogi blesses 3,507 couples at mass marriage ceremony||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday hit out at the Opposition for having criticised his government when it came up with a scheme for the mass marriage of daughters of poor construction workers.“When the mass marriage scheme was launched, the Opposition parties had termed it as “disrespect” to the daughters. However, today, more than one-and-a half lakh daughters in the state have got married (so far under the scheme). Most of them are from poor families,” Adityanath said.He was speaking on the occasion of a mass marriage ceremony where 3,507 couples tied the knot at a huge pandal (tent) set up at the Vrindavan Yojana ground in the state capital.Daughters of construction workers registered in Lucknow, Unnao, Lakhimpur, Barabanki , Sitapur, Rae Bareli, and Hardoi districts got married at the Thursday’s ceremony held as per the accepted religious customs and traditions.The CM congratulated the labour department for successfully conducting the most number of marriages at a single venue. Labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya described the mass marriage as a world record.The previous record was set at Moradabad on February 16 when the marriage of 2,754 poor women had been solemnized, according to the state government.Adityanath said, “Kanyadaan in the Indian tradition is the greatest gift.”The government provides financial assistance of ₹55,000 to each registered daughter, whereas monetary aid of ₹ ₹75,000 is given for the women with disabilities. An arrangement of ₹2.10 crore was made to conduct the community marriage in Lucknow. Ninety-six Muslim couples also tied the knot on the occasion.Follow Covid protocols: CMThe chief minister appealed to people across the state to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols and make use of hand sanitisers and masks. Laying stress on social distancing, Adityanath motivated people to focus on both life and well-being for a prosperous and healthy Uttar Pradesh.He said the state government ensured basic facilities like food, water and shelter to street vendors, 54 lakh migrant labourers and destitute persons and initiated the concept of community kitchens during the lockdown. Besides, the government distributed free-of-cost gas cylinders to the needy for a span of six months, he said. About 6.75 crore food packets were distributed to poor and the needy during the lockdown, he added.Elation, selfie momentsVinay Nishad and Radha Kumari, one of the 3,507 couples who tied the knot at a huge pandal (tent) set up at the Vrindavan Yojana ground here on Thursday, were elated when they found chief minister Yogi Adityanath blessing them.“I never expected to get blessings from the chief minister. I don’t have the words to express my joy,” Nishad said.Several of the newly wed couples took selfies at the selfie point meant for them. Many of them were also seen taking selfies when the chief minister went to bless them and hand over their marriage certificates to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-blesses-3-507-couples-at-mass-marriage-ceremony-101616083577292.html
18-03-2021||Other||Two health officials test positive after vaccination; urge govt to delay second dose||PUNE Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), along with Dr Subhash Salunke (73), advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, have been infected with the Sar-Cov-2 virus after taking the vaccine dose.While Bharti tested positive four days after he took the first dose, Salunke contracted the virus on March 15, almost three weeks (February 23) after he was administered a second dose of Covishield, an Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India (SII).Salunke has now written to the state and central governments requesting them to delay the second dose of the vaccine. He has urged the authorities to probe which variants of the Covid are escaping the vaccine.In a letter, Salunke said, for better efficacy, the second dose needs to be delayed. “This is as if the virus is avoiding antibodies among those vaccinated,” said Salunke, now admitted to a government hospital. According to doctors, Salunke has mild symptoms.During the second week of March, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), an advisory committee constituted by the government, reviewed the gap between two doses and decided to continue with four to six weeks of interval for two doses of Covishield or Covaxin, another vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has on the other hand has recommended two doses with an interval of eight to 12 weeks. The report published in the medical journal Lancet on March 6, 2021, also found strong evidence supporting “a longer-interval immunisation strategy.”On the efficacy of the vaccine, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head scientist of the Epidemiology and Communicable diseases Division at the Indian Council of Medical Research and head of CG Pandit National Chairs of ICMR, said vaccines ensure that the infection is not severe.“When we talk about the efficacy of vaccines, it can protect the patient from severe illness and eventually death. This does not mean that the patient will not get mild symptoms or be asymptomatic. To protect oneself from Covid entirely, following Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and social distancing is important. Whether 14 days or beyond 14 days after the second vaccine doses, the risk of infection remains,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.He further added that it is observed globally, that if somebody gets an infection after vaccination, it is likely that the transmission efficiency to affect others is reduced as the viral load is less.“So after a vaccine is taken the transmission of Covid is less. Wearing a mask is the best solution to avoid Covid infection,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.Last week, two staffers from city-based Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital also tested positive after taking both doses of the vaccine. Both the staffers tested positive after 14 days of taking the second jabs.“I am asymptomatic and have isolated myself at home along with my family. I do not have mild symptoms also. I had taken the Covishield vaccine on March 13,” said Dr Bharti.Dr Bharti added that his family also tested positive. “My wife had taken the second dose of Covishield vaccine, but she tested positive in less than 14 days after taking the vaccine,” said Dr Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-health-officials-test-positive-after-vaccination-urge-govt-to-delay-second-dose-101616083395838.html
18-03-2021||Other||55-year-old dies after being run over by PMC garbage truck||PUNE A man was killed when a garbage truck of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ran over him near KK Market on Wednesday morning. The man died under treatment at a local hospital on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Vilas Krushnaji Kadam (55), a resident of Shankar Maharaj Vasahat in Dhankawadi. While the dumper truck driver has been identified as Kumar Rakh (26), a resident of Katraj. He was arrested and later released on bail.“It was a garbage collection truck of the PMC. We are looking for footage of the incident to verify how he (the victim) came in contact with the truck. When we reached the accident spot, he was in a pool of blood and the vehicle had been moved aside. We took him to Sassoon, but he was declared dead within ten minutes of admission,” said police sub-inspector Vilas Baburao Gujar of Sahakarnagar police station who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Kiran Kadam (32), a resident of Dhankawadi and the son of the deceased man.A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/55yearold-dies-after-being-run-over-by-pmc-garbage-truck-101616083335765.html
18-03-2021||Other||CBI arrests two directors of Bengal chit fund company in Lucknow||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday arrested two directors of a West Bengal-based chit fund company from their hideout at Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar in connection with an over 42-month-old case of cheating their investors, said CBI officials. The company is based in Asansol in West Bengal.CBI spokesman RK Gaur said the two accused, Saket Banerjee and Kamaljeet Banerjee, both directors of M/s Global Infra Energy Limited, were absconding since the registration of a CBI case against them on September 15, 2017 on the orders of the Jharkhand high court. He said the CBI had taken over an ongoing investigation against them in connection with an FIR registered at the Mihijam police station of Jamtara district in Jharkhand.Gaur said that it was alleged that the two had entered into a conspiracy with other directors of the company and induced the investors with the promise of unrealistically high returns on their investments, claiming that the company was authorised to do so by the statutory bodies like RBI and SEBI.He said it was further alleged that the victims, so induced, were made to part with their money by way of investing in the various deposit schemes of the company. He said the two accused allegedly duped thousands of investors from Jharkhand, Bihar and West Bengal and took their hard-earned money through lucrative schemes. The two accused, thereafter, fled without making payment of the maturity amount.The spokesman said both the arrested accused were produced before the competent court in Lucknow and were remanded in judicial custody. He said the investigators will further apply for their custody remand to interrogate them in connection with the case.The investigators are trying to find out other people who were associated with them and involved in cheating investors, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-arrests-two-directors-of-bengal-chit-fund-company-in-lucknow-101616082555742.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||400th birth anniv of Guru Tegh Bahadur: Amid Covid surge, thousands take part in Baba Bakala event||Amid the fresh wave of Covid-19, thousands of people attended a religious function organised by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Baba Bakala on Thursday giving two hoots to the fresh safety guidelines. Amritsar deputy commissioner (DC) Gurpreet Singh Khaira had made it mandatory to have Covid-19 negative reports for all those attending gatherings. On the sideline of the function, SGPC chief Jagir Kaur said more mega events will be organised to mark the birth anniversary of the ninth Guru ahead of Hola Mohalla in Anandpur Sahib. She appealed to the Sikh sangat to take part in huge numbers in the events. She also condemned the orders of the Amritsar and Rupnagar DCs, saying: “How can lakhs of people get themselves tested within 72 hours?” Kaur said she had requested the CM not to “create hurdles in the events” by getting such orders issued. “If he (the CM) wants us not to organise such events, he should himself make an announcement in this regard. Authorities shouldn’t stop the people from coming,” she said. At the event, social distancing norms were violated and there were few people with face masks, not even the organisers. “The organisers of any social, religious, sports, entertainment or culture event shall ensure that any person attending the event should be either tested negative for Covid 72 hours prior to the event, or should have been vaccinated,” the DC had ordered. He had also said that the ceiling of 100 people (for indoor) and 200 people (for outdoor) for all gatherings shall strictly be enforced. There was provision of fine against the violators. The DC said he will enquire about the Baba Bakala event, adding they have already asked the religious bodies to cooperate with the health department’s guidelines. “With 213 new cases reported on Thursday, we have imposed night curfew in the district. We are also going to ensure strictness in the planned functions of all religions,” he said, adding that if need arises, meetings will be conducted with the religious bodies to make them aware about the seriousness of the condition. Meanwhile, addressing the gathering, Akal Takht’s acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh compared the present time with the Aurangzeb’s rule. He termed the “conspiracies” of governments of the times to oppress the minorities as “dangerous”. “Guru Tegh Bahadur’s entire life was an inspiration for the people. The guru had opposed the conversion of other communities into Muslim religion, and martyred for the cause. The people different religions and cultures live in the country. The religious independence and rights of the people should be protected.” SGPC chief said a special religious procession will be organised on March 20 from Amritsar to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/400th-birth-anniv-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-amid-covid-surge-thousands-take-part-in-baba-bakala-event-101616080756310.html
18-03-2021||Other||4,973 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours on Thursday||PUNE Pune district reported a major spike, with 4,973 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours on Thursday; 4K+ cases for a second day in a row, as per the state health department. Three deaths were reported on Thursday, one in Pune rural and two in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. No death was reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). PMC has so far reported 2,33,583 Covid cases and 4,638 deaths, till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,14,194 cases so far, and a total of 1,346 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,07,239 total cases so far, and 2,177 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 4,55,016 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 4,11,267 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,210 deaths in the district. At present, there are 35,539 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 12,764 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 21,75,565. The recovery rate in the state is 90.79%.Across Maharashtra, 25,833 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 58 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.22%.Currently 8,13,211 people are in home quarantine and 7,079 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4973-fresh-covid-cases-in-24-hours-on-thursday-101616080575639.html
18-03-2021||Other||To reduce crowding, RTO to hold learning licence tests at Phulenagar branch as well||PUNE The Pune regional transport office (RTO) has now divided its learning licence tests between its two offices in the city. Earlier, the test was only happening at the main Sangamwadi office. Now, it will also be conducted at the RTO’s Phulenagar (Alandi road) branch.This has been done to reduce the crowds at any one office, in the face of the increasing Covid numbers in the city.Also, the earlier daily quota of 700 has been reduced to 350 at Sangamwadi RTO.“The Pune Sangamwadi daily quota for learning licence tests is 700, the highest in the state of any RTO. Looking at the increase in the daily number of Covid cases in Pune, there was a meeting held and it was decided to divide the applicants. The daily quota has been now reduced from 700 to 350 and learning licence tests have been started at the Phulenagar RTO as well,” said Ajit Shinde, Pune regional transport officer. Currently, at the Phulenagar RTO, only permanent licence tests are taken. Now an additional 150 to 200 learning licence tests will also be conducted here. Welcoming this decision, Sanket Khaldkar a learning licence applicant, said, “Last month I had gone to Sangamwadi RTO for my learning licence, and there was a massive crowd with no social distancing. Now that they are dividing the tests it is good for the public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-reduce-crowding-rto-to-hold-learning-licence-tests-at-phulenagar-branch-as-well-101616080095615.html
18-03-2021||Other||BJP eyes Swargate-Katraj underground route as Metro’s crowning glory||PUNE Despite the demand of the city’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to divert the Swargate-Katraj metro line through Market Yard, the PMC general body has cleared the underground Swargate-Katraj metro route via Satara road.The Swargate-Katraj extension was first demanded by member of the legislative assembly (MLA) Madhuri Misal of the BJP in 2017.Leader of the house in PMC, Shrinath Bhimale, and then, standing committee member and current mayor, Murlidhar Mohol, all of the BJP, followed suit.Bhimale insisted that the Swargate-Katraj metro route run through the Market Yard area, as he claimed there were obstacles of on Satara road and at the Y-shaped flyover near Swargate. The PMC assigned the Maharashtra Metrorail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) to prepare a detail project report (DPR) at the cost of ₹80 lakh. Maha-Metro changed the alignment of the extension and proposed the underground route.According to the DPR, Maha-Metro claimed an underground route would help ease traffic congestion on the Satara road.The route is expected to have a daily ridership of 6.68 lakh by 2027, going up to 10.72 lakh in 2057. Shrinath Bhimale, local corporator of the BJP in the Market Yard area said, “Now that the DPR has been approved by the general body it will definitely help residents of Katraj, and Satara road. The route changed as per the feasibility of the project because it is viable.”Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house in PMC, said, “DPR is pending for the last two years. We have not got funds from the state and central government yet.”Vivek Velankar, civic activist, said, “The Swargate-Katraj Metro route is a political agenda for the BJP. Party wants to project it as one of their achievements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-eyes-swargate-katraj-underground-route-as-metro-s-crowning-glory-101616079675529.html
18-03-2021||Other||7 Covid care centres, with total bed capacity of 1,550, to be activated in city: mayor||PUNE Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol declared on Thursday, that Covid care centres will be activated in various parts of the city, with a total bed capacity of 1,550. He also announced that the Jumbo Covid care centre at COEP will be operational from Monday, with 100 oxygen beds in the first phase active. “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will run the Jumbo facility on its own. PMRDA will not be a partner. From Monday, 100 oxygen beds will be available at the COEP jumbo facility. In next two-three days seven Covid care centres will be activated in various parts of the city, with a collective capacity of 1,550 beds,” said Mohol.Currently, a total of 3,978 beds are allocated for Covid patients in Pune. This covers government and private hospitals. In PMC limits there are a total of 881 beds allocated for Covid patients. At government hospitals, of the 659 allocated oxygen beds, 69 are currently vacant. Of 85 allocated ICU beds with ventilators in government hospitals, 33 are vacant. A total of 3,097 beds are allocated for Covid patients in private hospitals. Of these, 1,618 are allocated isolation beds with oxygen, 580 of which are vacant. Of the 235 allocated ICU beds with ventilators in private hospitals, 73 are vacant. According the PMC report on March 10, the number of critical patients was 364 and patients on oxygen support, was 721. The numbers increased on March 17 to 425 as critical, and 805 on oxygen support. “Currently 2,900-3,000 beds are occupied. Patients who need critical and oxygen care can get beds in hospitals,” Mohol added.PMC health authorities say that they are in talks with private hospitals to increase the availability of beds. “We get calls from patients, but they want beds in specific hospitals. If beds are not available, how can they admit? Through the war room we divert the patient to another hospital where beds are available. We are constantly talking to private hospitals to increase the bed numbers,” said Manisha Naik assistant medical officer, PMC.Covid care Centres to open in the city Rakshak nagar - 200 bedsPathare stadium, Kharadi - 300 bedsBaner - 300 bedsBankar school, Hadapsar – 300 bedsSant Dnyaneshwar hostel, Yerwada- 350 bedsSinhagad road – 100 beds Jumbo facilities COEP Jumbo hospital - 200 oxygen beds; 100 in first phase||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-covid-care-centres-with-total-bed-capacity-of-1-550-to-be-activated-in-city-mayor-101616078835539.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike, Mumbai breaks record too||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 25,833 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the health department. This took Maharashtra’s infection tally to 2,396,340, the highest across India, while the death toll rose to 53,138 with 58 more fatalities on the day.On Wednesday, 23,179 fresh infections were detected in the western state.Also Read | Covid-19: Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike in 181 daysThe state’s active caseload of the viral disease rose to 166,353 while 12,764 more hospital discharges took total recovered cases to 2,175,565, the health department data showed.Thursday’s rise in Maharashtra’s daily new Covid-19 cases is its highest in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. On September 11 last year, 24,886 cases were detected in the state. As of Wednesday night, Maharashtra had recorded more than 20,000 daily cases 16 times since March 2020, while the 23,000 threshold was breached six times, government data showed.Meanwhile, its capital city of Mumbai, too, witnessed its highest-ever rise as 2,877 new coronavirus cases were detected in the city, along with eight deaths, taking the infection tally and death toll to 352,851 and 11,559 respectively. Earlier, the metropolis’ highest single-day spike was recorded on October 7 last year, when 2,848 were recorded. In fact, for the first few days that month, the city saw more than 2,000 infections per day.Pune and Nagpur logged 4,965 and 3,976 new cases respectively, their infection tally rising to 453,532 and 182,552. The two districts also recorded 31 and 23 new deaths; Pune's death toll has reached 9,486, while Nagpur's is at 4,528.Even as Maharashtra is witnessing a fresh wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the government has ruled out a state-wide lockdown for now, though chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers and officials have repeatedly warned of a shutdown if people fail to wear masks and not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. However, officials at district level have announced night curfews/restrictions/lockdown for their respective districts in a bid to curb the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-close-to-26-000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-2-4-million-101616078503584.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal passes budget management amendment Bill amid Opposition’s walkout||Amid protests from the Congress and Communist Party of India ( Marxist ), the BJP-ruled state government passed the Himachal Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Amendment Bill, 2021, on Thursday. The Opposition — Congress and CPI (M) — strongly opposed the passage of the amendment bill and members of legislative assembly (MLAs) of both parties walked out of the House in protest.The government, however, clarified that FRBM Bill has been amended to regularise loans taken by the then Congress government in excess of 3 % of the gross domestic product (GDP) between 2019-20 and 2012 -2015.In the absence of chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said amending FRBM was just a technical aspect. “The former Congress government violated the limit of borrowing between 2012 and 2015. Due to lack of recovery of GST in 2019-20, the limit for taking loans for all states, not just Himachal Pradesh, had to be increased as per instructions. The law has been amended to regularise this increased limit,” Bhardwaj said. Act ammended to correct Cong’s mistakes:BhardwajTaking a strong stance against the Opposition’s criticism, Bhardwaj said the FRBM Act has been amended to correct the mistakes of the former Congress government. “Amendment to FRBM has no relation with increasing the state’s borrowing limit in future,” he said, alleging that the former Congress government not only violated the FRBM Act but also did not think it needed to be rectified. Dismissing the Congress’s opposition as political, Bhardwaj said in the neighboring state of Punjab where Congress is in government, the FRBM Act has been amended to increase the borrowing limit during 2019-20.Earlier, Rakesh Singha of the CPI(M) had strongly opposed the amendment in the FRBM Act saying that if Himachal’s share in the collection of taxes due to GST has come down, the Central government should compensate it and not increase the state’s borrowing limit.This will go down as a black day in the history of HP: Agnihotri Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said, “ The government is committing a sin by passing this Bill and the Congress will not be a partner in this sin. This day will be known as a black day in the history of the state.” Agnihotri advised the government to withdraw the bill and send it to the select committee for reconsideration. “To compensate the loss of revenue due to reduction in the recovery of GST, the state government should go to Delhi with the Cabinet and the Opposition, demanding a special economic package from the Prime Minister, finance minister and minister of state in Delhi. It should be done so that the state can be saved from the burden of debt.” Congress’ Jagat Singh Negi, Harshvardhan Chauhan and Asha Kumari opposed the bill saying that the government cannot raise the limit of borrowing forever under the guise of a one-time exemption in the limit of borrowing.Congress and CPI (M) MLA Rakesh Singha walked out of the House before the Bill was passed. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj condemned the Opposition’s walkout, saying the government had to bring amendments to the FRBM Act much earlier, but it was delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-passes-budget-management-amendment-bill-amid-opposition-s-walkout-101616078476366.html
18-03-2021||Other||Micro-containment is mega Covid test residents of specific zones are failing||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and gram panchayats in rural Pune have declared several micro-containment zones in the city. All these containment zones are residential housing societies, supposedly, sealed by the civic bodies.However, all evidence points to the contrary. Residents are not following containment rules and moving in and out of the housing societies freely. Some residents of societies declared as micro-containment zones have temporarily shifted residence to avoid the restrictions on movement.Sun Universe society, which has been sealed by the Narhe gram panchayat since March 12, is a huge society located near the Navale bridge chowk.There is a hoarding declaring “micro containment zone”, displayed at the entrance. Movement in and out of the society, however, when HT visited the area on Thursday, was unrestricted.Speaking anonymously, a resident of the society said, “There Covid positive cases found in our society and Narhe gram panchayat workers came and sealed our society. I work in a private office and didn’t want to be stuck inside the society, so I have moved to my relative’s place for a few days.”Sushant Kute, ex-sarpanch and current member of the Narhe gram panchayat, said, “A second wave of Covid-19 is possible, so residents should follow rules strictly. We have found people roaming without masks, social distancing is not maintained properly and so some tough decisions had to be taken. Now there is a close watch on the micro containment zones in our gram panchayat and if needed we will make it stricter.”Similarly, PMC has also sealed several housing societies in the city. One such area is lane number 10 of Rajas Society, under the Kondhwa-Yewalewadi ward office.As per the order issued by Jyoti Dhotre, assistant municipal commissioner and ward officer, “As the number of Covid cases have gone above five in this area, it has been declared a micro-containment zone. Thermal checking of each person living in the area will be conducted and if the oxygen level is found below 94, that person will be immediately sent for a swab test. Residents should strictly follow the containment rules and do keep proper social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/microcontainment-is-mega-covid-test-residents-of-specific-zones-are-failing-101616078055442.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's own school education board DBSE registered, notification detailing modalities soon, says report||Delhi's own school education board DBSE has been registered and an official notification detailing its modalities is expected soon, according to officials at the Directorate of Education (DoE).The Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE), which was approved by the Cabinet on March 6, was registered on Tuesday."The board was officially registered on Tuesday and is expected to bring a most-awaited reform in the school assessment system."To start with, 20 to 25 Delhi government schools will be affiliated to DBSE from the 2021-22 academic session. Consultations are on with principals, teachers and parents concerned to decide upon which schools will be affiliated with the board in the first phase," a senior DoE official said.According to the official, the modalities are being worked out and a notification detailing everything is expected soon.The board will have a governing body chaired by the education minister. It will also have an executive body for day-to-day functions and will be headed by a CEO. Both bodies will have experts from industries, the education sector, principals of government and private schools, and bureaucrats, the official added.At present, there are about 1,000 government and 1,700 private schools in Delhi, nearly all of which are affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).In July last year, the Delhi government had constituted two committees to prepare the scheme and framework for the formation of the state education board and for curriculum reforms.Announcing the cabinet approval, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the present education system focuses only on learning by rote that needs to be changed. He added that high-end technique will be used to teach students of the new education board.He had said that all schools in the national capital will not be brought under the new education board in one go and private schools will have an option to choose from.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dbse-registered-notification-detailing-modalities-soon-says-report-101616075929046.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Khalistanis, Pakistanis other terrorists will not disturb Punjab's peace: CM||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has declared that under his government no Khalistani or Pakistani or any other terrorist activity will be allowed to disturb the peace of the state.According to Punjab CMO, "Taking serious note of perceptible increase in drone movement from across the border, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh declared that "as long as I' am here, no Khalistani or Pakistani or any other terrorist activity will be allowed to disturb the peace of the state."Singh also said, "I have read media reports about Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister wanting me to restrict the movement of people from Punjab to Himachal for religious purposes. I'm not in favour of restricting such movements. I haven't received a formal communication from him on this yet."The Punjab Chief Minister also said, "Night curfew will now be in place from 9 pm-5 am, instead of 11 pm-5 am, in the districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Ropar. All these districts are reporting more than 100 cases daily."It is noteworthy that the Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday said that the government is keeping an eye on the supply of weapons sent through drones from across the Pakistan border."Certain instances of supply of weapons through drones from across the Pakistan border have come to the notice of security and law enforcement agencies. The government has been taking various steps to meet such challenges, which include round-the-clock effective surveillance, streamlining the intelligence set up, capacity building of forces, patrolling on the borders along with sensitization of local population in border areas, the establishment of observation posts, border fencing, floodlighting, deployment and use of modern and hi-tech surveillance equipment, etc," the MHA replied to a question asked by an MP regarding the matter in the Rajya Sabha."The government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to stop cross-border intrusions and secure our territories, which inter-alia includes the deployment of Border Guarding Forces along the international borders, effective domination of the borders by patrolling, laying Nakas, manning observation posts along the borders, vulnerability mapping of Border Out Posts (BOPs), deployment of surveillance equipment, strengthening of the intelligence network, erection of border fencing and floodlighting and deployment of technological solutions in non-feasible areas like riverine gaps, etc," the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khalistanis-pakistanis-other-terrorists-will-not-disturb-punjab-s-peace-cm-101616074604218.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||'Serious and unforgivable mistakes': Maharashtra minister on why Mumbai police chief was transferred||A day after Mumbai police commissioner Pram Bir Singh was shunted out by the Maharashtra government, a state minister gave the reason for the decision. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday that Singh was transferred after some of his colleagues committed "serious and unforgivable mistakes"."This is not an administrative transfer (of Singh). Some things have come to light through the probes conducted by the NIA (National Investigation Agency) and the ATS (Anti-Terror Squad)," Deshmukh said at an event in Mumbai, according to news agency PTI.Also Watch: Decoding the fallout of Param Bir Singh's ouster for Maharashtra's ruling coalition"Some of the colleagues of the (former) Mumbai police chief (Singh) committed some serious mistakes. Those are unforgivable mistakes. Hence, he was transferred," Deshmukh further said in his first public comments after Singh's transfer.The minister said that action will be taken against whoever is found guilty in the respective probes by the NIA and ATS.Singh was transferred on Wednesday amid the controversy over last month’s bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and subsequent arrest of former police officer Sachin Vaze.Although Singh, a 1988-batch officer, was transferred in a minor reshuffle of top police posts, it was clear that the ruling coalition - comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress - held him responsible for the inept handling of the bomb scare case.Vaze’s Saturday arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is said to be the reason behind his sudden transfer.Also Read: Vaze did it for lost glory, says NIAVaze, an "encounter specialist", has also been facing heat in the murder case of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of that SUV. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5.Maharashtra Police's ATS is investigating the Hiran murder case. It had registered an FIR against unidentified persons days after Hiran's body was found.Hiran's wife accused Vaze of involvement in her husband's suspicious death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-on-mumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-s-transfer-101616074741441.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||More snow, rain in Valley from March 21 to 23: Met||The India meterological department (IMD) in Srinagar has predicted fresh rain and snowfall in Kashmir from March 21 to 23. So far, there has been back-to-back rainfall and snow in the upper reaches of Kashmir. IMD director Sonum Lotus said the weather will mainly remain clear or partly cloudy: “Light rain may take place at isolated places of Kashmir towards the evening. There is no forecast of any precepitation till March 20. There is 70% chance of light to moderate rain and snow from March 21 to 23,” he said.The summer capital, Srinagar, recorded a maximum temperature of 4.2°C at night while Jammu recorded a temperature of 15.5°C. Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as night temperature dropped to 1.5°C.Although, February saw a number of snow spells but the month also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperature. Kashmir experienced the harshest winter in 30 years with the temperature plunging to record levels in January. On January 31, Srinagar had recorded a temperature of -8.8°C, the lowest since January 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-snow-rain-in-valley-from-march-21-to-23-met-101616074876054.html
18-03-2021||Pune||Forum directs Pune-based developer to pay ₹3.56L with 10% interest for denying refund to consumer||PUNE The Pune district consumer redressal forum has directed FC road-based Xrbia developers to pay a compensation of ₹3.56 lakh with ten per cent interest to a consumer for denying a refund after she withdrew from a project. The forum has also asked the developer to pay an additional ₹28,000 towards compensation and expenses within forty-five days from the date of order.The forum comprising of members Anil Jawalekar, Shubhanghi Dunakhe and JV Deshmukh passed the order to the effect after a complaint was lodged by Shashikala Kamble, a resident of Sinhagad road.The complaint was filed on November 27, 2018, and the order was passed on March 16, 2021.Kamble in her complaint stated that she had booked a one BHK flat number 611 in the C3 building of the Eiffel towers residential project and also booked a 2 BHK flat number 602 in the A2 building of the said project. She paid ₹3.56 lakh through two cheques to the developer. After fourth months, Kamble got the quotation from the builder and found that she had been charged more for less area of the flat. She claimed that she was not informed about the reduction of the flat areas in square feet and took the decision to withdraw from the project and sought a refund. She requested for refund but her plea was denied. Accordingly, she filed a complaint with the consumer seeking compensation of ₹3.56 lakh with 24 per cent interest.Xrbia in its reply stated that the complaint was wrong and fabricated. “The complainant had booked flat 611 in C3 building and A2 in 602 building. The complainant had made a misrepresentation of size ( square feet ) in the complaint and after a complete inquiry had paid ₹3.56 lakh. The complainant cancelled the booking for personal reasons and never requested a refund.”“There is no reason behind the lodging of the said complaint by her. The complainant does not have any right to lodge a complaint and the said complaint must be dismissed thereof,” Xrbia stated in a written statement before the forum.The forum in its order stated “It can be concluded that Kamble had given ₹3.56 lakh to the developer. From the papers submitted on record, it is evident that the developer has not refunded the complainant post cancellation of the booking. In its written submission, the developers said that it was appropriate to return the amount after taking the booking cancellation charges. However, the developer has not submitted any proof related to how much was scheduled to be recovered as cancellation charges and how much amount was to be refunded.”“Despite repeated requests, the developer did not refund the booking amount exhibiting deficiency in service. The complainant is eligible to claim a refund along with interest from the developer,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forum-directs-pune-based-developer-to-pay-rs-3-56l-with-10-interest-for-denying-refund-to-consumer-101616073255150.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||After 2 years, rail motor car service resumes on Kalka-Shimla track||The Northern Railway started the Kalka-Shimla-Kalka rail motor car (RMC) as part of mail express special trains after two years on Thursday. Seven passengers availed the service on the first day. Shimla railway station superintendent Prince Sethi said the Rail Motor Car Special 04505 will depart from Kalka at 05.25am and will reach Shimla at 09.50am. En route to Shimla, the special rail car will stop at Barog station. In the return journey, Shimla-Kalka Rail motor car special will depart from Shimla at 11.40am and will reach Kalka at 4.30pm. The coach type of this RMC is first class and its carrying capacity is 15 passengers. The fare is ₹800 per passenger and no concession is being given on tickets. The advance reservation period (ARP) is 30 days. Passengers can book their tickets through PRS counters and online e-ticketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-2-years-rail-motor-car-service-resumed-on-kalka-shimla-track-101616072775864.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: No need to panic, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal | Key points||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday addressed a virtual press conference as the national capital finds itself on the verge of a fresh wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The city recorded 536 new cases on March 17, making it the first time in two months that it saw more than 500 fresh daily infections.Also Read | Can vaccinate Delhi’s adult population in 3 months if norms relaxed: KejriwalDelhi’s Covid-19 tally stood at 645,025 as of Wednesday night. This includes 631,375 recoveries, 10,948 related deaths and 2,702 active cases, as per the health department.Here’s a look at some key points from CM Kejriwal’s address:(1.) ‘No need to panic’: The chief minister said the increase in Covid cases in the city was “marginal” and there was no need to panic. “We are following the situation closely,” Kejriwal said.(2.) ‘Leniency crept in’: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor pointed at “leniency,” that he said, crept into the system due to low number of daily coronavirus cases, further announcing that strict instructions have been issued with regards to tracing, testing, isolation and surveillance.(3.) ‘Avoid vaccine hesitancy’: Kejriwal urged people to not hesitate in getting vaccinated against the viral disease. The CM gave example of himself and his parents; they received their first jabs on March 4. All those who are eligible for a shot should take it, he said.Also Read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gets first dose of Covid vaccine at Lok Nayak Hospital(4.) ‘125,000 doses to be administered daily’: He also said that the daily number of vaccine doses being administered will be increased from 30,000-40,000 to 125,000. Kejriwal further announced that the number of vaccination centres will be doubled from 500 to 1,000.(5.) ‘Relax vaccination guidelines’: The Delhi CM urged the central government to relax various norms pertaining to vaccination centres. He also urged the Centre to make a list of people who are not eligible for inoculation, and make vaccination open to all others. Kejriwal added that if rules are relaxed, the Delhi government will vaccinate all the residents of the city in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-no-need-to-panic-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-key-points-101616071710825.html
18-03-2021||Ranchi||Amid Covid-19 surge, Jharkhand to run campaign against those not wearing mask||Amid the increasing Covid-19 cases, the Jharkhand health department on Thursday directed all district officials to start a special campaign to check those who are not wearing masks and take action against them.According to the Union health ministry, there are 599 active cases in Jharkhand whereas 1,19,160 people have recovered from the disease till now. 90 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, as per the health ministry's update on Thursday morning."The death toll due to Covid-19 in the state now stands at 1,094," the ministry said.Overall, India registered 35,871 fresh cases and 172 related deaths in the last 24 hours.On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the chief ministers and asked them to take measures in order to check the spread of growing Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/amid-covid-19-surge-jharkhand-to-run-campaign-against-those-not-wearing-mask-101616072000832.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Freedom to Religion Bill doesn’t make it to Haryana budget session||The proposed Freedom to Religion Bill was not tabled during the budget session of the Haryana assembly that drew to a close on Thursday. A day before the session began on March 5, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that he did not agree with the phrase love-jihad, a term coined by state home minister Anil Vij for the proposed Bill. Chautala said that his Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), an ally of the ruling BJP, will support the move to enact a law for stopping forced religious conversions. “But if someone is willing to convert on his own, there should not be a bar,” he said. Vij had said earlier that the state government planned to introduce the Bill to curb love-jihad in the assembly’s budget session. On November 6 last year, he told the assembly that the government was compiling information about instances where forced religious conversions took place to give effect to an inter-faith wedding. Chief minister ML Khattar had also said that the state government would introduce the Bill to stop forced conversions. “People are free to adopt any religion in an informed manner but using coercion, allurement to force religious conversions is a matter of concern. We are studying similar laws enacted by other states and will accordingly take a call,” Khattar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/freedom-to-religion-bill-doesn-t-make-it-to-haryana-budget-session-101616071695727.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram asks MEA to bring Una man’s mortal remains from Saudi Arabia||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has sought Union minister for external affairs Subrahmanyam Jaishankar’s intervention to have the mortal remains of an Una resident who was buried in Saudi Arabia brought back to India so that his last rites can be performed as per Hindu traditions. The victim, Sanjeev Kumar of Una, had been working as a truck driver in Saudi Arabia since 1999 and had died in Besh Hospital in Jizan region of Jaddah on January 24. After his death, Sanjeev’s family contacted the Indian Embassy in the Saudi Arabia so that his mortal remains could be brought to India for cremation as per the Hindu rites. However, on February 18, the owner of the company told the family that they had buried Kumar in a Muslim graveyard and even forwarded a copy of the death certificate and burial permit, which erroneously mentioned Kumar’s religion as Muslim. The CM said the family as well as the state government has taken up the matter with the ministry of external affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-asks-mea-to-bring-una-man-s-mortal-remains-from-saudi-arabia-101616070796368.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Four of Sangrur family die as car rams into tree, transformer||Four members of a family, including a nine-year-old boy, were killed in a road accident in Muktsar district on Thursday. Satnam Singh, his wife Rani Kaur, Satnam’s sister Raghubir Kaur and her minor son Sukhjot Singh died on the spot, police said. They belonged to Bhammipur village in Sangrur district and were on their way to Muktsar. Car driver Rajwinder Singh was rushed to the civil hospital at Gidderbaha. The car crashed into a tree and an electricity transformer near Bhalaiana village on the Bathinda-Muktsar road. Police sources said the driver is suspected to have dozed off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-sangrur-family-die-as-car-rams-into-tree-transformer-101616070436117.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Former CM Parkash Singh Badal leaves for Gurugram after attendants test positive||Parkash Singh Badal, the 93-year-old former chief minister of Punjab and Akali patriarch, left for Gurugram on Thursday afternoon, a day after his personal attendant and cook tested positive for Covid-19. Badal took a chartered plane with his aides from Bhisiana civil airport near Bathinda. Muktsar civil surgeon Ranju Singla said Badal’s Covid test report was negative on Thursday. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sources said the Badal family was concerned about the health of the veteran leader after members of his personal staff and party president Sukhbir Singh Badal tested have positive since Tuesday. On Wednesday, three persons working at Badal’s farmhouse in Muktsar tested positive. Sukhbir moved to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram for further medical care, while his wife and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal is reportedly staying in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-cm-parkash-singh-badal-leaves-for-gurugram-after-attendants-test-positive-101616069475646.html
18-03-2021||Lucknow||Blessed by PM Modi, Varanasi’s wooden toys get makeover for new markets||The wooden toy engine displayed in a shop starts chugging and the wooden lantern begins to glow, while the chariot rolls forward with the press of a button. These are modern versions of the famous lacquered wooden toys of Varanasi, known for antiquity and beauty, as they come alive in a designer and electric ‘avatar’ to keep pace with the demands of the global market. These traditional wooden toys, including train engines, carts, chariots, and lanterns are now battery-operated, courtesy awarded designer craftsman Rajkumar Singh. Singh started working on electric wooden toys last November and succeeded in operating the wooden train engine with a battery. Later wooden chariots, wooden carts and wooden lanterns were also fitted with batteries. “The new concept of wooden toys has got a very good response from the buyers in the domestic market. People like them,” said Singh and added that many people bought them for decoration purposes, while children purchased them to play. “Battery operated wooden toys, including train engines, wooden carts, chariots and lanterns are all set to land in the international market. Initially, we are making 100 sets of each of these wooden toys for export,” Singh said. These toys will be exported to Russia, Germany, France, Australia, USA and also Sri Lanka, Japan and Thailand to gauge the response, added Singh. A post graduate in fine arts, Singh learnt the craft of shaping wood into toys from his father, national merit award winner craftsman Rameshwar Singh, who had been carving gods and goddesses for three decades. Singh said wooden parrots, myna, elephants, horses and chariots were much in demand in domestic markets, while Russian dolls, Indian dolls and traditional Indian couple were in demand abroad.His father and ace craftsman, Rameshwar Singh, is quite enthusiastic after getting an assurance from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who spoke to him via video conferencing after inaugurating the toy fair.“I am thankful to PM Modi for assuring us all possible support for the promotion of wooden toys. His assurance has acted as a catalyst and encouraged all the artisans to innovate further in making wooden toys. We are working on new designs while maintaining antiquity and exclusiveness of the toys.” Singh is the son of late Ramkhilawan Singh, who was popularly known as the ‘Bhishma Pitamah’ of wood craft and toy making. He played a crucial role in reviving wooden toy making in Varanasi over three decades ago when this craft was dying, said Padma awardee Dr Rajnikant, who is credited with getting GI (geographical indication) tag to 13 handicraft items, including wooden toys in Kashi. The wooden toys made in Kashi are exclusive in design and diversity. Wooden toys on mythological characters are also made here. The artisans also make beautiful masks, which are used by the actors in Ramleela. In addition, toys like ghunghuna, jhunjhuna, different birds, horses, elephants, carts and many more are made of wood. Dr Rajnikant said idols of deities were very popular and high in demand in Mauritius and certain other countries. Omprakash Sharma, another awarded craftsman, is expert in making wooden idols of deities, he said. According to him, a common facility hub equipped with a training centre for diversification in designs of wooden toys, a raw material depot and proper packaging centre should be set up in Kashi to make artisans aware of the current international and national trends. The size of Varanasi wooden toys’ market is around ₹15 to 20 crore including annual exports worth ₹5 crore, said an official. Divisional commissioner, Varanasi, Deepak Agarwal said, “A concrete plan has been made for promoting export of the wooden toys and other handicraft items made in Kashi. As part of the plan, craftsmen and artisans are being imparted training in design diversification.” He said a group of artisans had already been imparted training, including soft skills. They are also being introduced to online platforms, where they may sell their products. Through this training, the artisans are also imparted knowledge of basic financial literacy, including handling foreign exchange and learning the process to register their products for export to reduce their dependency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/blessed-by-pm-modi-varanasi-s-wooden-toys-get-makeover-for-new-markets-101616069355661.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||More leaders likely to follow Baig into People’s Conference||The People’s Conference, which split from the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, is trying to expand his base across Jammu and Kashmir. After former deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig, a former patron of the People’s Democratic Party, joined the People’s Conference, the party has received a major boost. Baig, a former MP from Baramulla had left the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) after his wife was denied a district development council (DDC) ticket.The People’s Conference (PC) had contested the DDC polls with the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of mainstream parties fighting for the restoration of Article 370, and had managed to win eight out of 12 seats in Kashmir where party candidates contested polls. After exiting the PAGD, the party managed to keep its hold on two important DDCs — Baramulla and Kupwara.PDP spokesperson Adnan Ashraf said many senior leaders will be joining the PC in coming days. “This is true but names cannot be revealed at the moment.”In a few days, Baig’s wife, Safeena Baig, who is DDC chairperson of Baramulla DDC, will also join the party. “Around half-a-dozen senior leaders are ready to join the PC, which will further strengthen the party across Kashmir and replace traditional parties. The PC is trying to attract more leaders to the party,” said a leader close to Sajjad Lone.The party’s general secretary and prominent Shia leader, Imraz Reza Ansari, had also dropped hints that many leaders will join the party and had even resigned from the post of general secretary to pave way for other senior leaders. However, Lone did not accept his resignation and praised him for his magnanimity.Sources within the PC said that half-a-dozen former ministers and legislators, including two former parliament members, could join Lone’s party. Most of leaders are from north and South Kashmir. Political analyst and editor of a local newspaper Asem Mohiudin says in the prevailing political situation changing political parties seems the only activity in Kashmir’s mainstream camp.“All local political leaders and parties find themselves on the defensive. Some emerging political parties are trying to grab the opportunity, especially the People’s Conference and Apni Party, to get some stalwarts into their fold to lend weight and legitimacy to their parties.” He said these parties have their eye on the next election in J&K. However, emergence of the People’s Confrence could dampen the Apni Party’s prospects. The Apni Party is trying lure former legislators and leaders towards the party after it was formed by Altaf Bukhari last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-leaders-likely-to-follow-baig-into-people-s-conference-101616068335957.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Open-ended NBW against Canada gangster behind YC leader killing||A Faridkot court has issued an open-ended non-bailable arrest warrant against the Canada-based main conspirator of the killing of the district Youth Congress president, Gurlal Singh Pehalwan. The district police had approached the court of chief judicial magistrate, Faridkot, Harvinder Singh Sindhia, seeking the open-ended non-bailable arrest warrant of Satinder Singh, alias Goldy Brar, who is living in Canada at present. This would help the police get a red corner notice issued against him. Unlike a non-bailable warrant, an open-ended non-bailable warrant does not carry a time limit for execution, while the red corner notices are issued by Interpol or international police on the request of a member country to prohibit the movement and subsequent handing over of an accused from across the globe. On February 18, two unidentified men shot dead 34-year-old Pehalwan near Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot. Pehalwan died on the spot after sustaining 12 bullet injuries. A few hours after the murder, a post on a purported Facebook page of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is currently in Rajasthan’s Ajmer jail, linked the crime with the death of Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar, a former state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). Brar was killed outside a mall in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, in October 2020. On February 21, Delhi Police arrested three men and claimed the murder was the fallout of a gang rivalry and it was orchestrated by Goldy Brar, with the help of Bishnoi, to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar. After arresting other suspects in the murder case, the Faridkot police named Bishnoi and Goldy as conspirators in this crime. The Faridkot court has already issued production warrants against Bishnoi. He will be produced in the court here on March 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/openended-nbw-against-canada-gangster-behind-yc-leader-killing-101616067555273.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM not in favour of job quota for locals||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday opposed the policy of job reservation for locals being followed by some states, including neighbouring Haryana. The chief minister said he was not in favour of the policy of excessive regionalisation being followed by certain states, announcing that “Amarinder stands for India for Indians”. “I believe that India is one country and too much regionalisation is not a good thing,” he said in response to a question on the Congress’ promise on compulsory recruitment of locals by private industry. In its 2017 manifesto, the Congress had promised “compulsory recruitment of local youth by industrial investors in Punjab up to 50% of the total workforce”. Recently, Haryana reserved 75% of jobs for locals in the private sector. Pointing out that there was no state in India where Punjabis were not flourishing and doing well, the chief minister said: “Why can’t Punjabis buy land in Himachal Pradesh or why don’t they have certain rights in Kashmir and Rajasthan?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-not-in-favour-of-job-quota-for-locals-101616065935427.html
18-03-2021||Other||Railways suspends loco pilot for running train in reverse direction for 20km||The railways has suspended a loco pilot, assistant loco pilot, and a guard of the Purnagiri Janshatabdi train after it moved in the reverse direction for 20km on the Tanakpur-Pilibhit track on Wednesday, Rajendra Singh, public relation officer, north-eastern railway division, said on Thursday. Singh added an inquiry has been initiated.The train with 60 people on board was on its way to Tanakpur from Delhi when it ran over a cow near Tanakpur railway station, officials aware of the matter said. The train was stopped before it started running in the reverse direction due to pressure pipe leakage that resulted in brake failure, they added. It moved at a speed of 40-50km per hour and sparked panic on board before it was stopped near Goshikuon by putting soil and aggregates on the railway track, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railways-suspends-loco-pilot-for-running-train-in-reverse-direction-for-20-km-101616065575383.html
18-03-2021||Other||In Maharashtra, Sena wrests Jalgaon civic body’s control from BJP||Shiv Sena won the elections for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor on Thursday, taking the control of Jalgaon municipal corporation from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The online election easily went the Sena way after 27 BJP corporators defected, and went on to vote for Sena candidates from a Thane hotel where they were lodged. Jayshree Mahajan won the mayor’s seat while Kulbhushan Patil won the election for the deputy mayor’s post.In the 2018 civic election, the BJP had got a clear majority by winning 57 seats in the 75-member corporation while the Sena bagged 13 seats. With the entry of 27 corporators, the Sena’s strength has risen to 40. It also had the backing of Independent corporators in the mayor’s election.This is the second setback for the BJP after it lost control over the Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad civic body to NCP-Congress around three weeks ago. Sena leaders claim that the municipal councillors rejected the BJP as it did not give them their due. Jalgaon guardian minister and Sena leader Gulabrao Patil said disgruntled corporators got in touch with Sena president Uddhav Thackeray and Eknath Shinde. “BJP did not fulfil promises made to these corporators. Senior leaders did not even know the names of their corporators...that’s why it is our [Sena] flag atop this corporation today,” said Patil, a minister in the MVA government in the state.Former BJP leader who quit the party to join the Nationalist Congress Party, Eknath Khadse, who hails from Jalgaon district, said, “BJP had singlehandedly held power in Jalgaon, but in the past 2-1/2 years, there have been several issues, including road works and water issues, which made corporators unhappy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-maharashtra-sena-wrests-jalgaon-civic-body-s-control-from-bjp-101616064555221.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Will move SC if President doesn’t give assent to Punjab amendments: CM||Reiterating that his government was opposed to the Centre’s farm laws, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Government of India to scrap the legislation and bring in new laws after fresh discussions on the issue with farmers. The chief minister declared that “we will go to the Supreme Court if the President does not given assent to the state amendment Bills”, which unfortunately the governor is still sitting on instead of forwarding them for presidential approval, even though the Vidhan Sabha had unanimously passed the Bills, with all parties voting for them. “It’s tragic, however, that the Akalis and the AAP later started playing political games on the issue,” he said. Addressing mediapersons on the completion of four years of his government, the chief minister declared that he could not see any middle path to break the stalemate between the farmers and the Centre. “What’s the use of making it a prestige issue? How many more farmers do you want to kill (with your adamant stand)? There are poor farmers sitting out there, with women and elderly,” he said, adding that Punjab alone has lost 112 farmers’ lives since the agitation began. “The Constitution has been amended more than 100 times in the past, so why can it not be done again to scrap these laws?” he asked. Delhi does not understand agriculture: CM The chief minister said he didn’t understand why the Centre was trying to break the age-old time-tested relationship between farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents). “The new laws are not an improvement on the existing system but will destroy the farming sector,” he said, asking where the poor farmers, comprising 75% of Punjab’s farmers, would go in case of need once the arhtiyas are replaced by big faceless corporates. “Delhi does not understand agriculture,” he said in response to a question on the new FCI policy of direct payment to farmers. In any case, said the chief minister, agriculture is a state subject, and the Centre has no right to legislate on the matter. Rebutting allegations of being party to the decision on the farm laws as a member of the Centre’s high-powered committee, he said that Punjab was not a member when the panel was initially announced and was included only later, by which time any policy decision had already been taken at the first meeting (in Punjab’s absence). The second meeting had financial agenda, and at the third, the agriculture secretary was present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-move-sc-if-president-doesn-t-give-assent-to-punjab-amendments-cm-101616063175466.html
18-03-2021||Bhopal||MiG-21 crash: Mortal remains of IAF fighter pilot taken for last rites||The body of the Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot Ashish Gupta, who was killed after a MiG-21 Bison aircraft met with an accident while taking off for a combat training mission, was brought to a crematorium in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior on Thursday, according to news agency ANI. Gupta, also a member of the Tactics and Air Combat Development Establishment, was declared dead after the MIG-21 Bison aircraft crash."The mortal remains of Indian Air Force pilot Ashish Gupta rested at the crematorium for last rites in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. He died in the MiG-21 Bison crash yesterday,” ANI tweeted.Gupta, according to Bharat Rakshak, had been a part of the fighter squadron and also trained to become a squadron pilot. He had previously also been eligible to fly the T-75 and Jaguar aircraft and held the position of a 4 aircraft Leader as well as of a trainer captain.During 'Operation Vijay' Gupta, flew 16 photo-reconnaissance missions to the enemy-held areas in Kargil, Mushkoh and Batalik sectors at altitudes of 1500' to 10,000' AGL. The mission was successful since IAF managed to retrieve vital information about the enemy locations using Gupta's professional acumen, excellency in flying and filming enemy targets. These photographs enabled the Air Force to strategise fire attacks, and also reduce IAF casualties. For his exemplary work during Operation Vijay, he was honoured with the Vayu Sena medal of 1999."A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning, while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India," the IAF said in a tweet."The IAF lost Group Captain A Gupta in the tragic accident. IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident," it added.Also read: IAF group captain killed in MiG-21 Bison crash in GwaliorThursday’s crash, in which Gupta was killed, is the second accident involving a MiG-21 Bison this year after an aircraft crashed near Rajasthan’s Suratgarh on January 5 but the pilot ejected safely.The Soviet-origin MiG-21 Bison is an upgraded version of the MiG-21 aircraft that IAF began inducting in the 1960s. IAF has around six squadrons of MiG-21 Bisons, which are capable of carrying beyond-visual-range missiles and other potent weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mig21-crash-mortal-remains-of-iaf-fighter-pilot-taken-for-last-rites-101616051205566.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sports university of Haryana Bill referred to select committee||The Haryana assembly on Thursday referred the Sports University of Haryana Bill, 2021, reintroduced in the House on Wednesday, to a select committee on Bills of the assembly. The Bill was withdrawn on March 8 following an objection by the central government. The reintroduced Bill carried a controversial provision (clause 6) which said that no special provision for employment or admission of women, persons with disabilities or of persons belonging to weaker sections of society, Scheduled Castes, and the other socially and educationally backward classes of citizens shall be made on the ground of domicile. This was first highlighted by Hindustan Times. Since the state government recently enacted a law providing 75% reservation in private sector jobs to Haryana domicile candidates, the provision in the sports university Bill runs contrary to it. Congress MLAs BB Batra, Kiran Choudhry, Raghuvir Singh Kadian, led by leader of the opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, raised the issue of domicile when the Bill came up for discussion in the assembly on Thursday. “The state government has gone in for reservation for Haryana domicile candidates in private sector jobs. But the Sports University of Haryana Bill says that domicile will not be a ground for employment or admission of women, persons with disabilities, weaker sections, Scheduled Castes,” Choudhry said. Subsequently chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar referred the Bill to a select committee of the assembly. The Bill was initially passed by the state assembly in August 2019 and was reserved by the governor for consideration of the President. Subsequently, the Union home ministry, in December 2019, wrote to the state government citing a Union HRD ministry office memorandum stating that as per the University Grant Commission (UGC) regulation, the chairman of the UGC will nominate a member of the selection committee for selection of vice-chancellor of state, private and deemed universities. In over five decades, this is only the fifth occasion when a Bill has been referred by the state assembly to a select committee for examination. Former Haryana assembly secretary to Speaker Ram Narain Yadav told HT that only four Bills have been referred to the select committee since 1966 when the first sitting of the assembly took place. Yadav said the first was Haryana Cattle Fair Bills referred to the select committee on June 15, 1967 and again on February 11, 1969. “The next were - Haryana Canal and Drainage Bill, 1973 referred on November 16, 1973; Indian Electricity (Haryana amendment) Bill, 1986 referred on December 2, 1986; and Haryana Lokpal Bill, 1996 referred on November 22, 1996,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sports-university-of-haryana-bill-referred-to-select-committee-101616061615386.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||FIR against Mumbai restaurant for flouting Covid-19 norms||The Mumbai Police have registered a first information report against a popular bar and restaurant for flouting social distancing norms amid spike in Covid-19 cases. The case was filed after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials raided the restaurant at 11.30pm on Wednesday, found the violations, and collected ₹19,200 fine from 245 people without masks. The restaurant was also found to be operating beyond the 50% capacity set for restaurants to operate in view of the pandemic. The BMC then shut the establishment and reported the matter to the police.Also Read | Schools shut in Maharashtra’s Palghar after students, teachers contract Covid-19“Based on the complaint of the BMC officers... we have registered a case against the restaurant owners and manager,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.BMC officials said after the restrictions were made more stringent, they have been vigilant and were conducting awareness drives in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-mumbai-restaurant-for-flouting-norms-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101616060835068.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra students body allege ‘overcharging’ by Mumbai university colleges||The Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS), a student organisation, has pleaded with the University of Mumbai and the state government to stop affiliated colleges from charging fees for facilities unused during Covid-19 restrictions. The organisation wants colleges to either refund fees, such as annual college fees, or adjust it in the 2021-22 academic year. MNVS cited examples of colleges reportedly flouting university norms to over-charge students, and also highlighted instances of fees charged for heads/services not used by students in the last one year. “The MU has clarified that colleges can only charge ₹500 as development fees, however, several affiliated colleges are charging anywhere between ₹3,000 to 5,000 and some also threaten students if the fees is unpaid,” said Santosh Gangurde, state vice president, MNVS. “The university requested colleges to not charge excess fees, but clearly colleges are playing by their own rules. We request the university to take action against such colleges that flout rules,” added Gangurde.In October last year, less than a month after colleges reopened with the help of virtual classes amidst Covid-19 pandemic, a varsity circular asked affiliated colleges to give students the option of paying fees in instalments due to the economic stress as a result of Covid-19 crisis. Colleges were also asked not to charge library or laboratory fees, or fees for other activities, since classes were being held online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-students-body-allege-overcharging-by-mumbai-university-colleges-101616052675389.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew from 9pm in Punjab districts amid Covid surge||Warning of several more tough measures and restrictions over the next few days, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced a two-hour extension in the night curfew in the state’s nine districts worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.Night curfew will now be in place from 9pm to 5am, instead of 11pm to 5am, in the districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Ropar. All these districts are reporting more than 100 cases daily.Also Watch | Covid update: Covishield under ₹200; cheapest RT-PCR test; Patiala night curfewThe announcement came as Punjab reported 2,039 cases with 35 deaths on Wednesday.Restriction on gatherings in the offing Addressing a press conference to mark the completion of four years of his government, the chief minister said the Covid situation in the state was critical and he was going to be tough.Several stringent measures, including restriction on gatherings, will be announced after discussions with the state government’s expert Covid team over the next couple of days, he said. Whether these will include restrictions on political gatherings was something that will be decided according to the medical expert team’s advice, he said.“I won’t be easy on the people. People may not like it, but it’s my duty,” he said.Penalty on protocol violators may be hiked With 283 Covid patients in high-dependency units (on oxygen) and another 27 on ventilators, the situation is dangerous, said Captain Amarinder, urging people to go to the doctor and get themselves tested even if they feel slightly unwell. The problem is people are going to hospitals too late, he said. He appealed to citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing, warning that penalties may also be enhanced if required.The chief minister hoped the Centre would accept his suggestion at the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on opening up vaccination to younger people in the worst-hit areas and also to those in public dealing.Capt not for restricting religious movementTo a question on Himachal Pradesh CM’s statement seeking curbs on people coming in from Punjab for pilgrimage and religious purposes, Captain Amarinder said he was not in favour of restricting religious movement. But the Covid problem needs to be controlled, he said, adding that an appropriate decision will be taken when he gets a formal letter from the chief minister of the neighbouring state.Captain Amarinder Singh said that he had called up Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who has tested positive for Covid and was then in Fortis Mohali, to offer help in his treatment. Sukhbir was subsequently shifted to Medanta Hospital, Gurugram. The chief minister hoped Sukhbir will recover soon, as would several of his cabinet colleagues, party MLAs and officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-from-9pm-in-punjab-districts-amid-rising-covid-cases-101616052434098.html
18-03-2021||Other||The hills have eyes: Activists, residents ensure encroachments on city’s tekdis stay on PMC radar||PUNE With local residents and activists keeping a keen eye on encroachments on hills in the city, on March 16, the forest department demolished an illegal structure atop a hill in the Bhamburda forest area. “Vetal tekdi (hill) is notorious for encroachments. Last year some people erected a hut next to a small temple and even ploughed a small patch to grow vegetables. We reported this and a team demolished the tent. On March 16, a similar encroachment was reported on the hill and again, a rapid response team from the firest department ensured that it was taken down. Unless strict action is taken immediately, such structures tend to rapidly become permanent ones with concrete and bricks, which then becomes impossible to remove,” said Sushma Date, member of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti (DGPS). In another instance, an illegal encroachment was razed to the ground on Mahatma tekdi due to the intervention of Vandana Chavan, who highlighted the encroachment. According to tekdi lovers, though the administration has strict rules on paper as regards all areas marked under the biodiversity park reservation (BDP), the administration is not on the ball in terms of implementation. According to activists, encroachments on hills in Katraj, Kondhwa and Baner have doubled in the last five years. “Despite knowing that these hills belong to the BDP, they are being ignored by the municipal officials and complaints from locals are disregarded,” added Date. Similarly, the Baner tekdi is also under attack with encroachments in the form of a statue and gazebo on a hillock that is part of Sr.no. 49/1 of the Baner biodiversity park. Recently, a new encroachment, in the form of a “Buddha Vihar”, is visible since April 2020. This is atop a hill adjacent to the ongoing construction of the Sus-Pashan bridge. “Various politicians have come to check the Pashan-Sus bridge/flyover work, but no one utters a word against this structure. PMC officials have categorically ignored this encroachment,” said Pushkar Kulkarni, from Save Baner Hills. “We are urging PMC and local authorities to use technology and satellite imagery to scan and check for encroachments on the tekdis,” added Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-hills-have-eyes-activists-residents-ensure-encroachments-on-city-s-tekdis-stay-on-pmc-radar-101616052253411.html
18-03-2021||Other||Lila Poonawalla Foundation awards scholarships to 750 girls in Pune||PUNE The Lila Poonawalla Foundation (LPF) recently awarded scholarships to meritorious, but financially challenged girls from Pune. These girls are pursuing their under-graduation degrees in Engineering, Pharmacy and Nursing.Keeping in mind the pandemic prevention protocols, the award function was spread across three days.“My vision is to put the foundation on the India map, so that more deserving girls get an opportunity to pursue their aspirations of professional education and career,” said foundation chairperson Lila Poonawalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lila-poonawalla-foundation-awards-scholarships-to-750-girls-in-pune-101616052134483.html
18-03-2021||Other||Taste of life: War rationing office conquers new dimension for women’s lives - independence||Annapurnabai Apte was 21 when she stepped inside a restaurant for the first time in her life. The year was 1943. She was about to get married in a couple of months and her colleagues demanded she treated them to a plate of fritters. So they went to “Balkrishna Upahargruha”, near the Central Building in Pune, one Saturday afternoon, and ordered three plates of fritters which were shared by the group of five women. They then returned to their work in the Rationing Office. The Second World War had entered India then. While India had been spared the material destruction that had befallen many other countries, she had suffered the devastating economic consequences of war. The British Government was forced to introduce the first structured public distribution of food-grains in India through the rationing system of a fixed quantity of ration (jowar, rice, sugar, kerosene) to ration card holders in several cities and towns. The system was started in September 1939 in Bombay and subsequently extended to other parts of India. By the end of 1943, 13 cities had been brought under the coverage of rationing (including Pune), and by 1946, as many as 771 cities/towns were covered. The system catered to some rural areas, suffering from chronic shortage, as well. The Department of Food under the Government of India was created in 1942, which helped in food matters getting the serious attention of the government. When the rationing office was set up in Pune in early 1940, the first batch of employees comprised 17 women. Annapurnabai Apte was one of them. She had just got out of school. When one of her classmates told her about the new office employing girls, she decided to grab the opportunity and showed up at the office, without informing her family. She was asked to start working immediately. There was no interview.The War forced women to step out of their houses to contribute to household expenses. Their responsibilities were often clerical and limited to non - combat positions away from the frontlines. In India, women were either enlisted as nurses, or they worked at the rationing offices. Great care was taken to not abandon the domestic ideals in India. Women were given the traditional responsibility of providing and distributing food. Men were employed at the armament depots and factories set up in Khadki, Dapodi and Aundh. The men earned ₹40 at the armament depots. The women earned ₹20 per month at the rationing offices. They were entrusted with making ration cards, keeping records, drafting letters, maintaining inventories and tracking orders. The women were young and timid. Many of them had never ever spoken with men outside their homes. They suddenly found themselves in an unfamiliar environment, entrusted with work for which they had no prior experience. They would often fumble, or could not speak at all. They would get the names on the cards wrong and would burst into tears when people complained and their bosses scolded them.Men found this funny. They would visit the rationing offices and enjoyed themselves when the women found it hard to answer pointless queries of visitors. One morning in 1941, an elderly gentleman visited the rationing office in the Central Building. The female staff were asked to assemble in a hall. The gentleman asked the women to be more confident and believe in their abilities and skills. “You have been given a great opportunity to work outside your homes, make the most of it. Always remember that if you fail, women would be condemned to household chores all their lives. You have to set a benchmark for them. People are hungry. They have little money. It is your responsibility to make sure they are fed properly. Do not let them down”, he told them. He was RP Paranjpye, the first Indian to achieve the coveted title of senior wrangler at the University of Cambridge.Annapurnabai narrated this incident to me one evening in August, 2012. I was roaming around Kasba peth looking for a hostel established in 1880s by the Satyashodhak Samaj, and someone directed me to her. She was 92 then. She knew nothing about the hostel, but I got to listen to the gutsy lady narrate her experiences working in the rationing office and later, at the District Collectorate. She and the 16 other women from the first batch worked till their retirement at the age of 55. They bought bicycles with their salaries, educated their younger siblings and later married them off. They started wearing sarees differently. They relished puri-bhaji and misal occasionally at Santosh Bhuvan and bought jalebis at Mathura Bhuvan. They built homes and their careers. Their courage resulted in more women working in offices and factories. Annapurnabai and the other women at the rationing offices made sure they did not let RP Paranjpye and Pune down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-war-rationing-office-conquers-new-dimension-for-women-s-lives-independence-101616050753350.html
18-03-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar’s apex corruption fighting unit hit by staff crunch||The Special Vigilance Unit (SVU) in Bihar’s vigilance department, an ambitious initiative by chief minister Nitish Kumar to nail senior corrupt government officials, has not lodged even a single case for the last two years while battling an acute shortage of manpower, Hindustan Times has learnt. Attempts are now being made to revive the virtually defunct department with appointments to vacant posts.Highly placed officials in the state home department said no vacancies have been advertised in Bihar since 2018. A senior home department officer said files were sent to the CM’s secretariat twice but nothing happened. “Now efforts are on to fill the vacant posts with the state police officers,” said the official.Set up in 2006, the SVU used to be a crack team of former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials and was assigned a separate headquarters on the Serpentine Road in the state capital. However, till date, the SVU has filed only 22 cases and most have not reached any logical conclusion since charge-sheet could only be filed in 12 cases, said officials in the department, on condition of anonymity.Almost 14 years since its formation, the SVU has become virtually defunct with only one out of the six posts of superintendents of police (SPs), meant for former CBI personnel, being occupied by a retired officer Arun Kumar Sharma, whose contract is likely to end in a couple of weeks. Only retired CBI officials are eligible for the posts of SPs in the SVU.The unit, now headed by a full-fledged additional director general (ADG) rank officer Sunil Kumar, once had seven IG rank officers, most of them holding additional charge of the unit. The post of the deputy inspector general (DIG) in the unit is still lying vacant.Former director general of police (DGP) Narayan Mishra was the first government official to come under the department’s scanner. Booked on February 6, 2007 in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, Mishra was charged for amassing wealth worth ₹1.35 crore, when posted as director general (DG), homeguards and fire services.Then secretary of minor irrigation department, S S Verma, was the second bureaucrat to be booked in a DA case on July 3, 2007 for allegedly amassing property worth ₹1.43 crore beyond his known sources of income. The unit lodged the last DA case on January 14, 2019 against the then joint director of Industry department Sanjay Kumar Singh.Development commissioner, Amir Subhani, who also holds the charge of vigilance commissioner remained unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-s-apex-corruption-fighting-unit-hit-by-staff-crunch-101616050214107.html
18-03-2021||Other||Special court orders probe into charges of fraud against makers of Kaagaz||A special Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act court in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh has directed police to submit a report by March 30 into allegations of fraud against filmmaker Satish Kaushik and actor Salman Khan. The order on Wednesday came after Lal Bihari Mritak, a farmer who struggled for 18 years to get corrected the official records in which he was declared dead in 1976, moved the court accusing the two of going back on the promises made to him for his consent to the making of the film Kaagaz on his life.“Impressed by my life and story, Kaushik along with scriptwriter Imtiaz Hussain met me in 2003. After a long conversation, I gave them my consent for making the film on my life,” Mritak said. He said Kaushik did not keep his promise of narrating the movie script before filming it. Mritak added Kaushik promised to call the film Main Zinda Hu. “But he titled the movie Kaagaz. Kaushik did not take my permission to change the title.”Also Read | 3 Congress MLAs accuse Rajasthan govt of discrimination against SC, ST lawmakersMritak said he is a respected farmer and a weaver but has been portrayed as a member of the Band Baja Party. “I have strong objection over it. Kaushik promised me that my name will remain the same in the film. But in the movie, my name has been changed and I have been shown as Bharat Lal Mritak. I have a strong objection over this too. Certain highly objectionable words have been used in the film. These words hurt my sentiments.”Mritak said Kaushik cheated him by getting an agreement signed for his consent for making the movie. “As per promise, I gave consent to Kaushik to produce the film on my life and struggle. But the film’s producer is Salman Khan. That is why they did fraud with me.”The makers of Kaagaz, which was released last month, were not immediately available for comments.Mritak’s lawyer, Madan Mukund Rai, said a derogatory word has been used in the film against Dalits, which also hurt the sentiments of his client.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/special-court-orders-probe-into-charges-of-fraud-against-makers-of-kaagaz-101616049433803.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Hiran may have been thrown into water alive; ATS to send samples to Haryana lab||The report of a test conducted to determine whether auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the explosive-laden car parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, died underwater was inconclusive even as it suggests he was alive when he was thrown into the Thane creek, a Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) official said. Hiran’s diatom bone samples were now being sent to a forensic science laboratory in Haryana to get a clear opinion.The detection of diatoms known as the diatom test in the organs can contribute to a diagnosis of death underwater.Mumbai’s JJ Hospital submitted the report to ATS on Wednesday. “The government lab in Haryana has expertise in conducting such tests. The samples have been sent to get a confirmed report,” said the ATS official.Also Read | Ambani bomb scare: Maharashtra govt transfers Mumbai top cop Param Bir SinghThe official said it appears the murderer might have used chloroform to make Hiran unconscious or some other means because his face was covered by handkerchiefs and a mask. “Perhaps he was later [after becoming unconscious] thrown in the water.” Hiran’s viscera reports are still awaited.Hiran’s widow, Vimla, has alleged her husband was murdered and ATS has registered a murder case against unknown persons. In her statement, Vimla said her husband was a good swimmer and could not have drowned. She has accused suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested for alleged involvement in parking the explosive-laden car outside Ambani’s residence, of having a role in Hiran’s death.The car was in Hiran’s possession before it was found abandoned with 20 explosive gelatin sticks and a threatening letter on February 25.Hiran’s body was found in the creek a day after he went missing on the night of March 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/did-mansukh-hiran-drown-ats-to-send-samples-to-haryana-lab-101616047393934.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM shifts Mumbai top cop: Key points||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The move came following police officer Sachin Vaze’s arrest in connection with the parking of an explosives-laden car outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house. Here is all you need to know about the transfer:• Singh was transferred as the Opposition pointed to the close links between Vaze and the ruling Shiv Sena.• The decision was taken after a series of meetings over the past two days between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena, and Sharad Pawar, chief of the Nationalist Congress Party, which is an ally in the state’s ruling coalition.• Thackeray also met ministers, including those from another ally, the Congress.Also Read | Sachin Vaze row: BJP, Sena war of words continues• NIA seized a Mercedes car on Tuesday used by Vaze, which further established his connection with the case.• NIA officials have said Vaze may have orchestrated the whole thing to regain his stature and standing in the force by appearing to solve the case.• Vaze was suspended in 2004 over a case of custodial killing and reinstated in 2020.• On February 25, the explosives-laden car was found outside Ambani’s residence.• It emerged that the car had been reported stolen on February 17 by a car dealer from Thane, Mansukh Hiran.• Vaze was named in charge of the investigation, but removed on March 2.• On March 5, Hiran was found dead in mysterious circumstances.• Former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis of the Bharatiya Janata Party said Thackeray called him in 2018 requesting for the reinstatement of Vaze, but the advocate general’s advice was against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-shifts-mumbai-top-cop-key-points-101616044813624.html
18-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: 9 get life term till death for gangraping woman, minor daughter||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court in Bihar’s Gaya sentenced 9 convicts to life imprisonment till death on Wednesday for raping a woman and her minor daughter in 2018. Two juveniles co-accused in the case are still under trial. The case, which during investigation even saw suspension of the station house officer (SHO) of Koch police station for dereliction of duty, was deemed an “inhuman act” by the judge, who sentenced the culprits to a life in jail, till death. The court also slapped a fine of ₹32,500 each on the nine accused and ordered the state government to pay ₹80,000 as compensation to the gang-rape survivors.The woman and her minor daughter were gang-raped by the convicts in Sondiha village, falling under Konch police station in Gaya, on June 13, 2018. Before the gang-rape, they had robbed a couple of students, said special public prosecutor Kamlesh Sinha.During the investigation, Gaya police detained 20 people, including the two, who were identified by the minor girl survivor, leading to arrest of others. As many as 33 witnesses were produced by prosecution. The court awarded the sentence through videoconferencing.Convicts were identified as Navlesh Paswan, Nirbhay Paswan, Ramu Paswan, Umesh Paswan, Ramesh Paswan, Sarwan Paswan alias Karu, Bhola Paswan, Upendra alias Bhandul Paswan and Prakash Paswan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-10-get-life-term-till-death-for-gangraping-woman-minor-daughter-101616044754899.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Sharp rise in Delhi’s jobless during lockdown, women worst hit: Survey||The unemployment rate in Delhi rose by 17.4 percentage points during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown—from 11.1% recorded in January-February 2020 to 28.5% recorded in October-November 2020—according to a Delhi government survey, which HT has seen.And even for those employed, the report said, the average income dropped from ₹16,511 to ₹15,383 between the two periods.The survey showed that the increase in the unemployment rate was sharper among women than men. While the unemployment rate among men rose from 8.7% to 23.3% during the survey period, the rate among women rose from 25.6% to 54.7%, stated the report, which is yet to be shared in the public domain.Citing excerpts from this report, Delhi’s finance minister Manish Sisodia said in his budget speech, which HT reported, on February 9: “The Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent lockdown have had a disastrous impact on the livelihoods of people. People have lost their jobs, their businesses. In this time of crisis, our government understands it to be its duty to formulate schemes of social security and welfare of the people. For this, we had started a survey which showed that before the corona crisis, in February 2020, 26% of women were unemployed. In February 2021, this statistic was still 40%.”Also Read | Cycle tracks, eco-trails in revamp plan for 22km Yamuna riverfront“This reveals that among the women of Delhi, who are available for employment, 40% cannot find any work. 45% of these women have completed Class 12 and 60% of these women are less than 30 years of age. It is essential to economically empower these women and integrate them with the economy of the family and the state,” he said.The report also said that in the two given periods the unemployment rate rose from 9.2% to 29.7% among people who are illiterate, from 7.6% to 27.6% among those who graduated primary school, 9.2% to 25.8% among those who cleared Class 10 board exams, 23.1% to 36.1% among those who have a school senior secondary degree (Class 12), from 12.7% to 29.1% among college graduates, and from 11.5% to 24.4% among university post-graduates and above.The survey also noted that 89% of the unemployed respondents continued looking for work in October-November 2020. Of the 89%, around 56% had been unemployed for over six months, compelling the government to work on drafting a “job guarantee scheme” to revive the economy of Delhi, it said.The sample size of the survey was 44,226 individuals across all 11 revenue districts in Delhi.“The present employment survey in Delhi to understand the unemployment and under-employment scenario in Delhi is going to be a very important tool to assist policy-making that responds to the ground-level economic situation in Delhi. Through this survey, the government of NCT of Delhi intended to get the full picture of unemployment in various sectors/occupations which are the most prevalent in the economy, the extent of under-employment as well as citizen feedback on some potential policy responses that the government of NCT of Delhi may want to initiate. Special focus is given to the consequences of job loss in various economic activities/ industries after the outbreak of Covid-19 and consequent lockdown,” the report said.Debolina Kundu, professor at National Institute of Urban Affairs, said: “The findings of the Delhi Employment Survey 2020 can be an important tool for the government to deal with the current economic recession induced by the pandemic and associated lockdown. It brought into light the precarious condition of youth, especially women, even in pre-pandemic times. This section has also been very severely impacted by the recession resulting in increase of unemployment and underemployment. The government has to strengthen its job generation initiatives taking into account a wide range of stakeholders. The government has told the Delhi assembly that it is already working in this direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-unemployment-rate-rose-sharply-during-lockdown-women-worst-hit-survey-101616044753681.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP’s legacy resolution scheme helps recover ₹318-cr arrears||The Himachal Pradesh government’s legacy cases resolution scheme is helping the pandemic-hit economy of the hill state as the excise and taxation department has already recovered disputed arrears amounting to ₹318 crore under the scheme till March 16. This is up from ₹1 crore that was collected as arrears in July last year. The department now hopes to make a total recovery of ₹362 crore by March 21, 2021. The total expected recovery under the scheme is equal to the one-month GST (goods and services tax) collection of the state. The highest collection under the scheme is in March 2021. Last year, arrears worth ₹73 crore were recovered from July to December, while this year ₹289 crore has already been recovered. The maximum recovery of ₹102.99 crore was made in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) revenue district followed by ₹98.06 crore in Solan and ₹19.94 crore in Kinnaur districts. Scheme saved time, litigation cost Introduced last year, the scheme is aimed at settling the pending legacy cases of all subsumed laws and recovering the arrears. Many of the cases were under dispute for over a decade and involved huge litigation cost both for the state and taxpayers. Under the scheme, the settlement fee in lieu of interest and penalty is limited to 10% over and above the principal amount. In January 2021, the scheme was extended up to March 21, 2021. Settling of legacy issues under the scheme has saved the time and litigation cost of the department and tax officials can now focus on GST collections of the state. Generating awareness, coordination helped “The success of the scheme is due to strategising of focus arrears; awareness creation among taxpayers about the benefit under the scheme; and constant coordination between the headquarters and district authorities,” says excise and taxation commissioner Rohan Chand Thakur. Besides, interactions with taxpayers; publicising the smooth settlement process under the scheme; training of staff; and coordination with external agencies such as banks and courts have helped in the scheme’s success. “The department has worked hard effectively as a team to settle the cases and recover the arrears in a time-bound manner,” says Thakur. MONTH-WISE RECOVERY OF ARREARS July 2020: ₹1 crore August: ₹2 crore September: ₹5 crore October: ₹17 crore November: ₹3 crore December: ₹45 crore January 2021: ₹104 crore February: ₹4 crore March (till 16): ₹181 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hps-legacy-resolution-scheme-helps-recover-318-cr-arrears-101616044393697.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Gangster DK Rao, Amar Naik’s family move Bombay HC for stay on Mumbai Saga||Ravi Mallesh Bohra, better known in Mumbai as gangster DK Rao and the family members of late gangster Amar Naik moved the Bombay high court on Wednesday seeking a stay on the release of John Abraham-starrer Mumbai Saga, a Hindi film purportedly based on the lives of Bohra, late Naik and his brother Ashwin Naik. The film is scheduled to release on March 19.The petition will come up for hearing on Thursday before a division bench comprising justices Amjad Sayed and Nitin Jamdar.Relying on newspaper reports, Bohra, Ashwin Naik and the wife and daughter of late Amar Naik have moved the high court contending that the movie Mumbai Saga would violate the right to fair trial of Bohra and Aahwin Naik and the right to privacy of all the petitioners.Also Read | No physical meeting of civic bodies amidst second Covid wave: Bombay HCIn the petition filed through advocates Prashant Pandey, Tushar Halwai and Ashray Dave, they said that the trailer of the film published on YouTube on February 26, 2021 clearly stated that the film was “inspired by true events”.The petition stated that on March 6, a legal notice was issued to the producer and director of the film, calling upon them to desist from going ahead with the scheduled release of the movie as Bohra and Ashwin Naik are under-trial prisoners and release of the film will prejudice their pending trials and also likely to affect the sanctity of the judicial process.Amar Naik’s wife, Anjali, and daughter Akaksha, have contended that the release of the film would tarnish the family’s image and will also breach their right to privacy and the reputation they rebuilt following his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gangster-dk-rao-amar-naik-s-family-move-bombay-hc-for-stay-on-mumbai-saga-101616042773796.html
18-03-2021||Jaipur||Class 1 to 5 in Rajasthan schools to be promoted without exams due to Covid-19||Due to disruptions caused by Covid-19 outbreak, Rajasthan government has decided to promote students of classes 1 to 5 without holding exams, however, students of classes 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 will be promoted only after clearing final examinations, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasara tweeted on Thursday.Dotasara said that students of classes 1 to 5 will be promoted on the basis of internal evaluations done under Smile-1, Smile-2 and ‘Aao Ghar se Seekhe’ program, due to the Covid-19 situation. He also announced the examination dates for the rest of the classes.“The examinations for classes 6 to 7 will be held from 15 April to 22 April at school level, whereas examinations for classes 9 to 11 will be held from 6 April to 22 April at district level,” he said. The examination for class 8 students will be held as per the schedule announced by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education.Results for classes 6, 7, 9 and 11 will be declared on April 30 and the new academic session will commence from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/class-1-to-5-in-rajasthan-schools-to-be-promoted-without-exams-due-to-covid19-101616039653624.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Three key borders of Delhi—Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri—remain blocked on Thursday due to the farmers’ protest; who are demanding the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. The Delhi traffic police have diverted vehicles, which could may possibly lead to congestions in parts of the city during peak hours. “Vehicular movement is closed on Ghazipur border(Ghaziabad to Delhi), Singhu border, Dhansa border, Mangeshpur border, Harewali border and Tikri border. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides,” a traffic police officer said. Also Read | Protesters can build permanent structures at borders, says Naresh TikaitOfficers of the Delhi traffic police said that jams may be witnessed during peak hours in Delhi as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border remains closed due to the ongoing agitation. Vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, they said. Singhu and Tikri are also closed. Traffic police officers said that the Auchandi border is opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open throughout the day. The traffic police officers advised commuters to take alternate routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101616036713310.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air remains very poor, could improve slightly in next 2 days||Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Thursday morning due to dust transported from dry regions. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 309. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 311.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that the air quality in the capital had deteriorated and PM10 was the primary pollutant.Also Read | PM2.5 pollution in Mumbai dipped 9% between 2019 and 2020: Report“The overall Delhi air quality has deteriorated and is in the higher end of the ‘poor’ category, with PM10 as the lead pollutant. Dust transported from the dry arid southwest regions has led to the deterioration. Surface winds are moderate and west southwesterly. AQI is likely to slip to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category by afternoon. AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay in the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category for tomorrow [Thursday]. ‘Poor’ AQI is forecasted for March 19 and 20,” Safar said in its daily bulletin on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the city’s minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 18 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to be 34 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s minimum temperature on Wednesday was 16.8 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature was 34.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-remains-very-poor-could-improve-slightly-in-next-2-days-101616035993147.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Proustian of Sushant Lok||Many book-loving Delhi homes have Shakespeare, Tagore, Tolstoy and Ghalib. French author Marcel Proust is more difficult to spot, though his novel is counted among the greatest works in literature. There’s a reason to that rarity. À la recherche du temps perdu—In Search of Lost Time in the English translation—consists of seven fat volumes, full of twisty dense super-long sentences.In these times of mobile phone distraction, who can exercise sustained concentration over several months of such demanding work?Even so, there must be a few folks in the city who have read the entire Proust (not counting the current French ambassador, who indeed has—he has already been featured in these pages). Actually, reading the first volume alone is considered a feat, for it is like an overture whose themes resonate across volumes.Here’s a woman in the Delhi region, who grew up in Chandigarh, and has completed the first volume, in the original French—no less.“It took me three months to read Du côté de chez Swann,” says Gauri Mohan Gupta on a WhatsApp video chat, from her small first-floor studio apartment in Gurugram’s Sushant Lok where she lives alone. A data analytics professional in a multinational, Ms Gupta is referring to the first volume’s title. She finished it despite her “10 hours daily of work-from-home, plus I do all the cleaning and cooking in the house.” And then there was not only the novel’s universally acknowledged difficulties, but also the fact that she was reading it in a language she started learning only in her adulthood.Proust’s style can be difficult to understand, she admits, “so sometimes I would revisit paragraphs to make sense of them.”In her early 30s, Ms Gupta’s daily life is intimately involved with the French language. She started learning it in her hometown. Later, her jobs in the corporate corridors of Bengaluru and Gurugram obliged her to engage with French colleagues and clients. She also lived in France for two years as an “English Assistant” in a school in Nantes.Ms Gupta’s initiation to Proust took place late last year. A one-page extract of his novel was part of her academic project. “I’m doing an online C1 course (equivalent to Masters) in French from the Alliance Française in Chandigarh, and I ended up reading the whole volume out of interest.”Was Proust fun?“I enjoyed the love story of Swann and Odette, and also the parts on the society’s snobbery.”Ms Gupta personally knows of nobody who has read Proust. She sees it as a major accomplishment, especially as she read the formidable first volume in the language it was originally written in. “French has always been an escape from my mundane life. To immerse myself in it and the worlds it contains helped me come out of my shell, and taught me the importance of individualism, of taking a pause and reflecting and probing...”An ambitious woman, she plans to carry on to the other six volumes. “My former teacher, who is now back in France, has promised to send me all the Proust books.”Bonne chance, Madame !||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-proustian-of-sushant-lok-101616034095236.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Cycle tracks, eco-trails in revamp plan for 22km Yamuna riverfront||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is working on rejuvenating and making the Yamuna riverfront accessible to the public by building cycling tracks, walkways, eco-trails to wetlands and a floodplain forest along the 22 km area between Wazirabad Barrage and Okhla Barrage, a senior DDA official said.Large parts of the 54km-long Yamuna riverfront have been rendered inaccessible for Delhiites for decades, while industrial waste and untreated sewage are dumped into the river.The officials said the project will not only help people connect with the river but also check the dying ecosystem of the Yamuna floodplains, both flora and fauna. Under the plan, the DDA will develop close to 1,400 hectares of land on the eastern and western banks of the river.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “The entire stretch has been divided into 10 projects, each spread over 90 hectares and above. The work is moving at a fast pace, and three projects will be completed in the next few months. We aim to complete large parts of projects by the end of this year.”The project to restore the riverfront was conceived following a National Green Tribunal order in 2015. The work on the riverfront, DDA officials said, started in 2017 and was monitored by the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee that was set up in 2018. The committee concluded its proceedings in January this year after it submitted its final report. DDA officials said that the restoration work on the 22km-stretch in Delhi has been planned as per the committee’s directions. The restoration work is being closely monitored by Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, who has been taking regular review meetings. DDA submitted a status report to the L-G in February.One of the biggest challenges in restoring the riverfront, Jain said, is removing encroachments and reclaiming the land. According to a senior DDA official, about 1,000 acres of land have been cleared of encroachment and are being developed, and work is going on in other parts.DDA officials said they have installed CCTV cameras and deployed staff to prevent dumping of debris on the floodplains.Of the total 10 projects, three —Kalindi Biodiversity, Park Asita East, Asita West—are in advanced stages of construction and will be completed in the next few months, officials in the know of the matter said.Spread over 200 hectares, Asita West, located between the Old Railway Bridge and the ITO barrage, is one of the first areas being revamped. DDA has developed 4.8km of walkways, 1.5km of cycleways, three new water bodies, 300m of green buffer along the river, greenways, etc. on 93 hectares of land. The project is likely to be completed by June this year.For residents of Walled City and nearby areas, this has become a popular spot. Kishore Kumar (35), who lives and works in Chandni Chowk, said that he often comes here with his children. “While there are parks in the area, there aren’t many such large open spaces. We usually come here on weekends. They have now expanded the park and constructed a water body here.”DDA also plans to develop the three ghats (Qudsia, Yamuna Bazaar and Sur ghats). While work on Sur Ghat is expected to be completed by September this year, plans for the other two are yet to be prepared.As part of the rejuvenation project, DDA is also developing a biodiversity park near Delhi Noida Direct (DND) Flyway. Spread over 116 hectares between DND Flyway and Okhla Barrage, the biodiversity park will have 11 constructed wetlands and will treat sewage from about 25 drains. It will also have 100m-wide greenways, about 6km-long walking trails and recreational parks.The Delhi government has set a target of three years to clean the river.CR Babu, who heads the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE) at Delhi University, said, “Two of the 11 constructed wetlands are operational. We are treating drain water that has raw sewage from the Kilokri drain naturally via a constructed wetland system before the water is released into the river. A similar wetland system will be soon operational for the Maharani Bagh drain where 500MLD (millions of litres per day) of drain water will be treated. We are also constructing recreational spaces.”However, environment experts say that beautifying the floodplains will serve no purpose if the river continues to be dirty.Faiyaz A Khudsar, a scientist in charge of the Yamuna Biodiversity Park who is involved in the development of Kalindi Biodiversity park, said, “The river has to be clean before you take people close to it. How can people sit near the river if it stinks? Just beautifying the floodplains is not enough, we have to restore the ecology of the area which will help not only rejuvenate the river but become an attraction for the people.”He added, “We are working on ensuring that sewerage water is naturally treated through constructed wetland systems before it is discharged into the river.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cycle-tracks-eco-trails-in-revamp-plan-for-22km-yamuna-riverfront-101616033049295.html
18-03-2021||Jaipur||In state assembly, Rajasthan govt denies tapping phones of MLAs and MPs||The Rajasthan government informed the state assembly on Wednesday that it did not tap phones of any legislator during last year’s political crisis.Rejecting the Bharatiya Janata Party’s allegations on phone tapping, parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal said the opposition party was making an issue in order to protect Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.He said the chief minister would offer his resignation if these allegations were proved right. “Not only the chief minister, all of us will resign,” he said.The BJP, however, sought an inquiry led by the Central Bureau of Investigation and created a ruckus in the assembly which led to adjournment of the House twice.The controversy around phone tapping erupted in July last year when former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.At the time, three purported audio clips surfaced in which Shekhawat and some Congress leaders could be heard discussing a conspiracy to topple Gehlot’s government. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi then filed FIRs with the Special Operations Group (SPG) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB).On the BJP’s allegations that the audio clips were prepared and circulated by Lokesh Sharma, the OSD to the chief minister, Dhariwal said the audio clips were received on WhatsApp. He stressed that forwarding an audio clip on WhatsApp was not a crime.Dhariwal apprised the House that the SOG last year intercepted phones of two persons — Ashok Singh and Bharat Malani — with permission from the Home Department, after receiving information about illegal arms smuggling and movement of explosives. He said none of them was a politician but during the interception, conspiracy to depose the Gehlot government was exposed and that the SOG inspector lodged an FIR in the matter.The minister reiterated that the government did not order any MLA’s, MP’s or an elected representative’s phone-tapping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/in-state-assembly-rajasthan-govt-denies-tapping-phones-of-mlas-and-mps-101616031334760.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Prosecutions for mask, distancing violations drop from Oct-Nov peak||Prosecutions by the police and district administrations for violations of Covid-19 norms have dropped in the Capital to a fraction of the fines issued during the peak of the infection’s third wave in October-November last year, according to police and government data, even as the city’s Covid-19 graph inches upwards.Experts have attributed to the steady spike in Delhi’s caseload to increased gatherings and poor adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as mask discipline and social distancing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBetween March 1 and 15, only 130-160 people in the city were fined a day for violating mask norms in public, a sharp fall from October and November last year, when the police fined nearly 2,300 people a day.During that period, Delhi was in the middle of the third wave of the Covid-19 outbreak, recording a daily average of 3,451 new cases in October and 6,122 infections in November.That surge coincided with Diwali, a period when crowds thronged markets in the city with little regard for Covid-19 safeguards, even as the police and administration ramped up prosecutions and fines.On November 11, for instance, when infections touched a single-day peak of 8,593, the Delhi Police fined 2,403 for not wearing masks or wearing them improperly.In November, on average, the police prosecuted nearly 2,000 persons for the offence every day.In the first 15 days of November last year, at least 40 people were fined a day for violating distancing norms. In the past week, however, only eight people were fined for this office.Delhi on Wednesday added 536 new cases of the infection, the highest single-day spike January 6.Fines issued by the state government, through district teams, have also reduced significantly. Between January 1 and 15, government teams caught 20,970 persons for not wearing masks, a number that fell to 18,728 in the next fortnight. Fewer people were caught in February. Between February 1 and 15, the Delhi government had fined 13,148 people for the offence, which dropped to 9,016 between February 16 and February 28.But while there are photographs of people roaming without masks or violating social distancing norms, showing lax enforcement, district administration and Delhi Police officials have said they have increased prosecution in the last 15 days. Spokespersons of the Delhi government did not respond to requests for comment.Data shared by the government shows that there were 20,386 fines issued between March 1 and 15. During the same fortnight, police have fined 2,227 persons.Till date, the police have fined 520,650 people for not wearing masks while Delhi government teams fined 398,496 people.District administration officials admitted that people had let their guards down.At least five district magistrates said they have now stepped up measures to check for violations, in light of the rise of cases in the city.Isha Khosla, North Delhi district magistrate, said, “We have been issuing 200-300 fines a day. But with the rise in cases, we have stepped up measures to build awareness regarding precautionary measures. We have also increased the number of monitoring teams from 14 to 21.”Another district magistrate, who did not wish to be named, said, “On average, we are issuing nearly 150 fines every day. We are also focussing on educating people and telling them to follow all precautionary measures.”The Delhi Police also said they have increased prosecution on the ground.Deputy commissioner of police Chinmoy Biswal said,” Our squads are patrolling markets and crowded areas like railway stations and public parks to prosecute those who are not adhering to the rules. We ensure that if there is more than one person travelling in a car, they’re all wearing masks. All district DCPs have been directed to intensify the prosecutions in their respective areas and ensure no tolerance towards such violations,” Biswal said.Currently, the fine for not adhering to mask norms or violating social distancing measures is ₹2,000.Experts warned people against letting their guards down.Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of the PSRI institute of Pulmonary, Critical care and Sleep medicine, said, “There is a definite surge not just in several states across the country but Delhi too... There has been an uptick in cases in the last 15-20 days. At my hospital, one ward that had been declared Covid-19 free was again converted into a special Covid facility. People should not be complacent.”A senior Delhi Police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Since the pandemic, our personnel have been on the roads and enforced Covid-appropriate behaviour. If you compare our data with that of any agency, even those outside Delhi, we have taken more action that anyone. Now that Covid-19 cases are increasing, we will increase prosecution and ensure people follow the rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/prosecutions-for-mask-distancing-violations-drop-from-oct-nov-peak-101616011451087.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur appointed All India Jat Mahasabha’s state women wing chief||The All India Jat Mahasabha (AIJM) on Wednesday appointed former MLA Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of Congress leader and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, as president of its women wing in Punjab. Announcing her appointment at a press conference in Chandigarh, AIJM national vice-president and Punjab unit chief Harpal Singh Harpura said, “She will work to strengthen the organisation in the state. The decision to appoint her was taken by the national executive at a meeting in Delhi last week.” Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is the national president of AIJM. Whether her appointment had Amarinder’s approval, Harpura said the AIJM was a non-political organisation and its national executive was bigger than its president. “We were not very active in Punjab in the recent years. We have decided to rebuild the organisational set-up and made several appointments in several district in the recent weeks,” he said. Navjot Kaur said she would go all out to support the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agriculture reform laws. “What was the urgency to bring these laws during the pandemic without any consultation with the stakeholders? We are with the farmers. We will not let them lose. These laws will have to be repealed,” she said, asking the central government to write off loans of farmers of the state. Navjot Kaur was a chief parliamentary secretary in the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government in the state before joining the Congress four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-wife-navjot-kaur-appointed-all-india-jat-mahasabha-s-state-women-wing-chief-101616011692330.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 2,000 daily cases after nearly 6 months||The coronavirus surge continued in Punjab on Wednesday with 2,039 new infections and 35 more people succumbing to the pathogen, the health department said. The active cases rose to 13,320 from 12,616 a day ago. As many as 1,274 more patients recuperated, taking the number of recoveries to 1.84 lakh, according to a bulletin. The infection tally rose to 2.03 lakh, while 35 more fatalities took the toll to 6,172. There are 27 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 283 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. Jalandhar reported a maximum of 277 cases, Ludhiana 233, Mohali 222, Patiala 203 and Hoshiarpur 191. A total of 54.61 lakh samples have been collected for testing so far, it added. On Tuesday, the state reported 38 deaths and 1,475 new cases. 
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||4 shooters arrested with arms, ammunition in SBS Nagar||Police have arrested four shooters who allegedly were planning the murder of three people at the behest of a UK-based NRI and seized three pistols, six magazines, 46 cartridges and a car bearing fake number plate. The arrested accused have been identified as Makhan Singh of Hoshiarpur district, Ranjit Singh of Rupnagar district, Gurjit Singh of SBS Nagar and Balbir Singh of Hoshiarpur. SBS Nagar police senior superintendent of police Alka Meena said they had information that Makhan Singh and Ranjit Singh were roaming with a plan to execute murder at the behest of one Harish Kumar lais Sabi, an NRI. “Police laid a trap and arrested Makhan and Ranjit from Balauni village and recovered the two weapons from their possession. During the interrogation, they confessed that they were to kill Ranjit Singh of Lasara village in Phillaur sub-division and two more people at the behest of Sabi, who lives in the UK,” Meena said. Meena said gangster Tejinder Singh Teja, who is currently in Bathinda jail arranged three weapons and cartridges to Ranjit and Makhan to execute the murders, while another gangster, Kuldeep Singh alias Keepa, arranged a car for them. “Makhan and Ranjit revealed that guns and ammunition was also provided to their aides Gurjit Singh and Balbir Singh. We arrested Gurjit and Balbir and recovered the weapon and ammunition,” she said. Police have also booked gangsters Tejinder Singh of SBS Nagar, Kuldeep Singh ‘Keepa of Moga district, and NRI Harish Kumar ‘Sabi’. Six of the seven accused are facing many criminal cases including those of murder and attempt to murder. Police said Harish was facing five criminal cases, Ranjit two, Makhan eight, Tejinder 21, Balbir one and Kuldeep Singh ‘Keepa’ four cases. A senior official privy to the development said Harish had an old rivalry with Ranjit Singh of Lasara and wanted to kill him and his two aides. “We will bring the gangsters lodged in Bathinda and Faridkot jails on production warrants for further investigations. A case has been registered against the accused under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act at Aur police station in the district,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-shooters-arrested-with-arms-ammunition-in-sbs-nagar-101616011271093.html
18-03-2021||Bhopal||IAF group captain killed in MiG-21 Bison crash in Gwalior||A group captain of the Indian Air Force was killed after a MiG-21 Bison aircraft met with an accident while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in Gwalior, the IAF said on Wednesday.The crash in which Group Captain Ashish Gupta was killed is the second accident involving a Bison aircraft this year – a MiG-21 Bison crashed near Suratgarh in Rajasthan on January 5 but the pilot ejected safely. Gupta was posted at the IAF’s elite Tactics and Air Combat Development Establishment (TACDE).“A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning, while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India,” IAF announced on Twitter.“The IAF lost Group Captain A Gupta in the tragic accident. IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident,” it said in another tweet.The MiG-21 was upgraded to MiG-21 Bison in 2000. Experts said it is a reliable aircraft but nearing the end of its service life.“The upgrade in 2000 was significant and essentially on avionics, radar, electronic warfare suite and weapons. The aircraft is very safe to fly, has had a good safety record and will see IAF through till 2023-24,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), who was the team leader of the MiG-21 upgrade programme.IAF operates four squadrons of MiG-21 Bison aircraft. The last of these upgraded fighter jets are set to be phased out in the next four to five years. IAF will induct different variants of Tejas light combat aircraft in the coming years to bolster its combat potential.The defence ministry last month awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for IAF. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force in three years, with the rest being supplied by 2030. The deal involves the supply of 73 Mk-1A fighter jets and 10 LCA Mk-1 trainer aircraft.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia paid homage to departed pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/iaf-group-captain-killed-in-mig-21-bison-crash-in-gwalior-101616010478158.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Focus back on Punjab’s high death rate, worries mount||Blurb: Chandigarh With over 200 deaths in last one week, the focus is back on Case Fatality Rate (CFR) or death rate of Punjab, which is highest in the country, as 20-25% of country’s total virus-related deaths are coming from the state. The situation is getting critical day-by-day with the state contributing 100 deaths in the last three days, 35 on Wednesday, 38 on Tuesday, and 27 on Monday. As per the state health authorities, Punjab has contributed maximum deaths in the country after Maharashtra in recent days. The state’s Case Fatality Rate of 3.1% is more than double the national figure of 1.4%. As per information procured from state authorities, Maharashtra and Sikkim stand below Punjab when it comes to CFR at 2.2%. Punjab’s high CFR, as per information, also cropped up during chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. ‘Late medical help main reason’ As per the analysis carried out by the Covid management group of the Punjab government for the last 10 days, 77% of those died of the virus reported for the first time at the nearest health centre when their symptoms had reached the severe stage. Only 14% of those who lost their lives reported when their symptoms had reached the moderate stage and 8% reported at the health facilities when their symptoms were still mild. “Most virus-hit patients report at the health centres when the symptoms are serious and this is the biggest reason behind high number of deaths in Punjab. Majority of those who died reported for the first time when their symptoms had reached the severe stage. Early reporting is the only way to save lives,” said a senior official, who was present during the presentation given during the meeting of the Covid management group. As per an analysis of the figures available in the daily media bulletin of Punjab, Faridkot is the only district whose CFR is lowest at 1.9% and that too is more than the national figure. Three districts of Punjab, Sangrur, Ropar and Tarn Taran have CFR above 4%. Co-morbidity is the biggest reason behind deaths and figures suggest co-morbid condition was common in almost 95% of fatalities in the recent days. The low turnout in the vaccination drive has also added worries of the health department. “Even people with co-morbidities are shying away from getting the jab. We must keep in mind that even after getting first dose, the risk of reaching the severe stage reduces to a large extent,” said Punjab’s nodal office for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/focus-back-on-punjab-s-high-death-rate-worries-mount-101616010856301.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||National Green Tribunal disbands its committee monitoring pollution in Ghaggar river||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has disbanded its committee headed by retired high court judge Pritam Pal for monitoring pollution in the Ghaggar river and directed the administrative heads of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to take over the task. Monitoring by the tribunal or its committee “cannot be a permanent feature”, said a bench on Tuesday while disposing the main petition on pollution in the river that originates in HP and then passes through Haryana and Punjab. “It is finally for the states to take ownership of the problem at hand and take strict measures to provide a clean environment to their citizens and protect natural resources like water, air and soil for the current and future generations,” the order said. In January, the tribunal had also disbanded its committee for monitoring pollution in the Sutlej and Beas rivers in Punjab. The panel had slapped a fine of ₹4.15 crore on 15 industrial units in the three states and the union territory last year. In November 2020, the tribunal had expressed its displeasure with the three states and the UT for their failure to implement the recommendations of committee to control water pollution in the river. The bench in its latest order said the respective chief secretaries or other administrative heads should personally monitor the progress of compliance at least once in a month.“The chief secretaries while reviewing the status of various issues may focus on timely completion of the ongoing works and send quarterly reports to the central monitoring committee of Union jal shakti ministry which deals with the issue of restoration of 351 polluted river stretches, including the rivers in question,” added the tribunal.It appreciated the panel for its “significant contribution to controlling pollution” in the Ghaggar through recommendations. There still are huge gaps in capacity and functioning of the sewage treatment plants, common effluent treatment plants, reuse of treated water for irrigation, preventing dumping of solid waste, industrial pollution, preventing direct discharge of pollution in the drains and rivers, it observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-green-tribunal-disbands-its-committee-monitoring-pollution-in-ghaggar-river-101616010852072.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||9kg heroin recovered in Amritsar, cross-border smuggler arrested||At least 9kg heroin was recovered on Wednesday in two cases in the Amritsar district. In the first case, the anti-drug special task force (STF) recovered 7kg heroin concealed in a tractor’s empty battery from across the barbed wire fence near the zero line on the India-Pakistan border in Ajnala. The recovery was made during the STF’s joint search operation with Border Security Force (BSF) near the DS border outpost (BoP). The STF officials said they had a tip-off that a consignment of the contraband smuggled from Pakistan was concealed underground across the fence. The STF coordinated with the BSF and recovered the drugs from a field. The STF officials have handed over the case’s further investigation to Ajnala police. A case under the various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at the Ajnala police station, said a senior STF official. In another case, a man allegedly involved in cross-border smuggling of drugs was arrested with 2kg heroin at Cheecha village in the district on Wednesday.  ₹35,000 in drug money was also seized from the accused, identified as Resham Singh, alias Gori, a Cheecha resident. A case was also registered against his accomplice Sandeep Kaur, the police said.“Resham was in contact with some Pakistan-based smugglers. We have also confiscated his two mobile phones and a motorcycle. Sandeep Kaur is absconding, but we have recovered 10gm heroin, two mobile phones and some intoxicating tablets from her hideout at Ladhowal village,” a police official said. Senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said they had a tip-off that Resham along with one Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, who died recently, was involved in cross-border drug trade. “A special police team was formed to conduct a raid, during which Resham was nabbed. Our teams are working to ascertain the identity of those who he was supplying heroin to,” he said. A case under various sections of the NDPS Act was registered at the Gharinda police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9kg-heroin-recovered-in-amritsar-cross-border-smuggler-arrested-101616010850900.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Capt, Sidhu bond over tea, discuss latter’s return to Punjab cabinet||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu met over tea on Wednesday and talked about the latter’s re-induction into the state cabinet. The 40-minute meeting between the chief minister and Sidhu was held at the former’s farmhouse in Siswan village near here. The two leaders discussed the contours of the cricketer-turned-politician’s return to the state cabinet, and the likely portfolio, but no time-frame was finalised, according to sources in the know of the discussion at the meeting. Their meeting was a result of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat’s unrelenting efforts for rapprochement between the two to pave the way for an important role for the Amritsar East MLA ahead of the state assembly polls due early next year. Rawat had met Amarinder and Sidhu separately in Chandigarh last week and sounded hopeful of “positive developments soon” amid talk of behind-the-scene efforts by the central leadership to reinduct the former minister’s into the state cabinet as the deputy chief minister or as the state unit president. While neither leader spoke to journalists after the meeting, the chief minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral posted a photograph of the two on Twitter with a cryptic caption – “A picture is worth a thousand words…” Sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who travelled with Sidhu to the chief minister’s farmhouse and was present during their discussion, said the meeting was warm and cordial. “Both Patialvis hugged each other and talked frankly. The impression I got from their discussion is that there is no difference in their thought process and they are united,” he said, adding, “they talked about several things but not on cabinet or portfolios”. Wednesday’s meeting between the chief minister and his former cabinet colleague, who were not on the best of terms for a long time, was second in four months. Amarinder had invited Sidhu for lunch but the programme was changed due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with all the chief ministers on Covid-19. Their luncheon meeting on November 25 last year had set off talk of his cabinet return and likely portfolios but Amarinder later brushed it aside by accusing people of “making a mountain out of a molehill”. Rawat, who is pushing for Sidhu’s return at the earliest, did not respond to calls. Earlier in the day, the former minister’s wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, was not very hopeful about the outcome of his meeting with the chief minister. “All this talk of giving him (Sidhu) an important responsibility has been going on for almost two years. We will talk about this when it is done,” she told reporters after being appointed the All India Jat Mahasabha’s state women wing president. She said that Sidhu was not hankering after any position but only wanted to serve the people of Punjab. “If he was after position, he would have contested form Kurukshetra (Lok Sabha seat) as the BJP candidate and become a Union minister. But he did not want to leave Punjab. If he gets something where he can work for the state, he will take it, otherwise we are fine this way,” the ex-MLA said. Sidhu had quit the state cabinet in July 2019 after the CM divested him of the local government portfolio, blaming his “inept handling” of the department and for the poor performance of the party in urban pockets during the Lok Sabha polls. He maintained a profile for more than a year until Rawat cajoled him and ensured his presence at former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally against the farm laws five months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-sidhu-bond-over-tea-discuss-latter-s-return-to-punjab-cabinet-101616010731510.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Anti-Sikh riots case: SC to hear bail plea of Sajjan Kumar today||New Delhi The Supreme Court will hear the bail application filed by 74-year-old former Congress leader, Sajjan Kumar, on Thursday. Kumar is convicted to life imprisonment for the brutal killing of five members of a family in Raj Nagar in Delhi, during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. A three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde and also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian will hear Kumar’s bail application. Kumar in his bail application had contended before the apex court that he has been in jail since December 2018 and had lost almost around 8-10 kilograms since then. Kumar, who is the main accused in a case was found guilty on December 17, 2018, by a Delhi court and was sentenced to life imprisonment. ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/antisikh-riots-case-sc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-sajjan-kumar-today-101616010431174.html
18-03-2021||Other||Office-bearers for 117 urban local bodies in Punjab to be elected in April first week||Chandigarh Elections for office-bearers of 117 urban local civic bodies, including eight municipal corporations, is expected to take place in the beginning of April. The local bodies department is expected to receive the gazette notification of results from state election department soon, after which it will give a 14-day notice to elect office-bearers and for civic bodies to make arrangements. The office-bearers are mayors, senior deputy mayors and deputy mayors in municipal corporations and president, senior vice-president and vice-president in councils and notified area committees. A sub-committee that state congress chief Sunil Jakhar leads pondered on issues such as caste and community combination in electing the office-bearers on Wednesday. “We have received representations from MLAs and other party leaders. A decision will follow soon,” said Jakhar. No public function will be held to administer the oath and the chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will do this in a virtual event. This has been decided due to increase in coronavirus cases. “We may decide to gather members at different locations and organise the event virtually,” said Jakhar. Other members in the committee who were in today’s meeting include cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Aruna Chaudhary, political secretary to CM Capt Sandeep Sandhu and Youth Congress Leader Barinder Dhillon. There are 2,302 wards that went for polls and 1,151 wards went to the women candidates. 50% RESERVATION TO WOMEN IN OFFICE-BEARERS NOT POSSIBLE The state government may have given 50% reservation to women candidates, as per its promise ahead of the 2017 state polls. The reservation, however, is not applicable in the election of office-bearers. “For electing office-bearers, there is a reservation of 5% for the women candidates and this would be brought into the practise. The Municipal Act, 1911, mentions a total of 12% reservation, 5% each for women and scheduled caste candidates and 2% for those belonging to backward classes,” said a member of the subcommittee constituted by the state government to take decisions related to civic body polls. “In case, the government wants to increase the role of women the Municipal Act, 1911, needs to be amended,” added the member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/officebearers-for-117-urban-local-bodies-in-punjab-to-be-elected-in-april-first-week-101616009711256.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||‘If govt means L-G, why hold elections?’: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday urged the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government to withdraw a bill that redefines the power of Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G), contending that the legislation would undermine the rights of the people of the Capital and their elected government.Kejriwal said the Union government, by moving this bill, was not just bypassing a Supreme Court verdict of July 2018, but also negating the Constitution and democracy.“The bill says the government means the L-G. If that is the case, where will the chief minister go? Where will the people of Delhi go? Why were elections conducted? The people of Delhi are being cheated by the central government. This is wrong,” he said during a protest rally of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers and supporters at Jantar Mantar.Kejriwal added that he was ready to do anything to safeguard the rights of the people.“Be it folding our hands before them [the Centre] or touching their feet, we are ready to do anything for the people of Delhi. We will not allow any work to stop in the city. We will ensure that the powers of the people of Delhi are given back to them. The country is celebrating its 75th year of independence fromBritish rule and here BJP led Centre government is snatching the rights of the citizens of Delhi,” he said.The Union government introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday to amend the 1991 GNCT Act. The Bill says that “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation, and seeks to make it mandatory for the Delhi government to seek the prior opinion of the L-G before any executive action. It also says that the Delhi assembly cannot constitute any committees to look into the day-to-day and administrative issues.Since Delhi is a Union territory, its elected government does not have full control over the city-state. The Centre, through the L-G, controls subjects such as public order, land and police, and the L-G can also refer matters to the President in case of difference of opinion between him and the council of ministers. This unique duality of power has resulted in frequent tussles between the Delhi government and the Centre.Kejriwal hit out at the BJP, saying the party should engage in “healthy competition” instead of trying to take over Delhi by “mischief”, and referred to the AAP’s success in the recent elections. “We won 67 of the 70 assembly seats in 2015, 62 seats in 2020 and in the recent MCD bypolls, the BJP got zero seats. People are clearly saying they do not want the BJP, they want the AAP. But the BJP is behaving like an angry child who runs away with the bat and the ball on losing a cricket match. The BJP is losing one election after the other, but they want to rule over Delhi by doing such mischief,” he said. “In other states, they buy MLAs from other parties, topple the incumbent government, and form a new one after losing elections. But in Delhi they are not able to buy our MLAs, so now they are bringing this bill to end the rule of the people of Delhi,” Kejriwal added.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said it is the AAP which was disturbing the balance of power in Delhi by not giving the constitutional funds to the three municipal corporations since 2015. “The chief minister should tell why he even refused to talk to the three mayors who sat on dharna outside his house demanding municipal funds,” he said.The CM, who is also the AAP’s national convener, contended that the proposed law would snatch the powers of the elected government and stall all the subsidies that are provided on power, water, and other amenities, along with development work in the city.Hinting at intensifying the protest, Kejriwal reminded the people of the dharna which he had led at the L-G’s office in 2018, when he was seeking the clearance for the Delhi government’s CCTV project. On that occasion,the CM and his council of ministers did not leave the L-G’s house for nine days, until he gave his nod to the plan.Kejriwal said that all files prior to the 2018 Supreme Court judgment were sent to the L-G, resulting in delays in the implementation of projects. “The SC verdict stated the elected government does not need to send all files to the L-G. But this proposed law will overturn all of that. The central government is bypassing the SC, the elected government and will of the people of Delhi,” he said. The SC in its July 2018 verdict made it clear that the L-G is “bound to act on aid and advice of the council of ministers” in all matters, except those relating to police, land, and law and order. It also stated that while it is necessary to apprise the L-G of all the decisions, it does not mean that his concurrence is required. Kejriwal contended that the bill was a way to stall a surging AAP.“The entire country is talking about the good works being done but the Delhi government. The AAP is slowly winning seats in panchayat and municipal corporation elections in other states because of our Delhi model. Now people in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana are also saying they want free electricity. I want to tell them [the BJP-ruled central government] that they should not stall the good works happening in Delhi. You show people your good work,” he said.“Let there be a competition of good work. You won’t do any work but will only stop all the good things happening in Delhi. This is wrong. If you want votes, you should also work well. Now, if you make electricity free in Gujarat, AAP will not get a single seat,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi BJP said that in all Union territories, including Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry, the L-G has some extra constitutional rights despite each having their own assemblies. “The bill does not end the concept of legislative assembly. So, to say that the Delhi Government’s rights are being curtailed is wholly unjustified. Kejriwal needs to understand that democracy doesn’t just mean that you get your own demands fulfilled, it means working in coordination to ensure good governance. If Kejriwal tries to work like his predecessors from the BJP and the Congress who were CMs of Delhi and worked in constitutional coordination with the L-G, there is no reason why his decisions will be stalled,” Gupta said.The Delhi Congress led by unit president Anil Kumar also staged a sit-in at Jantar Mantar against the bill. “We are protesting against the autocracy of the Centre and the murder of democracy in Delhi through this bill. Though the Congress does not have an MP or an MLA from Delhi, the party was the first to speak against the bill... (It) will make a mockery of the people’s power to elect a government and representatives of their choice.”Former Lok Sabha secretary general Subhash Kashyap said the frequent friction between the Central and state government is not only disruptive, but also slows down the development story of Delhi. “Delhi has limited powers because of its nature as a UT. It was not necessary for the Centre to initiate such an amendment at such a junction when the Supreme Court has given a subject wise clarity on several issues. Maybe the central government is attempting to clarify the division of power further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/if-govt-means-l-g-why-hold-elections-101616008781639.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze row: BJP, Sena war of words continues||Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday demanded a probe to find the “political bosses” who were behind the police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the security threat at industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, Antilia.Pointing out the links between Vaze and Shiv Sena leaders, he said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had called him in 2018, when he was the chief minister, to reinstate Vaze in the police force. Vaze was under suspension then. “Thackeray had called me and his senior ministers had met me in 2018. As the high court had ordered the Vaze’s suspension, I refused to accede to their demand,” said Fadnavis.Addressing the media in Delhi, Fadnavis said the focus should be on people who operated behind the scenes. “Param Bir Singh (former Mumbai police commissioner) and Sachin Vaze were small players. We want to know their political masters in the government,” said Fadnavis. “The way the chief minister was defending Vaze, the manner in which he is defended by the government, we want to know, whose interests are being protected,” said Fadnavis.Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena stepped up its offensive, saying the Vaze incident will not result in the collapse of the Maharashtra government. “Everybody should snap out of the illusion that like the Chandra Shekhar government collapsed due to two constables, the Maharashtra government too will fall due to an assistant police inspector [Sachin Vaze]. The National Investigation Agency and the Anti-Terrorism Squad are investigating and it should be left to them. But we are keeping an eye on it. It is a small matter now,” said Sena leader Sanjay Raut.Raut dared Fadnavis to name leaders who he thought were “Vaze’s handlers”. “Take names or don’t shoot in the dark,” Raut said, adding a former chief minister should not work to demoralise the Mumbai Police.Responding indirectly to Fadnavis’s claims of Thackeray’s request for Vaze’s reinstatement, Raut said, “Vaze was a police officer then. He was suspended following the death of an accused terrorist during investigation. The court ordered his suspension, there was no other case. So is our leader of Opposition speaking in favour of a terrorist?”The Sena parliamentarian said that Fadnavis should not think that he holds the reins of the investigation. “The probe is being done by NIA and ATS. Let’s see what comes out. Terrible incidents have happened in the BJP-ruled states, but we have never interfered in it,” he said.Speaking on the transfer of police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Raut said, “Whatever has happened in the past 15 days, has not and will not be supported by anybody. The transfers that happened today are important. It is not done under pressure from the opposition. It is our moral responsibility,” he said.Raut further said, “This is not sudden or a routine transfer. Given the type of atmosphere in the state or in the media , the chief minister thought that the head of the police force, on whom doubts were raised, should be transferred till the inquiry is complete…No police officer takes the government into confidence before committing any crime. But when such incidents come forward, it is our duty to take appropriate action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-row-bjp-sena-war-of-words-continues-101616008930953.html
18-03-2021||Other||Jolt to PDP as Jammu leader Choudhary quits party posts||The beleaguered Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is likely to suffer another big jolt after its state general secretary Surinder Choudhary resigned from the posts of state general secretary and political affairs committee on Wednesday evening. Sources privy to the development said that Choudhary, a former MLC and only prominent Hindu face of the PDP in entire Jammu region, resigned from the post of state general secretary and political affairs committee because he was neither taken into confidence nor given a suitable place in state body and parliamentary affairs committee constituted by Mehbooba Mufti. “Despite being a popular Hindu leader from Rajouri district and having mass base in Jammu, he was not taken into confidence. He was handed a raw deal in the state body and parliamentary affairs committee. Hence, he resigned from the post of state general secretary and political affairs committee. He is going to resign from the party itself in a day or two after talking to his workers and supporters,” said people close to Choudhary. They also produced a letter written by Choudhary to Mehbooba Mufti, part of which read, “First of all I thank you for appointing me as State General Secretary and member of the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP)-the highest decision making panel of the party. Being a simple and grass-root level worker of the PDP, I will not be able to shoulder such important responsibilities of the party, so I am resigning from both the posts. I will serve the party as a simple worker, which I have already been doing for years together”. “My best wishes are always there for your future journey as president of the PDP and newly appointed office-bearers,” it read further. However, people close to him said that Choudhary has decided to quit the party. The development comes on a day when PDP’s founding member and former J&K deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig joined Sajad Lone’s Peoples’ Conference in Srinagar. It may be recalled here that the PDP had suffered a major jolt last year after six of its senior leaders had quit the party. Barely two days ahead of DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, the PDP had suffered another jolt as three senior leaders — Dhaman Bhasin, Fallail Singh and Pritam Kotwal — resigned. On October 26, former PDP MP TS Bajwa along with former MLC Ved Mahajan and former state secretary Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa had quit the party over Mehbooba Mufti’s highly provocative remarks against the Tricolour. During DDC elections, the PDP had won only one seat from Nowshera in Rajouri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jolt-to-pdp-as-jammu-leader-choudhary-quits-party-posts-101616008870898.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s new police commissioner Hemant Nagrale: All you need to know||Hemant Nagrale, a 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, has served as director general of police, technical and legal, before taking charge as Mumbai police chief. Here’s a brief profile:EducationTill Class 6, Nagrale studied at a zilla parishad school at Bhadrawati in Chandrapur district. Thereafter, he continued his education at Patwardhan High School, Nagpur. Nagrale graduated from Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, formerly Visvesvaraya Regional College of Engineering at Nagpur, as a mechanical engineer. He then completed Master of Finance Management course from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, Mumbai.Work lifeHis first assignment was in the Naxal-affected Chandrapur district as additional superintendent of police, Rajura during 1989-1992. During his tenure as deputy commissioner of police (1992-94), he successfully controlled post Babri masjid communal riots in Solapur. Thereafter, as superintendent of police (SP), Ratnagiri (1994-1996), he handled the land acquisition problem related to ENRON or Dabhol Power Corporation.As SP, criminal investigation department (CID) (crime) during 1996-1998, he investigated MPSC paper leak case, the infamous multiple children kidnapping, and murder cases involving Anjanabai Gavit and her daughters. Big casesNagrale then proceeded on deputation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in March 1998 and served till September 2002. Initially, he was posted as SP, BSFC, CBI, Mumbai and later as DIG, CBI at New Delhi. He supervised and completed probes in several cases such as the ₹130-crore Bank of India case involving Ketan Parekh, the ₹1,800-crore Madhaopura Co-op Bank scam and 2001 Harshad Mehta cases involving ₹400 crore. Nagrale’s services as the staff officer of SS Puri, who was appointed as deputy general of police (DGP), special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Telgi stamp scam as directed by Bombay high court, was deeply commended for detailed research and matching scrutiny.He got a promotion and was posted as special inspector general of police (IGP) and director (vigilance and security) in MSEDCL (June 2008-August 2010). His tenure oversaw better enforcement and 25% increase in revenue of the company by reducing power theft.2008 Mumbai blastsOn November 26, 2008 Mumbai witnessed a terrorist attack when a group of 10 terrorists targeted various places in the city. Nagrale, who was on deputation to MSEDCL, helped shift the injured to hospitals. He also spotted and inspected a bag containing RDX-powered bomb and removed it to a safer place and summoned bomb detection and disposal squad. He and four police personnel entered Hotel Taj where they helped remove the injured and dead, and shifted them to hospitals. He coordinated with senior officers and helped rescue hundreds of people trapped inside the shopping plaza of Hotel Taj with the help of the staff.Policy makingDuring his tenure as special IGP (administration) in DG office, he revamped MPKAY Scheme (Health Scheme for Maharashtra Police) and reduced the expenditure by ₹10 crore in 2011-12, while making it more effective and useful.During his tenure as the joint commissioner of police (admin), Mumbai, he drafted the residential quarter allotment policy, ensuring transparency in quarter allotment in the city.For a brief period in 2014, Nagrale held additional charge as commissioner of police, Mumbai.Recent postingsFrom May 2016 to July 2018, Nagrale was posted as commissioner of police, Navi Mumbai as part of which he handled the Maratha reservation agitation whose focal point was Navi Mumbai. He was then elevated to DG rank in October 2018 and was entrusted with responsibility of looking after the forensic science laboratories in the state.Nagrale is an avid golfer and tennis player and is also a black belt in Judo. He has won medals in All India Police Games. He has also received President’s Police Medal, Vishesh Seva Padak, and Antarik Suraksha Padak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-new-police-commissioner-hemant-nagrale-all-you-need-to-know-101616008810864.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze’s Techlegal Solutions in Thane closed since lockdown||The Thane office of Techlegal Solutions Private Limited, a registered company in the name of Sachin Vaze, controversial former Mumbai Police assistant inspector, along with his other business associates, is closed since lockdown. Vaze used to sit in the office regularly before he was reinstated into the force, said sources. A security guard posted at Kelkar compound premises since many years said, “Vaze visited the office everyday between 12 noon and 1pm and stayed till 6pm.” The guard added, “He generally arrived in a white SUV, however, he stopped coming after he re-joined the police force.” Apart from Techlegal Solutions, the office also caters to Swaroop Security Force and MJ Associates, two other companies. As per sources and registration records, Techlegal was incorporated on February 5, 2010. Its directors include Sachin Hindurao Vaze, Shrish Thorat and Mandar Vishwas Joshi. Vaze was also a director of Diginext Multimedia limited and Multibuild Infraproject Limited, both registered at the same addresses. He is also said to be a builder in Thane with investments in different properties. When HT contacted Mandar Joshi, a director of Techlegal Solutions, he said, “The office had been closed down.” He refused to divulge any further details as to what services were offered from the office or why was it closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-s-techlegal-solutions-in-thane-closed-since-lockdown-101616008690918.html
18-03-2021||Other||Jalandhar DC orders FIR against private lab for overcharging for covid-19 test||Jalandhar Deputy commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori has ordered the registration of an FIR against Atulaya Lab, in the city’s Green Park locality, for overcharging for covid-19 tests and treatment. The DC added a complaint was received against the lab for charging ₹1,500 for conducting the RT-PCR test for covid-19, whereas the state government has capped the test price at ₹900.He added that the complainant, who was not even given a receipt, had also submitted video evidence against the lab, which was thoroughly examined. The Public grievance officer (PGO), in his inquiry report, had, prima facie, found the allegation of overcharging to be true.After the PGO’s report, the DC had written to the police for lodging an FIR against the lab under Indian Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act, Section 188 of IPC, and under other prevailing laws after a thorough probe. He also formed a four-member committee to find out in how many cases the lab had overcharged for covid-19 related tests. The committee comprised SDM-1, joint commissioner, MC, civil surgeon, Jalandhar, and district family planning officer Dr Raman Gupta. The DC also directed the committee to recommend cancelling registration of this lab. The DC has also recommended all private labs/diagnostic centres and hospitals to adhere to guidelines issued by the state government regarding testing and treatment of covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-dc-orders-fir-against-private-lab-for-overcharging-for-covid-19-test-101616008450900.html
18-03-2021||Other||Lawmakers pay rich tributes, assembly adjourned||The Himachal Pradesh assembly paid rich tributes to Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, who passed away at Delhi on Wednesday morning. Moving a condolence motion, chief minster Jai Ram Thakur said Sharma was born on June 10, 1958 in Jalpahar of Jogindernagar in Mandi. He served as a vice-chairman of Himachal Pradesh State Food Supply Corporation from 2008 to 2012. “Sharma was elected as MP from Mandi in 2014 and re-elected in 2019. He was a member of the standing committee on external affairs and consultative committee, ministry of tourism and culture, from 2014 to 2019,” he added. Thakur said Sharma was an honest man with clean image and had special interest in social service and agricultural work. “This House praises Ram Swaroop Sharma for the services rendered to the state and society,” he said, adding that the House expressed heartfelt condolences on his demise. “I have worked with him in the organisation for long. He vociferously took up development issues,” said the chief minister. Thakur remembered Sharma for his dedication and honesty. Speaker of HP legislative assembly Vipin Singh Parmar also paid deep condolences on the demise of Sharma. He said Sharma’s death has caused irreparable loss to the state, which is difficult to compensate. Others who joined to pay tributes included Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, forest minister Rakesh Pathania, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Rakesh Jamwal and Prakash Rana. Rana and Jamwal in their tributes remembered Sharma for shaping their political career . The Speaker then adjourned the House for a day. Governor Bandaru Dattatraya also expressed grief over the demise of Sharma. The governor in his condolence message said his (Sharma’s) demise was a great loss and his contribution to the society would always be remembered. He prayed for the peace of the departed soul and expressed his sympathies with the bereaved family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lawmakers-pay-rich-tributes-assembly-adjourned-101616008330283.html
18-03-2021||Other||Muzaffar Baig joins J&K Peoples’ Conference||Former J&K deputy chief minister and former MP Muzaffar Baig on Wednesday joined the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples’ Conference. Baig, one of the senior-most leaders in Kashmir, had resigned from the PDP last year after his wife Safeena Baig was denied party ticket by the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to contest district development council (DDC) polls from Sangrama. Later, Safeena, who was also the president of PDP’s women wing, contested DDC elections as an independent candidate from Sangrama and won. She then became Baramulla DDC chairperson with the support of the Peoples’ Conference and the Apni Party.The Peoples’ Conference spokesperson, Adnan Ashraf, said party chairperson Sajad Lone accompanied by senior leaders visited the residence of Baig and confabulated with him on a range of issues afflicting the people of J&K in these “difficult times”. “Lone also invited Baig to be a part of the party. He (Baig) keenly participated in the discussion and expressed his pleasure in joining the party from where he started his political career,” he added. Baig had started his political career in mid 80s and contested elections on a Peoples’ Conference ticket. He was considered close to the party founder, Abdul Gani Lone. However, in 1999, he along with Mufti Mohammad Sayeed laid the foundation of Peoples Democratic Party and became minister in the PDP-Congress coalition government. He also served as the deputy chief minister of J&K. He fought on a PDP ticket and won the Baramulla Lok Sabha seat. However, the PDP later sidelined him. Baig’s entry into Peoples’ Conference will make the party strong in north Kashmir. Earlier, party’s general secretary Imraz Reza Ansari had hinted that some senior leaders will be joining the Peoples’ Conference, so he resigned from the post of general secretary.“As our Party @JKPC_is growing and lots of leaders have started joining this caravan of change I am requesting my party President @sajadlone to accept my resignation from post of General Secretary effective today,” Ansari had tweeted earlier this week. Sources within the party said that Baig will be given some important post in the party. With Baig joining the Peoples’ Conference, now party controls Baramulla and Kupwara DDC chairperson and vice-chairperson posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffar-baig-joins-j-k-peoples-conference-101616008213325.html
18-03-2021||Other||MP Swaroop’s death sends shock waves across Mandi||People rushed to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Ram Swaroop Sharma’s residence at Jalpehar village in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi as the news of his death in Delhi broke on Wednesday. His sons left for Delhi as condolences poured in on social media. The MP’s son, Anand Swaroop, said, “It was very shocking for the family and we couldn’t believe that my father is no more.” He said his father was suffering from a heart ailment for quite some time, but was aware of his health. “What led him to take the extreme step would be known in the police investigation,” he said, adding that his mother had gone on a pilgrimage. He said everything was fine at the family front and there was no sign that he was stressed. Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, “It is a very sad day for all of us. Sharma was very popular among the masses and the party. He was with us 4-5 days back and had assured that he would campaign in the municipal corporation election in Mandi.” He added that Sharma, 62, was not in good health for quite some time. “It is a great loss for me personally and for the party as well.” Born on June 10, 1958, Sharma worked as a supervisor in the National Hydro Power Corporation before he quit his job in 1984 to join the BJP’s ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. He later moved to the BJP. Sharma was known to keep a low-profile leader. Ram Swaroop Sharma first gained prominence when he was chosen to take on Congress’ Pratibha Singh in the 2014 national polls. He won the election by a margin of 40,000 votes. He was re-elected to Lok Sabha in 2019 defeating Congress’ Aashray Sharma by over four lakh votes. Speaker of HP legislative assembly Vipin Singh Parmar also paid deep condolences on the demise of Sharma.Others who joined to pay tributes included Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, forest minister Rakesh Pathania, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Rakesh Jamwal and Prakash Rana. The Speaker then adjourned the House for a day.Governor Bandaru Dattatraya also expressed grief over the demise of Sharma.Former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh Shanta Kumar said he was pained by Sharma’s demise and wasn’t yet able to believe or understand anything.He was a dedicated, honest and hardworking party worker, Kumar recalled, and added that Sharma underwent treatment at Kayakalp naturopathy centre, Palampur for 10 days about two months ago. “Yesterday, I had a telephonic conversation with him on some issues related to the state,” said Kumar.Prem Kumar Dhumal also expressed grief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mp-swaroop-s-death-sends-shock-waves-across-mandi-101616008212245.html
18-03-2021||Other||Will ask Capt to cap number of pilgrims coming to HP: Jai Ram||After witnessing a descending trend in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, Himachal Pradesh is again hit by another wave of infection.In the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has sought assistance from his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh in putting a cap on the number of pilgrims for the annual Maidi fair in Una. “Large number of pilgrims comes from Punjab. I will talk to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to keep tabs on the influx,” Jai Ram said after attending a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.The Hiamchal chief minister said that PM Modi has asked all states to not only increase testing capacity, but also ensure strict implementation of various SOPs issued from time to time by the government. He said over 1.78 lakh people had been administered vaccine in the state that was about 2.6 percent of the total population. He said that the HP government was also keeping an eye on the situation and appropriate steps were being taken accordingly. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while virtually reviewing the situation of Covid-19 and progress in vaccination campaign in the country with the chief ministers, lieutenant governors and administrators of union territories, expressed concern over the sudden spike in the number of cases in a few states of the country. In Himachal, a spurt that began in February last week which is still continuing with a 10% rise in the first fortnight of March. Since the beginning of this month till March 16, Himachal has recorded 1,224 new infections compared to a total of 1,109 recorded in February. Opening of educational institutes and relaxation are said to be responsible for the rise while authorities claim that people also have become carefree and are not following the Covid-19 guidelines. This year, the state has recorded a total of 4,592 infections and seven deaths since January 1. The hill-state had logged 55,277 infections and 922 deaths last year. The outbreak began on March 20. There has also been a rise in the coronavirus related deaths in the state this month. As many as 16 people have succumbed to the contagion. Last month, the tally was 15. The active cases have again climbed up to 820 from about 200 in the second last week of February. Meanwhile, the state government is again considering imposing restrictions on crowd gatherings to curb the spike. In the last cabinet meeting, the government had cancelled a big fair organised on Holi at Amb of Una. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,604 Covid cases, followed by Mandi with 10,329, and Kangra with 8,774. Solan has 6,939 cases, Kullu 4,482, Sirmaur 3,702, Hamirpur 3,117, Una 3,262, Bilaspur 3,029, Chamba 2,986, Kinnaur 1,387, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,258. A total of 11,68,225 tests have been conducted in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-ask-capt-to-cap-number-of-pilgrims-coming-to-hp-jai-ram-101616008211096.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||PM2.5 pollution in Mumbai dipped 9% between 2019 and 2020: Report||The average daily concentration of PM2.5 in the city at stood 41.3ug/m3 for 2020, according to a report released on Tuesday by Swedish technology company IQ AirVisual. This is lower than the daily average of 45.3ug/m3 recorded in 2019. However, it is slightly higher than the safe annual threshold of 40ug/m3 as per India’s national ambient air quality standards.According to the latest World Air Quality Report, Mumbai noted an “observed” reduction of 9% in concentration of PM2.5 pollutants between 2019 and 2020. However, when accounting for “weather correction” — a mathematical factor which aims to eliminate the influence of weather on observed air pollution data — the reduction worked out to be about 13%, as per the report.Experts said this can be attributed largely due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown which brought a wide range of emissions to a halt. Similar reductions were noted in several Indian cities “with 63% reporting direct improvements over 2019 averages” with regard to PM2.5 levels.February remained the most polluted month in Mumbai with respect to PM2.5 pollution, clocking an average daily concentration of 73.3ug/m3, above the daily safe threshold of 60ug/m3 as per India’s NAAQS. June was the cleanest month, recording an average daily PM2.5 concentration of 15.9ug/m3. However, during the last quarter of 2020, PM2.5 levels returned to the same levels as the previous year, the data shows.Requesting anonymity, a spokesperson for System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) — which maintains an observational network of 10 air quality monitoring stations across Mumbai and Navi Mumbai — said, “The results are not surprising given that most of Mumbai’s prominent emissions sources, such as vehicles and construction activity, were essentially absent during the lockdown months. But I would not celebrate the findings. If you see the monthly data, the level of PM2.5 again rises sharply in October, November and December as lockdown restrictions were lifted. This report has given us some idea of how we can reduce particulate matter pollution, but finding city-specific solutions is now up to us.”Mumbai remained the third most polluted among major Indian cities featured in the World Air Quality Report (behind Delhi and Kolkata). Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai, meanwhile, all recorded cleaner air than Mumbai in 2020, with average daily PM2.5 levels ranging from 26ug/m3 to 35ug/m3.Overall, Mumbai saw average daily concentrations of PM.25 above or equal to 25ug/m3 on 64% of days during 2020. A similar metric for comparison with the previous year’s World Air Quality Report was not provided.The report also shows that, over the past six years, there has been a steady decline in the city’s annual average concentration of PM2.5 — from just under 50ug/m3 in 2015 to 41.3ug/m3 in 2020. The report does not, however, offer possible explanations for this trend.The report states that this progress is “only marginally attributable” to the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) introduced in January 2019, which targets PM2.5 reductions between 20-30% in 122 selected cities by 2024, with reference to a 2017 baseline. “Officials cite the pandemic as part of the reason for the programme’s slow implementation,” the report goes on to state.Hindustan Times reached out to Sudhir Shrivastava, chairman of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), and VM Motghare, joint director of MPCB, for a comment but did not receive response till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm25-pollution-in-mumbai-dipped-9-between-2019-and-2020-report-101616008092290.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Home minister’s advisory panel for Chandigarh hasn’t met since 2017||Even as the working of the Chandigarh administrator’s advisory council has come under the scanner in the recent times, the home minister’s advisory committee has not held a meeting in nearly four years.A proposal to reconstitute the committee is also pending with the Centre for around a year now.The home minister’s advisory committee is the apex institution for the direct interface between Chandigarh’s elected representatives and the Union government.“The advisory panel provides a forum to union territories without legislatures for interaction between the central government and the elected representatives of UTs on the major issues of policy,” said a senior UT official requesting anonymity.The last meeting of the panel was held in 2017 under the chairmanship of then Union home minister Rajnath Singh. It was the first and last meeting of the committee constituted in November 2016.“I had attended the 2017 meeting. It was very constructive and some of the suggestions were implemented. We were also assured that such meetings would be held every three months. But since then, the government has not cared to call a single meeting, showing their non-seriousness about the important issues concerning the city,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in Chandigarh municipal corporation.However, former members have highlighted the committee’s effectiveness and importance for the city. “It is the only formal platform where Chandigarh’s residents can sit face to face with the officials of home ministry and air their grievances. They can bring important issues to the direct notice of the home minister. The discussions in the past meetings have borne positive results for the city,” said Surinder Bahga, member of the committee constituted in 2016.But this is not the first time that the committee’s meetings have been put on the back burner. As per senior UT officials, the last meeting in 2017 was held after a gap of nearly 12 years. The meeting in 2005 was held after 20 years.The tenure of the advisory committee members is three years, and they can get extension. Chandigarh is represented by the UT administrator, and in his absence, UT adviser. The member of Parliament, mayor, leader of opposition are the ex-officio members. Nominated members include one woman member and one SC/ST member, who represent various interests and groups from the city.“Even without the meeting, whatever is required for the UT is being taken up officially through proper channels, and things are sorted if and when any specific problems crop up. We will attend the meeting as and when it is called,” said the UT adviser Manoj Parida.Scope of functions General questions of policy relating to the administration of territory in the state listAll legislative proposals concerning the territory in regard to matters in the state listSuch matters relating to the annual financial statement of the Union so far as it concerns the UTAll development issues concerning the UTAny other matter on which it may be considered necessary by the ministry of home affairs that the advisory committee should be consulted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/home-minister-s-advisory-panel-for-chandigarh-hasn-t-met-since-2017-101616008032283.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s 2021-22 budget remains unapproved||With no senate in place, the upcoming fiscal’s budget of Panjab University remains unapproved.PU board of finance (BoF) in January had recommended a revenue expenditure of ₹599.74 crore for the 2021-22 financial year. After the budget is approved by the BoF, it is placed before the syndicate and the senate for final approval before implementation.The term of the senate had ended on October 31 last year without fresh polls. The elections were postponed by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar twice due to the pandemic, and PU is now functioning without a governing body.Issues on spending may ariseWith the final approval pending by the senate, the local audit department of PU may raise objections on spending from the next financial year.The regulations of the PU calendar lay down that “the budget estimates recommended by the BoF shall, after consideration by the syndicate, be submitted to the senate for sanction not later than March 31 of each year; in such form and in accordance with such directions as may be given by the syndicate.”Former senator professor Navdeep Goyal said, “If some problem arises, it is the V-C who will be responsible as he has not conducted the senate polls.”Budget approved by V-C: PUPU in its official version said, “The budget of 2021-22 has been approved by the BoF, consisting of nominees from the ministry of education, government of Punjab and the UT administration. After the approval from BoF, the same has been approved by the V-C in anticipation of approval of syndicate/senate, in exercise of powers vested in him under the PU regulations.”However, the regulation 14 of PU calendar volume 1, chapter II (A) (ii), states that whenever there is an urgency, the V-C may take such action as he deems necessary, and report the matter at the next meeting of the syndicate for approval.Former senator Ashok Goyal said, “To my knowledge there is no such provision in the PU calendar which grants power to the V-C to take any action in anticipation of both syndicate and senate. With neither syndicate nor senate in place, it seems that the V-C and other authorities have no respect for the law of the land.”“Merely the presence of government nominees in BoF does not mean that the syndicate and the senate are under obligation to approve what they say,” he added.PUTA secretary Amarjit Naura said, “We wish that no such financial crisis arises in the university, but if any issue arises in absence of the governing body then the V-C will be responsible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-s-2021-22-budget-remains-unapproved-101616008031018.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Online portals see high bookings, expect more travel||As summer vacations are round the corner and vaccination roll-out gains momentum, online travel portals are expecting a substantial number of bookings, with some terming the response to advance bookings as “encouraging”. Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer of MakeMyTrip, said, “While travel to drivable destinations will continue to be preferred by leisure travellers, we are noticing an increase in searches and bookings to some of the lesser-known hot spots in Assam, Daman and Diu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, among others. In comparison to advance bookings for summer travel in 2019, we are seeing traction build gradually for the upcoming season. However, as summer sets in and vaccination roll-out picks up pace, we are hopeful we will see it reflect in travel bookings.” As per the portal, compared to bookings made for the winter season in 2020, they are already noticing a 70% increase in daily holiday bookings for the upcoming summer season. “Within India, apart from unexplored destinations, people will be seen traveling to Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, North-east and to hills located down south. International leisure destinations such as Maldives, Seychelles and Russia are seeing a sudden rise in demand for the summer travel season,” Prakash added. International destinations that have opened their borders for India are seeing Indians travelling to those places. One such place is Seychelles which is a short-haul, visa-free destination for Indians, and therefore, does not entail planning much in advance.Lubaina Sheerazi, chief executive officer, BRANDit, the marketing and PR office for Seychelles Tourism Board in India, said, “With Seychelles opening up for tourism, and Indians having access to a new international travel destination, the response has been overwhelming among both consumers and the travel trade fraternity. We have forward bookings confirmed for April and foresee many more confirmations in the coming weeks.” According to travel app ixigo, there has been an increase in flight search queries for summer travel to destinations such as Goa, Andaman and Nicobar, Coorg, Varanasi, Guwahati and Patna.“We are seeing a new trend of ‘vaxications’ picking up with travellers between the age group of 45-65 who are eager to travel post getting vaccinated. Enquiries for international travel is also picking up for destinations like Seychelles starting flights April onwards,” said Aloke Bajpai, co-founder, ixigo. He also said that they have witnessed 90% jump in train traffic with people overcoming anxieties of the pandemic and vaccine roll out.Thomas Cook (India) Lts said their Holiday Readiness Report (December 2020) revealed that health and safety continues to take top priority in travel decisions with 93% respondents highlighting this as the most important factor while deciding a holiday.“The visible preference for reputed brands is understandable with customers seeking reassurance from a health and safety perspective. So our packages with leaders in hospitality space such as Marriott, Accor, Taj, WelcomHeritage, Sterling Holidays and other branded regional chain hotels etc. are doing well for us,” Rajeev Kale, president and country head-holidays, MICE, Visa, Thomas Cook.Similarly, SOTC said they have received an encouraging response from Indian travellers for summer holidays. “Providing a safe customer travel experience has been possible with the esteemed partnership and support from our partners (hospitality, cruises etc). We have forged partnerships with leaders in the travel ecosystem to build customer confidence and momentum in travel. We have associated with Accor Group, Marriott International, Taj Hotels, WelcomHeritage Hotels to offer safe holidays. And these packages have received a good response,” said Daniel D’Souza, president and country head, Leisure, SOTC Travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-online-portals-see-high-bookings-expect-more-travel-101616007790914.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department invites suggestions on fee act||Flooded with complaints on fee hike at private schools, the Maharashtra education department has invited suggestions from parents and other stakeholders for amendments to be made to the fee act.In a government resolution (Gr) issued on Tuesday, the department stated that parents, activists and other stakeholders can send their suggestions and objections for proposed changes in the act on- https://www.research.net/r/feeregulation. The state government recently formed an expert committee to suggest changes and revisions in the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011. As per the government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday, the committee will look into the suggestions that are sent by various stakeholders before giving its report.“There are several operational issues in the current fee act. Over the past few months, there have been a large number of complaints from parents regarding issues of fee hikes and fee-related disputes with private schools. While a committee has been formed to study the act and suggest changes if any, stakeholders can send their suggestions to the committee within a month’s time,” states the GR.Parents said they are hoping the government takes note of the suggestions made in the past. “Parents had sent a detailed list of recommendations before the amendment to the fee act was made in 2018. However, the then BJP government ignored them and went ahead with the anti-parent provisions in the act,” said a parent. The amendment allowed schools to hike fees by up to 15% once every two years. It also allowed schools to declare fees for the next five-10 years when a child gets admission in Class 1, thus undermining the role of parents and the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) in fee related decisions. The act was called out for its pro-privatisation and pro-management stance, and its passage was followed by protests from parents across the state. While the resistance slowly faded away as the government turned a blind eye, the concerns raised then are now becoming major hurdles in addressing fee related disputes in schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-invites-suggestions-on-fee-act-101616007671193.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s fight against pandemic fraught with lapses||Over the course of fighting one of the worst health crises to ever befall the City Beautiful, its people and the administration have grown a thick skin against the coronavirus. As Chandigarh marks a year since its first Covid-19 case, here’s a look at the administration’s dealing of the outbreak from March last year till now.The UT administration may boast high of “less” number of infections, low fatality rate and imposing timely restrictions at the onset of the pandemic in the city, but its counter measures have lacked in terms of department coordination and expected robust response.The first case confirmed case of Covid-19 was reported on 18 March 2020, when a 23-year-old student, who had returned from the UK was tested positive and was isolated at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. The chain of infection was spread to her family, friends in Chandigarh and Panchkula.A total of 23,592 persons have been tested positive in the UT so far, which is almost 2 percent of the total population.Bapu Dham horror The ebb and flow of the virus spread in the city was fraught with lapses which were initially exposed with the community outbreak in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, last year. Despite a strict approach towards testing, the UT administration had failed to cope up with the rising cases during the peak in September 2020.“The system is failing to respond effectively even to this day. Patients are being left in the lurch with no one to seek suggestions from in case of home isolation. There are no calls from the health officials and the patient has no idea how to go about it,” said Taruni Gandhi, a city resident who recently contracted the infection.Delayed detection “The testing was done so selectively that the asymptomatic persons were not detected in time which led to the massive outbreak in the city and high increase in infection load even in complete lockdown,” a senior health official, who was part of the core team handling the operations in the area, said.The administration later changed the policy by bringing in on-site sampling centres which brought the increased number of infections to the fore. At one point, a total of 75% infections in the city came from Bapu Dham Colony alone.A study by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research had also revealed that a significantly high number of cases in Bapu Dham Colony were due to its dense population coupled with a huge number of asymptomatic infections that was responsible for the late detection and delayed isolation of cases leading to a widespread outbreak.September surge As the Covid-19 pandemic surged in Chandigarh in September last year, the UT administration was not able to get in touch with those testing positive within 24 hours of reporting, which further delayed contact tracing. A team of experts was also deputed by the central government in early September to find gaps and assist the local administration in dealing with the pandemic.The month saw a major surge in infections, with the record being set on September 13 (449 cases), while the highest number of active cases (3,171) was reported on September 16.The central team observed that initially in the zones where there were a smaller number of cases or were in the nascent phase of the epidemic, the authorities were not able to contact all positive cases in 24 hours, which resulted in delayed testing of their household contacts. Some positive patients even complained that the health department did not contact them, and they didn’t even know who to reach out to in case of any problem.Vaccine hesitancyEven though the vaccination drive prioritising health care and frontline workers commenced in mid-January, only 50% have been inoculated so far, hesitancy being a key reason behind their low turnout. The response to vaccination among senior citizens, however, has been promising.“We need to acknowledge that our infection number has been so low that people may not find it necessary to get vaccinated. But people should come forward for it if they are among the priority groups,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-fight-against-pandemic-fraught-with-lapses-101616007552545.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NIA brings Sachin Vaze to his Thane home||A day after establishing controversial former Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze’s role in parking an explosive-laden SUV near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s home Antilia on February 24, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) brought Vaze to his residence in Thane at 8pm on Wednesday. The NIA team had already initiated search and interrogation at his house since 2pm along with local police. The team was also set to visit Mumbra Creek where the body of Mansukh Hiran, who owned the SUV, was found on March 5. However, the team returned to Mumbai without going to Mumbra Creek, said sources. A local police officer said, “The NIA team, along with officers from Rabodi police, reached his residence at 2pm and started interrogating his family members. The team continued the interrogation till late at night.” Meanwhile, Shivdeep Lande, additional commissioner of police, Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS), on Wednesday visited ATS office in Wagle Estate, Thane. Mumba police personnel and staff, who carried out Hiran’s post-mortem at Kalwa hospital, were called for questioning and their statements were recorded. Hiran’s diatom test report out, claims kinHiran’s family members said that they came to know that reports of the diatom tests are out. A family member requesting anonymity said, “We came to know that the diatom test report is with the police. But we haven’t received anything or being informed by the officers. We only want justice; whether NIA investigates the case or ATS is none of our concern.” The family had requested the diatom test to ascertain if Hiran’s death was caused by drowning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-nia-brings-sachin-vaze-to-his-thane-home-101616007550877.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Missing Panchkula hospital staffer found dead in Ambala||The body of a 23-year-old man reported missing for the past two days was recovered from the woods in Shahzadpur area in the district, police said on Wednesday.The victim, identified as Anil Kumar, worked at a private hospital in Panchkula.The police have registered a murder case against six persons on the complaint of the victim’s father.The deceased youth’s family also staged a protest demanding the arrest of the accused. The complainant, Ashok, alleged that his son was jointly murdered by the relatives of a local girl, with whom he (Anil) was having an affair, and another group of old rivals.He stated that on Sunday, Anil went out in the evening. But when he didn’t return, they lodged a missing persons complaint with the police on Tuesday. Later that day, they learnt that a body was found in a forest area. “We went there and identified him through his clothes, bike and mobile phone. He had several wounds on his neck and chest,” said the father, a resident of Dhanana village in Bhiwani district.He said that in 2018, some men on behalf of one Sajjan had beaten up Anil over enmity, but the dispute was resolved in a panchayat. “However, Sajjan’s men and the girl’s family have killed my son due to old enmity and the affair,” Ashok told the police.Shahzadpur police station in-charge Dhoom Singh said a murder case has been lodged against six persons. “The autopsy is pending, and the accused will be nabbed soon,” he said.This is the second murder case reported in the last 48 hours from the same area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-panchkula-hospital-staffer-found-dead-in-ambala-101616007310726.html
18-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s daily Covid tally goes past 200 after six months||For the first time since September 24 last year, the daily tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 200 mark on Wednesday, which also pushed the number of active cases to 1,330, highest in the past six months.As many as 201 people tested positive in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 23,592. While 21,903 patients have recovered, 359 have succumbed to the virus to date.In fact, the Prime Minister on Wednesday identified Chandigarh as one of the 12 states and UTs with “districts of concern” because of the steady rate of increase in cases between March 1 and 15.However, amid the spike, the Chandigarh administration has ruled out night curfew.“The infection spread is increasing, but fatalities have not shown any spike. We are monitoring the situation closely, and if things go beyond a certain point, the option of more restrictions is always open. However, there will be no knee-jerk reaction, such as night curfew,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. Parida said testing is being ramped up and more micro-containment zones are being demarcated, including six on Wednesday, to deal with the present surge.The health department has already warned of a second wave, like the one witnessed in September, mostly due to people ignoring the Covid appropriate behaviour.10 areas reporting maximum cases, though scatteredThe new cases being reported in the city this month are concentrated in a few pockets out of 71 localities in the city, official data suggests. As many as 35% of the cases reported between March 4 to 15 surfaced in Manimajra and nine sectors, mostly in southern parts (see map).“The clusters that may have developed are dependent on various factors, such as the population density. Also, infection spread in previous waves determines how much population is still vulnerable,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the school of public health and department of community medicine at PGIMER.Health department officials said that within the sectors that are reporting high numbers, the cases are scattered, making it difficult to demarcate micro-containment zones.“At least two houses vertically or horizontally should have been affected due to the virus to demarcate a micro-containment zone. However, presently the cases are scattered within sectors,” said a senior UT health official, not wishing to be named. Ramp up testing, ensure strict enforcement: Badnore Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday directed the health department to ramp up testing and told the police to ensure strict implementation of Covid norms, after attending a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding steps to be taken to control the resurgence of the pandemic.In his address during the virtual meet that was also attended by chief ministers of various states, Badnore said that though there has been a substantial rise in cases this month due to various relaxations and removal of restrictions on gatherings. After the meeting, Badnore directed senior UT officials to follow the principle of 3-Ts (Testing, Tracking and Treating) to combat the virus. The health department was told to enhance the number of tests, particularly RT-PCR, and to send genome samples to Pune to determine the strain of the virus.Badnore said that school teachers, students and people coming from outside at the railway station and bus stands should be regularly tested, and shopkeepers should get themselves tested as they come in contact with many customers.The administrator directed the director general of police to intensify challaning in public places, eateries and markets to ensure that people wear masks and follow social distancing. According to data shared by Badnore with the PM, the UT administration has already conducted 2.8 lakh tests against a population of around 12 lakh. He also mentioned that 57,000 people have been vaccinated, and the dose wastage is as low as 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-daily-covid-tally-goes-past-200-after-six-months-101616006893416.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||2,377 new cases in Mumbai, highest in five months||The city on Wednesday reported 2,377 fresh covid-19 cases, crossing the 2,000-cases mark for the first time since October 15, when the city reported 2,119 cases in a single day. Mumbai also reported eight deaths on Wednesday. The total number of cases in the city has now shot up to 349,974, and the toll has reached 11,551. There are 15,410 active cases in the city at present.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, incharge of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department, said, “Lockdown is not on the agenda for Mumbai right now. But restrictions related to following rules are being implemented very strictly. Maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks at public places are mandatory. The BMC is showing zero tolerance toward anyone breaking these rules or even home quarantine. A lockdown is mainly imposed to get health infrastructure ready, educate people and standardise treatment protocol.”Despite the recent spurt, Mumbai currently has 55% of its hospital beds available for Covid-19 as per data available as of March 16. Of the 13,062 hospital beds, 5,767 beds are occupied and 7,295 beds are vacant. In addition, Mumbai has 1,537 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 42% or 652 are unoccupied, according to data from BMC as of March 16. Of the 942 ventilator beds, 40% or 377 beds are unoccupied and the rest are occupied. The BMC also plans to activate 200 more ICU beds in tertiary hospitals across the city in the coming days. As per data available for March 16, of the 15,263 active covid-19 cases, 62% or 9,489 patients are asymptomatic, 35% or 5,384 are symptomatic but in stable condition, and 3% or 426 patients are in a critical condition.Kakani said, “We plan to activate some of the ICU beds in tertiary hospitals so that critical patients would be treated properly. We have the ecosystem in such hospitals to take care of critical patients.”The present vacancy in Covid-19 beds has mainly been attributed to a larger percentage of active cases being asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, and almost 90% of the case load coming from residential buildings. Asymptomatic patients living in residential buildings have the option of home quarantining themselves, as long as they have a separate room and toilet in their house for personal use. Else they are moved to Covid Care Centres (CCC2) or quarantine facilities. Mildly symptomatic patients are moved to hospitals or CCC2 facilities on the basis of severity of their symptoms.Currently, the city has eight active CCC2 facilities, with a bed capacity of 587, of which 285 are occupied. The BMC also has 29 buffer CCC2 facilities with a bed capacity of 4,875.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2377-new-cases-in-mumbai-highest-in-five-months-101616006891680.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees highest single-day Covid spike since September 17||A day after the Maharashtra government admitted that it was witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 infections, the state saw its highest single-day spike since September 17, 2020. The state on Wednesday clocked 23,179 new cases— the highest in 181 days. The state had reached its peak on September 11 last year, with 24,886 cases. Maharashtra has breached the 20,000-mark 16 times since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, of which, it surpassed the 23,000-mark six times, data showed. The state’s total tally rose to 2,370,507, while its active caseload climbed to 152,760. Mumbai recorded a 159-day high with 2,377 new cases, taking its tally to 349,974. The active case count in the city was 15,410. The state reported 84 fatalities on Wednesday, pushing the toll to 53,080. Of the 84 deaths reported on Wednesday, 42 occurred in the past 48 hours and 28 in the past week. The remaining 14 deaths are from the period before last week. Mumbai reported eight fatalities, taking its death toll 11,551. Nagpur city reported 2,698 fresh cases—topping the chart on Wednesday among the cities—followed by Pune city, which clocked 2,612 fresh cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai) reported 2,434 fresh cases, including Kalyan-Dombivli with 637 fresh cases and Thane city with 516 new cases. Districts, including Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Buldhana, Yavatamal, Nanded, Beed, and Nandurbar, reported the chunk of the fresh cases on Wednesday. In the first three months of the year, Covid cases have seen a steady rise in the state. In January, the state reported 104,287 cases and 1,561 deaths. This rose to 128,671 fresh cases in February—a jump of 23.38%. Conversely, the deaths reduced by 31.32% in February to 1,072 fatalities. In March so far, Maharashtra’s cases have risen by 67.43% in comparison to February’s cases. So far, in March, the state has reported 215,437 new cases and 926 deaths. State health minister Rajesh Tope said though the cases are increasing, there is no need for “panic” as the state has adequate number of hospital beds and other life-saving equipment. He said that the bright side in the second surge is the death count and rate are under control. “I appeal to people of Maharashtra that there is no need to panic. There are enough beds in hospital, ICUs and oxygenated beds. In the second surge that we are witnessing today, the speed of infection is faster. If one person is infected, everybody in the house may get infected. Therefore, we need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Tope told reporters. He said that a chunk of the fresh cases are asymptomatic and are in home quarantine. “The ones who are admitted to the hospital, of them, only 5% of them are on oxygen, 3.8% are in the ICU,” he said. He added the government has directed district and municipal authorities to increase its contact tracing and ramp up testing. Tope said the state’s average testing per million population stood at 138,000. “We have been testing over 100,000 [samples] for the past few days. Since the cases are going up, the Centre expects to further increase it and we will do so. We have nearly 500 RT-PCR laboratories in the state and we will ensure that all these laboratories carry out tests to its full capacity,” Tope said. The minister said there is a challenge to trace contacts after the activities in the state have been fully unlocked. However, he said that the state is strictly following the three-T principle—trace, test, treat. “Today in the video conference with the prime minister the stress was on going back to tracing. We need to trace 20 to 30 contacts behind a positive patient. Definitely, there is a challenge in tracing today as we have opened up all activities, unlike earlier. The high-risk contacts who are family members mostly can be traced. But low-risk contacts difficult. However, we are going to follow it rigorously,” he assured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-highest-single-day-covid-spike-since-september-17-101616006770797.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No change in local train timings for now||Even as the number of passengers on local trains has been on the rise, the railways are unlikely to extend the timings for general public, amid the surge in Covid cases. While the curbs won’t be lifted, the services won’t be stopped too, for now.Local train services resumed for the general public on February 1. The general public are allowed to commute between noon and 4pm, post 7pm and from the start of the local train services till 7am. Nearly 3.7 million passengers travel by local trains – 2.1 million passengers on the Central Railway and 1.7 million on the Western Railway – daily. Railway authorities said that they have not received any requests from the state government on restricting time or suspending local train services for the general public. The CR operates 1,685 local train services, while the WR operates 1,300. Before lockdown, 8 million passengers travelled by local trains on the CR and WR.“We have not received any communication from the state or the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) regarding reducing local train timings or suspending train services. Reducing train timings will lead to overcrowding inside train compartments and on platforms. We will continue to operate the present number of local trains for essential workers, even if trains are later suspended for the general public,” said a senior railway official, who did not want to be named.Further, state officials have stated that commuting restrictions for local trains are likely to continue. “The restricted timings for passengers travelling by local trains are likely to continue.” said a senior state official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-no-change-in-local-train-timings-for-now-101616006711005.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||VBA to contest 90 seats in BMC polls||The Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) plans to contest 80-90 seats in the forthcoming 2022 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls. The VBA plans to contest seats which have a substantial number of Dalit and Muslim population. The BMC elections are one of the prestigious, with a budget of approximately ₹39,000 crore, and give a lot of clout to the political parties. “We have built a formidable combination of Dalit, OBCs (Other backward Classes) and Muslim votebank,” said VBA chief Prakash Ambedkar. “Currently the Muslims have no alternative as the Congress is highly weakened and they are looking at VBA as their best choice,” said Ambedkar. The VBA plans to contest in areas like Chembur, Govandi, Kurla, Bhandup, Vile Parle, Borivali, Dadar, Kandivali and Jogeshwari. “Our workers have done excellent work at the grassroot level and we plan to contest at least 80-90 seats in the BMC polls. We are confident of winning a minimum of 40 seats,” he added. Ambedkar ruled out any truck with the BJP, but said he was ready for an alliance with the Congress, but on respectable terms. Political experts said though Ambedkar commands respect among the Dalit masses, it is unlikely to translate into votes. “The BMC elections are fought on strong ground level network and not on caste combinations,” said political commentator Surendra Jondhale. “VBA does not have a strong organisational network and there is no consistent mobilisation from their end. In the past one year, they have hardly raised issues concerning Dalits, OBCs and Muslims who were affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” he added. Ambedkar, who was marginalised for years, shot into limelight due to the January 1, 2018 incident, when Dalits were attacked at Bhima-Koregaon. Ambedkar took the lead and announced a state-wide bandh, which proved to be a success. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, the VBA, in alliance with the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), polled 41.08 lakh (7.63%) votes in the state. While the AIMIM won the Aurangabad Lok Sabha seat, the votes bagged by VBA candidates led to the defeat of two former chief ministers, Ashok Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde, in Nanded and Solapur, respectively. However, in the Assembly polls held just months later, Ambedkar broke the alliance with AIMIM. The VBA also failed to strike an alliance with the Congress as it said it will give 144 seats of the total 288 to the latter. It said of the 144 seats, the Congress needs to accommodate even the NCP. In the final tally, the VBA was wiped out, as it failed to bag a single seat. The Congress said it was unfortunate that Ambedkar has still not learnt his lesson. “Ambedkar’s aim is just to help the BJP indirectly and this is evident as he plans to contest in such seats where we are strong. However, the voters have seen through his gameplan and will not vote for the VBA. Even last time, Ambedkar put impossible conditions before the polls for an alliance as he was not interested in any alliance. It is unfortunate that despite failing last time in the Assembly polls, the VBA has still not learnt its lessons,” said Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vbato-contest-90-seats-in-bmcpolls-101616006651311.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Congress claims BJP link to car found from Sachin Vaze’s possession; party hits back||Maharashtra Congress has raised questions over the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) links with the Mercedes found in possession of arrested former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, as the vehicle was allegedly owned by a friend of the party’s Thane office-bearer. The Congress has also questioned leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on why he has not submitted the call detail records (CDR) of the conversation between Vaze and deceased businessman Mansukh Hiran to the investigating agencies.The BJP, meanwhile, has alleged that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was hushing up prime evidence in Hiran’s death case. BJP leader Ashish Shelar said forensic documents have not been submitted to the forensic science laboratory (FSL). “The selective documents and tapes related to the laboratory, autopsy report of Hiran have not been submitted in their original form. CM Thackeray should bring the whole truth to the fore,” Shelar said.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Wednesday tweeted, “Now BJP connection emerges- the Mercedes car allegedly used by Mansukh Hiren on 17th February is seen in a photograph of BJP office-bearer of Thane. Would @BJP4Maharashtra leaders give an explanation? (sic)” He also tweeted photographs of a secretary of BJP’s Yuva Morcha, Thane with the owner of the SUV.Sawant also questioned why Fadnavis has not submitted the CDR to investigating agencies. “He had produced a CDR of the conversation between Vaze and Hiran. He should know that possessing CDR is an offence. By not submitting the document to the investigating agency, he has created doubts if he wants to shield the accused,” he said.Reacting to the allegations, Fadnavis said, “These are foolish allegations made by Sawant, who is known for such statements… I don’t even want to take cognisance of such claims. The BJP office-bearer has clarified that he is just a friend of the person who sold his Mercedes to Vaze.” Shelar said, “Congress’s state unit chief Nana Patole and Sachin Sawant have been levelling baseless allegations in connection with Antilia bomb scare and Vaze’s involvement in it. I think Congress leaders have been doing this deliberately as they do not want the truth to come to the light.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-claims-bjp-link-to-car-found-from-sachin-vaze-s-possession-party-hits-back-101616006590682.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM to Centre: Give Covid vaccine everyone over 45||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday requested the Centre to start Covid-19 vaccination for all citizens above 45 years of age to check the spread of the pandemic. He also wanted the state’s supply of vaccines be increased to 2 million doses a week, among other demands made during a meeting of chief ministers of all states and Union territories with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.The state also recorded 23,179 fresh Covid-19 cases, first in excess of 20,000 since September 26 (20,419 cases) and highest one-day spike since September 17 (24,619 cases), taking the tally to 2,370,507. September 17’s daily caseload was the peak of the first wave of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. On Wednesday, Thackeray said that looking at the large number of young people getting infected, people above 45 years must be allowed to get vaccinated, even if they do not have comorbidities. “Keeping in mind that there is a young population among those getting infected, people above the age of 45, irrespective of comorbidities, should get vaccinated,” Thackeray said in the meeting with Modi.The state government has now targeted to ramp up its vaccination drive to 300,000 beneficiaries daily—more than double its current average of 138,957 per day. “Several private hospitals have come forward and registered themselves, but they will be allowed to operate, looking at their overall preparedness, Efforts will be made to take the daily vaccination to 300,000,” Thackeray said, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO).Responding to Union minister Prakash Javadekar’s charge that the Maharashtra government was mismanaging the vaccination drive, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has vaccine stock that would last 10 days. Tope said that he had apprised union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday of its stock availability based on its current trend of daily vaccination. The vaccination issue could become the latest friction point between the Centre and the state.Javadekar claimed that the Shiv Sena MPs were asking the Centre for more vaccines, while the state has only utilised 44% of what has already been delivered. In a tweet on Thursday the Union minister said, “The Maharashtra government had only used 23 lakh vaccines out of the total 54 lakh vaccines sent to the state, till 12th March. 56% vaccines remained unused. Now, Shiv Sena MP asks for more vaccines for the state. First, mismanagement of pandemic, now poor administration of vaccines.”Responding to the claim, Tope said, “One union minister tweeted that we still have 31 lakh vaccines available. As per our target of 300,000 vaccinations a day, we only have vaccine stock that will last 10 days. I have told this to Rajesh Bhushan. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, has told this to the prime minister in today’s video conference meeting.”According to the CMO, the state has 3,138,643 doses available with itself. Till March 16, Maharashtra has inoculated 3,365,952 beneficiaries, including healthcare workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and people between age groups 45 and 59 with comorbidities.The state sought inclusion of 50-bedded private hospitals as vaccine centres to speed up its vaccination drive. Tope said they have requested the Centre to relax the conditions laid down for a hospital to be eligible to become a vaccination centre. Tope said that they have asked the Centre to revise its policy and reduce the criteria from 100-bed hospitals to 50-bed ones, which could be allowed to give vaccines.“We have sought relaxation in the condition that only 100-bed private hospitals can be allowed to give vaccines. They should, at least, reduce 50-bed hospitals. Ultimately, adequate space is required for vaccination, proper cold storage facility and means to tackle cases if there are any adverse effects following immunisation. If these parameters are fulfilled by either 50-bed or 20-bed hospital, then it should be allowed to give vaccines. We hope this is accepted,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai. The minister added that the health department will give “zero wastage” target to all vaccination centres in the state to achieve least amount of vaccine wastage. Besides that, Thackeray also requested the Centre to allow its Mumbai-based Haffkine Bio Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited to manufacture Covaxin in association with Bharat Biotech. The chief minister said that the state-owned research institute in Mumbai should be allowed to attain vaccine technology from Bharat Biotech or it can be allowed to work on a “fill-and-finish’ basis. Thackeray, according to a statement from the CMO, said that the state can produce 126 million vaccines though Haffkine. Haffkine is a public-sector undertaking owned by the state government and has developed a number of vaccines that include anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, oral polio vaccine etc.Tope, while speaking to reporters said, “We have demanded that the technology transfer from Bharat Biotech [which manufactured Covaxin] can be done to Haffkine Institute. We have two options; firstly, either we can manufacture it on our own or they provide technology and we use our space and equipment and we do it on a fill-and-finish basis. The prime minister is positive about it. If this is accepted, then we are definitely going to put a condition that Maharashtra should get 25% of the product in lieu of its capital input of land and equipment.”In the meeting, the chief minister said that contact tracing has become a challenge as all activities are open and the movement of people has increased. Then, too, the contact-tracing will be done on “war-footing”. Thackeray added that the Centre has expressed satisfaction in the number of vaccination and RT-PCT tests the state carries out in a day. He said Maharashtra is well above other state in terms of RT-PCT tests, which should be 70% of the total tests carried out to detect coronavirus cases. The statement from the CMO said, “The health secretary during a presentation said that Maharashtra’s performance with regards to vaccination is satisfactory. The daily average inoculation carried out 138,957, which is better than some leading states.”The vaccination drive in the state has picked up after the senior citizens and people between 45-59 age bracket were eligible to get a jab. The state government, according to a health department official, said that they will be able to touch higher daily targets on a daily basis. “On March 16, we achieved target of 232,340 vaccination which is much higher than our average. The average seems low because we had a slow start to our drive. It is picking up. Soon, we will hit the desired target of 300,000,” he said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-to-centre-give-covid-vaccine-everyone-over-45-101616006532205.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Home vaccination likely in the fourth phase: Mumbai civic body||To deal with overcrowding at vaccination centres, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is likely to allow inoculation at homes during the fourth phase of the nationwide mass immunisation programme. The contemplation is following a suggestion put forth by the state’s Covid-19 task force last week to the civic body to allow vaccinations at home for senior citizens with severe comorbidities to prevent them from probable infections at centres. BMC officials, however, turned it down citing a lack of feasibility.“At this moment, we can’t implement the plan. Every beneficiary is kept under observation for 30 minutes in a room after vaccination. By the time the fourth phase starts, we will have a better understanding of both vaccines. Then, we can think of starting home vaccination,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.As HT has reported earlier, most vaccination centres are facing overcrowding. This increases the risk of contracting Covid-19 infection especially among the elderly with underlying health issues who are most vulnerable to the virus.“We are seeing individuals with partial paralysis being taken to vaccination centres for inoculation in ambulances. It would have been better if BMC under their supervision could start inoculating them at home at their own cost. This would have helped to control the crowd at vaccination centres,” said a member of the task force.The civic body is gradually trying to extend the number of vaccination centres and plan to inoculate 1lakh probable beneficiaries daily.“Daily, we are holding inspections of private hospitals who are willing to take part in the mass immunisation process. We have also shortlisted another 49 private hospitals with over 50 beds and sent their names to the central government for approval,” said Kakani. “We will keep adding more hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/home-vaccination-likely-in-the-fourth-phase-mumbai-civic-body-101616006530956.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Mercedes owner says he had sold the car online, has nothing to do with Vaze||Saransh Bhavsar, 27, the registered owner of the Mercedes Benz that was being used by suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his role in parking an explosives-laden SUV near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month, on Wednesday said he had sold the vehicle in February to a car-trading site and that he has nothing to do with the officer. The tours and travels operator from Dhule in northern Maharashtra said, “I don’t know who Sachin Vaze is. I heard his name for the first time on Tuesday evening when the media started showing the Mercedes, mentioning his name,” said Bhavsar. “I do not have any connection to Vaze,” he said. On Tuesday, multiple NIA officials told HT that 49-year-old Vaze, who was arrested on Saturday, was behind the bomb scare, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful officer, contending that the mystery around the explosives-laden vehicle has been solved. A senior Mumbai Police officer said the NIA has found an invoice of the car’s purchase, which was for ₹28 lakh in the name of a company, in February 2021, while conducting a search of Vaze’s erstwhile office at the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU). “We also found a car key,” the officer said. “The car was purchased in a company’s name,” he added. Bhavsar, owner of Ansh Roadways, said he had purchased the Mercedes from a showroom in Pune in November 2019 and sold it to an online car-trading site, CARS24, last month. “CARS24 complies with stringent legal practises for the buying and selling of automobiles through its website. All documentation and processes undertaken are aimed at ensuring transparency and utmost customer satisfaction. As a responsible brand, we would like to reiterate that we neither influence nor participate in any illegal activities undertaken with the automobile, before or after the sale. In light of the recent investigation, we have already submitted the information requested by the relevant authorities and will continue to cooperate with them to clarify any queries pertaining to the sale,” said the CARS24 spokesperson.A Mumbai Police officer said the luxury car was seen being used intermittently by Vaze. The suspended police officer used to come to the office in the vehicle twice or thrice a week. Other police officers said Vaze had been seen using several other private vehicles and that he was also in the habit of using fake number plates on the vehicles in his possession or use. The Mercedes Vaze was driving was a GLC 220D 4Matic with registration number MH 18 BR 9095.A team of NIA officers on Tuesday seized the Mercedes and also inspected the car. On Tuesday evening, NIA inspector-general Anil Shukla said their preliminary probe has confirmed that Vaze used the car, but the agency was yet to verify its ownership. NIA had not commented on the ownership until Wednesday evening. Shukla also confirmed that their search of the Mercedes revealed more than Rs5 lakh in cash, a currency note counter, some clothes and a set of vehicle number plates matching that of the Mahindra Scorpio found abandoned near the Ambani residence, Antilia, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threat note, on February 25. Though several vehicles are parked on Carmichael Road, where the SUV was abandoned, a security officer found the SUV suspicious because it was carrying a number plate identical to that of the lead vehicle in the security convoy of Reliance Foundation chairperson and Ambani’s wife, Nita. Gamdevi police then reached the spot and called in the bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS), which inspected the vehicle and found the gelatin sticks and letter. The sticks carried the words “Superpower 90 Danger Explosive” and the name of its manufacturer, Solar Industries India Limited, Chadoh, in Nagpur. However, it not yet clear as to how the gelatin, mostly used for mining purposes, landed in the vicinity of the Ambani residence. On February 27, Gamdevi police registered an offence in connection with the SUV. The NIA had taken over the case for investigation on March 8, following orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Vaze’s role first came under the spotlight after the death of Mansukh Hiran, who came forward as the person who possessed the Scorpio after it was found from outside Antilla. Hiran told police it was stolen from his residence before he was interrogated multiple times, including by Vaze’s unit. Hiran was found dead on March 5, and the police said it was a suicide. His wife, however, said she suspected the police officer’s role in the death, kicking off a chain of events that eventually led to Vaze being questioned and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mercedes-owner-says-he-had-sold-the-car-online-has-nothing-to-do-with-vaze-101616006410802.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||No physical meeting of civic bodies amidst second Covid wave: Bombay HC||In the light of experts predicting the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 pandemic and the state government hinting at revisiting lockdown norms, the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to interfere in a petition filed by municipal councillors from Thane seeking directions to the urban development department and municipal authorities to conduct council meetings physically. The court has expressed hope and trust that as and when the situation improves, the municipal authorities will resume physical meetings. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition filed by Vikrant Chavan and Ashraf Pathan, councillors of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), were, informed that as the Parliament and Assembly sessions were being conducted in physical mode, the municipal authorities should be directed to discontinue virtual meetings of the general body. On March 16, when the petitions came up for hearing, government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade placed a letter addressed by the undersecretary, urban development department, before the court. The letter stated that the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was predicted by the experts and, therefore, the situation called for strict adherence to Covid-19 related health protocol and norms. The court observed that through the communication the government also proposed to revisit such a decision after a month based on the ground realities of Covid-19 cases in the state. The court noted that it was not inclined to grant the prayers of the petitioners and said, “In matters of protocol relating to health and medical care, the court ought to be slow to interfere with the executive policy decision.” The court, while disposing of the petitions said, “In such view of the matter, we dispose of the writ petitions expressing hope and trust that as and when the situation improves and holding of general meetings of the municipal corporations and the councils with the physical presence of the corporators/councillors is possible, the relevant department shall not waste any further time to revisit its decision and take an appropriate decision as the facts and circumstances would warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-physical-meeting-of-civic-bodies-amidst-second-covid-wave-bombay-hc-101616006292357.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir transferred, Nagrale is Mumbai top cop||Mumbai
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Haffkine institute seeks nod to make Covaxin||The state-owned Haffkine Institute has sought permission from the Centre for transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech, an Indian biotechnology firm that has developed Covid-19 vaccine — ‘Covaxin’. Alternatively, it has also sought permission for ‘fill and finish’ operations of the Covid vaccine, in which, it will only fill vaccines in bottles and make them ready as a product.In a video conference meeting with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi held on Wednesday, the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also requested permission for the same, to which, the PM said they will encourage the industries and institutions interested in manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine.In January, Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Company sought permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech that has developed the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in the country. It means, the institute will be able to manufacture the vaccine, if provided the technology.In the first week of March, the institute again sought permission for starting fill and finish operations for the Covid vaccine from the ICMR. In this process, Haffkine will get the vaccine in bulk and it will use its resources for fill and finish operations, said Sandip Rathod, managing director, Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Company.Haffkine is a public sector undertaking owned by the state government and has developed several vaccines that include anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, oral polio vaccine etc.ICMR is an apex body in the country for the formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research.“Under ‘Mission Covid Suraksha’ the Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Limited (a subsidiary of Haffkine Institute) should get permission for the transfer of technology by ICMR so that vaccines can be produced. The firm can also start with fill and finish operations in which the firm aims to manufacture 126 million vaccines,” the chief minister said in the video conference meeting.In response, the PM said they will encourage all the industries and institutions for developing the Covid-19 vaccine. The Centre will also be looking to promote utilizing such facilities in all the states 24x7 a day, said a statement issued by the chief minister office.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “PM Modi was positive over the request made by the chief minister for permitting technology transfer for manufacturing Covid vaccine. If permitted, we will demand the use of 25% of the total production in Maharashtra.”“The operations for fill and finish production can be started in more than a month if permitted. The manufacturing of vaccines on its own will take more than a year. As for that, we have to develop BSL-3 laboratory and other resources,” Rathod said.State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said the Haffkine will set up a new plant for manufacturing the Covid vaccine in collaboration with Bharat Biotech. The project will cost ₹154 crore. “It is going to be done in two phases, in the first phase, fill and finish operations will be started by taking vaccines in bulk from Bharat Biotech. In the second phase, Haffkine will start manufacturing on its own by taking technology from the firm, which will take one and a half years. Till then, fill and finish operations will be continued,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-haffkine-institute-seeks-nod-to-make-covaxin-101616006171489.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||TRP case: How much more time to complete probe: HC asks Mumbai Police||While noting that even after three months, investigations had not yielded anything concrete in the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case, the Bombay high court (HC) asked Mumbai Police to inform it as to how long it wants to continue investigations. The court also sought a timeline of the same and as to whether it would proceed against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, who are not named as accused in either of the two charge sheets filed by the police so far.On Wednesday, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale were hearing the petition filed by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which runs Republic TV, and Goswami, seeking quashing of the first information report (FIR) and charge sheet filed by Mumbai Police in TRP case. Senior counsel Ashok Mundargi continued from where he left, on Tuesday.Mundargi submitted that while other channels had also been named in the case, the police were only interrogating Republic TV employees and the channel’s role in the case. Mundargi submitted that though the police had been investigating for four months, they had been unable to get any evidence to nail the channel and it was like a sword hanging on the heads of the channel and its employees.Special counsel for the state Shishir Hiray submitted that the reports of BARC and statements by some witnesses showed that some channels were involved in manipulating TRPs. He submitted that the information with the Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in October was about money being paid to households where barometers were installed to watch certain channels, however, in December the BARC report showed that there had been discrepancies in viewership ratings.After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the police as to how much more time it needed to investigate the case as it could not go on forever. The court also sought a timeline of the investigation and directed the police to submit the same in the hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-case-how-much-more-time-to-complete-probe-hc-asks-mumbai-police-101616006050735.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||HC hints at CAG probe on Mumbai-Pune expressway toll collection||The Bombay high court is likely to ask the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to conduct a thorough investigation into the toll collection done by the contractor on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, after hearing objections in public interest litigation (PIL) for the extension of the contract till 2030. The court expressed astonishment that the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) could not recover the total capital outlay of the project of ₹3,632 crore since the expressway was thrown open for public use in 2004, and as a result of which, the recovery now stands at ₹22,000 crore. The court has asked the advocate general and the additional solicitor general to appear before the court on Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by activist and advocate, Pravin Wategaonkar was informed that he was challenging the toll collection on Mumbai-Pune Expressway and seeking a declaration that levying toll on the e-way from August 2019 was illegal as per the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, 1958. Pointing to the submissions in the MSRDC affidavit filed in response to the PIL, Wategaonkar drew the attention of the bench to the fact that there was no mention of the total capital outlay for the project and the period over which it was to be recovered in the Build-Operate-Transfer agreement between the corporation and the contractor. The affidavit merely spoke about the amount recovered so far and how much was pending as of date. On perusing the affidavit the court sought to know from MSRDC what the total cost of the construction was, however, the counsel for the corporation only submitted that while ₹3632 crore was recoverable in 2004, the recoverable now stood at ₹22,370 crores. Astonished at the reply the court observed that it was difficult to believe that project cost recoverable in 2004 was yet to be recovered. Expressing its displeasure that the MSRDC affidavit was filed without any supporting documents the court said that the same deserved to be rejected. The court then sought to know from MSRDC how much of the toll collected was benefitting the general public and how much of it was going to the private contractor. The court then sought the presence of additional solicitor general Anil Singh for CAG and advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state before it on Thursday and said that after hearing them it was likely to ask the CAG to conduct a thorough investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-hints-at-cag-probe-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-toll-collection-101616005930752.html
18-03-2021||Mumbai||Man struggles for 6-year-old’s surgery: After HT report , US consulate schedules visa interview||The US consulate on Wednesday morning reached out to Sagar Meshram, father of six-year-old Priyanshu who is suffering from rare heart disease, to facilitate the process of acquiring a visa. HT had, on Wednesday, reported that Meshram was struggling for days to get an appointment for the United States of America (USA) emergency visa for his son’s life-saving surgery. The Meshrams have been called to the consulate on Thursday for a visa interview. “The consulate officers assisted us in getting the slots and approved our appointment requests immediately. Now, I am hopeful that I would be able to save my son. I am so thankful to people who came forward to help us,” said Meshram, who works as a wall painter. Priyanshu is suffering from a rare congenital heart defect where the impure blood gets mixed with pure blood, damaging the lungs of the child. Due to the severity of his illness, he was referred to Boston Children’s Hospital for his surgery. In 2018, the hospital gave them an estimation of ₹2crore for the procedure. It took Meshram more than two years to raise the money through crowdfunding. The hospital scheduled his surgery on April 5 and instructed him to reach Boston by March 22 for a pre-surgery diagnosis. But due to the on-going pandemic, severe restrictions have been imposed on issuing visa. After HT published a report on Wednesday detailing the plight of the family awaiting visa, the US consulate contacted the family. As per the family, they facilitated the appointment online and have also called for their visa interview on Thursday morning. The state minister Aaditya Thackeray on social media asked the US consulate to look into the matter. “While we cannot comment on individual visa cases for privacy reasons, we place a high priority on any cases involving medical care and attempt to expedite such cases to the maximum extent possible under U.S. immigration law,” said Nick Novak, spokesperson, US Consulate General, Mumbai. The family is now hopeful that they will be able to make it in time to reach Boston by March 22 for the surgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-after-ht-report-man-gets-emergency-visa-for-6-year-old-son-s-surgery-in-us-101616005751301.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||‘Congress built substandard buildings like Krishi Bhawan’||Responding to Congress’ criticism of the Central Vista project, Union housing minister Hardeep Puri on Wednesday said the Congress constructed “substandard” buildings such as the Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan which are not fit to be used as offices.“If buildings like Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan will have to come down, will you be sorry because you built those buildings and they were substandard buildings. They are not fit for offices,” Puri said in the Rajya Sabha while responding to a question by Congress MP Amee Yajnik over the number of buildings that will be demolished for the redevelopment of the Centra Vista.“We are now going to relocate you. Madam, we will relocate you to a new parliament building where you will have enough space,” he added.The Congress has been arguing against the Central Vista redevelopment project during a pandemic and economic recession.On December 10, Congress’ parliamentary leaders had boycotted the ‘Bhoomi poojan’ ceremony for the new Parliament building by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Puri also said the Centre has not taken any decision on how the old Parliament building will be used.“At this point of time, no comprehensive thought has been given to what precise use the old parliament building will be put to. Several suggestions keep coming, including that there should be an institute for democratic and parliament studies. These are merely suggestions. No decisions have been taken,” he said.The Central Vista plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves building a new Parliament by India’s 75th year of Independence in 2022. It also includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries and is scheduled to be finished by 2024. Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.Broadly, the plan also includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for nearly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings. “We hope that the next winter session of Parliament will be held in the new building in 2022, which also happens to be the 75th year of Independence,” Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-built-substandard-buildings-like-krishi-bhawan-shastri-bhawan-puri-101616004010999.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Hussain suspended because he skipped meetings: East civic body to high court||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Wednesday justified before the Delhi high court its decision to suspend AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and said he was suspended as he did not attend civic body meetings despite intimations being sent to him.The municipal body had suspended the AAP councillor, who has been booked in at least 10 cases related to the north-east Delhi riots, on August 26.EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain had cited the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and said if a councillor remains absent from meetings three successive times, without permission, his/her membership may be ended. In its affidavit on Wednesday, the civic body said it considers the absence of a member from monthly meetings over a period of “consecutive three calendar months” and not “three consecutive monthly meetings”.The corporation said it had held its meetings in January and February 2020, but, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, it could not hold a meeting in March 2020 or the months that followed.The next meeting was held in June 2020 and then in July 2020. The EDMC said Hussain was absent from all meetings since January 2020.Hussain in his plea challenging his disqualification contended that he had not absented himself from meetings “for three successive months” as the meetings were never held successively for three months till August 2020 when the decision to disqualify him was taken. He said as he was being held in judicial custody since March 5, he could not be faulted for the unavoidable circumstances.On November 4, the high court had stayed the decision of the EDMC to disqualify Hussain.The civic body said Hussain did not seek approval for his absence from meetings for being lodged in judicial custody. It also said Hussain had changed his address after the north-east Delhi riots but he did not intimate the corporation about it.The matter would be now heard on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tahir-hussain-suspended-because-he-skipped-meetings-edmc-tells-hc-101616003951164.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||First road built of legacy waste to come up in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri area||The East Delhi civic body will construct its first road using legacy municipal waste on an 800-metre stretch in Kalyanpuri, officials said on Wednesday, a project that will reportedly be the first of its kind in the city. A tender for the project will be floated after a detailed project reported is finalised in a civic body meeting.East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) officials said the pilot project will be overseen by the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI).Vijay Prakash, the East civic body’s chief engineer, said CRRI will check if the road, to be made with legacy waste inert materials generated after processing by trommel machines at Ghazipur landfill, is fit to bear the expected load and examine it for cracks.“We will use nearly 25,000 metric tonnes of legacy waste from Ghazipur landfill in the process,” said Prakash.Labelling it a “first-of-its kind experiment”, Prakash said if the project is a success, then waste inert materials could potentially be used in the construction of other road projects as well, including expressways.The EDMC generates nearly 3,900 metric tonnes of inert materials a day by processing legacy waste at Ghazipur landfill using 20 trommel machines. East Delhi generates nearly 2,700 metric tonnes of garbage every day, of which 1,100 metric tonnes are dumped at Ghazipur landfill.Municipal officials said that the project will be implemented and funded under the “Waste to Wealth Mission” of the central government.Earlier, the civic agency had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to supply processed legacy waste to fill the embankment of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, an agreement that did not materialise due to apprehensions about the strength of the inert material.“The entire project will be conducted under the supervision of CRRI. They will study the strength of inert materials being used in the road and also check if there are any chances of cave-ins. The EDMC will only provide the land and inert materials for the construction,” a senior EDMC official said.Vasant G Havangi, chief scientist CRRI, said that lab testing of the waste inert materials was conducted by the CRRI and that yielded good results. In the lab tests it was found that these inert materials can be used for the road construction and retaining walls of flyovers, expressways.He said the road, which will be constructed through inert materials, is a service road of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway where load carrying capacity of inert materials will be tested on site. “We plan to finish the work by June 2021 and leave it for traffic and monsoon to pass. During this period we will check characteristics of the road. In July 2022 we will submit a report to the Centre,” Havangi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-road-built-of-legacy-waste-to-come-up-in-east-delhi-s-kalyanpuri-area-101616003950608.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Transit-oriented hub coming up fast in East Delhi||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed Karkardooma’s Integrated Development of East Delhi Hub, which is Delhi’s first Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) project with officials saying that the work on the project has picked up pace as the Centre is soon going to notify the TOD policy.The policy, which was put in the public domain for comments, will be tabled in a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) meeting on Thursday and then sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for approval.Spread over 37.42 hectares, the ₹1168-crore project will have residential, commercial green spaces.“Advised VC, DDA to firm up an activity-wise timeline for each phase of implementation to facilitate close monitoring and time-bound completion of the project. Also advised the team to prepare a blueprint for the implementation of the PPP component of the project on priority,” Baijal tweeted.The TOD policy, which is aimed at sustainable development around rapid transit facilities such as Metro, was notified in July 2015. It couldn’t be implemented due to objections from the public against DDA regulations issued in 2016. In March 2017, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry directed DDA to review the policy.DDA officials said that the mixed-use development will have office complexes at walking distance and will be connected to Karkardooma metro stations, which is an interchange between Blueline (Vaishali to Dwarka) and Pink line (Shiv Vihar to Majlis park). It will also house one of the biggest residential complexes in the densely populated east Delhi with 6,518 flats, including 1,992 for the economically weaker section.“It will have various amenities like schools, dispensaries, library, cultural centre, community halls, convenient shopping, community spaces, creche etc. Environmentally friendly/ green building features, skywalk connectivity and cultural centre are other notable features of the project,” the L-G tweeted.In 2019, DDA prepared a plan to develop areas around five Metro stations — Dwarka Sector 18, Dwarka Sector 21, Mayur Vihar Extension, Mukundpur, Sarojini Nagar and INA (combined). A DDA official says that these stations were selected based on high footfall and the scope for real estate development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-east-delhi-integrated-hub-to-pick-up-pace-101616003950029.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Nepalese woman shot dead by two men on a motorcycle in north Delhi||A 45-year-old woman was shot dead by two unidentified men in New Aruna Nagar near Majnu Ka Tila in north Delhi on Wednesday morning. Police said the woman, who runs a tea shop in the area, had come to open her shop in the morning when the men, who were on a motorcycle, shot her.Police said the woman has been identified as Meena Tamang, who ran the tea and snack shop along with her husband Jeet Maan. Both of them lived nearby, in a one-room set with their 12-year-old daughter. The couple was of Nepali origin and had been living there for the past few years, police said.The matter was reported to the police around 7am -- a call was received at the Timarpur police station about a woman being shot. A police team reached the spot and rushed the woman to Sushrut Trauma Centre, but she could not be saved, a senior police officer said.“During the initial probe, it was found that the attackers did not flee with the woman’s money or phone or any other valuables. Prima facie, it doesn’t look like a robbery attempt. It seems that she was attacked over some enmity. It also looks like the assailants knew what time she would open her shop. She was attacked when she was alone. Her family members and husband are being questioned to know if the woman had a dispute with anyone,” said a senior police officer, on condition of anonymity.Police have not ruled out the involvement of someone known to the woman behind the murder. Police are also checking CCTV footage to establish the sequence of events and track the vehicle used by the assailants.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said the woman sustained a single gunshot injury. “A crime and forensics team were called at the spot to collect evidence. The autopsy report is awaited,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nepalese-woman-shot-dead-by-two-men-on-a-motorcycle-in-north-delhi-101616003711075.html
18-03-2021||Pune||PMC clears proposed underground Swargate-Katraj metro line||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) general body (GB) meeting, on Wednesday, gave its clearance for the proposed underground Swargate to Katraj metro line. The proposal will now be sent to the state and centre for approval. The proposal was pending before the general body for the past one year, after receiving the approval of the standing committee in March 2020. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “There has been a delay in approving the Swargate-Katraj route which will be one of the most crucial stretches, given the high footfall expectancy. It happened due to the Covid-19 pandemic as general body meetings are not being held. Now, it has been approved and we will send the proposal to the state government for approval.” The 5.4 km Swargate-Katraj stretch will be underground and will cost ₹4,283 crore. According to the Detailed Project Report prepared by Maha Metro last year, the per km cost of the metro line is estimated to be ₹783.85 crore. There will be four stations on the stretch, which is an extension of the Swargate-Nigdi line being developed by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro). Before approving the proposal, Shiv Sena party leader Prithviraj Sutar and Congress party leader Aba Bagul raised objections and demanded a presentation of the proposal. Mayor Mohol has instructed that a presentation be scheduled for next week, after which all parties gave their unanimous approval for the Swargate-Katraj Metro line. Swargate-Katraj Metro line 5.464 km- Length of the proposed project  ₹783.85 crore - Estimated per kilometre cost of the route  ₹4,283.72 crore - Total estimated cost of project  ₹27.61 crore - Estimated cost for rehabilitation and resettlement  ₹111.6 crore - Estimated cost for land acquisition 19,350.733 sqm - Land required for the project Four proposed stations *Swargate *Gultekdi (Market Yard) *Sai Baba Mandir *Katraj junction||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-clears-proposed-underground-swargate-katraj-metro-line-101616003410457.html
18-03-2021||Other||Fazilka drain block causing severe pollution, talk to Pak: NGT to Punjab||Moga The state’s monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed chief secretary Vini Mahajan to communicate with Pakistan, through the ministry of external affairs, and convince it to open its blockade of Fazilka drain into its territory, allowing free flow of water into Sutlej river. Pakistan has blocked the drain from entering its territory and this has led to large-scale accumulation of untreated water. The Sutlej flows down from the Himalayas through Punjab and into neighbouring Pakistan, before turning back into India again. Under the Indus Water Treaty of 1960, Pakistan is supposed to desilt and maintain drains such as the one at Fazilka.Fazilka drain is one of 22 drains and water bodies, where untreated water of Malwa district is discharged. The monitoring committee has said that the drain is closed at the borderline of countries, leading to stagnation in the shape of ponds and deterioration of quality of groundwater in the border area. The contamination of groundwater has been detected at more than 100ft in the border area.The direction is based on a review of remedial measures in Moga, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Faridkot and Muktsar districts. Justice Jasbir Singh (retd), chairman of committee, had chaired the review meeting on March 4. “Punjab chief secretary shall again take up matter with the ministry of water resources, to further take up the matter with the ministry concerned of government of Pakistan through the ministry of external affairs to open the Fazilka drain,” the committee recommended. On November 11, 2020, the chief secretary had written to the department of water resources, ministry of jal shakti, to look into the matter. There was, however, no positive result. Justice Jasbir added, “The halt in the flow of Fazilka drain at the borderline has created around a 2.5-km pound, where water is being stagnated. The stagnated water is seeping into the lands and contaminating groundwater. We have closed several hand pumps in the area, after harmful bacteria were found up to 150 feet deep in ground water.”“The removal of the blockade of the Fazilka drain will avoid stagnation of water and seepage. However, the solution is that the untreated sewage water which falls in the drain should be cured. Number of efforts have been made in this direction and improvement has resulted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/talk-to-pak-on-opening-blockade-on-fazilka-drain-ngt-panel-to-punjab-101616002330867.html
18-03-2021||Gurugram||Toddler critical after being assaulted by juvenile caretaker in Gurugram||A 13-month-old girl was put on life support and her 15-year-old caretaker booked for assaulting her in Sector 56 on Monday night. The police said they have apprehended the juvenile and also registered a case against the toddler’s parents for employing a minor as a domestic help.An official with the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) said that as per the juvenile’s version of events, she dropped the girl when she was picking her up to console her, as she kept crying due to the absence of her parents. “Despite her repeated attempts, she (the infant) did not stop (crying). She lost her temper, kicked her and punched her as she got irritated,” the official said. The police said that according to the medical loss ratio (MLR) report from the doctors on Wednesday, four of the toddler’s rib bones were fractured while her pancreas, kidney and spleen were severely injured, and her condition remained critical on Wednesday evening.Also Read | Three booked for assaulting acquaintance, sharing video on social mediaA case under sections 323 (assault), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the juvenile on Wednesday after an investigation took place and statements of parents and doctors were recorded. According to the police, the parents of the toddler had hired a 15-year-old girl as domestic help three months ago to take care of their daughter. The help used to visit their apartment for a few hours every day and was paid ₹9,000 per month. Police commissioner KK Rao said there were CCTV cameras in the house but since the incident took place inside a bedroom, it was not captured. “The help has confessed to the crime but as the family had hired a minor, we have registered a case against them under Juvenile Justice Act at Sector 56 police station on Wednesday,” Rao said. Sonia Yadav, a member of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that the families risk the lives of their children by hiring juveniles as nannies. “This incident has raised questions on the child labour issues of whether minors are mature enough to be nannies. The juvenile in conflict with law has been sent to Nari Niketan in Karnal,” she said, adding that a team will visit the hospital to meet the parents on Thursday.Pawan Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 56 police station, said that they received a complaint on Tuesday night following which a case was registered against the minor. “The parents in their statement told us that they had hired a girl through their cook from Sector 53. She used to live there with her father and stepmother. On Monday, the toddler’s parents went to buy groceries and asked the help to take care of the toddler as she was sleeping,” he said. As per the statement, the parents returned home around 9.30pm and found the toddler shrieking in pain and bleeding. They rushed her to a hospital in Sector 56, from where she was referred to a speciality hospital in Sector 51 due to her critical condition. The doctors conducted several tests and informed parents that the toddler had received severe injuries all over her body. The parents informed the police on Tuesday, following which the minor girl was questioned by a police team and apprehended on Wednesday.According to the police, the couple had installed CCTV cameras in the drawing room, dining area, kitchen and outside the house but the incident took place inside a bedroom. “The father told us that they used to treat the juvenile like their own child and they never faced any issues with her. She was warm and loving towards their daughter. He also said they used to take their daughter along wherever they went but as she was sleeping they preferred to leave her at home with the help,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/toddler-in-critical-condition-after-being-assaulted-by-juvenile-caretaker-101616001670525.html
18-03-2021||Other||Jamshedpur doctor tests Covid positive after taking both doses of vaccine||A doctor from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) in Jamshedpur tested Covid-19 positive after taking both doses of Covishield vaccine. His wife also tested positive. However, she has not been inoculated yet. an official said on Wednesday evening. District nodal officer (IDSP) and additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Sahir Pal said the doctor couple have been put under home isolation as both were asymptomatic and kept under round the clock observation.25 contacts tested, beauty salon sealed“A Beauty Salon and Spa under Sakchi police here has been sealed this afternoon where doctor’s wife had availed the services. RT-PCR tests have been done on seven salon staff while 18 close contacts of the doctor couple have also been tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday. All of them have been asked to quarantine themselves till test reports come. We will conduct RT-PCR tests on the couple again after seven days and decide if their samples should be sent to Pune for advanced test for new Covid-19 strain,” said Dr Pal.Preliminary examination has found some patches in the chest of the doctor’s wife while the doctor is comparatively in good health despite being a cancer patient himself.No need to panicJamshedpur district deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said there’s no need to panic as there would be some exceptions as the efficacy of the Covishield vaccine is above 60% while the same for Covaxin is about 80%. “No vaccine is 100% effective as of now. The target and effort is to achieve 50-60% immunity through vaccination while 30-35% through natural immunity via development of antibodies, eventually leading to herd immunity. It takes 45 to 60 days for antibodies to develop after both the doses of vaccine and once this is achieved, people will be immune for next 2-3 years and thus breaking the infection chain,” said Kumar.Expert opinionState IDSP nodal officer and eminent epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn said there would be cases of coincidence as Covishield is 66.6% effective and efficacy of Covaxin is 81% as per trial run on 25, 000 volunteers. “Herd immunity is, however, a far away situation because that happens only after over 70-80% population is infected and has naturally developed antibodies. Covid-19 had reached peak in India in September 2020 bringing herd immunity. But cases dropped and so did the herd immunity phenomenon,” said Dr Karn.He said the findings of sero survey by ICMR last year in three districts of the state were not adequate to reach a conclusion. “We are still awaiting the report of sero survey in 10 districts by the state government with the help of ICMR. On the other hand, only 6.50 lakh or about 20% people in the state have been vaccinated so far. We may reach a conclusive result only after more intensive vaccination and sero survey covering all age groups, comorbid, general and migrating population across cities and villages across the state,” said Dr Karn. Vaccination figuresOn Tuesday, a total of 2,108 people took first dose of the Covid vaccine and 1,144 took second dose in Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) district. Altogether 18, 726 persons have taken first dose while 9756 persons have taken second dose of the vaccine in the district till Tuesday night.Jamshedpur district has registered 375 Covid-19 deaths so far, highest in Jharkhand.The district has reported a total of 18, 379 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 17, 925 have been cured. Eighteen Covid-19 positive cases were detected on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamshedpur-doc-tests-ve-after-taking-both-doses-of-vaccine-101615999869695.html
18-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees over 500 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload rises to 2,702||Delhi reported 536 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, according to the health department, making it the first time in more than two months that the national capital has witnessed a spike of over 500 cases in a single day. Its infection tally has risen to 645,025 while three related deaths took the death toll to 10,948, according to the health department bulletin.Delhi last reported more than 500 new coronavirus cases on January 9, 2021 when 519 infections were detected in the city.Delhi’s active Covid-19 caseload too increased significantly, reaching 2,702 on Wednesday from 2,321 the day before, or a rise of 381 cases, the bulletin showed. The data also showed that 319 more people recovered from the disease in the city, taking the cumulative recoveries to 631,375 patients.Meanwhile, the number of samples tested for the viral disease also witnessed an increase. According to the bulletin, 80,856 new samples were tested for Covid-19 of which 50,216 tests were RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests while 30,640 were Rapid antigen tests. Slightly over 62,000 tests were conducted on Tuesday.On March 10 and 16 Delhi recorded 370 and 368 new Covid-19 cases respectively, while there were three related deaths on both the days. However, between March 11 and 14, more than 400 fresh infections were detected in the city, which, despite experiencing a surge in its own new daily coronavirus cases, has managed to avoid the surge being witnessed by some other states, in particular Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-500-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-rises-to-2702-101615996443819.html
18-03-2021||Pune||Debt-ridden stockbroker from Pune central to ₹216 crore cybercrime case||A highly educated stockbroker was found to be behind the failed plot of siphoning money to the tune of ₹216 crore from bank accounts using stolen details in exchange for hard cash.The accused has been identified as Anagha Modak (40), who has done an MBA in finance and faces multiple previous cases of cheating in Pune. She is suspected to owe crores in debt as per preliminary information.Modak, with advice from one person from Aurangabad, planned the entire transaction and demanded hard cash worth ₹2.5 crore from the potential benefactors of the scheme. The potential benefactors included a filmmaker, a news channel owner drowning in debt and his partner. The stream of data containing bank account details came from two locations - Hyderabad in Telangana and Surat in Gujarat.The amount of ₹216,29,34,240.87 was found to be in only five accounts from the list of accounts and corresponding data that Modak was going to buy. “Of those five accounts, the majority are corporate accounts, and one is a dormant bank account,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime and economic offence wing (EOW) of Pune police.The unique method of data theft and pending transactions landed on police radar after the woman started asking for hackers in the market up for a project. The information reached the police through sources and the police sent decoy hackers to the woman and got in touch with her.The entire plot was made and executed by Modak, who is also a divorced mother of a school-going child, according to her statement to the police.Along with Modak, the others arrested in the case have been identified as Ravindra Mahadev Mashalkar (34), a resident of Ambejogai road in Latur; Mukesh Harishchandra More (37), a resident of Yerawada in Pune; Rajshekhar Yadaiha Mamidi (34), a resident of Hyderabad; Rohan Ravindra Mankani (37), a resident of Sahakarnagar in Pune; Vishal Dhananjay Bendre (45), a resident of Aurangabad; Atmaram Harishchandra Kadam (34), a resident of Mulund in Mumbai; Varun Shrikadam Verma (37), a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh; Vikaschand Mahendrakumar Yadav (25), a resident of Surat in Gujarat; Rajesh Munnalal Sharma (42), a resident of Aurangabad and Paramjitsingh Sindhu (42), a resident of Aurangabad.The data coming from Gujarat is suspected to have flowed from Yadav to Verma to Kadam to Mashalkar before it was supposed to make way to Modak. The chain from Hyderabad includes Mamidi for now. However, the main source of data from both locations is yet to be identified, according to the police.Yadav, Verma, and Kadam are software professionals who used to work in a company in Gurgaon and were previously known to each other. While Mankani is a locally popular student figure from Pune and is the son of a filmmaker who also owns a marketing agency in Pune.While Sindhu is a businessman, he was associated with Sharma who owned a news channel that recently shut down.A man named Sudhir Shantilal Bhatewara alias Jain (54), who was found with cash worth ₹25 lakh has not yet been arrested as his involvement in the case has not been verified.A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 43/66 and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at the cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/debtridden-stockbroker-from-pune-central-to-216-crore-cybercrime-case-101615992429220.html
18-03-2021||World||India delivers 20,000 litres of pesticide to Iran to fight locust swarms||India has delivered 20,000 litres of the pesticide Malathion to Iran via the strategic Chabahar port to help mount a coordinated regional response to the threat posed by swarms of desert locusts. This was the second consignment of Malathion, a 95% ultra-low volume pesticide, supplied to Iran under a government-to-government locust control programme, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. The consignment was handed over to Iran’s Plant Protection Organization on March 18. Last year, India had approached Iran and Pakistan for a coordinated regional response to the threat of desert locusts. “It was in this context that Iran had requested the supply of pesticides. There was no response from Pakistan,” the external affairs ministry said. India supplied the first consignment of 20,000 litres of Malathion to Iran in June 2020. Iran is using the pesticide to control locust populations in Sistan-Balochistan and South Khorasan provinces, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The proposal for a coordinated response was made by India against the backdrop of swarms of the destructive pests making their way to Indian states such as Rajasthan after breeding and maturing in Iranian provinces and Pakistan’s Balochistan province. Iran witnessed its worst locust invasion of the past 25 years in 2020. Afghanistan, Iran and India signed a tripartite agreement on developing Chabahar port and setting up a trilateral transport and transit corridor in 2016. India then set up India Ports Global Limited to operate Shahid Behesti terminal at Chabahar. Since the Indian firm began operations in December 2018, the port has handled 123 vessels, 13,752 containers and 1.8 million tonnes of cargo. There has also been an increase in the average monthly calls by merchant vessels, and 110,000 tonnes of wheat and 2,000 tonnes of pulses have been shipped to Afghanistan through the port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-delivers-20-000-litres-of-pesticide-to-iran-to-fight-locust-swarms-101616091077019.html
18-03-2021||World||China offers domestic Covid vaccine to diplomats, foreign workers, journalists||China has for the first time offered a Covid-19 vaccination option to diplomats, including those from India, foreigners working in Chinese companies as well as foreign journalists, months after it began to inoculate its own citizens under emergency laws.Foreigners working in international aid companies have also been given the option to take a shot of a Chinese-made vaccine, HT learnt.Family members in the age group of 18-59 years are included in the offer.Beijing rolled out vaccinations for its own citizens, mostly for frontline workers, in health care, customs and specific industries that the government selected under emergency laws in July last year, but it was for the first time, earlier this month, that the government reached out to foreign missions, companies and journalists through the Chinese ministry of foreign affairs.The vaccine being offered is the inactivated Sars-CoV-2 vaccine, developed by Sinopharm’s China National Biotec Group, which has been granted conditional market approval by China’s National Medical Products Administration.The two shots - the second to be taken after 21 days - will cost about 90-100 yuan each ( ₹900-1,000).Diplomats, HT spoke to, said they were weighing the option whether to take the shot.Indians working in the service industries such as restaurants have also been offered the option though their employers.The World Health Organization (WHO) is yet to approve the vaccine, or for that matter, any of the other four jabs given the green signal by the Chinese government.A Chinese foreign ministry email to expat journalists sent out on Wednesday outlined the offer.“In order to facilitate the work and life of foreign journalists based in Beijing, the information department of the ministry of foreign affairs will provide facilitation and assistance for the vaccination of foreign journalists in Beijing (including their accompanying family members) who are within the eligible age group (from 18 to 59 years old),” the notice said.“Recipients will receive vaccination on a voluntary basis with informed consent, pay for the relevant expenses, and bear related risks,” it added.The government notice said experiments showed that inactivated Covid-19 vaccines were relatively safe, but that’s no guarantee against vaccine-related reaction.“Prior to inoculation, all recipients should read carefully the Covid-19 inactivated vaccine information consent, and confirm that they are fully aware of the possible adverse reactions and do not have contraindications to vaccination,” the notice said.The notice added that existing clinical research data show that most people produce antibodies “against Covid-19 after vaccination, but no vaccine can be 100% effective”.“Therefore, recipients will still need to comply with all the prevention and control requirements after vaccination, and take personal protective measures such as mask-wearing, frequent hand-washing, social distancing, and reducing group activities,” the notice said.China is yet to approve any Covid-19 vaccine developed by Western drug makers; five domestic ones are currently approved in China.China, according to government officials at a press briefing on Monday in Beijing, has administered 64.98 million doses of vaccines.China has been slow to vaccinate its people relative to other countries, administering 3.56 doses per 100 people so far in a population of 1.4 billion, Zhong Nanshan, leading a group of experts attached to China’s National Health Commission, said earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-offers-domestic-covid-vaccine-to-diplomats-foreign-workers-journalists-101616090536935.html
18-03-2021||World||German archbishop offers to quit after criticism over handling abuse cases||A report commissioned by Germany’s Cologne archdiocese on church officials’ handling of past cases of sexual abuse found 75 cases in which high-ranking officials neglected their duties. The findings on Thursday prompted the archbishop of Hamburg to offer his resignation to Pope Francis.The report, commissioned by Cologne Archbishop Rainer Maria Woelki, absolved Woelki himself of any neglect of duty with respect to abuse victims.However, Woelki’s late predecessor, Cardinal Joachim Meisner, was accused of two dozen instances of wrongdoing such as failing to follow up on or report cases of abuse, not sanctioning perpetrators or not caring for victims. Meisner retired in 2014 and died in 2017.Hamburg Archbishop Stefan Hesse — who previously was a senior church official in Cologne — was faulted for 11 cases of neglecting his duty.Later Thursday, Hesse posted a video statement in which he conceded that he had made “mistakes” in the past, and said he very much regretted if he caused new suffering to victims or their relatives “through my action or omission.”“I never participated in cover-ups,” he said. “I am nevertheless prepared to carry my part of the responsibility for the failure of the system.”“To prevent damage to the office of the archbishop and to the Hamburg archdiocese, I am offering my resignation to Pope Francis, and I am asking him to relieve me of my duties immediately,” he said.The lawyer in charge of the report, Bjoern Gercke, told reporters in Cologne that his investigation touched on the cases of 314 abuse victims — a majority of the boys under the age of 14 at the time of the abuse — and 202 people accused of abuse in the Cologne diocese since 1975.The focus wasn’t so much on what the suspects did to the victims, but more on whether the church — former and current archbishops, vicars-general and other high-ranking church officials — responded correctly to accusations of abuse.Altogether, the report found 75 cases in which eight high-ranking officials neglected their duties to either follow up on, report or sanction cases of alleged abuse by clergy and lay church employees, and failed to take care of the victims.Woelki infuriated many local Catholics over recent months by citing legal concerns to keep under wraps a first report on how local church officials reacted when priests were accused of sexual abuse. He commissioned the new report — an 800-page investigation based on church files and put together by a German law firm.Gercke said the first report, by a Munich law firm, also had concluded that the current archbishop wasn't guilty of any wrongdoing. The Cologne archdiocese has the most Catholics of any in Germany, some 1.9 million.In a first response to the new report, Woelki said the investigation confirmed his fears that high-ranking officials were guilty of not having reported perpetrators and thereby preventing their prosecution.“My predecessors, too, are guilty — as of today, it is no longer possible to say 'We didn’t know,’” Woelki said, adding that he would send the report to the Holy See in Rome.Woelki said he also would temporarily suspend two Cologne church officials based on the findings of the investigation. One of them, Auxiliary Bishop Dominikus Schwaderlapp, said he had offered his resignation to Pope Francis. The report found Schwaderlapp neglected his duty to inform and report abuse allegations in eight cases.German Justice Minister Christine Lambrecht said the report demonstrated anew “what horrific sexual violence children and teenagers had to suffer in Catholic institutions.”“Child abuse is not an internal church matter, but a crime that must be examined and decided by criminal courts,” the minister said.Jens Windel, 46, the founder of a support group for clergy abuse survivors,. watched a livestream of the news conference about the report on his laptop with other victims outside Cologne's landmark cathedral.The report, he said, “trivializes the severity of the cover-ups that took place.”There has been fierce criticism of Woelki's handling of the previous report. The head of the German Bishops’ Conference, Limburg Bishop Georg Baetzing, last month described the crisis management in Cologne as a “disaster.”A Cologne court last month announced that it was raising the number of appointments available for people seeking to formally leave the church to 1,500 from 1,000 starting in March, amid strong demand.Revelations about past sexual abuse have dogged the church in Germany and elsewhere for years.In 2018, a church-commissioned report concluded that at least 3,677 people were abused by clergy in Germany between 1946 and 2014. More than half of the victims were 13 or younger when the abuse took place, and nearly a third of them were altar boys.In January, a new system drawn up by the church to compensate abuse survivors took effect. It provides for payments of up to about 50,000 euros (nearly $60,000) to each victim. Under a previous system in place since 2011, payments averaged about 5,000 euros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-archbishop-offers-to-quit-after-criticism-over-handling-abuse-cases-101616087675018.html
18-03-2021||World||Of 11 mn AstraZeneca shots in UK thus far, rare blood clots reported in 5 cases||Britain's medicines regulator said there had been five cases of a rare type of blood clot in the brain among 11 million given AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine but said that it found the benefits of the shot far outweighed any possible risks.Concerns about reports of blood clots, along with low platelet levels, have led to some European countries including Germany to pause the rollout of the shot while the cases are investigated by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), which is set to announce its findings later in the day.Britain's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said that use of the vaccine should continue while five reports were investigated, and one official said that the rollout would likely continue even if a link was proved."There is no evidence that blood clots in veins is occurring more than would be expected in the absence of vaccination, for either vaccine," said June Raine, MHRA Chief Executive, referring to AstraZeneca and Pfizer shots.Raine said there had been a very small number of reports of an extremely rare form of blood clot in the cerebral veins (sinus vein thrombosis, or CSVT) occurring together with lowered platelets soon after vaccination."Given the extremely rare rate of occurrence of these CSVT events among the 11 million people vaccinated (with AstraZeneca), and as a link to the vaccine is unproven, the benefits of the vaccine in preventing COVID-19, with its associated risk of hospitalisation and death, continue to outweigh the risks of potential side effects," she said.One of the reported cases was fatal, MHRA Vaccine Safety Lead Philip Bryan said, adding that the cases were all among men aged between 19 and 59.NO PAUSE NECESSARYThe MHRA said anyone with a headache that lasts for more than four days after vaccination, or bruising beyond the site of vaccination after a few days, should seek medical attention.The regulator said there was an ongoing review into "five UK reports of a very rare and specific type of blood clot in the cerebral veins (sinus vein thrombosis) occurring together with lowered platelets (thrombocytopenia)".Munir Pirmohamed, Chair of the Commission on Human Medicines, in a statement suggested that even if a link between the clots and the vaccine was established, it likely wouldn't halt Britain's rollout."If we feel that there's causal link then we may need to update the product information, but overall, I don't think that would necessitate pause to any kind of vaccination programme," he told reporters in a briefing.The EMA is investigating reports of 30 cases of unusual blood disorders out of 5 million people who got the AstraZeneca vaccine in the EU, and is focusing on blood clots in the head.Stephen Evans, at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said that COVID-19 itself was associated with similar symptoms, making causality hard to establish."A major problem is discerning whether there is a possibility that this was caused by COVID-19," Evans told Reuters."Exactly these sort of conditions have been seen in patients with COVID-19 prior to the vaccines being available."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/of-11-mn-astrazeneca-shots-in-uk-thus-far-rare-blood-clots-reported-in-5-cases-101616087746332.html
18-03-2021||World||Dutch PM Mark Rutte's conservatives register fourth straight election win||The process of forming a new Dutch governing coalition began Thursday, a day after Prime Minister Mark Rutte's conservative party powered to a fourth consecutive victory in a vote held during a nationwide lockdown and dominated by the COVID-19 pandemic.The feat put Rutte in position to lead coalition talks, most likely with another big winner — the centrist, pro-European D66 party led by former diplomat Sigrid Kaag, who danced on a table Wednesday night when an exit poll showed her party capturing one of its biggest-ever victories.However those two parties will likely need at least two more partners to form a majority coalition. According to the national news agency ANP, based on 88% of votes counted, Rutte's party, known by its Dutch acronym VVD, won 35 of the 150 seats in the lower house of parliament while D66 garnered 24.Rutte wants to move quickly to hammer out a coronavirus recovery plan before getting into a government blueprint for the new coalition's four-year term.“We must have plans in place to unlock the country," Rutte told his lawmakers in a virtual meeting Thursday.The splintered political landscape in the Netherlands — 17 parties were forecast to have won at least one seat — could make coalition talks difficult.Party leaders took the first step Thursday by appointing two “scouts,” one from Rutte's VVD and a second from D66, to examine different parties' wish lists and investigate possible coalitions ahead of formal talks.The VVD selected Senator Annemarie Jorritsma, while D66 chose Kajsa Ollongren, who was interior minister and deputy prime minister in Rutte's last Cabinet. They plan to start talks with party leaders Monday and write a report for the newly elected lawmakers ahead of their first sitting on March 31.“In times of corona, it is of course important to form a new Cabinet as soon as possible.. that can get to work on the economic and social social recovery,” Jorritsma said, adding that she hopes it will be possible to form a new coalition before the summer.Rutte’s victory had been widely predicted even though the election came just two months after his last coalition resigned over a scandal in which the country’s tax office wrongfully labeled thousands of families who claimed child welfare benefits as fraudsters.The other big winner of the night was the far-right populist Forum for Democracy, which rose from two to eight seats after its flamboyant leader, Thierry Baudet, campaigned on a pledge to end the country's coronavirus lockdown.As other party leaders spoke to reporters Wednesday night, Baudet was conspicuous by his absence. By Thursday morning, the Twitter hashtag “waarisbaudet” or “whereisbaudet” was trending in the Netherlands. The party eventually expressed its gratitude to voters.“A half million people in the Netherlands have said: we want our lives back. A thunderous blow against the endless lockdowns. A huge victory for freedom,” the party tweeted.Baudet, arriving at parliament for a meeting of party leaders, told reporters he “was actually hoping for more” seats in the election.It was something of a political resurrection for the party that imploded late last year amid reports of anti-Semitic text messages among its youth wing.Despite the gains for Baudet, the far-right populist bloc in the Netherlands is unlikely to take part in any new coalition. Anti-Islam lawmaker Geert Wilders, whose Party for Freedom lost three seats and is now the country's third-biggest party, said he would again lead the opposition.The political left also looks likely to be out of power after parties lost seats or failed to gain ground after four years in opposition to Rutte's outgoing center-right coalition. The Green Left party, a big winner in the 2017 election, was forecast to lose half of its 14 seats.The Dutch election, coming just months after Britain's Brexit divorce with the European Union came into full force, saw gains among pro-EU parties. D66 has long been a staunch defender of the 27-nation bloc and among new parties in the lower house was the pro-European party Volt, which was forecast to win three seats.Voter Tim Logemann said he was disappointed in the result.“I had hoped that the VVD would definitely lose some points,” he said. “I personally voted for one of the smaller parties that didn’t get any points at all, so that’s even more disappointing."Kaag, who served as minister for foreign trade and development cooperation in Rutte’s last coalition, had campaigned as a viable alternative to Rutte as national leader in a country that has never had a female prime minister. Speaking to party lawmakers Thursday, she laid out her party's key themes.“We want unity, renewal and sustainability," she said. “D66 must and will make that happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-pm-mark-rutte-s-conservatives-register-fourth-straight-election-win-101616087214749.html
18-03-2021||World||US Prez Biden to send Covid vaccine doses to Mexico, Canada in first exports||The US is planning to send a combined 4 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to Mexico and Canada in its first export of shots.A White House official confirmed Thursday that the Biden administration is planning to send 2.5 million doses to Mexico and 1.5 million to Canada as a “loan.” The details are still being worked out.The AstraZeneca vaccine has not been authorized for use in the U.S. but has been by the World Health Organization. Tens of millions of doses have been stockpiled in the US should it receive emergency use authorization, sparking an international outcry that lifesaving doses could not be used overseas.The White House has said President Joe Biden's priority is the vaccination of all Americans, but the official said Biden was authorizing the loan because the “virus knows no borders.”The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the transaction before it was officially announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-biden-to-send-covid-vaccine-doses-to-mexico-canada-in-first-exports-101616086538313.html
18-03-2021||World||Myanmar: Protesters fear 'digital dictatorship' as military deploys AI||Protesters in Myanmar fear they are being tracked with Chinese facial recognition technology, as spiralling violence and street surveillance spark fears of a "digital dictatorship" to replace ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Human rights groups say the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to check on citizens' movements poses a "serious threat" to their liberty.More than 200 people have been killed since Nobel peace laureate Suu Kyi was overthrown in a Feb. 1 coup, triggering mass protests that security forces have struggled to suppress with increasingly violent tactics.Security forces have focused on stamping out dissent in cities including the capital Naypyitaw, Yangon and Mandalay, where hundreds of CCTV cameras had been installed as part of a drive to improve governance and curb crime.Human Rights Watch has expressed its "heightened concern" over cameras armed with AI technology that can scan faces and vehicle licence plates in public places, and alert authorities to those on a wanted list."Even before the protests, the CCTVs were a concern for us, so we would try and avoid them - by taking different routes to go home, for example," Win Pe Myaing, a protester in Yangon, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."We believe the police and the military are using the system to track demonstrations and protests. It's like a digital dictatorship - the regime is using technology to track and arrest citizens, and that's dangerous," he said.Myanmar authorities could not be reached for comment.Most of the equipment used in Safe City, a project to curb crime in big cities, is from Chinese technology firm Huawei, Myanmar Now publication had reported.Huawei did not respond to a request for comment.Huawei told Human Rights Watch it was providing "standard ICT infrastructure equipment" - information and communications technology, and that the facial and licence-plate recognition technology on the cameras was not from Huawei.There were many vendors, and Huawei "is not involved in any actual operation and data storage or processing," it said.Chinese tech firms have come under increased scrutiny for their use of tools to detect, track and monitor minority Uighurs in the Xinjiang region, where activists and United Nations experts say at least a million Muslim Uighurs are detained in camps.China denies abuses and says its camps provide vocational training and are needed to fight extremism."Authorities' ability to identify people on the streets, potentially track their movements and relationships, and intrude into private lives poses a grave risk to anti-coup activists," said Manny Maung, a researcher at Human Rights Watch."It can also be used to single out individuals in discriminatory or arbitrary ways, including for their ethnicity or religion," she said in a statement.Young activists have created mobile mapping apps to warn protesters of the presence of police and military on the streets. The crowd-sourced maps also show the locations of water cannons, roadblocks and ambulances.Chinese-made surveillance technologies deployed in locations from Britain to Vietnam have raised concerns about privacy and the potential for misuse and discrimination.In Myanmar, sections of the law protecting the privacy and security of citizens have been suspended, and there are no legal guidelines for the collection, use and storage of personal data.While no arrests can be linked to facial recognition technology due to a lack of transparency, some residents are covering up the cameras, said activist Debbie Stothard."There are very serious concerns about how the military junta is using digital technologies," said Stothard, founder of Alternative Asean Network on Burma."If they are not already using it to target protesters and others, it is inevitable - and imminent," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-fear-digital-dictatorship-as-military-deploys-ai-101616086282448.html
18-03-2021||World||US Senate confirms Xavier Becerra as top federal health official||California Attorney General Xavier Becerra will join President Joe Biden's Cabinet after the US Senate on Thursday confirmed him to be secretary of Health and Human Services.Becerra won confirmation on a party-line 50-49 vote.Becerra, who served in the US House of Representatives for 26 years and was a member of Democratic leadership, will oversee an expansion of the Affordable Care Act, more commonly known as "Obamacare," and will take the helm of the sprawling department as the United States battles the Covid-19 pandemic.Republicans opposed his nomination citing his lack of experience on health matters and his support for expanding the government's role in providing healthcare and liberalizing immigration policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senate-confirms-xavier-becerra-as-top-federal-health-official-101616086183796.html
18-03-2021||World||Mexico seizes fake Sputnik Covid vaccine bound for Honduras||Mexican customs officials have seized purported vials of the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine en route to Honduras that the Russian entity that bankrolled the vaccine’s development said Thursday were fake.The seizure came aboard a private plane in the Gulf coast state of Campeche, according to a statement from Mexico’s tax agency late Wednesday.Customs agents and soldiers found 1,155 vials containing more than 5,700 doses inside two coolers packed with ice and sodas. The crew and Honduran passengers were turned over to the Attorney General’s Office.Mexican officials did not identify the doses as fake, but the Russian Direct Investment Fund said in a statement Thursday that after reviewing photographs of the packaging, they determined the vaccine to be fake.“Analysis of the photographs of the seized batch, including the design of containers and labels, suggests that it is a fake substance which has nothing to do with the original vaccine,” according to the RDIF statement. “The shipment’s procedure was also in violation of packaging and transportation protocols for the official Sputnik V vaccine.”It said the Russian Health Ministry would cooperate with Mexican authorities to analyze the contents of the vials.The RDIF also drew geopolitics into the mix, saying, “This is an example of possible provocations against Sputnik V just as Russian officials warned last week. Mexican government stopped and prevented this provocation possibly aimed at discrediting Sputnik V vaccine through shipment of fake vaccine.”Russian state-funded news agencies last week cited an anonymous high-ranking Kremlin source saying that “the US and its allies” are plotting “a large-scale information campaign aimed at creating a bias” towards Russian scientific products designed to counter Covid-19.The source said that the alleged plan is to paint Sputnik V as ineffective and dangerous, including by “staging mass deaths, allegedly as a result of using” the vaccine.Mexico started vaccinating people with Sputnik V last month and has received 400,000 doses to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-seizes-fake-sputnik-covid-vaccine-bound-for-honduras-101616085155353.html
18-03-2021||World||Pakistan backtracks on uncapped prices for privately imported Covid-19 shots||Pakistan has reversed its decision to allow uncapped prices for Covid-19 vaccines imported by private firms, the health minister said on Thursday, a move that coincided with the arrival of a first shipment of privately imported Russian Sputnik V shots.Pakistan, with a population of 220 million and largely reliant on the COVAX vaccine sharing initiative for poorer nations, last month allowed private firms to import coronavirus vaccines and agreed to exempt them from price caps."Now, however, there is a formula, already in vogue, to determine maximum price," minister Faisal Sultan told Reuters. "So yes, there is a price cap that DRAP (Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan) will recommend and get approval for."An official with M/s AGP Ltd, the company that imported the Sputnik shots, said a first shipment of 50,000 doses arrived on Wednesday night and that it will be made available to the public as soon as the government agreed on a price.The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn't officially authorised to release the information.Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), responsible for marketing the Sputnik V vaccine abroad, confirmed to Reuters that a batch had been delivered to Pakistan.The decision to allow commercial imports of vaccines with an exemption on upper price caps had sparked criticism that it would be unfair.China's Sinopharm and CansinoBio, Sputnik V and AstraZeneca vaccines are approved for emergency use in Pakistan, which hasn't secured any vaccine from manufacturing companies, relying so far on donations.The country is vaccinating frontline health workers and older people with over 1 million doses of Sinopharm donated by longtime ally China.Prime Minister Imran Khan, 68, got his Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, said a video statement from his office that showed him getting the shot.Pakistan is seeing a sharp increase in Covid cases. It has recorded 615,810 coronavirus infections and 13,717 deaths, with 3,495 cases and 61 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-backtracks-on-uncapped-prices-for-privately-imported-covid-19-shots-101616083614317.html
18-03-2021||World||'Safe but...': EU drug regulator rules on troubled AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||The European Union’s drug regulator said AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine is safe to use, giving the bloc an opportunity to try to turn around its lagging inoculation campaign after months of disarray.The European Medicines Agency said Thursday that the vaccine is “safe and effective,” and the benefits outweigh risks. Still, they said they can’t completely rule out a link between the vaccine and blood clots, and will investigate further.Several of Europe’s largest countries suspended use of Astra shots this month over reports of blood clotting, going against advice from the EMA and the World Health Organization that the benefits outweighed the risks. The uncertainty complicated the EU’s struggling vaccination campaign since the Astra shot accounts for about a fifth of its supply.While governments said they were ready to resume once they got positive EMA guidance, the question remains if the suspensions did irreparable damage to the reputation of the vaccine and if people will get the shots in sufficient numbers to curb the spread of the virus. Thousands of appointments have been canceled because of concern about health risks.Earlier on Thursday, the U.K.’s drugs regulator weighed in on Astra’s shot, saying the benefits continue to outweigh the risks and people “should still go and get their Covid-19 vaccine when asked to do so.”The crisis over vaccine side effects is just one of many playing out in the effort to inoculate populations. The EU has already been in a long-running battle with AstraZeneca over the pace of deliveries, and this week it ramped up tensions with the U.K. by threatening to restrict vaccine exports to its former member.The EU has committed to immunizing 70% of adults by the end of September but has suffered from supply issues. It’s administered 12 doses per 100 people, less than a third of the U.K., according to Bloomberg’s Coronavirus Vaccine Tracker.The Astra vaccine is one of four approved in the EU. The bloc expects 360 million deliveries from all providers in the second quarter, almost four times as many as this quarter.The blood’s propensity to clot is highly regulated within the human body, but some medicines such as hormonal birth control pills can disrupt the process.The EMA reviewed case reports from Germany and Norway, among others, to determine whether the problems were caused by the vaccine or whether the timing was a coincidence. They also compared the patients’ medical profiles, seeking similarities that may point to certain people being at higher risk of clots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/safe-but-eu-drug-regulator-rules-on-troubled-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-101616084215739.html
18-03-2021||World||YouTube to roll out short-form video service in US to take on TikTok||Alphabet Inc's YouTube is rolling out a short-form video-streaming service on its platform in the United States as it looks to better compete with rival TikTok in the hugely popular category.The service, Shorts, let users record mobile friendly vertical videos that can be spiced up with special effects and soundtracks pulled from a music library."Starting today and over the next several weeks, we'll gradually expand our Shorts beta to the U.S.," YouTube said in a blogpost on Thursday, adding it would weave in newer features on the service like the ability to add text at specific points of the video.YouTube had rolled out the feature in India in September last year, after TikTok was banned in one of its biggest markets. Shorts currently records more than 6.5 billion daily views globally, YouTube said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-to-roll-out-short-form-video-service-in-us-to-take-on-tiktok-101616083606300.html
18-03-2021||World||WHO working on ‘smart digital certificate’, different from ‘vaccine passport’. Here’s why||The World Health Organization is working on a 'smart digital certificate' for people fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a senior WHO official said on Thursday. During a news conference, WHO Europe director Hans Kluge said that the UN health agency “very strongly” encourages vaccinated individuals to have the documentation, however, distinguished it from 'vaccine passport'."We encourage very strongly – as with any vaccine – that there is a documentation, whether this is paper-based or preferably digital,” said Kluge. “But this is something different than a passport. We do not encourage at this stage that getting a vaccination is determining whether you can travel internationally or not. It should not be a requirement," he added.Why is WHO making the distinction?Kluge cited ethical and scientific reasons for the distinction between a smart digital certificate and a vaccine passport. Highlighting the global shortage of Covid-19 vaccine, the top WHO Europe official said that vaccine passport would increase the inequities as vulnerable people got disproportionately hit by the pandemic.“There is a global shortage of vaccines. So this would increase the inequities, and if there's one thing that we learned from the Covid-19 pandemic, it is that the vulnerable people got hit disproportionally," he told the news conference.Elaborating on the scientific reason, Kluge further said that the WHO is not sure about the longevity of immunity against Covid-19 after inoculation and vaccinated individuals may still be able to transmit the virus. He also cited a “practical reason” for the distinction, saying the WHO is working within an "international trusted framework, we have to document whether people got the vaccine."Kluge, meanwhile, has also urged countries across Europe to continue using the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, amid concerns over a small number of cases of blood coagulation. He stressed that the benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine, at this point in time, far outweigh any risks.“As of now, we do not know whether some or all of the conditions have been caused by the vaccine or by other coincidental factors," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-working-on-smart-digital-certificate-different-from-vaccine-passport-101616082669626.html
18-03-2021||World||Despite ties, UAE stays clear of Israeli PM Netanyahu's election maneuver||As Israel heads to the polls next week for the fourth time in two years, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has sought to capitalize on his new partnership with the United Arab Emirates in his desperate campaign to stay in power.But the UAE has been mostly muted — and perhaps unimpressed — in response to Netanyahu’s ebullient descriptions of billions in Emirati commercial investments and promises of a historic meeting with the powerful Abu Dhabi crown prince. One Emirati official said the federation will not get involved in Israel's electioneering, “now or ever."The conflicting signals from the countries, which normalized relations in a breakthrough US-brokered agreement last fall, have set off a firestorm of speculation, highlighted the political differences between the sides and undermined Netanyahu’s talking points about the Gulf Arab sheikhdom's friendly embrace.“The honeymoon ended quickly,” Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a prominent Emirati political scientist, tweeted on Thursday.Locked in a tight re-election battle, Netanyahu repeatedly has tried to score a lightning trip to Abu Dhabi, the capital of the UAE, to brandish his diplomatic achievement. The visit promised little of substance beyond a valuable photo-op for Netanyahu, who has sought to present himself as an indispensable statesman uniquely qualified to turn Israel’s enemies into allies and guide his nation through turbulent times.After coronavirus restrictions foiled his plans several times, Netanyahu attempted a hasty visit last Thursday, only to call it off at the last second. In an embarrassing setback, he said Jordan had refused to allow him to fly through its airspace after disagreements over security arrangements prevented a private visit to Jerusalem by Jordan’s crown prince.Emirati officials were mostly silent, a response that appeared to mask an undercurrent of behind-the-scenes pushback.A rare exception was Anwar Gargash, an Emirati presidential adviser who until last month served as the minister of state for foreign affairs. “The UAE will not be a part in any internal electioneering in Israel, now or ever,” Gargash wrote on Twitter.“From the UAE’s perspective, the purpose of the Abrahamic Accords is to provide a robust strategic foundation to foster peace and prosperity with the State of Israel and in the wider region,” he wrote, referring to last year's agreements that saw four Arab countries establish ties with Israel.Struggling with an ongoing corruption trial and popular outrage over the economic fallout of the pandemic, Netanyahu has sought to focus the spotlight on the historic deals, the so-called Abraham Accords.In his speeches and interviews this week, Netanyahu vowed to reschedule the Abu Dhabi trip. He dangled the promise of normalization with four more Arab countries, without naming them. He told reporters that the UAE had pledged to invest $10 billion in Israel.The UAE’s state-run news agency WAM confirmed last week that the Abu Dhabi crown prince, Mohammad Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, had discussed with Netanyahu the establishment of a $10 billion fund to invest in Israel’s “strategic sectors,” ranging from energy and space to healthcare and agriculture.But days later, following Netanyahu’s media blitz, Sultan al-Jaber, the Emirati Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology, seemed wary of moving too fast. According to UAE state-linked newspaper The National, al-Jaber emphasized that the UAE’s investment plans “are in the very early days” and tried to wipe out any associations with Netanyahu and his re-election campaign.“We are at a very early stage in studying the laws and policies in Israel,” he said. “The $10 billion is commercially driven and not politically associated.”He added, vaguely, that the “UAE has a long history and rich track record in making the right investments in the right locations, based on the commercial assessment of that market.”As Netanyahu tried to wrangle a high-profile visit, plans for a more subdued diplomatic visit from Israel were underway. Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi, a member of the rival Blue and White party, was scheduled to fly to the UAE earlier this week to inaugurate Israel’s new embassy in Abu Dhabi.But Netanyahu called off the visit at the last minute, said an Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue with the media.Israeli media reported that Netanyahu deprived his political rival of the visit because he wanted to be the first Israeli leader to be photographed at a ceremony in the UAE.Ben-Dror Yemini, a senior columnist at Israel's Yediot Ahronot daily, said unnamed Emirati officials told him they were stunned by the decision to cancel Ashkenazi’s visit.“Netanyahu’s action is a negative sign,” Yemini wrote. “It may get (the Emiratis) to look at Israel slightly less positively."The Emirati Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond to repeated requests for comment from The Associated Press. Netanyahu's office declined comment when asked about Ashkenazi's canceled trip.On Wednesday, Netanyahu confirmed to an Israeli radio station that he would not be flying to Abu Dhabi before next week's election after all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/despite-ties-uae-stays-clear-of-israeli-pm-netanyahu-s-election-maneuver-101616078158222.html
18-03-2021||World||EU to slap sanctions on Chinese officials over rights abuses in Xinjiang: Report||European Union officials have approved sanctions on Chinese officials, who are accused of human rights abuses in Xinjiang province.The penalties were approved at preparatory meetings for next week's Foreign Affairs Council, according to people familiar with the discussions. The penalties will be formally adopted at a meeting of the bloc's top diplomats on Monday, South China Morning Post reported.These will be the first sanctions against Beijing since an EU arms embargo in 1989 following the Tiananmen Square crackdown. The embargo is still in place.China is the EU's second-largest trading partner.China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination.Beijing, on the other hand, has vehemently denied that it is engaged in human rights abuses against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang while reports from journalists, NGOs and former detainees have surfaced, highlighting the Chinese Communist Party's brutal crackdown on the ethnic community.Analysts described the move as having "crossed a threshold" in relations with Beijing. It also marks the first time that the EU will use its new human rights sanctioning toolbox -- adopted last year -- against China, having given it a maiden outing following the poisoning of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny last month.Guy Verhofstadt, the former Belgian Prime Minister and now an MEP, welcomed the incoming sanctions, but said that a relationship long predicated on carrots could use a few "more sticks"."Towards China, that balance is especially difficult to find and maintain, but we have no other option. The next threat is to bar imports of goods produced in Xinjiang," Verhofstadt said."And in parallel, we are definitely withholding the 'carrots' that so attract international partners to Europe: if there is no significant and verified improvement, the European Parliament will not pass the EU-China investment agreement," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-slap-sanctions-on-chinese-officials-over-rights-abuses-in-xinjiang-report-101616077626442.html
18-03-2021||World||UN says refugees face long 'struggle' for getting vaccinated against Covid-19||The UN said Thursday that vaccinating some of the world's most vulnerable refugees could drag on beyond 2022 due to the slow roll-out of Covid-19 jabs in host countries.UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency, said many urban refugees were driven into a downward spiral of poverty last year by the coronavirus pandemic.Meanwhile the capacity for dealing with Covid-19 among refugees in rural areas was very limited.The UNHCR is seeking $455 million (382 million euros) to tackle the additional problems posed in protecting refugees from the effects of the pandemic."Now the struggle is for vaccines," Sajjad Malik, UNHCR's resilience and solutions director, told reporters."2021 is the beginning but it may very much go into 2022 and beyond because the vaccine is trickling down very slowly into these countries."There are around 80 million forcibly displaced people worldwide, according to UNHCR's latest statistics.These include 45.7 million internally displaced people, 26.3 million refugees and 4.2 million asylum seekers.Despite early fears that refugee camps would prove ideal breeding grounds for the virus, the situation for refugees tends to mirror that of their host communities, Malik said.Impact kicks inHe said the socioeconomic impact for refugees in urban areas was stark, with refugees often working on a daily wage basis having lost their income rapidly when lockdowns kicked in."Over a very short period of time, they went into a downward spiral of poverty. That is beginning to tell now," said Malik."With no income they could not pay their rents, they could not afford their health care. They could not look after their children."That has really created a lot of hardships."Meanwhile in rural areas, health systems which were already struggling to cope before the pandemic had little capacity for testing, isolating and treating Covid-19 cases."Where refugees are hosted in rural areas, it's even more difficult," said Malik.He said the UNHCR was not seeking preferential treatment for refugees in vaccination campaigns, and welcomed that 106 countries had included refugees in their Covid-19 planning."They knew that if they leave a proportion of the community out, the entire community is at risk," he said.Malik's deputy Marian Schilperoord said around 63,000 refugees were known to have been infected with Covid-19.However, the true figure would be much higher as, besides unreported cases, some countries do not distinguish refugees in their statistics.Some 48 percent of child refugees were out of school due to the pandemic -- with girls more heavily affected."Many of these children, most likely the risk is they will not go back to school as a result of one year of no education," said Malik.Of the UNHCR's supplementary Covid-19 appeal, some $55 million is earmarked for restoring education for child refugees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-says-refugees-face-long-struggle-for-getting-vaccinated-against-covid19-101616075291210.html
18-03-2021||World||Thailand braces as refugees from Myanmar coup flee to border regions||Hundreds of people have fled Myanmar's towns and cities since last month's military coup and are sheltering in areas controlled by ethnic militias on the Thai border, an official from one of the groups said on Thursday, as Thailand prepared for a surge of refugees.An official from the Karen National Union (KNU), which has been fighting the Myanmar army for decades, said almost a thousand people were sheltering inside KNU-controlled territory.Myanmar's security forces have killed at least 217 people in their crackdown against opposition to the coup, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a civil rights group in Myanmar."Hundreds of people are now in our area," Padoh Saw Taw Nee, the KNU's head of foreign affairs, said in an interview."Some are strike leaders, some are involved in CDM (civil disobedience), government staff ... deserters of police and military and then also some MPs (members of parliament) and doctors."He said a smaller number had also sought shelter further north, on the border with Shan state, in a region controlled by another ethnic militia.More than two dozen ethnic armed groups are active in Myanmar's borderlands, and the KNU is among those that have condemned the coup and vowed to support the resistance.Padoh Saw Taw Nee said a ceasefire agreement with the government prior to the coup had become "paralysed"."We strongly support CDM movement and people's demonstration," he said, echoing calls for Myanmar to become a democratic federation.A spokesman for the junta did not answer phone calls seeking comment.Thai authorities are bracing for a surge of refugees and have set aside areas to shelter more than 43,000 people in Mae Sot district, according to plans seen by Reuters.Thai army colonel Prasan Henprasert said border patrols had been increased."If there are clashes then we have to assess the situation and have areas prepared," he said."Based on our experience, many people may cross and go back when the situation is safer because they have their homes on the other side."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-braces-as-refugees-from-myanmar-coup-flee-to-border-regions-101616075726446.html
18-03-2021||World||Covid-19 origin probe: Team could face 'pressure', admits WHO expert||The head of a World Health Organization team working with Chinese colleagues to finish a long-awaited report into the origins of the coronavirus acknowledged its authors could face “pressures” but insisted the final product will have a unanimous green light from all of the team's science-minded members.Peter Ben Embarek, an expert on food safety and diseases that jump from animals to humans, said in interviews on Wednesday and Thursday that the team hopes the report -- now totaling some 280 pages and complete with graphs, dates and annexes -- will be ready for release next week.The report is a first-phase study that is expected to be followed by a more in-depth look as part of guidelines set by Chinese officials and the WHO team.Ben Embarek, who led a 10-person international team of experts that visited China in January and February, acknowledged that political pressures have loomed large over the virus pandemic.“We are in the world that we live in,” he said. “It’s possible that there will be pressures from right to left.”“What we can guarantee is that everyone will be on board” and “unanimous” in their backing of the report once that the text is completed, Ben Embarek said. The “fine-tuning of the text” has centered on scientific issues, while some Chinese-English translation issues were “taking a lot of time,” he said.He said the report was being written by all of the experts and is part of a “long and complex” process.China's Global Times newspaper on Wednesday published an interview with Liang Wannian, the head of the Chinese side of the team, who spoke of alleged political pressures that amounted to “huge disrespect to the work of our scientists.”Liang was quoted as saying some politicians and international media had "insisted on politicizing the scientific issue of tracing the source of COVID-19, regardless of scientific facts, for their own personal gain, arbitrarily misinterpreting the scientific findings and reports of our joint team.”He took pains to emphasize the spirit of cooperation among the scientists and said both sides had cooperated openly and fully throughout the month-long investigation, and that “results of this joint study in China are the consensus of Chinese and foreign experts.”Liang echoed the comments from Ben Embarek about the extended time to publish the report, saying the process required to present a complete and scientifically rigorous report “takes some time.”The team did not find cases of COVID-19 before December 8, 2019, he said.Ben Embarek cited the need to investigate the possible role in the pandemic of the local trade in wild animal products from farms in and around southern China in 2019 and beyond to a market in the city of Wuhan, which could have been a way that the virus entered a large city that was tied into global supply chains.“We don’t know yet the origins of the pandemic," he said, adding that cold-chain transmission, including through frozen food packaging, was a “possible route” of spread, but that the issue requires further exploration.Liang promoted Chinese government claims of other sources of the pandemic saying that cold chain transmission “plays an important part in the origin and transmission of the epidemic.” The international team left open the possibility of the cold chain playing a role in the transmission.It took many months for the U.N. team to arrange a visit to China with Chinese authorities. Critics say the delay cost valuable time in efforts to unearth the origins of the pandemic, which has led to at least 2.6 million reported deaths.On Friday, Chen Xu, the Chinese ambassador to U.N. organizations in Geneva, said the WHO had selected the team's members who did the work with Chinese counterparts, appearing to suggest no political influence by China was exerted.“We have our hands off, like the officials from the WHO as well,” Chen said, alluding to the U.N. agency's secretariat. "Let the scientists (do) their work.”China’s government detained some doctors who sought to raise the alarm about the outbreak, which is believed to have originated in or near Wuhan in late 2019.WHO repeatedly praised the Chinese government’s early response, even though recordings of private meetings obtained by The Associated Press exposed how top officials at the U.N. health agency were frustrated at China’s lack of cooperation.___Huizhong Wu in Taipei, Taiwan contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-origin-probe-team-could-face-pressure-admits-who-expert-101616075622571.html
18-03-2021||World||Canada suffers slowest population growth since World War I||Canada’s population grew last year at the slowest pace in more than a century as Covid-related restrictions curbed immigration.The nation’s population rose by just 0.4% in 2020 to 38,048,738, Statistics Canada reported Thursday in Ottawa. That was the slowest annual growth since 1916, during World War I. In absolute numbers, the 149,461 annual increase was the smallest since 1945.A drop in international migration from closed borders was the main contributor. Canada recorded 184,624 immigrants in 2020, down by almost half from 2019. Also, more non-permanent residents left the country last year than came in, resulting in a loss of 86,535 people. That’s the largest net loss of foreign residents such as workers and students on record.Over the past five years, immigration has accounted for more than three quarters of Canada’s total population growth but that figure dropped to 58% in 2020. Immigration has been a key pillar of the country’s overall economic growth, impacting everything from the housing market to banking services.The number of deaths last year also increased to a record, surpassing 300,000 for the first time in the country’s history. Covid-19 was responsible for one in 20 deaths, the report said. The natural rate increase in population -- the difference between births and deaths -- also fell to 62,834, the smallest increase since at least 1922.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-suffers-slowest-population-growth-since-world-war-i-101616073703100.html
18-03-2021||World||Europe’s Covid vaccination drive running at half the pace of US: Report||The European Union’s Covid vaccination drive showed no sign of picking up the pace over the past week and is still running at less than half the pace of immunizations in the US, according to weekly figures from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.The 29 countries in the bloc and wider European Economic Area took delivery of 9.9 million doses over the week through March 14 and administered 9.1 million shots over the period, the ECDC said Thursday. That equates to about 1.3 million vaccinations a day compared to 2.5 million a day in the U.S., where the population is only about 70% as large.The proportion of adults in the bloc who have received their first dose now stands at 9.8%, up 1.6 percentage points from the week before. The number rose by 1.7 points over the previous seven days. The data show that 4.3% of adults are now fully vaccinated, which has improved by 0.6 percentage points, the same increase as the week before.Politicians across the bloc have said the program must speed up significantly if the EU is to meet its target of vaccinating at least 70% of people by the end of the summer and for restrictive economic measures to be eased. The report showed that the bloc has received 12.5 million doses that have yet to be administered, 1 million more than in the previous week.“I’m not too concerned about the number,” Sam Fazeli, a pharmaceuticals analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence, said in a telephone interview. “You almost want to have some extra doses available, in case the next consignment doesn’t arrive and you need to give second doses. They should always have a stockpile.”Fazeli estimated, based on conversations with pharmacists, that it may take as long as two weeks for shots to be administered once officials have taken delivery of the vaccines from the drug companies.A separate EU document seen by Bloomberg suggested the backlog may be as much as 20 million shots. The EU has received about 70 million shots and administered around 50 million through March 16, the document showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europes-covid-vaccination-drive-running-at-half-the-pace-of-us-report-101616073274122.html
18-03-2021||World||'Time to bury the past and move forward', says Pak's General Bajwa on ties with India||Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa said on Thursday that it was time for India and Pakistan to "bury the past and move forward" as he asserted that the peace between the two neighbours would help to "unlock" the potential of South and Central Asia.Addressing a session of the first-ever Islamabad Security Dialogue here, Gen Bajwa also said that the potential for regional peace and development always remained hostage to the disputes and issues between Pakistan and India - the two "nuclear-armed neighbours"."We feel it is time to bury the past and move forward," he said, adding that the responsibility for a meaningful dialogue rested with India.India last month said that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility.India has also told Pakistan that "talks and terror" cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India."Our neighbour will have to create a conducive environment, particularly” in Kashmir, Gen Bajwa said, adding that any effort to improve ties without addressing the core issue would be vulnerable to external political factors."The Kashmir issue is at the heart of this. It is important to understand that without the resolution of the Kashmir dispute through peaceful means, the process will always remain susceptible to derailment to politically motivated bellicosity,” he said.The powerful army, which has ruled Pakistan for more than half of its 70 plus years of existence, has hitherto wielded considerable power in the matters of security and foreign policy.Gen Bajwa’s remarks came a day after Prime Minister Imran Khan made a similar statement at the same venue.Prime Minister Khan said on Wednesday said India will be benefitted economically by having peace with Pakistan as it will enable New Delhi to directly access the resource-rich Central Asia region through Pakistani territory."India will have to take the first step. Unless they do so, we cannot do much," Khan said while delivering the inaugural address at the launch of the two-day Dialogue.Khan said that having a direct route to the Central Asian region will economically benefit India. Central Asia is rich in oil and gas.Central Asia, in the modern context, generally includes five resource-rich countries -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.Gen Bajwa also that peace between Pakistan and India would help to "unlock the potential of South and Central Asia" by ensuring connectivity between East and West Asia.Though, both Prime Minister Khan and Gen Bajwa didn’t specify the minimum steps that India should take but many experts in Pakistan believe that some positive measures in Kashmir could ease pressure on the Pakistan government before entering into talks or restoring the normal diplomatic ties.Gen Bajwa also talked about poverty which he said was linked with the regional tension that had hindered the regional connectivity and integration."Despite being impoverished, we end up spending a lot of our money on defence, which naturally comes at the expense of human development," he said.However, he added that Pakistan was resisting the temptation to become part of the arms race or increase defence budget despite rising security challenges."This has not been easy, especially when you live in a hostile and unstable neighbourhood. But having said that, let me say that we are ready to improve our environment by resolving all our outstanding issues with our neighbours through dialogue in a dignified and peaceful manner," he said.India and Pakistan had announced on February 25 that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors.Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country.Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship dipped further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.The relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019.Talking about the concept of national security, Gen Bajwa said that it was not just about protecting countries from an external and internal threat."Today, the leading drivers of change in the world are demography, economy and technology…However, one issue that remains central to this concept is economic security and cooperation,” he said.He said that since national security involved ensuring human security, national progress and development, it was not solely the function of the armed forces and required a national effort to safeguard a nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-to-bury-the-past-and-move-forward-says-pak-s-general-bajwa-on-ties-with-india-101616072755667.html
18-03-2021||World||Britain warns of consequences if EU breaks law on vaccine contracts||The European Union must respect the law around Covid-19 vaccine supply contracts and there will be consequences for the bloc if it breaks it, health minister Matt Hancock said on Thursday."There is of course a need for all countries to respect contract law... and I'm sure that the European Union will live up to the commitments and statements that it has made," Hancock told lawmakers, after the EU threatened to bloc vaccine exports to Britain."We fully expect those contracts to be delivered on, because there are very significant consequences to breaking contract law."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-warns-of-consequences-if-eu-breaks-law-on-vaccine-contracts-101616072463585.html
18-03-2021||World||US jobless claims rise to 770,000, layoffs remain high||The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits rose last week to 770,000, a sign that layoffs remain high even as much of the US economy is steadily recovering from the coronavirus recession.Thursday's report from the Labor Department showed that jobless claims climbed from 725,000 the week before. The numbers have dropped sharply since the depths of the recession last spring but still show that employers in some industries continue to lay off workers. Before the pandemic struck, applications for unemployment aid had never topped 700,000 in any one week.The four-week average of claims, which smooths out weekly variations, dropped to 746,000, the lowest since late November.A total of 4.1 million people are continuing to collect traditional state unemployment benefits, down 18,000 from the previous week. Including separate federal programs that are intended to help workers displaced by the health crisis, 18.2 million Americans were receiving some form of jobless aid in the week of Feb. 27, down by 1.9 million from the week before.The continuing layoffs are occurring even as the overall job market has shown solid improvement. Last month, U.S. employers added a robust 379,000 jobs, the most since October and a sign that the economy is strengthening as consumers spend more and states and cities ease business restrictions.With vaccinations accelerating, hopes are rising that Americans will increasingly travel, shop, eat out and spend freely after a year of virus-induced restraint.President Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion relief package is also expected to help accelerate growth, especially with most adults this week receiving $1,400 stimulus checks that should fuel more spending. An extension of $300 weekly unemployment benefits into early September will provide support, too, along with money for vaccines and treatments, school re-openings, state and local governments and ailing industries ranging from airlines to concert halls.Yet the nation is still 9.5 million short of the number of jobs it had in February 2020. And Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell suggested Wednesday after the Fed's latest policy meeting that the overall economic outlook remained cloudy.“The state of the economy in two or three years is highly uncertain,” Powell said at a news conference after the Fed signaled that it expects to keep its key interest rate near zero through 2023 despite some solid economic gains and concerns about rising inflation pressures.By most barometers, business activity in the economy's vast and hard-hit service sector is still far from normal. The data firm Womply said, for example, that as of early last week 63% of movie theaters, galleries and other entertainment venues were closed. So were 39% of bars, 32% of gyms and other sports and recreation businesses and 30% of restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-rise-to-770-000-layoffs-remain-high-101616072445032.html
18-03-2021||World||Shortfall in vaccine deliveries in UK will delay jabs for those below 50: Report||British health authorities say Covid-19 vaccinations for people under age 50 may be delayed for up to a month amid a shortfall in supply, partly due to reduced deliveries from the Serum Institute of India.Britain’s National Health Service told public health officials Thursday that vaccine supplies available for first doses would be “significantly constrained” beginning March 29. As a result, people under 50 shouldn’t get shots unless they have underlying health conditions that put them at higher risk, according to a letter from Emily Lawson, the NHS’s chief commercial officer, and Dr. Nikita Kanani, medical director for primary care.Doctors had expected to begin vaccinating younger people next month, but that will have to be pushed back until May, said Dr. Martin Marshall, the chairman of the Royal College of General Practitioners and a GP in east London.“It was disappointing news when we heard yesterday that the supplies weren’t going to be available during April,” he told the BBC. “It’s a massively successful program overall, and this is a bit of a setback.”The Department of Health and Social Care said the delay won’t prevent the government from meeting its target of delivering a first dose of vaccine to everyone over 50 by mid-April and to all adults by July 31.The shortfall is due in part to smaller than expected deliveries from the Serum Institute of India, which was expected to supply Britain with 10 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine this month. However the Serum Institute maintains that there were no “stipulated timelines” for delivery of the vaccines.The institute said Thursday that 5 million doses have been delivered “and we will try to supply more later, based on the current situation and the requirement for the government immunization program in India.”Britain is using vaccines developed by US drugmaker Pfizer and Anglo-Swedish rival AstraZeneca. More than 25 million people across the UK, or almost 38% of the population, have received at least one dose of vaccine so far.Robert Jenrick, the minister for housing, communities and local government, said the government has always expected fluctuations in vaccine supplies because of the difficulties in ramping up production. No single company is responsible for the current shortfall, he said.“There are multiple manufacturers around the world who are experiencing supply issues at the moment,” Jenrick told the BBC. “It would not be right for me to pin blame on any one manufacturer, factory or country. That is not the case.”Dr. Simon Clarke, associate professor of cellular microbiology at the University of Reading, said the short-term disruption in supplies could have knock-on effects that last for months, including potential delays in lifting Covid-19 restrictions.“By pushing back the under-50s first doses, their second doses are also being pushed back,” he said. “If full vaccination becomes required for holidays abroad or even more mundane things like going to the cinema, millions of younger people may end up being excluded from participating for the whole summer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shortfall-in-vaccine-deliveries-in-uk-will-delay-jabs-for-those-below-50-report-101616071452984.html
18-03-2021||World||Europe, with millions of doses unused, is divided on export ban||European Union governments are divided over a controversial proposal to withhold vaccine exports to the UK, even as the bloc sits on about 20 million unused doses.Around 70 million shots have been delivered to countries in the EU, with 50 million of those already administered, according to an EU document seen by Bloomberg. About 15 million of the used shots were second doses.EU ambassadors on Wednesday discussed a new proposal by the European Commission that would restrict exports of vaccines to countries -- the UK in particular -- that don’t reciprocate or that already have high vaccination rates, according to a diplomatic note seen by Bloomberg. The UK is the largest recipient of doses made in the EU, receiving 10 million of the 42 million exported shots.“All options are on the table -- we are in the crisis of the century,” Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday. “We have to make sure that Europeans are vaccinated as soon as possible.”EU members, including Italy and France, said they were open to exploring the vaccine export ban while others, such as Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands, urged caution and warned about the possible negative impact on European companies, according to the note.“What is obvious is that all of the vaccines which are currently being deployed require a second dose and therefore it is only natural that you would have a stock of vaccines which are in reserve in order to provide people with the second injection that they require,” European Commission spokesman Eric Mamer said at the briefing on Thursday. “This is what makes comparisons in terms of vaccination rates difficult.”Any decision on the issue would ultimately be for EU leaders, who are set to meet next week.The discussion comes ahead of an announcement from the European Medicines Agency on Thursday, when the drugs regulator will make a decision on the safety of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine. Some of the EU’s largest countries suspended use of the shot due to concern about blood clotting.The EU is struggling to overcome a slow start to its inoculation campaign and has committed to immunizing 70% of adults by the end of September. The bloc has administered 12 doses per 100 people, less than a third of the UK, according to Bloomberg’s Coronavirus Vaccine Tracker. The US has given 34.A shortage in deliveries from AstraZeneca is due to low yields from factories in the Netherlands and Belgium and the company is trying to tap into its international supply chain, including from India, to make up for that, according to the note. Astra is now expected to deliver 30 million shots to the EU in the first quarter, less than half what it initially committed.The Astra vaccine is one of four approved in the EU. The bloc expects 360 million deliveries from all providers in the second quarter, almost four times as many as this quarter.The new vaccination numbers underscore the disparate rates of inoculations across the EU. Malta has administered 24 doses per 100 people, according to the document. Bulgaria, Croatia and Latvia have all given fewer than 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-with-millions-of-doses-unused-is-divided-on-export-ban-101616069975362.html
18-03-2021||World||'Takes one to know one': Vladimir Putin on Joe Biden's 'killer' remark||Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that US President Joe Biden’s remarks about him reflect US own past and current problems.Biden was asked in an interview whether he thought Russian President Vladimir Putin is a killer and said “I do.” Russia on Wednesday announced it’s recalling its ambassador in Washington for consultations.Asked about Biden’s remarks during a video call with residents of Crimea marking the anniversary of its 2014 annexation from Ukraine, Putin charged that they reflect the United States’ own troubled past.The Russian leader pointed at America's past history of slaughtering Native Americans and slavery, arguing that the painful legacy has weighed on the United States.“Otherwise where would the Black Lives Matter movement come from,” he said.He added that Russia would still cooperate with the United States where it answers Moscow’s interests.Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov deplored what he called “very bad remarks by the US president” that made it clear that “he doesn't want to normalize relations.”“We will proceed accordingly,” Peskov said in a conference call with reporters, noting that "there was nothing like that in history.” He wouldn't answer if Russia could go as far as to rupture diplomatic ties with the United States.Konstantin Kosachev, a deputy speaker of the Russian parliament's upper house, said Biden’s “boorish statement” marks a watershed.“Such assessments are inadmissible for a statesman of his rank,” Kosachev said. “Such statements are unacceptable under any circumstances. They inevitably lead to a sharp exacerbation of our bilateral ties.”Kosachev warned that Russia’s response wouldn’t be limited to recalling the Russian ambassador “if the American side fails to offer explanation and excuse.” He wouldn’t elaborate on what other action the Kremlin may take.While announcing the decision to recall the Russian ambassador in Washington, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova blamed the US for bringing bilateral ties to a “dead end,” adding that “we are interested in preventing their irreversible degradation, if the Americans are aware of the associated risks.”Commenting on the Russian move Wednesday, White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki emphasized that “we will be direct, we will speak out on areas where we have concerns, and it will certainly be, as the president said last night — certainly, the Russians will be held accountable for the actions that they have taken.”The exchange of tough statements comes on the heels of a declassified report from the US national intelligence director’s office that finds President Vladimir Putin authorized influence operations to help Donald Trump in last November’s presidential election.“(Putin) will pay a price,” Biden said in the interview, asked about the declassified report.Russia's relations with the United States and the European Union already have plunged to post-Cold War lows after Moscow's 2014 annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula, election meddling, hacking attacks and, most recently, the jailing of Russia's opposition leader Alexei Navalny that followed his poisoning he blamed on the Kremlin. The Russian authorities rejected the accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-reacts-to-us-president-joe-biden-s-killer-remarks-101616070000920.html
18-03-2021||World||Italian PM Draghi says AstraZeneca verdict won’t change country's vaccine plans||Prime Minister Mario Draghi pledged to accelerate Italy’s vaccination campaign independently of the outcome of a European review of AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine.The premier, visiting the northern region of Lombardy, the original epicenter of the pandemic in Europe, said that the decision to suspend use of the vaccine taken by several countries was “temporary and precautionary.”Referring to an assessment due by the European Medicines Agency on the Astra vaccine due later Thursday, Draghi vowed that, “whatever its decision, the vaccination campaign will continue with the same intensity, the same objectives.”Italy currently plans to triple the pace of inoculation to half million people per day by mid-April, reaching an 80% coverage by end-September. So far, Italy has administered 7 million vaccine doses, with only 3.5% of the population fully vaccinated.“The increase in the supplies of some vaccines will help to compensate the delay by other pharmaceutical companies,” Draghi said.Day of RemembranceThe premier earlier laid a wreath at the cemetery in Bergamo, one of the most-hit cities during the pandemic’s first outbreak last spring. Army trucks were used to transport coffins of virus victims when local services including the hospital morgue and the crematorium could no longer cope with the death toll.Draghi’s trip marks a national day of remembrance for virus victims. He spoke at a site dedicated to people who lost loved ones, and helped to plant a lime tree, the first of 850 trees at the so-called Memory Forest.The ex-central banker said his government had already taken “incisive decisions concerning the companies which do not respect commitments,” after his administration and the EU halted the export of a vaccines batch to Australia.Like most of the country, Lombardy which includes the financial capital Milan, has seen reimposed lockdown measures as the pandemic surges while a vaccination campaign stutters.Italy registered 23,059 new virus cases on Wednesday, compared to 20,396 the previous day. The country has seen more than 3 million cases and more than 100,000 deaths since the beginning of the outbreak last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-pm-draghi-says-astrazeneca-verdict-won-t-change-country-s-vaccine-plans-101616069240146.html
18-03-2021||World||What now for North Korea and US talks?||Almost two months after Joe Biden took office, North Korea has finally acknowledged the new US president. However, unlike with his predecessors, it wasn't with a missile, but a vow to keep ignoring Washington.AFP takes a look at the country's intentions and what its next moves might be.What does North Korea want?US officials say they have attempted to reach out to Pyongyang through "several channels" in recent weeks, with no response.Dialogue between Pyongyang and Washington has been deadlocked since the collapse of the 2019 Hanoi summit North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and then US president Donald Trump over sanctions relief.The North issued two separate statements by top officials this week, with first vice foreign minister Choe Son Hui demanding the US withdraw its "hostile policy" against her country."It had better drop the cheap trick by which it tries to use the DPRK-US contact as a means for gaining time," she said.Park Won-gon, a professor of North Korea studies at Ewha Womans University, told AFP: "North Korea is making it clear that it will not come to talks unless the US offers concessions first."But by not laying out a specific precondition to talks, he added, Pyongyang was "showing flexibility".Why is it speaking out now?North Korea has not directly addressed the new US administration until this week. The timing is clearly linked to the visit by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin to Asia."It's a way for Pyongyang to set the tone without overtly appealing for the Biden administration's attention," Soo Kim, a former CIA analyst now with the RAND Corporation, told AFP."The regime is also trying to reiterate that it calls the shots in the game, lest anyone has forgotten," she said.Will Pyongyang start testing missiles again?The first missile test after president Barack Obama's January 2009 inauguration came in early April, while Donald Trump had to contend with a launch only three weeks after being sworn in.The North has made rapid progress with its nuclear and missile programmes under Kim and unveiled a new submarine-launched ballistic missile at a military parade in January.Kim abandoned his self-declared moratorium on nuclear tests or ICBM launches in January 2020, but even so Pyongyang has confined itself to short-range missile tests since then, the last of them a year ago.Speculation about North Korean missile launches emerges regularly, but it could also choose lower-level actions such as static engine tests.Go Myong-hyun of the Asan Institute of Policy Studies said Pyongyang was waiting for the right timing to "ensure legitimacy for provocation".How are things in North Korea?The coronavirus pandemic has added to the pressures on the North, with Pyongyang closing its borders and blockading itself far more effectively than even the most hawkish backer of sanctions could ever hope to achieve.Trade has plummeted and several foreign embassies withdrawn their staff.Pyongyang insists it has not had a single case of the disease -- observers doubt the claim -- but the self-isolation has put further strain on the economy, along with sanctions and summer floods."They are in a tough situation for sure," said scholar Park. "That in turn could heighten their need for a breakthrough with Washington."Why hasn't Pyongyang mentioned Joe Biden yet?Pyongyang is notorious for its nasty name-calling of US presidents: it called Barack Obama a "monkey" and referred to Donald Trump was a "mentally-deranged dotard" at the height of tensions in 2017.Before Biden was nominated as candidate, the North's state media called him "a rabid dog" who should be beaten to death, but it has not even mentioned the new US president by name since his election."When North Korea mentions a president by name, it must be clear whether it is insulting him or praising him," said Go, adding Pyongyang was still assessing the new administration.The North's rhetoric has so far been relatively restrained, and Soo Kim said it may hesitate to provoke a confrontation that would result in a "rigid and inflexible" US stance."With four years remaining of Biden's term, I don't think Kim wants to take this big of a leap just yet," she said.Does Pyongyang miss Donald Trump?Trump's unorthodox approach to foreign policy saw him trade insults and threats of war with the North Korean leader before an extraordinary diplomatic bromance and a series of summits and meetings.Analysts say Pyongyang likely has mixed feelings over the Republican.Trump's absence ruled out any possibilities of "gratuitous summits", said former CIA analyst Soo Kim."Perhaps not Trump the person, but the fact that dealing with the US was a cakewalk under the Trump administration," she added.The North at one time saw Trump as an "opportunity for a breakthrough", noted professor Park, but struggled to deal with his unpredictability."In contrast, Biden's policy is very predictable," Park told AFP."Whether they prefer an unpredictable Trump or a predictable Biden is hard to put your finger on."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-now-for-north-korea-and-us-talks-101616063545883.html
18-03-2021||World||France to announce new coronavirus restrictions in Paris region||France is set to announce new coronavirus restrictions on Thursday, including a potential lockdown in the Paris region and in the north of the country, as the number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units spikes.“We will make the decisions we need to make,” French President Emmanuel Macron said on Wednesday while visiting the hospital of Poissy and Saint-Germain-en-Laye, west of Paris. He added the new measures will be “pragmatic, proportionated and targeted.”Prime Minister Jean Castex is scheduled to detail the restrictions on Thursday evening.The virus is rapidly spreading in the Paris region, where the rate of infection has reached over 420 per 100,000 inhabitants and ICUs are closed to saturation. France’s nationwide infection rate is about 250 per 100,000.As during previous infection peaks, health authorities have organized transfers of critically ill patients to less-affected regions to ease some of the pressure on hospitals in Paris and in northern and southern France.People in France have been under a 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. nationwide curfew for two months.French President Emmanuel Macron’s government had hoped the measure would prevent the country of 67 million people from the economic, social and psychological impact of another lockdown.Yet confirmed virus cases and ICU demand both have risen steadily in recent weeks. The more contagious virus variant first identified in the U.K. accounts for most cases, and around 250 people are dying each day from the virus.“We see people dying, we see people suffering....There’s a difficult situation.. and we don’t feel an appropriate response,” Enrique Casalino, head of the emergency service at Bichat hospital à Paris, told French broadcaster LCI.Government spokesperson Gabriel Attal said Wednesday that the new measures could include lockdowns in the Paris region, which is home to 12 million people, and in Hauts-de-France, the region bordering Belgium in northern France.“The localized strategy remains the good strategy. It enables to limit precisely and proportionally the expansion of the virus," he said.Two other areas previously were put under targeted, tougher restrictions. In those regions, around Nice on the French Riviera, and Dunkirk on the northern coast, weekend lockdowns have been added on top of the nightly curfew.The prime minister on Thursday also is expected to address France's decision on Monday to suspend use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, which authorities hope to relaunch quickly. The European Medicines Agency is scheduled to release Thursday initial results of its investigations into whether the vaccine is connected to reports of blood clots in some recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-announce-new-coronavirus-restrictions-in-paris-region-101616067838924.html
18-03-2021||World||China 'deeply concerned' about anti-Asian violence in US||China called on the US to take measures to stem violence against people of Asian heritage after eight people were killed at Atlanta-area massage parlors.Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Thursday that violence against Asians in the US was “outrageous and distressing,” leaving China “deeply concerned.”American authorities should “take practical measures to resolve issues of racism and racial discrimination at home, and earnestly safeguard and protect the safety and legitimate rights and interests of Chinese citizens in the United States,” Zhao told reporters at a daily briefing.The 21-year-old suspect in Tuesday's shootings reportedly told police the attack was not racially motivated. He claimed that he targeted the spas because of a “sex addiction.” Six of those slain were identified as being of Asian descent and seven were women.South Korea’s Foreign Ministry has said four of the victims who died were women of Korean descent, while two of the other victims appeared to have Chinese names.China has long countered accusations of human rights abuses under the ruling Communist Party by pointing to racism and violence in America. Recent attacks on Asians in the US are partly attributed to anti-Chinese sentiment arising from the coronavirus pandemic that was first detected in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019.While giving no names, Zhao said some American politicians had “instigated racism and hatred, and condoned discrimination against Chinese students in the United States.“The United States should take practical measures to resolve issues of racism and racial discrimination at home, and earnestly safeguard and protect the safety and legitimate rights and interests of Chinese citizens in the United States," Zhao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-deeply-concerned-about-anti-asian-violence-in-us-101616068627007.html
18-03-2021||World||Google pledges $7 billion investment to create jobs in US||Google announced a $7 billion investment in the US that will create at least 10,000 new jobs this year, a drop from the $10 billion it promised it would invest in 2020 before the pandemic swept the country.The Alphabet Inc. unit is investing in offices and data centers, including more than $1 billion in its home state of California, Google Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai said in a statement on Thursday. Part of the investment will be used for data center expansions in Nebraska, South Carolina, Virginia, Nevada and Texas, Pichai said.In early 2020, Google said it would invest over $10 billion into offices and data centers in a range of states, including California, New York and Texas. This was also a drop from the $13 billion it pledged in 2019 to invest in order to expand in rural areas such as Nevada, Nebraska and Oklahoma.However, in April last year Pichai said Google would slow hiring for the remainder of 2020, “recalibrating the focus and pace of our investments in areas like data centers and machines.” Google had 135,300 staff at the end of 2020, and has said it will let employees work from home until July 2021.Alphabet broke out figures for its Google Cloud business for the first time in February. The unit had an operating loss of $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter, far behind its rival Amazon Web Services, the largest cloud provider, which generated fourth-quarter operating income of $3.56 billion.The Mountain View, California-based company revealed the number on Tuesday in a statement. For 2020, the cloud division lost $5.6 billion, Alphabet said.“An important element of our operating loss is that we have been building out our organization ahead of revenue, and that includes our product portfolio, the network of data centers,” Ruth Porat, chief financial officer of Alphabet and Google, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. This will help the company pursue this large market opportunity, she added.In 2020, Google’s services drove $426 billion of economic activity for more than 2 million American businesses, nonprofits and other entities, the company said, citing its 2020 US Economic Impact Report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-pledges-7-billion-investment-to-create-jobs-in-us-101616067896509.html
18-03-2021||World||Heavily armed man arrested outside US Vice President Kamala Harris' official residence||A 31-year-old man has been arrested outside US Vice President Kamala Harris' official residence in Washington, D.C. on weapons and ammunition charges, according to media reports.The arrest comes as the district is in a state of heightened security following the January 6 insurrection attempt at the US Capitol.Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, do not currently live at the Naval Observatory, as the official residence of the US Vice President is undergoing renovation. The couple is living at Blair House, near the White House.The Texas man was detained by US Secret Service on Wednesday following an intelligence bulletin, a spokesperson for Washington's Metropolitan Police was quoted as saying by CNN.Police said the officers arrested and charged Paul Murray, of San Antonio, and that a rifle and ammunition were recovered from his vehicle, it said.A police report shows officers allege Murray was in possession of an "AR-15 semi-automatic rifle, 113 rounds of unregistered ammunition, and five 30 round magazines."According to police, he's been charged with several counts: carrying a dangerous weapon, carrying a rifle or shotgun outside of a business, possession of unregistered ammunition and possession of a large capacity ammunition feeding device.The US Secret Service told CNN in a statement that Uniformed Division officers detained the man before Metropolitan Police arrived on the scene.A Secret Service official said none of the agency's protectees were at the residence at the time of the incident.Violent pro-Trump supporters, fuelled by the belief that President Biden and Harris had stolen the election from Donald Trump, stormed the Capitol on January 6, threatening lawmakers and law enforcement officers. Five people, including a police officer, were killed in the violence.Since the violent incidents, security and intelligence officials have often warned about the dangers of homegrown extremism in America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heavily-armed-texas-man-arrested-outside-kamala-harris-official-residence-101616066933760.html
18-03-2021||World||New Jersey district pays $325,000 in Donald Trump yearbook censorship||A New Jersey school district is paying $325,000 to a former New Jersey teacher who claimed she was forced to digitally edit a Donald Trump T-shirt worn by a student in a yearbook photo.The Wall Township school board approved the settlement agreement with Susan Parsons on Tuesday, NJ Advance Media reported. The district made no admission of wrongdoing or liability. The money will be paid by the district's insurance carrier.Parsons was the high school's yearbook adviser when she said a secretary acting on behalf of the principal ordered her in 2017 to remove "Trump Make America Great Again” and make it appear as if the student was wearing a plain navy blue T-shirt."That has to go,” the suit alleged Parsons was told.Parsons, who said she voted for Trump in 2016, said she was made a scapegoat and received death threats. She was suspended with pay after the incident. She claimed she regularly complained about being forced to alter photos.Parsons will receive about $204,000 and the remainder of the settlement will cover attorney fees, according to the agreement.The school district reissued the yearbook with the original unaltered photo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-jersey-district-pays-325k-in-donald-trump-yearbook-censorship-101616065852316.html
18-03-2021||World||US president Joe Biden does not want to improve ties with Russia: Kremlin||Russia said Thursday US President Joe Biden had no interest in improving ties with Russia after he referred to Vladimir Putin as a "killer", sparking the biggest crisis in years between the former Cold War rivals.Russia's relationship with the West has eroded over a spate of disagreements, but relations plunged to new depths Wednesday after Biden agreed Putin was a "killer" in a US television interview."These statements from the president of the United States are very bad," Putin's spokesman Dmirty Peskov told reporters."It is clear that he does not want to get the relationship with our country back on track, and we will proceed from that," he added.In a swift response to Biden's comments, Moscow on Wednesday evening recalled its ambassador in the United States for urgent consultations -- an unprecedented move in recent Russian diplomacy.Its embassy in Washington said ambassador Anatoly Antonov was set to depart for Russia on Saturday to discuss "ways to rectify Russia-US ties, which are in crisis".Peskov on Thursday said that Putin would receive Antonov "if need be", but declined to say if Moscow was ready to sever diplomatic ties with the United States altogether.In the interview with ABC News on Wednesday Biden said Putin will "pay a price" for trying to undermine Biden's candidacy in the US election in 2020.Asked if he thought Putin is "a killer", Biden said, "I do".His comments stood in stark contrast with his predecessor, Donald Trump, who was often accused of going soft on Putin.'Watershed moment'Commenting on Moscow's decision to recall Antonov, the embassy warned that Biden's comments had pushed bilateral ties to the brink."Certain ill-considered statements of high-ranking US officials have put the already excessively confrontational relations under the threat of collapse," it said.Moscow and Washington share a deep and mutual distrust that flared after the Kremlin's annexation of the Crimean peninsula in 2014.The G7 group of leading economic powers said on Thursday it would not accept Russia's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, in a statement marking seven years since the takeover."We unequivocally denounce Russia's temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol. Russia's attempts to legitimise it are not, and will not, be recognised," it said.Washington's ties with Moscow deteriorated further over Russia's alleged meddling in the US elections in 2016 and more recently when the West concluded that Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny was poisoned last summer by Novichok, a Soviet-designed nerve agent.But the two countries have continued to work together on issues of shared interest, including the Iran nuclear deal and the Afghanistan peace process.Biden's comments were aired as the US Commerce Department announced it was toughening export restrictions imposed on Russia as punishment for Navalny's poisoning in August.Konstantin Kosachev, a deputy head at the Russian parliament's upper house, on Thursday described Biden's comments as "a watershed moment" and demanded that Washington apologise."Such statements are unacceptable in any circumstances and will inevitably sharply damage our bilateral ties," he wrote on Facebook.Over the past few decades, Russia has rarely recalled its ambassadors.Moscow last summoned its envoy in the US in 1998 over a Western bombing campaign in Iraq.In 2014, during the fallout after the annexation of Crimea, Putin refused to recall a Washington envoy even after then US President Barack Obama said that the Russian leader would pay for his Ukraine policies.Putin at the time said recalling an envoy would be a "measure of last resort".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-does-not-want-to-improve-ties-with-russia-kremlin-101616065778760.html
18-03-2021||World||Explained: What's the Senate filibuster in US and why change it?||It's not that different from the movies. President Joe Biden said the Senate should operate like it did in the “old days,” with senators forced to stand up and speak all day and night if they plan to object to his legislative agenda with a filibuster.Changing the filibuster rules is an idea backed by some Senate Democrats eager to advance Biden's agenda in the evenly split 50-50 Senate. But Republicans are warning Democrats off any changes.Here's a look at how the filibuster works in the Senate.What's a filibuster?The filibuster is among the Senate’s “most distinctive procedural features,” according to the Congressional Research Service.The Senate has a longstanding practice of allowing any one senator to object to the proceedings, what's generally referred to as a filibuster that can halt action or votes.Senators have famously stood at their desks for hours making their case, as the character played by Jimmy Stewart did in “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington” or as South Carolina Sen. Strom Thurmond did to stall the 1957 Civil Rights Act.Today, senators can merely signal their intent to object, even privately, and that's enough for Senate leaders to take action. Leaders sometimes just drop the issue from floor consideration. At other times, they push ahead, taking cumbersome steps to cut off the filibuster and move forward with the proceedings.How to end a filibuster?Over time, senators grew tired of the endless filibusters and set rules for ending debate.At the start of the 20th century, a two-thirds vote was needed to end a filibuster. By 1975, the Senate agreed to lower it to 60 votes.Once debate is brought to a close, senators can move forward with consideration of the measure at hand, amendments or even final votes.What's the problem?As the country, and Congress, has grown more partisan, the filibuster has become a key weapon in what is often described as a procedural arms race in the Senate.Year by year, more and more senators threaten to wage filibusters to block legislation. Overcoming filibusters can take days, if not weeks.Even without a senator holding the floor, filibusters have forced senators into all-night and weekend votes to advance legislation, as happened during passage of the Affordable Care Act.“Filibusters and the prospect of filibusters shape much of the way in which the Senate does its work,” the CRS report said.Can the Senate change the filibuster?It takes 51 votes to change the Senate rules, a tall order at most times but especially in the now evenly split 50-50 Senate. Democrats hold a slim majority because Vice President Kamala Harris can be a tie-breaking vote.But senators have changed the filibuster rules before.Fed up with the Republicans stonewalling Barack Obama's executive and judicial branch nominees, Democrats led by then-Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada changed the rules to set a simple 51-vote threshold for confirming people in those positions. 'Republicans under Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky went a step further, eliminating the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees, which allowed Donald Trump's three high-court justices to be confirmed.While several Democrats and advocacy groups call for ridding the Senate of the filibuster on legislation, there does not appear to be enough support from Democratic senators at this time to do so.Back to ‘talking’ filibuster?Biden supports a return to the “old days," as he put it, of the talking filibuster, forcing senators to stand at their desks and articulate their opposition to the proceedings, as was the practice when he first joined the Senate decades ago.“You’ve got to work for the filibuster,” he said in an ABC News interview that aired Wednesday.The idea has support from Democrats who see it as a possible alternative to fully ending the filibuster practice. But it still poses risks, and Democratic leaders have been reluctant to move toward that option.Several Republican senators, particularly those considering running for president in 2024, might see political advantage to seizing the floor to rail endlessly against White House priorities. The filibusters could also stall action on other Democratic priorities, including Biden's nominees.McConnell has warned of a “scorched earth” reaction if Democrats eliminate the filibuster.At the same time, many Democrats are ready to take that chance to end the filibuster, realizing their slim majority is fragile, and Republicans might do away with it anyway to advance their priorities the next time they control the Senate and the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-what-s-the-senate-filibuster-and-why-change-it-101616065260381.html
18-03-2021||World||Australian police boss faces backlash over sexual consent app proposal||A senior Australian policeman suggested on Thursday a phone app be developed to document sexual consent in a bid to improve conviction rates in sex crime cases.New South Wales state Police Commissioner Mick Fuller said dating apps have brought couples together and the same technology could also provide clarity on the question of consent.“Technology doesn’t fix everything, but ... it plays such a big role in people meeting at the moment. I’m just suggesting: is it part of the solution?” Fuller said.Fuller said the number of sexual assaults reported in Australia’s most populous state was increasing while a prosecution success rate of only 2% stemming from those reports showed the system was failing.“Consent can’t be implied,” Fuller wrote in News Corp. newspapers. “Consent must be active and ongoing throughout a sexual encounter.”Responses to the consent app suggestion have been largely negative or skeptical.State Premier Gladys Berejiklian congratulated Fuller on “taking a leadership position on having the conversation” about the sexual assault problem, but declined to share her opinion on the app.Lesley-Anne Ey, a University of South Australia expert on harmful sexual behavior involving children, said she didn’t think the app would work.“I don’t think they’re going to interrupt the romance to put details into an app,” Ey told Australian Broadcasting Corp.Catharine Lumby, a Sydney University specialist in ethics and accountability, described the app as a quick-fix that misunderstood the circumstances of sexual assaults."Fundamentally what we are now having a reckoning with is the fact that there is a very small minority of men in this society who are opportunists, who make the decision to sexually assault women,” Lumby said.“They don’t care where, how or why they do it. They will take the opportunity and I’m sure they are more than capable of manipulating technology,” Lumby said.More than 100,000 women protested in rallies across Australia on Monday demanding justice while calling out misogyny and dangerous workplace cultures.The public anger erupted after the Australian attorney general denied an allegation that he raped a 16-year-old girl 33 years ago, and a former government staffer alleged that she was raped two years ago by a colleague in a minister’s Parliament House office.Fuller said his suggestion could gain popularity in time.“To be honest with you, the app idea could be the worst idea I have in 2021, but the reality is in five years, perhaps it won’t be,” he said. “If you think about dating 10 years ago, this concept of single people swiping left and right was a term that we didn’t even know.”A consent app similar to Fuller’s proposal was launched in Denmark last month. But the app hasn’t been widely adopted, with fewer than 5,000 downloads, according to mobile intelligence site Sensor Tower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-police-boss-faces-backlash-over-sexual-consent-app-proposal-101616063784276.html
18-03-2021||World||Amid US-China confrontation, Pakistan faces strategic geopolitical dilemma||Pakistan faces a strategic dilemma as it has no role in Biden's alliance-building against China and the US is looking to end its "endless war" in Afghanistan, reported Asia Times.Salman Rafi Sheikh, writing in the Asia Times said that the US geopolitical shift to contain China is evident from the recent first-ever Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) summit-level meeting, which sought to put the US, Japan, India and Australia on the same strategic page.The virtual meeting is being followed up by an extensive foreign tour by America's military and diplomatic chiefs this week to Japan, South Korea and India, where they will look to affirm US military links and build deterrence vis-a-vis China.Pakistan has no role in Biden's alliance-building against China. Indeed, the US currently does not have a permanent ambassador in Pakistan as relations plumb their lowest ebb in two decades, or since the beginning of the Afghanistan war, reported Asia Times.The prospect of an end to the war in Afghanistan and the beginning of a new era of US-China confrontation has created a geopolitical conundrum that Pakistan is struggling to crack.With Pakistan now seen as a strong economic and military ally of China, the question confronting Pakistani policymakers is: can Pakistan afford to jump on the US anti-China bandwagon and can it manufacture a non-terrorism-related geopolitical reason to revive its ties with the US? Sheikh questioned.Not only has China invested billions of dollars in China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) infrastructure and related projects in Pakistan, it has also in recent years become the country's top supplier of weapons systems.With Pakistan and China deepening their strategic ties, the Biden administration's drive against China is a serious predicament whereby Pakistan cannot readily take sides, reported Asia Times.While Pakistan's economic ties with China have gathered apace, it still maintains import trade links to the US. By taking an overly pro-China policy, Islamabad would risk its trade and still-substantial economic assistance from the US.Whereas China is now Pakistan's biggest economic partner via the billions invested in CPEC projects, the US is still Pakistan's top destination for exports, which include textile and agricultural products, said Sheikh.Meanwhile, despite China's multi-billion-dollar investments, Pakistan's economy is still in the doldrums and in persistent need of US-led International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout packages.The IMF is known to view China's CPEC investments in Pakistan as a debt trap. As such, IMF packages have been linked with requirements of making the CPEC more transparent and open to scrutiny, which in turn has stressed Pakistan-China ties.Further, Biden looks to build an alliance of "likeminded" democracies against authoritarian China, Islamabad won't easily shift the focus of Pakistan-US relations from security to economics.The big question confronting Pakistani policymakers is how to maintain trade and economic ties with the US without hurting relations with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-us-china-confrontation-pakistan-faces-strategic-geopolitical-dilemma-101616063733147.html
18-03-2021||World||WHO Europe urges countries to keep using AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||The benefits of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine far outweigh any risks, and countries across Europe should continue to use it to help save lives in the pandemic, the World Health Organization's European director Hans Kluge said on Thursday.Kluge noted that Europe's medicines regulators are investigating a small number of cases of blood clots in the region that have prompted around a dozen EU governments to suspend us of the AstraZeneca shot."As of now, we do not know whether some or all of the conditions have been caused by the vaccine or by other coincidental factors," he said, adding: "At this point in time, however, the benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine far outweigh its risks – and its use should continue, to save lives."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-europe-urges-countries-to-keep-using-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-101616063631198.html
18-03-2021||World||Blinken urges China to convince North Korea to denuclearize||America’s top diplomat on Thursday pressed China to use its “tremendous influence” to convince North Korea to abandon its nuclear program, hours after the North said it will ignore US offers to resume negotiations.Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke at the end of high-profile security talks in Seoul, which included Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and South Korean foreign and defense ministers. The so-called “two plus two” meeting, the first of its kind in five years, came as President Joe Biden is pushing to restore America’s alliances in Asia in the face of growing challenges from China and North Korea.“Beijing has an interest, a clear self-interest in helping to pursue denuclearization of (North Korea) because it is a source of instability. It is a source of danger and obviously a threat to us and our partners,” Blinken told a news conference.He said Beijing has “a critical role to play” to persuade North Korea to denuclearize because most of the North’s external trade goes through China. Blinken stressed that China is obligated by UN Security Council resolutions to fully enforce sanctions imposed over North Korea’s nuclear and missile tests.China, the North’s last major ally and biggest aid benefactor, has long been suspected of avoiding completely implementing sanctions on the North. Some observers say China believes a unified, pro-US Korea established on its doorstep would undermine its strategic interests, and worries that a humanitarian disaster in North Korea could push swarms of refugees flooding over the countries’ border.Earlier Thursday, Choe Son Hui, North Korea’s first vice foreign minister, confirmed Blinken’s previous announcement that Washington had reached out to Pyongyang through several channels starting in mid-February, but it hasn’t received any response.Choe called the US outreach a “time-delaying trick” and said North Korea would keep discarding similar offers for talks unless Washington withdraws its hostility. “What has been heard from the US since the emergence of the new regime is only a lunatic theory of ‘threat from North Korea’ and groundless rhetoric about ‘complete denuclearization,’” she said.Asked about Choe’s statement, Blinken said he was aware but said he’s more interested in the comments and thoughts of US allies and partners while he was making a regional tour. South Korean Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong said Thursday’s talks dealt with the North Korean statement and its intentions. He said South Korea hopes for the early resumption of US-North Korean talks. US-led diplomacy focusing on North Korea’s nuclear weapons remains stalemated for about two years because of disputes over US-led sanctions. Experts are debating whether the United States and its allies should settle for a deal that would freeze North Korea’s nuclear activities in return for relaxing sanctions to prevent its arsenal from growing.Earlier this week, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un warned the United States to “refrain from causing a stink,” while criticizing the US-South Korean drills that her government views as an invasion rehearsal.Some experts say North Korea, which is eager to win sanctions relief, may further raise animosities with missile tests to boost its leverage in any negotiations with the United States. North Korea’s moribund economy is under additional pressure because of the pandemic-related border closure that has significantly shrunk its external trade and a spate of natural disasters last summer.After Thursday’s talks, Blinken, Austin and their South Korean counterparts said in a joint statement that North Korean nuclear and ballistic missile issues are “a priority for the alliance” and reaffirmed a shared commitment to address those issues.Austin said the US is fully committed to the defense of South Korea, using “the full range of US capabilities, including our extended deterrent.” Blinken slammed North Korea’s human rights record for a second straight day, saying that people in North Korea “continue to suffer widespread and systematic abuses at the hands of a repressive government.”Later Thursday, Blinken and Austin met South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who was once a driving force behind the early part of the U.S.-North Korean nuclear diplomacy in 2018. Moon said that Seoul will continue close cooperation with Washington to achieve complete denuclearization and lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula.Blinken and Austin are on the first overseas trip by Cabinet-level officials since Biden took office in January. They visited Japan before coming to Seoul.South Korean Defense Minister Suh Wook said that during Thursday’s talks the US side stressed the importance of a US-led trilateral security cooperation involving Seoul and Tokyo many times. He said South Korea in principle agrees on the US view. Ties between Seoul and Tokyo have suffered major setbacks in recent years over issues stemming from Japan’s 1910-45 colonization of the Korean Peninsula.Blinken said Thursday’s talks discussed China’s role, and “we are clear eyed about Beijing’s consistent failure to uphold its commitments.”“And we spoke about how Beijing’s aggressive and authoritarian behavior are challenging the stability and security prosperity of the Pacific region,” he said. “Beijing’s actions make forging a common approach among our allies all the more important at a time when we’re seeing a rollback of democracy and human rights around the world, including in Burma.”Blinken will meet senior Chinese officials in Anchorage, Alaska, on his way back to Washington, while Austin will travel on to New Delhi for talks with Indian officials.China’s ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai, said that Beijing doesn’t expect the Alaska talks will resolve all the issues between China and the US and “we don’t hold overly high hopes.” Cu still added that he hoped the meeting would be “a start and that the two sides can begin a dialogue process that is candid, constructive and realistic.”During Thursday’s talks, Chung said there wasn’t a direct discussion on the issue of South Korea joining an expanded format of the Indo-Pacific group that involves the United States, Japan, Australia and India — known as the Quad. Chung maintained a government stance that South Korea can join any forum if it values transparency, openness and inclusiveness and serves its national interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-urges-china-to-convince-north-korea-to-denuclearize-101616062518847.html
18-03-2021||World||African Union says benefits outweigh risks of AstraZeneca Covid shot||The African Union said on Thursday that it considers that the benefits of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine outweigh the risks and recommended that vaccinations continue across the continent.The announcement came a day after the World Health Organization backed the vaccine and as more than a dozen European countries have suspended the use of it amid concerns over the risk of blood clots.John Nkengasong, director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told a news conference that the "benefits still outweigh the risks" and that countries should "move forward" with the vaccination.AstraZeneca said on Sunday a review of safety data of more than 17 million people vaccinated in the United Kingdom and European Union with its vaccine had shown no evidence of an increased risk of blood clots.The head of the continent's disease control body said that adverse reactions would be monitored and reported for future assessments on the vaccine.Some African countries have already suspended use of the AstraZeneca vaccine.On Friday the Democratic Republic of Congo delayed the rollout of the shot, citing the suspension of the use of the shots by European countries.Many African states expect to receive AstraZeneca shots from the COVAX Facility, a global vaccine allocation plan co-led by the World Health Organization and partners including the Gavi vaccines alliance, which will be delivering vaccines for free to some low and lower-middle-income countries.The European Medicines Agency is investigating reports of 30 cases of unusual blood disorders out of 5 million people who got the AstraZeneca vaccine in the EU. It said it has so far found no causal link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/african-union-says-benefits-outweigh-risks-of-astrazeneca-covid-shot-101616062508823.html
18-03-2021||World||Russia warns it may scale up response to Joe Biden's statement||A senior Russian lawmaker warned Thursday that Moscow would follow up on its move to recall its ambassador in Washington with other moves if the United States fails to offer an explanation and apology for President Joe Biden's remarks.In a television interview aired on Wednesday, Biden was asked whether he thought Putin is a killer and said “I do.”Konstantin Kosachev, a deputy speaker of the upper house of Russian parliament, said Biden's “boorish statement” marks a watershed.“Such assessments are inadmissible for a statesman of his rank,” Kosachev said. “Such statements are unacceptable under any circumstances. They inevitably lead to a sharp exacerbation of our bilateral ties.”Russia announced Wednesday it is recalling its ambassador to the United States for consultations. Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova blamed the U.S. for bringing bilateral ties to a “dead end,” adding that “we are interested in preventing their irreversible degradation, if the Americans are aware of the associated risks,” she added.Commenting on the Russian move Wednesday, White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki emphasized that “we will be direct, we will speak out on areas where we have concerns, and it will certainly be, as the president said last night — certainly, the Russians will be held accountable for the actions that they have taken.”The exchange of tough statements comes on the heels of a declassified report from the U.S. national intelligence director’s office that finds President Vladimir Putin authorized influence operations to help Donald Trump in last November’s presidential election.“(Putin) will pay a price,” Biden said in the interview, asked about the declassified report.In Moscow, Kosachev warned Thursday that Russia's response wouldn't be limited to recalling the Russian ambassador “if the American side fails to offer explanation and excuse.” He wouldn't elaborate on what other action the Kremlin may take.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-warns-it-may-scale-up-response-to-joe-biden-s-statement-101616062163322.html
18-03-2021||World||Covid: State of emergency in Tokyo to end on Sunday, says Japanese PM Suga||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said the state of emergency in the Tokyo region will end on Sunday after targets for relieving strain on the health care system were reached, even as coronavirus cases in the capital rose slightly.Suga told his virus task force Thursday the government will be carefully watching the situation to prevent a fresh surge in infections as he set an end to the measure that had been in place for more than two months in a region where about 36 million people live.While Tokyo recorded 409 new cases on Wednesday, the highest figure since Feb. 18, an expert panel approved the lifting of the restrictions.“The number of new cases is flat, or on a slightly upward trend, so there are concerns about a rebound,” Suga told his virus task force. “We have decided on measures based on five pillars to prevent another spread after the emergency is lifted.”The five pillars will be preventing infections related to eating out; strengthening monitoring for mutations; strategic testing; the rollout of vaccines and strengthening the health care system, Suga added.Tokyo and the adjoining prefectures of Kanagawa, Saitama and Chiba were the last to be kept under the emergency measure, which was imposed after a record surge of cases in January, and ended in other areas of the country earlier this month.Lifting the measure nationwide is a symbolic gesture of optimism just days before the torch relay begins on March 25 for the virus-delayed Tokyo Olympics, now scheduled to start in July. Relaxing controls before a significant number of Japanese have been vaccinated may leave the country vulnerable to another wave of infections.About 420,000 of Japan’s 126 million population had received at least one dose of the vaccine as of Wednesday. Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said Thursday the government would step up testing and monitoring for virus mutants, and would warn people to avoid events like the cherry-blossom parties traditionally held in the spring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-state-of-emergency-in-tokyo-to-end-on-sunday-says-japanese-pm-suga-101616061725344.html
18-03-2021||World||UK’s trade with Europe remains below 2020 levels, says report||Britain’s trade with the rest of Europe remains below levels prevailing a year ago, according to high-frequency data from the consultant Sixfold.The average weekly volumes of border crossings for both imports and exports were down about a fifth from the same period a year ago, according to the unit of the logistics platform Transporeon. Its Chief Executive Officer Stephan Sieber said it’s too early to tell how much of a structural shift has appeared due to Brexit and that more friction is coming end of March and over the Easter holiday.“Due to the new virus strains and waves, the pandemic and related restrictions are not a linear event,” Sieber said in an interview.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s has described lower trade as temporary “teething problems” that are already passing. Figures from the Office for National Statistics on Friday revealed a 41% plunge in exports to the European Union from December to January and a 29% drop in imports. His officials attributed these trends to stockpiling, Covid-19 lockdowns and the residual effects of the pre-Christmas chaos at the port of Dover.Transporeon also said:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-trade-with-europe-remains-below-2020-levels-says-report-101616062172054.html
18-03-2021||World||Ultrasound has potential to damage novel coronaviruses: MIT study||Coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2, may be vulnerable to ultrasound vibrations, within the frequencies used in medical diagnostic imaging, according to a study that used computer simulations.The researchers from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the US modelled the mechanical response of the coronaviruses to vibrations across a range of ultrasound frequencies.They found that vibrations between 25 and 100 megahertz triggered the virus' shell and spikes to collapse and start to rupture within a fraction of a millisecond.The finding, published in the Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids, shows this effect in simulations of the virus in both air and in water.The team said that its findings are a first hint at a possible ultrasound-based treatment for coronaviruses, including the novel SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19."We've proven that under ultrasound excitation the coronavirus shell and spikes will vibrate, and the amplitude of that vibration will be very large, producing strains that could break certain parts of the virus, doing visible damage to the outer shell and possibly invisible damage to the RNA inside," said Tomasz Wierzbicki, professor of applied mechanics at MIT."The hope is that our paper will initiate a discussion across various disciplines," Wierzbicki said.The researchers noted that the preliminary results are based on limited data regarding the virus' physical properties.They said that it remains to be investigated how exactly ultrasound could be administered, and how effective it would be in damaging the virus within the complexity of the human body.In their study, the researchers introduced acoustic vibrations into the simulations and observed how the vibrations rippled through the coronavirus' structure across a range of ultrasound frequencies.They started with vibrations of 100 megahertz, or 100 million cycles per second, which they estimated would be the shell's natural vibrating frequency, based on what's known of the virus' physical properties.When the researchers exposed the virus to 100 MHz ultrasound excitations, the virus' natural vibrations were initially undetectable.However, within a fraction of a millisecond the external vibrations, resonating with the frequency of the virus' natural oscillations, caused the shell and spikes to buckle inward, similar to a ball that dimples as it bounces off the ground.As the researchers increased the amplitude, or intensity, of the vibrations, the shell could fracture -- an acoustic phenomenon known as resonance that also explains how opera singers can crack a wineglass if they sing at just the right pitch and volume.At lower frequencies of 25 MHz and 50 MHz, the virus buckled and fractured even faster, both in simulated environments of air, and of water that is similar in density to fluids in the body, they said."These frequencies and intensities are within the range that is safely used for medical imaging," Wierzbicki added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ultrasound-has-potential-to-damage-novel-coronaviruses-mit-study-101616059908140.html
18-03-2021||World||WHO vaccine safety panel to issue findings on AstraZeneca on Friday: Spokesperson||The World Health Organization's vaccine safety panel is now due to issue its findings on the AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot on Friday, a WHO spokesman said.The WHO's global advisory committee on vaccine safety examined the data on Tuesday and reviewed reports of rare blood coagulation disorders in people who had received the shot, the agency has said.Europe's drug watchdog, which is due to report later on Thursday, is reviewing a small number of reports of bleeding, blood clots and low platelet counts in people who have received AstraZeneca's vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-vaccine-safety-panel-to-issue-findings-on-astrazeneca-on-friday-spokesman-101616061714425.html
18-03-2021||World||IRS delays US tax deadline to May 17 after disruptive year||The Internal Revenue Service is delaying the April 15 tax-filing deadline to May 17, giving taxpayers an additional month to file returns and pay any outstanding levies.The postponement applies to individual taxpayers, including people who pay self-employment tax, the IRS said in a statement Wednesday. The relief does not apply to the first-quarter 2021 estimated tax payments that many small business owners owe, however, the agency said. Those payments are still due on April 15. The IRS said it plans to issue more guidance in the coming days.“This continues to be a tough time for many people, and the IRS wants to continue to do everything possible to help taxpayers navigate the unusual circumstances related to the pandemic, while also working on important tax-administration responsibilities,” IRS Commissioner Chuck Rettig said in a statement. “Even with the new deadline, we urge taxpayers to consider filing as soon as possible, especially those who are owed refunds.”The filing extension gives taxpayers additional breathing room to meet their tax obligations in what is becoming one of the most complicated tax seasons in decades. The change comes after calls from accountants and lawmakers to put off the due date as new legislation and pandemic-related work changes disrupt taxpayer plans.The IRS said that taxpayers do not need to take any action to take advantage of the extended May 17 deadline. The agency highlighted that the delay does not apply to state tax returns, where the deadlines are set by each jurisdiction.New ExemptionAmong the changes this tax season are last-minute amendments to the $1.9 trillion stimulus bill signed into law earlier this month that give filers a new tax exemption on up to $10,200 of jobless benefits. The individual tax return, Form 1040, is also the mechanism for people to claim any missing $1,200 or $600 stimulus payments from last year.Besides the disruptions from the pandemic, the changes in tax law will mean some filers will have to wait for updated forms, resubmit their returns, or consult a tax adviser on how to proceed if they’ve already filed.House Ways and Means Chair Richard Neal of Massachusetts, Representative Bill Pascrell of New Jersey -- head of that same panel’s oversight subcommittee -- and Mike Crapo of Idaho, the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, had asked Rettig to postpone the filing deadline.“This extension is absolutely necessary to give Americans some needed flexibility in a time of unprecedented crisis,” Neal and Pascrell said in a statement Wednesday. “While we are pleased with this 30-day extension, we will continue to monitor developments during this hectic filing season.”The IRS, which has the administrative authority to delay tax deadlines without congressional approval, extended the filing season last year at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic.As of early March 2021, the IRS has been behind last year’s metrics in the number of tax returns filed and processed, and in the number of refunds issued. The filing season, which began Feb. 12, started about two weeks later than usual -- contributing to the slump.The tax extension also comes as the IRS has been handed another big task: processing a third round of direct payments to households, this time for $1,400 each. The IRS said Wednesday it has so far sent about 90 million payments totaling $242 billion.The delay could also affect H&R Block Inc.’s financial reporting, with the company’s fiscal year set to close at the end of April.“The shift could push $500 million of revenue” from H&R Block’s fiscal fourth quarter into the first quarter, Andrew Silverman, a Bloomberg Intelligence government analyst, said. “Even though the deadline is likely to only be delayed a month, as opposed last year’s three-month hiatus, it’s enough to completely disrupt Block’s 2021 results.”The company is also likely to have to spend more on marketing and human resources into the extended filing season, he said. TurboTax software parent, Intuit Inc., will also face some of the higher costs, but tax preparation revenue is just a portion of its business and the company’s fiscal year doesn’t end until July 31, so date change is less disruptive for them, Silverman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irs-delays-us-tax-deadline-to-may-17-after-disruptive-year-101616061231260.html
18-03-2021||World||China accuses outspoken scholar on Xinjiang of fabrication||China on Thursday accused a scholar and outspoken critic of its policies toward Muslim minorities of fabricating charges that have helped bring sanctions against Chinese officials and companies operating in the Xinjiang region.The ruling Communist Party’s deputy head of propaganda, Xu Guixiang, made the accusations against Adrian Zenz in the latest of a series of news conferences aimed at deflecting criticism over China’s detention of more than 1 million Uyghurs and other Muslims in reeducation camps.Zenz has also used government documents to detail the mistreatment of Muslim women in such facilities and the coercive use of birth control that has radically cut the birthrate among such groups. He has also published on the alleged use of forced labor in Xinjiang's cotton fields.“Adrian Zenz and his so-called research reports are sure to be thrown on the dust heap of history and be despised by the 25 million people of various ethnicities in Xinjiang,” Xu said.China's Foreign Ministry and state media have said companies and individuals have petitioned to sue Zenz for economic and reputational damages, although the names of the plaintiffs haven't been revealed and it isn't clear how they will pursue the charges.China first denied the existence of the camps but has since described them as centers to provide job training and reeducate those exposed to radical jihadist thinking. Officials deny all charges of human rights abuses in the northwestern region.Xinjiang had been a hotbed of anti-government violence, but Beijing claims its massive security crackdown has brought peace in recent years.Zenz is a German anthropologist and senior fellow at the U.S.-based Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation that has been sharply critical of China’s human rights record and its policies in Xinjiang and Tibet.In a telephone call from Minnesota, Zenz said the Chinese government campaign against him “smacks of desperation.”“The attacks on the Uyghur witnesses have become more and more nasty. It’s especially disgusting,” Zenz said.Zenz said the economic pressure of sanctions, along with the designation of China’s campaign as genocide by some Western countries and growing calls for a boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympics to be held in China, have led to increased attacks on his character.One video displayed during Xu's news conference showed two former husbands of a Uyghur woman who has spoken spoke to media about her abuse in detention. One of the men called her an obscene name and said she had “bad moral quality."Another video showed men alleging another woman who has spoken to the foreign media about Xinjiang had perpetrated a bank loan scheme.“You are a lousy person,” one man said. Another said the woman had been an unfaithful spouse.Zenz says the vast majority of his work is based on documents produced by the Chinese government such as propaganda videos, local government websites and company notices.“I used their propaganda against them, and read between the lines,” Zenz said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-accuses-outspoken-scholar-on-xinjiang-of-fabrication-101616060278961.html
18-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca shipment from India said to be behind UK vaccine delay||A delayed shipment of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine from India is behind a cut in the UK’s supply starting later this month, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.Vaccine doses made by one of Astra’s manufacturing partners, the Serum Institute of India, were delayed, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the supply details are private. The Serum Institute has already contributed to the UK supply with doses this quarter, the person said.The supply crunch prompted the government to shift focus and offer remaining doses to the people most at risk of developing severe forms of Covid-19.Adar Poonawalla, the Serum Institute’s chief executive officer, told the UK’s Telegraph newspaper that the delay had to do with the Indian government allowing the export of the doses to the UK, and had “nothing to do” with the Serum Institute. In a letter to local health-service groups, NHS England didn’t offer specifics, saying the shortage was the result of reductions in “national inbound vaccines.”The delay comes after Britain announced a new milestone Wednesday -- more than 25 million people have now received a first shot of the vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc. and partner BioNTech SE or by Astra and the University of Oxford. The number equates to about half the UK’s adult population.The government responded to the shortage by saying it’s focusing on providing second doses to the most-vulnerable people who’ve already been offered jabs, and by vaccinating those in priority groups who’ve not yet taken up the offer.Astra declined to comment on the delay. The company said Wednesday that the “UK domestic supply chain is not experiencing any disruption and there is no impact on our delivery schedule.”Serum and the Indian government didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-shipment-from-india-said-to-be-behind-uk-vaccine-delay-101616060002323.html
18-03-2021||World||EU regulator reviews link between AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine and blood clots||The world is awaiting a decision from Europe’s top medical regulator on whether its initial investigation into whether there is any evidence to show the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine is linked to a small number of blood clots reported in people across the continent.The European Medicines Agency's expert committee is set to announce the results of its investigation later on Thursday.Earlier this week, more than a dozen countries including Germany, France, Spain and Italy suspended immunization using the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine after reports of unusual blood clots in several people among the 17 million who have received at least one dose in Europe. Both the EMA and the World Health Organization have said there is no current evidence to suggest the vaccine was responsible and that the benefits of immunization far outweighed the potentially small risk of getting vaccinated. AstraZeneca said after a careful review of its Covid-19 immunization data, it found no evidence of any increased risk of blood clots in any age group or gender in any country.On Tuesday, EMA executive director Emer Cooke said the agency's priority was the vaccine's safety and that it would consider issues including if extra warnings needed to be added for the AstraZeneca vaccine. She noted the daily toll Covid-19 is continuing to take across the continent and said vaccines were critical to stopping its spread.“We are worried that there may be an effect on the trust of the vaccines," she said. "But our job is to make sure that the products that we authorize are safe and we can be trusted by the European citizens.”The pause in vaccination using the AstraZeneca shot comes as Covid-19 is surging across the continent and Britain is expecting major delays in its vaccine deliveries. Tens of thousands of new daily cases have prompted new lockdown measures in Italy, caused hospitalizations in France to spike and led German officials to announce that the third wave of Covid-19 has begun.Any time vaccines are rolled out widely, scientists expect some serious health issues and deaths to be reported, simply because tens of millions of people are receiving the shots. Determining whether or not the vaccine is to blame can be difficult, since most of the people getting inoculated first are those most at risk of the coronavirus. But because there are no long-term data on any of the Covid-19 vaccines, any potential signal of trouble must be thoroughly investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-regulator-reviews-link-between-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-and-blood-clots-101616058961990.html
18-03-2021||World||Russia seeks US apology after Biden's 'killer' remark, says Kremlin ally||Russia wants an apology from the United States after President Joe Biden said he thought Vladimir Putin was a killer and may retaliate against Washington unless it gets one, a senior Russian lawmaker said on Thursday.In an ABC News interview broadcast a day earlier, Biden said "I do" when asked if he believed the Russian president was a killer.He also described Putin as having no soul, and promised he would pay a price for alleged Russian meddling in the 2020 US presidential election, something the Kremlin denies.In a highly unusual move following Biden's interview, Russia on Wednesday said it was recalling its ambassador to the United States for urgent consultations over the future of US-Russia ties.Konstantin Kosachyov, deputy chairman of parliament's upper house, said Biden's comments were unacceptable, would inevitably inflame already bad ties, and ended any hope in Moscow of a change of US policy under a new US administration.He said Moscow's recall of its ambassador was the only reasonable step to take in the circumstances."I suspect it will not be the last one if no explanation or apology follows from the American side," Kosachyov said in a Facebook post."This kind of assessment is not allowed from the mouth of a statesman of such a rank. This kind of statement is not acceptable under any circumstances," he added, calling it a watershed moment in US-Russia ties.The Kremlin has not yet responded publicly to Biden's comments, but is likely to do so later on Thursday.Artur Chilingarov, a pro-Kremlin lawmaker in the lower house of parliament, called for a "tough reaction" from Moscow in comments made to Russia's Ekho Moskvy radio station.Russia's ties with the West, already languishing at post-Cold War lows since 2014, have come under new pressure over Russia's jailing of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny whose freedom the West has demanded.Russia has dismissed that as unacceptable interference in its domestic affairs.The United States has said it is preparing new sanctions against Russia over an alleged hack and the alleged election meddling.Biden told ABC "You'll see shortly" when asked what consequences Russia would face for its alleged behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-seeks-us-apology-after-biden-s-killer-remark-says-kremlin-ally-101616056592359.html
18-03-2021||World||Indian American healthcare workers in Green Card backlog hold demonstration before US Capitol||A group of Indian-American frontline healthcare workers languishing in the Green Card backlog held a demonstration in front of the US Capitol urging lawmakers and the Biden administration to end the per capita country-specific quota.A Green Card, known officially as a Permanent Resident Card, is a document issued to immigrants to the US as evidence that the bearer has been granted the privilege of residing permanently in the country.Indian IT professionals, most of whom are highly skilled and come to the US mainly on the H-1B work visas, are the worst sufferers of the current immigration system which imposes a seven per cent per country quota on allotment of the coveted Green Card or permanent legal residency.“We are frontline Covid warriors, and we are here to tell how we have been short changed into a life of perpetual indentured servitude. Each of us has a story. We are here from all over the country asking for justice. Justice that has precluded us for decades now,” Dr Raj Karnatak, an infectious disease and critical care physician and Dr Pranav Singh, a pulmonary and critical care physician, said.“Most of us are from India. We trained in the US and took oath as physicians to serve the sick and needy. Most of us are serving the rural and underserved areas. We are in a Green Card backlog due to archaic country caps that allow no country to get more than seven percent of employment-based green cards,” said the two Indian American doctors’ organisers of the peaceful protest said in a joint statement.According to them, due to decades of backlog, many high-skilled immigrants are not able to change jobs due to fear of losing the spot in the Green Card line and are indentured to one employer.“Can only work in the specialty occupation the visa is allotted for decades. Many healthcare workers could not serve in Covid-19 hot spots as the visas are tied to the job and employer,” they said.The small group of protestors said that President Joe Biden can direct United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to end the Green Card backlog for the frontline healthcare workers by utilising the unused green cards in the past years.There was an HR 1044 fairness bill that was passed in the House of Representatives by 365 votes in 2019 and its senate equivalent S386 passed the Senate in 2020.Now it is back to House as a modified version. Representative Zoe Lofgren, initial co-sponsor of the bill HR 1044 has not shown any interest in bringing the bill to vote as a bipartisan solution to end the suffering of skilled professionals including frontline healthcare workers, they alleged.Dr Karnatak and Dr Singh said that India is a land of more than a billion people, but the number of green cards India gets is the same as a country as small as Iceland.Indian high-skilled workers are brought into the US on an H-1B visa. There is no country cap on the H-1B visa and due to its sheer population, Indians make 50 per cent of the H-1B workforce.The H-1B visa, the most sought after among Indian IT professionals, is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.The discrepancy in the number of H-1B hired from India and a small number of green cards allotted to India creates an inhumane Green Card backlog.Green Card backlog is adversely affecting the professional and personal lives of high-skilled immigrants from India including the frontline healthcare workers, they said.“Frontline healthcare workers need immediate relief, they are suffering for a very long time. As frontline healthcare workers who are risking their lives in this pandemic, the least we deserve is a certainty. A certainty that if we die or get disabled, our children and spouses won’t be kicked out of the country,” said the joint statement on behalf of the protestors.Last month, President Biden revoked a policy issued by his predecessor during the pandemic that blocked many Green Card applicants from entering the US.Reopening the country to people seeking green cards, or legal permanent residence, Biden in his proclamation said that the policy of former president Donald Trump does not advance the interests of the country.“To the contrary, it harms the United States, including by preventing certain family members of United States citizens and lawful permanent residents from joining their families here,” he said.The US is currently facing a backlog of nearly 473,000 qualified family-based Green Card requests.As a result of Trump’s ban on issuing green cards, as many as 120,000 family-based preference visas were lost. But this came as a big boon for issuing employment-based green cards, mainly those on H-1B visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-healthcare-workers-in-green-card-backlog-protest-before-capitol-101616056705171.html
18-03-2021||World||United States: Severe storms, tornadoes expected across the Deep South||The prospect of more tornadoes overnight and into Thursday across the Deep South had forecasters advising residents to take extra precautions after a wave of storms pounded the region throughout the day Wednesday, leaving a trail of splintered trees and damaged buildings.Scattered severe thunderstorms are expected Thursday for portions of eastern Georgia, through the Carolinas into extreme southeast Virginia, according to the National Weather Service’s Storm Prediction Center. All severe hazards are possible. Other isolated severe storms are possible from southern Ohio into the central Appalachians.The biggest overnight threat of tornadoes remained over Alabama, according to the weather service, but severe storms and tornadoes were possible from east-central Georgia and northeast across South and North Carolina later in the day Thursday.“Significant tornadoes, wind damage and large hail will be possible from morning into afternoon,” the center advised late Wednesday. “Severe thunderstorms will also be possible from parts of the eastern Gulf Coast into the southern and central Appalachians.”The weather service advised residents throughout the region to keep the volume up on cellphones to hear emergency alerts throughout the night.Early Thursday there were no storm warnings across the metro Atlanta area but intense lightning, heavy rain and strong wind gusts of up to 40-50 mph were moving through the area.Morehouse College tweeted that it was delaying the opening of its campus until 11 a.m. and that faculty and staff should not arrive until after that time. All classes before then were to be held virtually, it said.While nearly 16 million people in the Southeast could see powerful storms, the prediction center said, a region of about 3 million stretching from southeastern Arkansas and northeastern Louisiana across Mississippi into Alabama was at high risk for big twisters that stay on the ground for miles, straight winds up to 80 mph (129 kph) and destructive hail.In South Carolina, the severe weather threat led the state Senate president to caution senators to state home Thursday while urging staff to work remotely for their safety. House Speaker Jay Lucas said that chamber would meet less than an hour Thursday to take up routine motions in advance of a budget debate next week — then adjourn.“If you are in a situation where it is perilous that you come, I’m asking you not to come,” Lucas said. “If you can come, give us a quorum and do these few things we need to do, we will be out of here in a hurry.”Nearly all of South Carolina is under moderate risk of severe storms. The forecast led a number of the state’s school systems to call off in-person classes Thursday and have students and teachers meet online.Possible tornadoes on Wednesday knocked down trees, toppled power lines and damaged homes in Chilton County, Clarke County and the Alabama communities of Burnsville and Moundville, where power was out and trees blocked a main highway.WTVM-TV reports that Jimmy Baker, whose home was one of at least three destroyed in Chilton, watched as the storm headed toward his house.“Then about a minute before it got here, we jumped. . . in the hall closet, a little, small closet," Baker said. “And just we heard it. You know, the sound from the house coming down. We were saved. We thank the Lord for that,” he said.“Downtown Moundville got it. Some roofs and stuff got taken off houses,” said Michael Brown, whose family owns Moundville Ace Hardware and Building. “There’s a lot of trees down. I guess it had to be a tornado; it got out of here pretty fast.”Ramond Barren told WALA-TV that a reported tornado destroyed the area near his sister's home in Campbell. First responders said Barren's sister and 3-year-old niece were thrown from their home but were not seriously injured.“I’m thankful for that,” Barren said. “I thank God for seeing them through.”Clarke County EMA Director Roy Waite said the incident is a rarity in the county.“This is the second time in the county that I can remember since I’ve been EMA Director that we’ve had a family thrown from a home, so they are fortunate,” Waite said. “We hope people will take warning, move to the center part of the house or go to a storm shelter when these events happen.”Additional damage was reported in Louisiana, Tennessee and Mississippi, where video showed an apparent tornado at Brookhaven. High winds blew down signs and trees in northeast Texas, and hailstones the size of baseballs were reported near the Alabama-Mississippi line, the weather service said.More than 70,000 homes and businesses were without power from Texas to Alabama, and radar showed additional storms moving across the region as initial cleanup work began.Storms were possible all the way from northern Texas in the west to northern Illinois and as far east as the Carolinas, forecasters said, and the weather service issued more than 50 tornado warnings in Alabama, Arkansas, Texas, Mississippi and Oklahoma. Tornado watches included parts of seven states.Dozens of school systems in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi canceled classes, switched to online learning or dismissed students early, and Mississippi State University moved to virtual teaching because of the potential for danger at its campuses in Starkville and Meridian.Large vaccination clinics where hundreds of people an hour can get shots without leaving their vehicles were canceled in Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee. In the Mississippi capital of Jackson, state employees were warned to head to stairwells if they hear weather sirens. Near Birmingham, labor organizers canceled an outdoor event at an Amazon facility where workers are voting on union representation.At least two waves of storms were likely, forecasters said, and the worst might not hit until a cold front passes through overnight.“The biggest question is how strong to severe these storms are going to be and if they’re going to be tornadic right off the bat,” Gary Goggins, a forecaster with the National Weather Service office for Birmingham, said Wednesday.Gov. Kay Ivey placed Alabama under a state of emergency, and communities across the South used social media to share the location of tornado shelters. Dozens of people gathered in a gymnasium that was opened as a shelter in Tuscaloosa, where more than 50 people died in a twister during a weather outbreak that occurred 10 years ago next month.In Jackson, Tennessee, officials said a civic center and the regional airport would be open for residents seeking shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-severe-storms-tornadoes-expected-across-the-deep-south-101616057553710.html
18-03-2021||World||China summons tech giants over 'deep fakes', internet security||Chinese authorities on Thursday said they had summoned 11 tech companies including Tencent, Alibaba and TikTok owner ByteDance for talks on "deep fakes" and internet security, as regulators try to reel in the country's runaway digital sector.The Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) said talks concerned "voice software that has yet to undergo safety assessment procedures", as well as the application of "deep fake" technology.It also said companies should report to the government plans to add new functions that "have the ability to mobilise society".China has in recent months taken a tough line on the country's fast-growing tech firms, with 12 companies hit with fines last week for allegedly flouting monopoly rules.Authorities last year halted a record $34 billion initial public offering by Alibaba fintech subsidiary Ant Group.They called in its billionaire founder Jack Ma and then opened an investigation into Alibaba business practices deemed anti-competitive.The latest summoning of big tech also involves companies such as smartphone maker Xiaomi, TikTok rival Kuaishou, and music streaming service NetEase Cloud Music, the CAC said.The aim is to ensure they comply with regulations, carry out safety assessments, and take "effective rectification measures" if potential hazards are found.In 2019, China issued rules banning online video and audio providers from using artificial intelligence (AI) and virtual reality technologies to produce "fake news"."Fake news" has been generalised to mean anything from a mistake to a parody or a deliberate misinterpretation of facts.Regulations stress the dangers of "deep fakes", meaning technology that manipulates videos to appear genuine but depict events or speech that never happened.The CAC notice comes shortly after China blocked the US invite-only audio app Clubhouse.The app briefly flickered in the mainland before vanishing but has since sparked a number of copycats.President Xi Jinping on Monday warned about risks surrounding "platform" companies -- a term that could refer to mobile and internet firms -- and called for greater oversight of the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-summons-tech-giants-over-deep-fakes-internet-security-101616057401693.html
18-03-2021||World||Myanmar faces growing isolation as junta limits internet, locks up journalists||Myanmar faced growing isolation on Thursday with increasingly limited internet services and its last private newspaper ceasing publication as the military built its case against ousted elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Nobel peace laureate Suu Kyi was overthrown and detained in a Feb. 1 military coup, triggering mass protests across the country that security forces have struggled to suppress with increasingly violent methods.The total documented number of people killed in the unrest stood at 217 but the actual toll was probably much higher, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners activist group said.Western countries have condemned the coup and called for an end to the violence and for the release of Suu Kyi and others. Asian neighbours have offered to help find a solution, but the military has a long record of shunning outside pressure.Large parts of an economy already reeling from the novel coronavirus have been paralysed by the protests and a parallel civil disobedience campaign of strikes against military rule, while many foreign investors are reassessing plans.The U.N. food agency warned this week that rising prices of food and fuel could undermine the ability of poor families to feed themselves."Whatever happens in Myanmar over coming months, the economy will collapse, leaving tens of millions in dire straits and needing urgent protection," historian and author Thant Myint-U said on Twitter.While the security forces have focused on stamping out dissent in Yangon and other cities, small demonstrations have erupted elsewhere day after day.Several thousand people marched in the small town of Natmauk on Thursday, the Democratic Voice of Burma reported. The central town is the birthplace of Aung San, the leader of Myanmar's drive for independence from colonial power Britain, and Suu Kyi's father.About 1,000 protesters on motorbikes drove around the central town of Taungoo and hundreds marched in the northern jade-mining town of Hpakant, the Irrawaddy news service reported.There were no reports of violence.A 24-year-old campaigner against military rule died on Wednesday, three days after he was detained and beaten in the central town of Monywa, the Irrawaddy and Myanmar Now news portal reported.The U.N. human rights office in Geneva said this week "deeply distressing" reports of torture in custody had emerged in Myanmar.A junta spokesman did not answer telephone calls seeking comment.Alleged paymentsAuthorities have restricted the internet services protesters use to organise, with access to Wi-Fi in public areas largely shut off by Thursday. Residents of some towns, including Dawei in the south, reported no internet at all.The private Tachilek News Agency in the northeast published photographs of workers cutting cables it said were the fibre links with neighbouring Thailand. Reuters could not verify the report. Information within Myanmar is becoming increasingly difficult to verify.Some 37 journalists have been arrested, including 19 who remain in detention, the U.N. human rights office said.While authorities have ordered some newspapers shut, others have apparently been forced to close for reasons of logistics. The last private newspaper stopped publishing on Wednesday. State-run media have not been affected.State television said on Wednesday that Suu Kyi was being investigated for bribery in connection with accepting four payments worth $550,000 from a prominent businessman.Property developer Maung Weik, in comments broadcast in a state television news bulletin, said he had given Suu Kyi four payments, ranging from $50,000 to $250,000 from 2018 to 2020, when she headed the first civilian-led government in decades."According to the testimony of U Maung Weik...Aung San Suu Kyi is guilty of bribery and the anti-corruption commission is investigating to take action under anti-corruption laws," it added.A spokesman for the junta said last week authorities were investigating Suu Kyi for receiving illegal payments.Her lawyer dismissed that accusation as a joke. He was not immediately available for comment on Thursday.Suu Kyi, 75, is hugely popular for her campaign against military rule since 1988, over which she has spent years in detention.The army defended its coup, saying its accusations of fraud in a Nov. 8 election swept by Suu Kyi's party were rejected by the electoral commission.It has promised a new election but not set a date.Suu Kyi already faces various charges including illegally importing walkie-talkie radios and infringing coronavirus protocols. If convicted, she could be barred from politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-faces-growing-isolation-as-junta-limits-internet-locks-up-journalists-101616057297762.html
18-03-2021||World||Mauritian climate activist Shaama Sandooyea holds underwater protest to protect seagrass||In a remote stretch of the western Indian Ocean, a 24-year-old Mauritian marine scientist donned a snorkel and dived below the choppy waves to float in protest above the world's largest seagrass meadow.Holding a placard reading 'Youth Strike for Climate,' Shaama Sandooyea held her breath and hoped the images from her action would help spark more aggressive global action to fight climate change.The vast stretch of seagrass at the Saya de Malha Bank has become a priority for conservation partly for its role in absorbing climate-warming carbon dioxide. Elsewhere, the world is losing some 7% of its seagrass cover per year due to dredging, rising ocean temperatures and other factors.Thousands of marine species also rely on the Saya de Malha seagrasses for food and habitat, including endangered green sea turtles and rabbitfish, a crucial species for artisanal fisheries in the region."There is a lot of life in the ocean that we don't know exists and which is magical. It shouldn't be suffering because of the decisions that other people are making," Sandooyea said on the deck of a Greenpeace boat, called Arctic Sunrise, while sailing out to the area with scientists and environmentalists in early March.The campaigners are hoping to draw attention to a UN goal of persuading countries to protect at least 30% of the planet's land and ocean by 2030 - an interim target that many scientists say must be met to address the dual crises of climate change and biodiversity loss.For Sandooyea, the Saya de Malha is also part of her home. The island nation of Mauritius shares jurisdiction over the surrounding seabed with the Seychelles. But while the remoteness of the seagrass fields hundreds of miles from shore has provided some protection up to now, the young activist scientist worries that could change if oceans become busier.Global shipping traffic increased four-fold between 1992 and 2012 with the Indian Ocean seeing one of the sharpest rises, according to a 2014 study in Geophysical Research Letters.Meanwhile, Mauritius is also still grappling with its worst-ever ecological disaster, caused in July when a Japanese ship hit a coral reef and spilled some 1,000 tonnes of oil into aquamarine waters that then washed up onto beaches.Against the backdrop of such events, Sandooyea said she felt compelled as a teenager to become an activist: "It was simply unacceptable to see no action, no concrete action."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mauritian-climate-activist-holds-underwater-protest-to-protect-seagrass-101616056716228.html
18-03-2021||World||Indian-origin man charged in US for cyberstalking a woman||A 31-year-old Indian-origin computer security consultant has been charged in the US for allegedly engaging in cyberstalking campaign against a woman and threatening multiple people, including a deputy prosecutor and a police officer investigating him.Sumit Garg from Seattle was indicted on Wednesday by a federal grand jury for conspiracy to engage in cyberstalking, three counts of cyberstalking in violation of criminal order, and two counts of cyberstalking, Acting US Attorney Tessa M Gorman announced.Garg was transferred to federal custody last week and was ordered detained at the Federal Detention Center at SeaTac on March 15, 2021, the US Department of Justice said in a statement.He will be arraigned on the indictment on March 25.According to a detailed criminal complaint and the indictment in the case, Garg has been involved in an extensive campaign of threats and sexually explicit messaging and posts about a woman who used to share an apartment with his spouse.Using her personal information, Garg threatened and tormented the former roommate in violation of court order.He allegedly also used his computer skills to threaten multiple people in the former roommate’s life, including her uncle who represented her in obtaining a civil protection order; her current boyfriend; the Seattle Police Detective who investigated the threats; and even the Deputy Prosecuting Attorney who filed charges against Garg for his illegal stalking conduct.He used his computer skills to try to hide who was sending the threats or making the posts.The case is being investigated by the United States Secret Service with assistance from the Seattle Police Department.Conspiracy to engage in cyberstalking is punishable by up to five years in prison. Cyberstalking in violation of criminal order is punishable by a mandatory minimum of one year and a maximum of five years in prison. Cyberstalking is punishable by up to five years in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-man-charged-in-us-for-cyberstalking-a-woman-101616050144107.html
18-03-2021||World||Woman gives birth to first known baby with antibodies against coronavirus, say doctors||Pediatricians have reported the first known case of a woman, who was given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine during her pregnancy, giving birth to a baby with antibodies against the novel coronavirus.According to the yet-to-be peer-reviewed study, posted in the preprint server medRxiv, the mother had received a single dose of the Moderna mRNA vaccine at 36 weeks and three days of her gestation period.Three weeks later, she gave birth to a vigorous, healthy, full-term girl, whose blood sample taken immediately after birth revealed the presence of antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the study noted."Here, we report the first known case of an infant with SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies detectable in cord blood after maternal vaccination," noted the co-authors, Paul Gilbert and Chad Rudnick from Florida Atlantic University in the US.The woman, who has been breastfeeding the baby exclusively, received the second dose of the vaccine as per the normal 28-day vaccination protocol timeline, the doctors noted.While earlier studies showed that the passage of antibodies from Covid-recovered mothers to their foetuses via the placenta was lower than expected, the current research suggests "potential for protection and infection risk reduction from SARS-CoV-2 with maternal vaccination."However, Gilber and Rudnick note that further long-term studies are needed to quantify the antibody response in babies born to vaccinated mothers."Protective efficacy in newborns and ideal timing of maternal vaccination remains unknown," the pediatricians wrote in the study."We urge other investigators to create pregnancy and breastfeeding registries as well as conduct efficacy and safety studies of the Covid-19 vaccines in pregnant and breastfeeding woman and their offspring," they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/woman-gives-birth-to-first-known-baby-with-antibodies-against-coronavirus-say-doctors-101616049706519.html
18-03-2021||World||Afghan special forces helicopter crash lands, 9 dead||Kabul [Afghanistan], March 18 (ANI): Nine people on board a special forces helicopter were killed after it crash-landed in the Maidan Wardak province, on Wednesday night, according to the Afghan Ministry of Defense on Thursday."Afghan Ministry of Defense confirmed that a Mi-17 helicopter crash-landed in Behsud district, Maidan Wardak province, on Wednesday night in which four crew members and five security forces were killed," Tolo News reported.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-special-forces-helicopter-crash-lands-9-dead-101616046696774.html
18-03-2021||World||Myanmar construction magnate with links to military claims cash payments to Suu Kyi||A Myanmar construction magnate with links to military rulers claimed he personally gave more than half a million dollars in cash to deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi in a broadcast on state television aimed at discrediting the ousted civilian government.The statement by Maung Waik could pave the way for more serious charges against Suu Kyi, who has been detained since the February 1 military takeover while security forces increasingly use lethal force against a popular uprising demanding the restoration of democratically elected leaders.The military has already tried to implicate Suu Kyi in corruption, alleging she was given $600,000 plus gold bars by a political ally. She and President Win Myint have been charged so far with inciting unrest, possession of walkie-talkies and violating a pandemic order limiting public gatherings.In the latest salvo of allegations, Maung Waik, who has previously been convicted of drug trafficking, told the state TV he gave cash to government ministers to help his businesses. He said the money included USD 100,000 given to Suu Kyi in 2018 for a charitable foundation named after her mother, USD 150,000 in 2019 for which he did not specify a reason, USD 50,000 last February and USD 250,000 in April, again with no purpose specified.On Wednesday, protesters fired slingshots and threw Molotov cocktails toward lines of security forces in a rare incidence of fighting back against a relentlessly violent crackdown, which one organization said has claimed more than 200 lives since the coup.At least two people were shot dead in Kalay in northwestern Myanmar, according to media and social media posts that included photos of the victims.Smoke and fires were seen in Kalay and Yangon on Wednesday night, reportedly from authorities burning down barricades protesters had set up during the day.Pope Francis appealed for an end to the bloodshed.In an apparent reference to widely broadcast images of a nun in Myanmar, kneeling on the street in front of armed security forces begging them not to shoot protesters, Francis said: “I, too, kneel on the streets of Myanmar and say: may violence cease.”In response to increased police violence, protesters began taking a more aggressive approach to self-defense — burning tires at barricades and pushing back when they could against attacks.A statement issued Sunday by the Committee Representing Pyihtaungsu Hluttaw — an organisation of the elected members of Parliament whom the military barred from taking their seats but who have set themselves up as an alternative government to the junta — announced that the general public has the legal right to self-defence against the security forces. The committee was earlier called a treasonous organisation by the junta, which declared it illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-construction-magnate-with-links-to-military-claims-cash-payments-to-suu-kyi-101616042611955.html
18-03-2021||World||Questions about Cuomo grow harder to ignore for Biden||President Joe Biden's relentless effort to avoid the day-to-day distractions of the political world is being put to the test by the growing calls for New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo to resign.Throughout the campaign and during his first two months in office, Biden’s team installed zealous message discipline, ignoring the outcries of Republicans and Twitter alike. The effort is especially important as the administration tries to sell a $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief package to the public. But the strategy is running into hurdles as Biden, in his role as the head of the Democratic Party, is being pulled into the debate over Cuomo's fate.The pressure on Biden grew dramatically last week when most of New York's congressional delegation, including Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, called on Cuomo to step aside. The governor has remained defiant and kept up his prominent role this week on the White House’s call with governors regarding the pandemic.By Wednesday, a question about the sexual harassment accusations against Cuomo was at the center of Biden’s rare one-on-one TV interview. Cuomo has denied any allegations of inappropriate touching and has insisted he will not resign.Biden, in the interview, went further than before on Cuomo’s future, saying “yes” when asked if the governor should resign if an investigation confirms allegations of sexual harassment and inappropriate touching by multiple women. Biden added, “I think he’d probably end up being prosecuted, too.”“Takes a lot of courage to come forward, so the presumption is they should be taken seriously,” Biden told ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “But there should be an investigation to determine whether what she says is true. And that’s what’s underway now.”The president’s public acknowledgement of possible criminal charges sent shockwaves throughout the ranks of Democratic politics, which have been grappling with the future of a three-term governor who remains popular with voters but has become the latest politician overwhelmed by allegations of sexual misconduct.White House aides later underscored the president’s declaration that decisions on Cuomo’s future should wait until after an investigation into the accusations. That has been their strategy since the moment the first accusation was made public last month: to keep as much distance as possible between the White House and the Governor’s Mansion in Albany.Asked Wednesday about the president’s comments, Cuomo said: “If you committed a crime, you can be prosecuted. That’s true. But what President Biden said is, ‘We should do an investigation.’ I agree with him on that. The people of New York agree with him on that.”Biden and Cuomo, once close allies, have not spoken since the allegations were made, officials said. When asked repeatedly about the allegations, White House press secretary Jen Psaki has recited the response that the women should be heard and the investigations should continue. Word went out throughout the West Wing, including to the president, to not talk to members of the governor’s staff except to coordinate the coronavirus response.Biden aides have strained to avoid a repeat of 2009, when President Barack Obama sent word through aides that another scandal-scarred New York governor, David Paterson, should not run again. That moment entangled the Obama White House in a state political issue when it was trying to fight on other fronts, most notably its own economic recovery package.Much like it ignored the daily churn of controversy tossed off by then-President Donald Trump during the campaign, Biden’s team has refused to engage in the cultural war firestorms — Dr. Seuss and Mr. Potato Head among them — ignited by the GOP in order to focus on passing, and now selling, the Covid-19 relief deal. But the constant drip of allegations from Albany has become harder for Biden to ignore.In addition to the claims from women, Cuomo faces complaints that his administration deliberately withheld data on Covid-19 deaths in nursing homes to bolster his image.“I can’t see how President Biden would appreciate this kind of distraction at such a crucial moment in his presidency,” said Rebecca Katz, a New York-based Democratic consultant who once worked for Cuomo’s primary opponent Cynthia Nixon. “But his strong words do two things: They buy Cuomo a little bit of time until the report comes out but they also show where the president stands unequivocally.”Biden was first a friend to three-term Gov. Mario Cuomo, and then grew close to his son Andrew. During Biden's time as vice president, the two men frequently held events in New York to tout infrastructure improvements and Biden campaigned for Cuomo when the governor faced a stiff primary challenge in 2018.The two men share similar political views, having once been seen as Democratic centrists only to move to the left to mirror the rise of the progressives in their party. Their orbits are intertwined; a number of Democrats have worked for both men in their roles as senator, vice president, governor and housing secretary. And Biden briefly considered Cuomo for attorney general.Biden himself faced scrutiny during the 2020 presidential campaign for his conduct around women and apologized if he ever made anyone feel awkward with his hands-on campaigning. He vigorously denied a sexual assault allegation leveled at him by Tara Reade, a former staffer.Cuomo has tried to continue governing while facing the specter of multiple investigations. More than half of the New York State Legislature has called on him to resign, including three-quarters of Democrats in the state senate. The state assembly’s judiciary committee last week launched an “impeachment investigation” into allegations against the governor.When New York was the pandemic’s epicenter last year, Cuomo was widely hailed for his handling of the crisis even as questions began to percolate about COVID-19 outbreaks in nursing homes. In effect, he became the Democratic face of the pandemic and drew a national following for holding daily, somber, straightforward news conferences that stood in stark contrast to the often fact-free versions conducted by Trump.Cuomo, who raised eyebrows by writing a book about his Covid-19 response before the pandemic was over, has tried to maintain his grip on his post by arguing that he’s the best person to help New York recover at this moment.“Everything that I have learned in the federal government, as attorney general, as governor, I am bringing to the table at this moment,” he said while condemning other Democrats who have called for his ouster. “Politicians who don’t know a single fact, but yet form a conclusion and an opinion are, in my opinion, reckless and dangerous."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/questions-about-cuomo-grow-harder-to-ignore-for-biden-101616042056105.html
18-03-2021||World||Prisoners across globe, including in India, forgotten during Covid-19: Amnesty||Human rights group Amnesty International has said prisoners globally, including in India, have been forgotten during the Covid-19 pandemic as prisons face systemic challenges in preventing the virus spread. In a report released on Thursday, the group said the pandemic control measures in prisons led to serious human rights violations.The report added India was among the countries, where measures such as video conferencing were introduced for prisoners to stay in touch with their families on the Supreme Court’s directions during the lockdown introduced to check the Covid-19 spread. But it added the measures were inadequate. It cited a source in Jammu and Kashmir and said detainees there “were only allowed a phone call to their family once in 15 days.”Also Read | India records 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike this yearAmnesty International halted its work in India last year blaming an “incessant witch-hunt” after the government froze its bank accounts and forced the group to lay off its staff in the country.In the report, the group said even though prisoners have been released due to the pandemic in places like India, but the rates of releases remained ad hoc and insufficient to address the magnitude of the risk. “In India, prison staff were included among front-line workers, one of three priority categories for vaccination. Prisoners were not listed among the priority groups...”It referred to measures in prisons after the national lockdown was announced in India on March 24 and added prison departments across the country barred all personal physical meetings inside prisons. The group said there were plans to shift meetings with lawyers and family members to phones or video calls after a Supreme Court order required all higher courts to adopt video conferencing technologies. “Just as there were problems with the introduction of video conferencing in courts, the roll-out of video conferencing in prisons to allow detainees to communicate with family members was very slow. In the state of Karnataka, for instance, it only became operational in December 2020. In Haryana, it was not until February 2021 that officials announced that the first prison in the state had introduced a video conferencing facility. The duration of video calls was very limited. In Karnataka, for instance, it was reportedly between five and 10 minutes,” it saidThe group said India was also among 40 countries, where protests and unrest were reported from the prisons.Also Read | Over 150% rise in Covid cases in 70 districts, states asked to boost testingIt urged countries not to discriminate against those held in detention when developing vaccination policies and plans. “... urges states to make every effort to prioritize prisoners in their national vaccination plans, particularly given that their confined conditions do not allow them to physically distance and ensure that those at particularly high risk of COVID-19 (such as older prisoners and those with chronic health conditions) are prioritized for vaccination on a par with comparative groups in the general population,” it said.The report titled “Forgotten Behind Bars: Covid-19” said over an estimated 11 million people are imprisoned globally and prisons in many countries risk becoming hotbeds for the disease. It added many inmates struggle to access soap, proper sanitation, or personal protective equipment. The report said physical distancing is difficult to achieve and only limited health care is available.“As COVID-19 continues to rip through prisons across the world, measures introduced by governments to prevent the spread of the disease have led to human rights violations, including the use of excessive solitary confinement to aid social distancing and inadequate measures to reduce the detrimental effects of isolation,” said Netsanet Belay, Amnesty International’s research and advocacy director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prisoners-across-globe-including-in-india-forgotten-during-covid-19-amnesty-101616041573518.html
18-03-2021||World||China seeks Biden-Xi meet next month if Alaska talks go well||Beijing is seeking a meeting between Joe Biden and Xi Jinping next month if the first high-level US-China talks in Alaska starting Thursday are productive, according to people familiar with the situation.The Biden-Xi meeting as envisioned by Chinese officials would be organized around Earth Day on April 22 to show both leaders are focused on combating climate change, one of the people said. Biden is already set to gather global leaders together on that day to push the world for greater ambition in curbing greenhouse gas emissions. The prospect of the meeting was first reported by the Wall Street Journal.Both the US and China have played down expectations for the talks in Alaska, which are set to run Thursday and Friday local time. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan will represent the US, while Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Politburo member Yang Jiechi will speak for China.China’s expectations for the meeting aren’t “too high,” Cui Tiankai, China’s ambassador to the US, said in comments reported by state-run China Central Television. It will be a success if it starts a “honest, constructive and rational” dialogue, he added.Both countries have sparred over how to describe the talks, with the US disputing China’s characterization of the meeting as a “high-level strategic dialogue.” Blinken on Wednesday said it will be an opportunity “to very directly, face-to-face, share with our Chinese counterparts the concerns that the United States has, that our allies and partners have about some of the things that China is doing.”China has urged the Biden administration to remove tariffs and sanctions imposed during Donald Trump’s presidency, as well as measures to restrict sales of key technology to Chinese companies. The Foreign Ministry in Beijing last week said the US “isn’t a reliable country that is to be trusted” after administration officials tightened restrictions on Huawei Technologies Co.China announced trials would start Friday for two Canadians accused of violating national security laws who were taken in shortly after the December 2018 arrest of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of company founder Ren Zhengfei. China has often linked the cases to Meng’s, with a Foreign Ministry spokesman telling reporters last year that halting the extradition “could open up space for resolution to the situation of the two Canadians.”The US and China have sparred over issues such as Hong Kong, Taiwan and Xinjiang in calls since Biden took office, which Beijing has insisted are “internal” issues. But US officials have also sought to stress areas of potential cooperation, including on climate change and nuclear nonproliferation.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters Tuesday that the Alaska meeting wasn’t meant to establish expectations for regular encounters between the two sides.“I wouldn’t see this as one in a series,” she said. “This is a meeting that our national security adviser and secretary of state are attending, and I wouldn’t build it out beyond there at this point in time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-seeks-biden-xi-meet-next-month-if-alaska-talks-go-well-101616037189559.html
18-03-2021||World||US subpoenas Chinese communications firms in probe of national security risks||The US Commerce Department said on Wednesday that it has served subpoenas on multiple Chinese companies that provide information and communications technology services in the United States to see if they pose a national security risk."Beijing has engaged in conduct that blunts our technological edge and threatens our alliances," Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said in statement.The subpoenas will gather information to "allow us to make a determination for possible action that best protects the security of American companies, American workers, and US national security."Also Read | Improvement in US-China relations depends on treatment of Australia: Biden aideThe statement did not name any companies. China's Huawei Technologies and ZTE Corp were targeted by the previous administration of Donald Trump for removal from the US telecoms infrastructure.President Joe Biden's administration said last month it plans to allow a Trump-era rule targeting Chinese technology firms deemed to pose a threat to the United States to go into effect despite objections from US businesses.The Commerce Department issued an interim final rule in the final days of the Trump administration aimed at addressing information and communications technology supply chain concerns and said it would become effective after a 60-day period of public comment.Last month, the department said it would continue to accept public comment on the rule until March 22, when it would go into effect. The subpoenas would not have an impact on the interim final rule's timing, a department official said on Wednesday.The US Chamber of Commerce and groups representing major industries raised concerns in a letter to the Commerce Department in January that the interim rule gave the government "nearly unlimited authority to intervene in virtually any commercial transaction between US companies and their foreign counterparts that involves technology."Business Roundtable, a group representing major US chief executives, said earlier the proposal is "unworkable for US businesses in its current form."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-subpoenas-chinese-communications-firms-in-probe-of-national-security-risks-101616033103393.html
18-03-2021||World||Biden asked to back India, South Africa at WTO on Covid-19 vaccines||A group of lawmakers in the US have urged President Joe Biden to support the move by India and South Africa before the World Trade Organization for emergency temporary waiver of some Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) rules to enable greater production and supply of Covid-19 vaccines, treatments, and diagnostic tests.The move comes after India and South Africa, along with several other countries, have urgently gone to the WTO seeking a time-limited waiver of the TRIPS agreement. The previous Trump administration had opposed such a move.At a news conference here on Wednesday, the lawmakers -- Rosa DeLauro, Jan Schakowsky, Earl Blumenauer, Lloyd Doggett, Adriano Espaillat, and Andy Levin -- said this while urging President Biden to support the emergency temporary waiver at the WTO as requested by countries led by India and South Africa.The lawmakers said more than 60 US representatives would collectively write to Biden to announce support for the TRIPS waiver proposed by India and South Africa at the WTO. The temporary TRIPS waiver would allow countries and manufacturers to directly access and share technologies to produce vaccines and therapeutics without causing trade sanctions or international disputes, they said.“The Biden administration has an obligation to reverse the damage done by the Trump administration and reestablish our nation’s global reputation as a public health leader,” said DeLauro.“As we see every day, the Covid-19 pandemic knows no borders. Our globalised systems cannot recover if only parts of the world are vaccinated and have protection against the virus. We must make vaccines available everywhere if we are going to crush the virus anywhere, and we need to make public policy choices, both in the US and at the WTO, that put people first,” DeLauro said.“Congress has appropriated billions of dollars of emergency relief for the travel, tourism, and hospitality industries and is planning billions more. The faster we can bring this emergency to an end, the faster these industries can recover. President Biden’s support for the TRIPS waiver is key to the end of the pandemic and the beginning of a strong global recovery.”Schakowsky said big pharma companies are adamantly opposed, claiming in their letter to President Biden that "intellectual property is the foundation for both the development and sharing of new technologies," not mentioning their own profits, or the billions of dollars that tax payers have contributed to their research and development.“As a global community, we must come together and use every tool at our disposal to stop this pandemic. We have seen that WTO intellectual property rules and corporate greed have disastrous impacts for public health during past epidemics, and we need to ensure that this doesn’t happen again,” said Blumenauer.“The Biden administration has already shown that we are in this together with our allies. They understand that a deadly pandemic does not stop at any one border. Working to ensure that trade rules do not stunt the developing world’s access to vaccines, treatments, and diagnostic tests is the next step,” he said.“Mindful of COVID variants from Brazil and South Africa to stop this deadly virus, we need widespread immunisation everywhere around the globe, not just in the wealthiest countries,” said Doggett. “While we have lacked sufficient vaccines in America, immunisation has been almost non-existent in poorer countries,” he said.“America has an obligation to support the global community with the tools and vaccine resources we developed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Espaillat, adding that a global conundrum exists with countries having to wait months or even years to vaccinate their citizens – a delay that will only allow the virus to continue to mutate, spread, and kill more people.“We simply cannot allow this to happen. During this time of crisis, rather than protecting wealthy pharmaceutical companies’ bottom lines or intellectual property derived from our collective investments, we must remove all impediments to vaccine distribution, including maximising capacity worldwide to ensure every person who wants this vaccine has access as soon as possible regardless of economic background, race, or nationality,” Espaillat said.“The World Trade Organization (WTO) has the ability to accomplish this task, and I encourage the Biden administration to urge the WTO and partner member-nations to use the tools at its disposal to do so,” he said.“I desperately want a return to normalcy,” said Levin. “But I want that normalcy to be sustainable! I want to be sure that this virus isn’t going to keep spreading, keep mutating - potentially in a way that’s resistant to the vaccines we’re getting right now. I don’t say this to fearmonger,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-asked-to-back-india-south-africa-at-wto-on-covid-19-vaccines-101616033130090.html
18-03-2021||World||Why Georgia attack spurs fears in Asian Americans||The shootings at three Georgia massage parlors and spas that left eight people dead, six of them women of Asian descent, come on the heels of a recent wave of attacks against Asian Americans since the coronavirus entered the United States.As details emerge, many members of the Asian American community see the Georgia killings as a haunting reminder of harassment and assaults that have been occurring from coast to coast.WHAT HAPPENED IN ATLANTA?Five people were shot Tuesday at a massage parlor about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Atlanta, four of whom died. Police found three women shot to death at Gold Spa in Atlanta, and another woman dead at Aromatherapy Spa across the street.South Korea's Foreign Ministry said in a statement Wednesday that its diplomats have confirmed that four of the victims who died were women of Korean descent.A 21-year-old white man, Robert Aaron Long, suspected in the shooting has been taken into custody and charged with murder.IS THERE A MOTIVE?As many raised concerns that the shootings are the latest in a string of hate crimes against Asian Americans, police suggested the suspect may have had other motives.Long told police the attack was not racially motivated. He claimed to have a “sex addiction,” and authorities said he apparently lashed out at what he saw as sources of temptation.But those statements spurred outrage and widespread skepticism given the locations and that most of the victims were women of Asian descent.HOW HAVE SOME ASIAN AMERICANS RESPONDED?Asian American lawmakers have expressed heartbreak on social media and emphasized the need to support Asian American communities during this moment. The official Twitter account of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus wrote that its members are “horrified by the news ... at a time when we're already seeing a spike in anti-Asian violence."Many lawmakers acknowledged a heightened sense of fear among Asian Americans as a result of the increasing number of hate incidents.Rep. Judy Chu of California reminded people of the effect of anti-Asian rhetoric.“As we wait for more details to emerge, I ask everyone to remember that hurtful words and rhetoric have real life consequences,” she wrote on Twitter. “Please stand up, condemn this violence, and help us #StopAsianHate.”HOW PREVALENT HAVE ASSAULTS AGAINST ASIAN AMERICANS BEEN?Recent attacks, including the killing of an 84-year-old San Francisco man in February, have raised concerns about worsening hostilities toward Asian Americans. Nearly 3,800 incidents have been reported to Stop AAPI Hate, a California-based reporting center for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, and its partner advocacy groups, since March 2020. Nationally, women reported more than double the number of hate incidents compared with men.Police in several major cities saw a sharp uptick in Asian-targeted hate crimes between 2019 and 2020, according to data collected by the Center for the Study of Hate & Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. New York City went from three incidents to 27, Los Angeles from seven to 15, and Denver had three incidents in 2020 — the first reported there in six years.HOW FAR BACK DOES ANTI-ASIAN RACISM GO IN THE UNITED STATES?Racism against Asian Americans has long been an ugly thread of US history and was enshrined into law in the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which was designed to prevent Chinese American laborers from entering the U.S. as a result of widespread xenophobia.Asian Americans have also long been used as medical scapegoats in the U.S. and falsely blamed for public health problems, including a smallpox outbreak in San Francisco in the 1870s. This racist association between Asian Americans and illness and uncleanliness has also affected views of Asian food and contributes to the “perpetual foreigner” trope that suggests Asian people are fundamentally outsiders.This fueled suspicions of Japanese Americans during World War II, when many were sent to detention camps solely due to their ethnicity, as well as Islamophobia and prejudice toward Muslim and South Asian Americans following the 9/11 terrorist attacks.In 1982, 100 years after the Chinese Exclusion Act, a 27-year-old Chinese American, Vincent Chin, died after being attacked in Detroit because of his race. At the time, a growing Japanese auto industry was leading to major job losses in the city’s auto sector. His killers, two autoworkers, mistook him for Japanese, using racial slurs as they beat him outside a club where he was celebrating his bachelor party. His death led to protests from Asian Americans nationwide.WHAT ARE POLITICIANS DOING ABOUT THE RECENT UPTICK?President Joe Biden signed an executive order in January condemning anti-Asian xenophobia in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The directive acknowledges the role rhetoric from politicians, including the use of derogatory names for the coronavirus, has played in the rise of anti-Asian sentiment and hate incidents targeting Asian Americans. Former President Donald Trump, for example, has repeatedly used racial terms to describe the virus, including during a Tuesday night interview with Fox News.The rash of attacks in the past two months has renewed attention from politicians, including California Gov. Gavin Newsom, who signed legislation allocating $1.4 million to Stop AAPI Hate and the UCLA Asian American Studies Center for community resources and tracking of anti-Asian hate incidents.Initiatives such as increased police presence, volunteer patrols and special crime hot lines have also been suggested by local officials and citizens, with big-name brands like the NBA's Golden State Warriors and Apple, based in the Bay Area, promising to donate to the cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-georgia-attack-spurs-fears-in-asian-americans-101616032002099.html
18-03-2021||World||Man charged with killing 8 people at Georgia massage parlors||A white gunman was charged Wednesday with killing eight people at three Atlanta-area massage parlors in an attack that sent terror through the Asian American community, which has increasingly been targeted during the coronavirus pandemic.A day after the shootings, investigators were trying to unravel what might have compelled 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long to commit the worst mass killing in the U.S. in almost two years.Long told police that Tuesday’s attack was not racially motivated. He claimed to have a “sex addiction,” and authorities said he apparently lashed out at what he saw as sources of temptation. But those statements spurred outrage and widespread skepticism given the locations and that six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent.The shootings appear to be at the “intersection of gender-based violence, misogyny and xenophobia,” state Rep. Bee Nguyen said, the first Vietnamese American to serve in the Georgia House and a frequent advocate for women and communities of color.Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said that regardless of the shooter’s motivation, “it is unacceptable, it is hateful and it has to stop.”Authorities said they didn’t know if Long ever went to the massage parlors where the shootings occurred but that he was heading to Florida to attack “some type of porn industry.”“He apparently has an issue, what he considers a sex addiction, and sees these locations as something that allows him to go to these places, and it’s a temptation for him that he wanted to eliminate,” Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker told reporters.Baker drew criticism for saying Long had “a really bad day" and “this is what he did." A Facebook page appearing to belong to Baker promoted a COVID-19 T-shirt with racist language about China last year.The Facebook account featured numerous photos of Baker going back months, including one of him in uniform outside the sheriff’s office. The account was deleted Wednesday night, and Baker did not immediately respond to voicemails and an email seeking comment.Meanwhile, Sheriff Frank Reynolds said it was too early to tell if the attack was racially motivated — “but the indicators right now are it may not be.”The Atlanta mayor said police have not been to the massage parlors in her city beyond a minor potential theft.“We certainly will not begin to blame victims,” Bottoms said.The attack was the sixth mass killing this year in the U.S., and the deadliest since the August 2019 Dayton, Ohio, shooting that left nine people dead, according to a database compiled by The Associated Press, USA Today and Northeastern University.It follows a lull in mass killings during the pandemic in 2020, which had the smallest number of such attacks in more than a decade, according to the database, which tracks mass killings defined as four or more dead, not including the shooter.The killings horrified the Asian American community, which saw the shootings as an attack on them, given a recent wave of assaults that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States. The virus was first identified in China, and then-President Donald Trump and others have used racially charged terms to describe it.The attacks began when five people were shot at Youngs Asian Massage Parlor near Woodstock, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Atlanta, authorities said. Four died: 33-year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun, 54-year-old Paul Andre Michels, 44-year-old Daoyou Feng and 49-year-old Xiaojie Tan, who owned the business.Yaun and her husband came to the spa on a date, her mother, Margaret Rushing, told WAGA-TV. Yaun leaves behind a 13-year-old son and 8-month-old daughter.Her half-sister, Dana Toole, said Yaun’s husband locked himself in a room and wasn’t injured.“He’s taking it hard,” Toole said. “He was there. He heard the gunshots and everything. You can’t escape that when you’re in a room and gunshots are flying — what do you do?”The manager of a boutique next door said her husband watched surveillance video after the shooting and the suspect was sitting in his car for as long as an hour before going inside.They heard screaming and women running from the business, said Rita Barron, manager of Gabby’s Boutique.The same car was then spotted about 30 miles (48 kilometers) away in Atlanta, where a call came in about a robbery at Gold Spa and three women were shot to death. Another woman was fatally shot at the Aromatherapy Spa across the street.Long was arrested hours later by Crisp County deputies and state troopers. He refused to stop on a highway and officers bumped the back of his car, causing him to crash, Sheriff Billy Hancock said.Officers found Long thanks to help from his parents, who recognized him from surveillance footage posted by authorities and gave investigators his cellphone information, which they used to track him, said Reynolds, the Cherokee County sheriff.“They’re very distraught, and they were very helpful in this apprehension,” he said.President Joe Biden called the attack “very, very troublesome."“We don’t yet know the motive, but what we do know is that the Asian-American community is feeling enormous pain tonight. The recent attacks against the community are un-American. They must stop," Biden tweeted.Vice President Kamala Harris expressed support to the Asian American community after the “tragic” shooting and offered condolences to the victims’ families.“We’re not yet clear about the motive. But I do want to say to our Asian American community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people,” said Harris, the first Black and South Asian woman in that position.Over the past year, thousands of incidents of abuse have been reported to an anti-hate group that tracks incidents against Asian Americans, and hate crimes in general are at the highest level in more than a decade.“While the details of the shootings are still emerging, the broader context cannot be ignored,” Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta said in a statement. “The shootings happened under the trauma of increasing violence against Asian Americans nationwide, fueled by white supremacy and systemic racism.”Nico Straughan met Long when he moved to the area in seventh grade, saying Long brought a Bible to school every day and was “super nice, super Christian, very quiet.”“I don’t know what turn of heart he might have had, but he went from one of the nicest kids I ever knew in high school to being on the news,” Straughan said. “I mean, all my friends, we were flabbergasted.”The American Psychiatric Association does not recognize sex addiction in its main reference guide for mental disorders. While some people struggle to control their sexual behaviors, it’s often linked to other recognized disorders or moral views about sexuality, said David Ley, clinical psychologist and author of “The Myth of Sex Addiction.”“These sexual behaviors getting this label are a symptom, not a cause,” Ley said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-charged-with-killing-8-people-at-georgia-massage-parlors-101616032789583.html
18-03-2021||World||Australia unemployment drops to 5.8% as recovery strengthens||Australia’s jobless rate tumbled in February as rising sentiment from a vaccine rollout combined with fiscal and monetary stimulus accelerated the economy’s recovery and returned employment to pre-pandemic levels.Unemployment dropped to 5.8% from a revised 6.3% in January, data from the statistics bureau showed Thursday in Sydney. Employment jumped by 88,700 in February, compared with an expected 30,000 gain. The participation rate was unchanged at 66.1%, in line with expectations.“The strong employment growth this month saw employment rise above 13 million people, and was 4,000 people higher than March 2020,” said Bjorn Jarvis, head of labor statistics at the ABS.The Australian dollar advanced following the data’s release and was trading at 78.23 U.S. cents at 11:44 a.m. in Sydney.Australia is experiencing a V-shaped recovery as the containment of Covid-19 boosts confidence and encourages cashed-up households to spend. That’s prompted firms to accelerate hiring and people to resume job-hunting.The Reserve Bank of Australia said last month it was extending its quantitative easing program by a further A$100 billion ($78 billion) and reiterated that it doesn’t expect to increase interest rates until 2024. It’s trying to keep a lid on a currency, which left unchecked could appreciate further and hurt exports and employment.Among other details in today’s jobs report:The central bank’s most recent forecasts show the jobless rate falling to around 6% by the end of this year and 5.5% at the end of 2022. Under an optimistic scenario for unemployment, the rate would drop to 4.75% by the end of next year.The labor market’s strength might cool in the period ahead as the government’s vast wage-subsidy program JobKeeper, designed to keep workers attached to their employers, expires at the end of this month. The government is providing ongoing support to industries like tourism and airlines that are still struggling from closed borders.The RBA late last year cut interest rates and its three-year yield target to 0.10% and initiated a quantitative easing program to lower borrowing costs across the economy. That came on the heels of the government announcing tax cuts, incentives for firms to invest and hire and infrastructure projects to boost activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-unemployment-drops-to-5-8-as-recovery-strengthens-101616032028042.html
18-03-2021||World||Covid may become 'seasonal' if it persists for many years: UN||Covid-19 appears likely to develop into a seasonal disease, the United Nations said Thursday, cautioning though against relaxing pandemic-related measures simply based on meteorological factors.More than a year after the novel coronavirus first surfaced in China, a number of mysteries still surround the spread of the disease that has killed nearly 2.7 million people worldwide.In its first report, an expert team tasked with trying to shed light on one of those mysteries by examining potential meteorological and air quality influences on the spread of Covid-19, found some indications the disease would develop into a seasonal menace.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe 16-member team set up by the UN' World Meteorological Organization pointed out that respiratory viral infections are often seasonal, "in particular the autumn-winter peak for influenza and cold-causing coronaviruses in temperate climates.""This has fuelled expectations that, if it persists for many years, Covid-19 will prove to be a strongly seasonal disease," it said in a statement.Modelling studies anticipate that transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 disease, "may become seasonal over time".Trigger? But Covid-19 transmission dynamics so far appear to have been influenced mainly by government interventions like mask mandates and travel restrictions, they said, rather than the weather.The task team therefore insisted that weather and climate conditions alone should for now not be the trigger for loosening anti-Covid restrictions."At this stage, evidence does not support the use of meteorological and air quality factors as a basis for governments to relax their interventions aimed at reducing transmission," said task team co-chair Ben Zaitchik of the earth and planetary sciences department at The John Hopkins University in the United States.He pointed out that during the first year of the pandemic, infections in some places rose in warm seasons, "and there is no evidence that this couldn't happen again in the coming year".Also Read: Prosecutions for mask, distancing violations drop from Oct-Nov peakThe experts, who focused only on outdoor meteorology and air quality conditions in the report, said laboratory studies had provided some evidence the virus survives longer in cold, dry weather and when there is low ultraviolet radiation.But it remained unclear whether meteorological influences "have a meaningful influence on transmission rates under real world conditions".They also highlighted that evidence around the impact of air quality on the virus remained "inconclusive".There was some preliminary evidence that poor air quality increases Covid-19 mortality rates, "but not that pollution directly impacts airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-may-become-seasonal-if-it-persists-for-many-years-un-101616030849533.html
18-03-2021||World||Countries should keep using AstraZeneca vaccine: WHO experts||World Health Organization experts on Wednesday recommended countries continue to use the AstraZeneca vaccine, but said they were looking into the jab's safety after a slew of countries suspended its use over health fears.The WHO, Europe's medicines regulator and AstraZeneca itself have repeatedly said the vaccine was safe after several countries reported feared links with blood clots or brain haemorrhages.The suspensions have marred the global vaccine drive aimed at ending a year-long pandemic that has already killed more than 2.6 million people around the world since it first emerged in China in late 2019.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBut the WHO's vaccine experts said Wednesday it was still better to take the AstraZeneca vaccine than not -- adding that it was looking into available data on the jab."The WHO Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety is carefully assessing the latest available safety data," the UN health agency said in a statement."At this time, WHO considers that the benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine outweigh its risks and recommends that vaccinations continue."The recommendation echoed a similar statement from the European Medicines Agency on Tuesday advising countries to continue using the vaccine, saying there was no link with clots.The Amsterdam-based agency said in a statement is holding an extraordinary meeting Thursday to finalise its conclusions on the blood clot issue and "make any necessary recommendations for further action".Several countries from France to Venezuela to Indonesia said they would not use the vaccine after several reports emerged of blood clots and brain haemorrhages in people who had received the vaccine.The British-Swedish jab has been dogged by controversy from early on in its rollout, after some countries initially recommended it for people over the age of 65 and then backpedalled, saying there was insufficient data for people in the age group that had received the shot.The firm later sparred with the EU, which accused it of failing to fulfil vaccine contracts after the bloc's immunisation campaign came under fire for a sputtering start.- 'Crisis of the century' -The head of the EU Commission on Wednesday threatened to introduce export curbs to stop suppliers within the EU from sending jabs outside the bloc to ensure "reciprocity" from other vendors.Ursula von der Leyen singled out Britain, which she accuses of operating a de facto export ban to achieve its own vaccine success at home, which London furiously denies.She said the EU was "still waiting" for its AstraZeneca orders to come out of production sites in Britain, despite the fact that 10 million doses from other manufacturers had entered the United Kingdom from the EU."This is an invitation to show us that there are also doses from the UK coming to the European Union, so that we have reciprocity," she said.The warning came as the EU chief also unveiled plans for a digital certificate that could allow people who have been vaccinated to travel freely withing the bloc.The pass could also apply to people with a recent negative test, or who have been previously infected and therefore are presumed to have antibodies, she said, calling the pandemic "the crisis of the century".Governments are hoping that vaccines will clear the path to a return to normal, more than a year into the pandemic that has plunged the world into a devastating recession and subject much of humanity to some sort of anti-virus restrictions.In Ireland, St Patrick's day celebrations were dampened for a second year running with the country still facing restrictions -- after the first wave of anti-virus measures shut the party down last year."It's a year on now and... we seem to be back where we started," said publican Tom Cleary, perched on a barstool in Dublin next to a Guinness tap fashioned in the shape of the Celtic harp."It's sad there's no end in sight," he told AFP. "I mean, will we be here next St Patrick's Day with the same problems?"- New lockdowns - More than 382 million doses of vaccine have been administered globally, the vast majority in wealthier countries while many poorer nations have yet to receive a single jab.AstraZeneca's shot, among the cheapest available, was billed as the vaccine of choice for poorer nations and the clot reports have had an impact beyond Europe.The suspensions come as some countries see worrying new caseloads, including in Iraq and India, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for "quick and decisive steps" to halt a new wave of infection.In France, President Emmanuel Macron was to decide Wednesday whether to impose a weekend lockdown on the Paris region as it faced its own third wave of infections that have bloated hospital ICUs.And Poland announced a three-week partial lockdown of its own, while in the South Pacific the health minister of Papua New Guinea issued an urgent appeal for vaccines to stave off a wave of new infections."The community transmission is out there, and I'm pretty sure that we haven't detected a lot of it," Jelta Wong told AFP, saying his country was "running at full throttle" to prevent further spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/countries-should-keep-using-astrazeneca-vaccine-who-experts-101616028181846.html
18-03-2021||World||North Korea cites hostile police of the US, ignores offer for talks||North Korea said Thursday it will ignore a US offer for talks unless it withdraws its hostile policy on the North, days after Washington said it reached out to Pyongyang through various channels.The statement by Choe Son Hui, the first foreign minister, came hours before the top diplomats and defense chiefs of the United States and South Korea meet in Seoul in their first joint talks in five years to discuss North Korea's nuclear programme.“We don't think there is need to respond to the US delaying-time trick again,” Choe said in a statement carried by state media. “We have already declared our stand that no (North Korea)-US contact and dialogue of any kind can be possible unless the US rolls back its hostile policy toward (North Korea). Therefore, we will disregard such an attempt of the US in the future, too.”US-led diplomacy on North Korea's nuclear programme remains stalemated for about two years because of disputes over US-led sanctions on the North.Experts are debating over whether the United States and its allies should settle for a deal that would freeze North Korea's nuclear activities in return for relaxing sanctions to prevent its arsenal from further growing.Earlier this week, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un threatened to abandon rapprochement deals with South Korea and warned the United States to “refrain from causing a stink,” while criticising regular US-South Korean military drills that her government views as an invasion rehearsal.Choe again took issue with this month's drills, saying that the United States “openly started aggression-minded joint military exercises targeting us.”Some experts say North Korea, which is eager to win sanctions relief, may further raise animosities with missile tests to boost its leverage in potential negotiations with the United States.North Korea's moribund economy is suffering further setbacks because of the pandemic-related border closure that has significantly shrunk its external trade and a spate of natural disasters last summer.Blinken said during a visit to Tokyo earlier this week that Washington reached out to North Korea through several channels starting in mid-February, but it hasn't received any response. He said the Biden administration was looking forward to completing its policy review on North Korea in coming weeks and was looking both at possible “additional pressure measures” and “diplomatic paths.”When Blinken met South Korean Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong on Wednesday, he said the United States will work with South Korea, Japan and other allies to achieve the denuclearisation of North Korea.According to the State Department, Blinken and Chung also reaffirmed a shared commitment to address North Korean nuclear and ballistic missile issues that they said are “a priority for the alliance.”Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin are in Seoul for Thursday's “two plus two” meeting with their South Korean counterparts, the first such contact between the two countries in five years. Before coming to Seoul, they had similar security talks with Japanese officials in Tokyo.Blinken and Austin's Asian trip is the first overseas tour by Cabinet-level officials of the Biden administration since its inauguration in January. Biden is pushing to restore alliances that were frayed under his predecessor Donald Trump's “America First” approach and bolster a US leadership on the world stage.South Korea and Japan, which together host a total of about 80,000 US troops, are at the centre of the Biden administration's efforts to return the Asia-Pacific to the top of the US foreign policy agenda to cope with a rise in China's power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-cites-hostile-police-of-the-us-ignores-offer-for-talks-101616027923202.html
18-03-2021||World||Tanzania's President John Magufuli dies at 61||Tanzania's President John Magufuli, one of Africa's most prominent coronavirus sceptics, has died aged 61, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan said on Wednesday after a more than two-week absence from public life that led to speculation about his health.She said he died from the heart disease that had plagued him for a decade. She said burial arrangements were under way and announced 14 days of mourning and the flying of flags at half staff. State television broadcast mournful and religious songs.Magufuli, had not been seen in public since Feb. 27, sparking rumours that he had contracted Covid-19. Officials denied on March 12 that he had fallen ill and on Monday the vice president urged Tanzanians not to listen to rumours from outside the country and said it was normal for a human being to be checked for the flu or fever..“Dear Tanzanians, it is sad to announce that today 17 March 2021 around 6 p.m. we lost our brave leader, President John Magufuli who died from heart disease at Mzena hospital in Dar es Salaam where he was getting treatment," the vice president said on state broadcaster TBC.He was Tanzania's first president to die while in office.Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said on Friday that he had spoken to Magufuli, and blamed the narrative of the president's ailment on some "hateful" Tanzanians living abroad.Tundu Lissu, Magufuli's main rival in the October election when the president won a second five-year term, had suggested Tanzania's leader had been flown to Kenya for treatment for COVID-19 and then moved to India in a coma.After the death was announced, opposition leader Zitto Kabwe said he had spoken to Vice President Hassan to offer condolences for Magufuli's death. "The nation will remember him for his contribution to the development of our country," Kabwe said in a statement published on Twitter.HASSAN WOULD BE FIRST FEMALE PRESIDENTAccording to Tanzania's Constitution, Vice President Hassan, 61, should assume the presidency for the remainder of the five-year term that Magufuli began serving last year after winning a second term. She would be the East African nation's first female president.Born in the semi-autonomous archipelago of Zanzibar, Hassan studied economics in Britain, worked for the U.N.'s World Food Programme and then held various government posts prior to becoming Tanzania's first female vice president in 2015.Hassan said Magufuli was admitted on March 6 to Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute for heart problems and discharged the next day. A week later he felt bad and was rushed to Mzena hospital where he was getting treatment under supervision of doctors from the cardiac institute, she said.In Dar es Salaam, the country's commercial capital with more than two million residents, the streets were empty when news of Magufuli's death was announced just before midnight."I remember him since his days when he was minister of works and then he became president, a president who worked hard that even if you didn't agree with him it got to a point that you agreed with him. I appreciated him, he did a really good job," one man, Patrice Tarimo, said in Dar es Salaam after hearing the news.THE BULLDOZERNicknamed "The Bulldozer" because of his reputation for pushing through policies despite opposition, Magufuli frustrated the World Health Organization (WHO) during the pandemic by playing down the threat from Covid-19, saying god and remedies such as steam inhalation would protect Tanzanians.The former chemistry teacher had mocked coronavirus tests, denounced vaccines as part of a Western conspiracy to take Africa's wealth, and opposed mask-wearing and social distancing.Tanzania stopped reporting coronavirus data in May last year when it had reported 509 cases and 21 deaths, according to the WHO, which has urged the government to be more transparent.He was re-elected for a second term in 2020, winning 84% of the vote in an election the opposition said was marred by irregularities and whose results it rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tanzanias-president-john-magufuli-who-denied-covid-19-dies-at-61-101616026450453.html
18-03-2021||World||US used 'cheap tricks' to initiate contact: North Korea||A top North Korean diplomat confirmed that the United States had recently tried to initiate contact, but blasted the attempts as a "cheap trick" that would never be answered until Washington drops hostile policies.The statement by Choe Son Hui, first vice minister of foreign affairs for North Korea, is the first detailed rebuttle of tentative approaches by the new US administration under President Joe Biden, who took office in January.It came as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken was visiting South Korea alongside Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, in a first overseas trip by top-level members of Biden's administration.The attempts at contact were made by sending e-mails and telephone messages via various routes, including by a third country, she said in a statement carried by state news agency KCNA.Choe said North Korea had already made clear it would not talk while the United States maintains hostile policies such as military drills and sanctions, and that the attempts at contact were a "cheap trick" for gaining time and building up public opinion."What has been heard from the US since the emergence of the new regime is only lunatic theory of 'threat from North Korea' and groundless rhetoric about 'complete denuclearization,' she said.Speaking in Seoul on Wednesday, Blinken accused North Korea of committing "systemic and widespread abuses" against its own people and said the United States and its allies were comitted to the denuclearisation of North Korea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-used-cheap-tricks-to-initiate-contact-north-korea-101616019617073.html
18-03-2021||World||Biden's 'pay the price' threat to Putin prompts diplomatic crisis as Russia recalls US ambassador||Russia called its US ambassador back to Moscow for consultations on Wednesday after Joe Biden described Vladimir Putin as a "killer" who would "pay a price" for election meddling, prompting the first major diplomatic crisis for the new American president.In an interview with ABC News, Biden was asked about a US intelligence report that the Russian leader tried to harm his candidacy in the November 2020 election and promote that of Donald Trump."He will pay a price," the 78-year-old Biden said.Asked if he thought Putin, who has been accused of ordering the poisoning of opposition leader Alexei Navalny and other rivals, is a "killer," Biden said: "I do."The comments were aired as the US Commerce Department announced it was toughening export restrictions imposed on Russia as punishment for Navalny's poisoning.Russia responded by summoning its envoy home, but stressed that it wanted to prevent an "irreversible deterioration" in relations."The Russian ambassador in Washington, Anatoly Antonov, has been invited to come to Moscow for consultations conducted with the aim of analyzing what should be done and where to go in the context of ties with the United States," the Russian foreign ministry said.Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told RIA Novosti that "responsibility for further deterioration of Russian-American ties fully rests with the United States."In Washington, the State Department noted the Russian move and said the United States will "remain clear-eyed about the challenges that Russia poses."White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki was asked by reporters whether the president considers Putin literally or just metaphorically a killer."He does not hold back on his concerns about what we see as malign and problematic actions," Psaki said, citing election interference, Navalny's poisoning, cyberattacks and bounties on US troops in Afghanistan."He's not going to hold back in his direct communications, nor is he going to hold back publicly," she said. "We are not going to look the other way as we saw a little bit over the last four years.""From his first phone call with President Putin, President Biden has been clear that the United States will also respond to a number of destabilizing actions," she said.Asked about that phone call by ABC News, Biden said he had a "long talk" with Putin after taking office in January."The conversation started off, I said, 'I know you and you know me. If I establish this occurred, then be prepared'," Biden said.Biden's assessment that Putin is a "killer" marked a stark contrast with Trump's steadfast refusal to say anything negative about the Russian president.In a 2017 interview with Fox News, Trump was asked about Putin being a "killer." "There are a lot of killers," he replied. "You think our country's so innocent?"'Know the other guy'Despite his thoughts about the Russian leader, Biden said "there are places where it's in our mutual interest to work together.""That's why I renewed the START agreement with him," he said of the nuclear treaty. "That occurred while he's doing this, but that's overwhelmingly in the interest of humanity, that we diminish the prospect of a nuclear exchange."Biden said he had learned from dealing with "an awful lot" of leaders during a political career spanning almost five decades -- including eight years as vice president -- that the most important thing was to "just know the other guy."Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of Russia's lower house of parliament, denounced Biden for agreeing with the description of Putin as a "killer.""Biden insulted the citizens of our country," Volodin said. "Attacks on (Putin) are attacks on our country."The Kremlin on Wednesday also dismissed the US determination that Russia had targeted election infrastructure during the 2020 presidential election."It is absolutely groundless and unsubstantiated," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, and an "excuse" to impose new sanctions.Tense relationsAccording to US intelligence, Putin and other senior officials "were aware of and probably directed" Russia's influence operation to sway the vote in Trump's favor.It concluded, however, that the election results were not compromised.Russia faced allegations of US election meddling in 2016 for launching a social media campaign to boost Trump's candidacy and discredit his opponent Hillary Clinton.After Biden's victory over Trump, Putin was among the last world leaders to congratulate the newly elected Democratic president.Tensions between the former Cold War rivals have soared in recent months over hacking allegations and US demands that Russia free Navalny.The Commerce Department said the new sanctions prevent export to Russia of more items controlled for national security reasons, including technology and software."The Department of Commerce is committed to preventing Russia from accessing sensitive US technologies that might be diverted to its malign chemical weapons activities," it said.Navalny returned to Russia in January after being treated for the poisoning in Germany, and is serving a two-and-a-half year jail term in a penal colony outside Moscow.The latest sanctions add to US penalties imposed on Moscow since Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-recalls-envoy-biden-s-pay-the-price-warning-prompts-diplomatic-crisis-101616018400493.html
18-03-2021||World||Hardline Hefazat-e-Islam supporters attack Hindu village in Bangladesh: Report||Thousands of hardline Islamist organisation Hefazat-e-Islam supporters on Wednesday attacked a Hindu village in Shalla upazila of Sunamgan district, after a Hindu man criticised the group joint-secretary general Mawlana Mufti Mamunul's speech in social media post.A young Hindu man from Noagaon, Shalla upazila allegedly made a Facebook post criticizing Mamunul, who opposed the sculpture of Bangabandhu on Tuesday.After this, a mob with makeshift weapons attacked the village on Wednesday, Dhaka Tribune reported.Hefazat leaders in the area had already staged a protest on Tuesday night, accusing the social media post of inciting religious violence.To bring the situation under control, the police arrested the youth the same night.However, several thousand followers of Hefazat leader Mamunul Haque from Kashipur, Nachni, Chandipur and some other Muslim-populated villages gathered in Noagaon village at around 9 am on Wednesday and attacked the homes of local Hindus.According to the police, 70-80 houses were vandalized in the incident.Habibpur union chairman Vivekananda Majumder Bakul said several houses in the village had been attacked.Many local Hindus fled their homes to save themselves. The followers of Hefazat-e-Islam entered the village, ransacked and looted many houses.An umbrella platform for ulema (religious scholars), Hefazat-e-Islam was established in 2010 in Chittagong ostensibly to defend Islam from ruling Awami League's allegedly anti-Islamic policies, especially a proposed policy to confer equal inheritance rights to womenIn 2013, it mobilized its supporters against surging secular activism in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hardline-hefazat-e-islam-supporters-attack-hindu-village-in-bangladesh-report-101616007480061.html
18-03-2021||India||SC to hear plea against fresh sale of electoral bonds||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear next week a plea to stop the fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of these bonds. A bench headed by the Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, fixed March 24 to hear a new application by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which has requested that the court restrain sales of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. The elections start on March 27, and end on April 29. the counting of votes is on May 2. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing ADR, mentioned the matter before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, for an urgent listing of the case. Solicitor general (S-G) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Central government, informed the bench that attorney general KK Venugopal appeared in this case on behalf of the government which has no objection to the plea being heard next week. “In a matter like this, we are sure you will find some time,” the CJI told the S-G, fixing the matter for a hearing on March 24. The new application has been moved in a pending petition on this issue by the same organisation filed in 2017. The plea stated: “There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks a direction that no further opening of window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition.” The petitioner pointed out that the petition challenging electoral bonds has been pending in the Supreme Court since September 2017. The matter was last heard on January 20 last year following which ADR requested the court in October last year to list the matter ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. However, the matter was not listed. In its 2017 PIL, ADR sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act providing an anonymous route for political parties to receive corporate funding through electoral bonds be struck down. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added. “The Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy,” that application filed by ADR stated, adding that the Finance Act of 2017 exempts use of electoral bonds from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act.  ADR moved applications in March 2019 and again in November 2019 to stay the implementation of the Electoral Bond Scheme but these were not granted. In April 2019, the Supreme Court, in an interim order, asked political parties to disclose to the Election Commission in sealed covers details of donations received by way of electoral bonds. In the same order, the top court observed that the matter of electoral bonds gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” which require an in-depth hearing. The fresh application filed on March 9 said: “As per data on Electoral Bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for the FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19, the ruling party had received more than 60% of the total electoral bonds issued till date.” So far more than ₹6,500 crore worth of electoral bonds have been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party, ADR claimed.Out of more than ₹ 6,000 crores worth of Electoral Bonds sold so far, nearly ₹ 2,551 crores were sold in 2018-19. As per the annual audit report submitted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the Election Commission, the party received the highest amount of electoral bonds amounting to ₹1450.89 crores i.e. 56.9% of the total. The Congress received nearly ₹ 383.26 crores which is 15% of the total. The amount received by the BJP in 2018-19 was nearly 7 times the amount of the previous year and alone constituted 60.2% of the total income, whereas in the previous year, it was only 20.4%. Electoral bonds received by Congress in 2018-19 amounted to ₹ 383.26 crores whereas it was only ₹ 5 crores in 2017-18. Electoral bonds accounted for 41.7% of the total income earned by INC in 2018-19, while it was only 2.5% of the income in 2017-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-against-fresh-sale-of-electoral-bonds-101616092156279.html
18-03-2021||India||Consider lawyers for vaccine priority, top court asks government||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to consider prioritising lawyers for Covid-19 vaccinations since “their livelihood depends on meeting people” even as the government maintained that a “vegetable vendor” has to meet a far greater number of people to make both ends meet.The top court, however, maintained that the Centre’s expert committee on vaccination should examine the lawyers’ request, calling their concerns “genuine”.“Their meeting people is connected to their livelihood. Advocates can earn money only when they can come in contact with people. And they want to be protected. What we want to know if you have any reservation in hearing the advocates on this point,” said the bench, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, while hearing a public interest litigation that has also sought to include judges and court staff in the priority groups.Representing the government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta retorted that the vaccination for those above 60 years of age, and those between 45 and 59 with 20 identified diseases, was based on their vulnerability and a rational criterion of averting mortality, notwithstanding “someone was a scientist or a villager”.“I don’t belong to any of these classes and hence, I am also not vaccinated. I am from the same fraternity. But how can a 30-year-old lawyer be put on par with a vegetable vendor sitting in a market who has to go through the same hustle-bustle and meet far a greater number of people to earn his livelihood? Tomorrow, journalists may also make the same demand based on their meeting a large number of people,” the SG told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.At this, the bench replied: “We don’t know about the journalists... Whether they need to meet people for their work or whether they must meet people for their work... or whether some can do their work without meeting people.”“We have no doubt India is leading into the vaccination drive and it is doing a great job. And the government has distinguished itself by supplying vaccines to other countries as well. We are not casting any aspersion on anyone. We are asking you that those, who must in order to earn their livelihood meet people, are asking if their claims can be considered or not. This is a genuine concern on behalf of the advocates,” the bench added.The CJI added: “A government always has to deal with sections of people. We are asking the government to deal with this section of people and see what it can do.”Mehta then sought instructions from the officials of the Union health ministry and accepted the bench’s suggestion. “Let them (lawyers) make a representation that will be given to the expert committee and we will respond in three to four days,” he told the bench. The court fixed the matter for a hearing next week.The bench, noting that the PIL was already pending before it, restrained the Delhi high court from proceeding with a suo motu (registered on its own) case on prioritising lawyers for Covid-19 jabs and seeking details from the vaccine manufacturers on their capacity.Entertaining the transfer plea by vaccine manufacturers, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, the bench said that the SC would hear all the issues and posted the matter next week, awaiting a response from the expert committee on prioritising lawyers.Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the transfer petitions on behalf of SII and Bharat Biotech. The duo sought suo motu proceedings before the Delhi HC to be stayed, pointing out that it would lead to problems if every high court in the country began its own exercise of deciding who should be defined as frontline workers and be vaccinated on priority.“The high court order says we must disclose our stock and capacity to produce vaccines. We don’t want these details out in the public domain because someone could take undue advantage. This is an all-India issue. Let this be decided by the highest court,” said Rohatgi.Salve added: “I say so as a senior member of the Bar that it is a little embarrassing to see the manner in which this matter has been taken up (by HC). For a court to say whether lawyers are frontline workers or not is embarrassing. When age has a reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved, I don’t see why a court should decide who should be given the vaccine first.”The SG supported their plea for transfer of the high court case to the top court, saying the government would satisfy the conscience of the court about all the issues involved.The court then issued a notice on the transfer petition relating to the Delhi high court , while Salve said he would amend SII’s petition to also seek transfer of another case pending before the Bombay high court on the same issue.The top court has also issued a notice to the Centre on a plea by former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), KK Aggarwal, on the inclusion in the priority groups of those younger than 45 years, but with identified comorbidities (other health conditions that increase their vulnerability to Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-lawyers-for-vaccine-priority-top-court-asks-government-101616091020257.html
18-03-2021||India||Arindam Bagchi to be next ministry of external affairs spokesperson||Arindam Bagchi, an officer of the 1995 batch of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), was on Thursday named the next spokesperson of the external affairs ministry as part of a reshuffle, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Bagchi is currently joint secretary (North) in the ministry and heads the division responsible for relations with Nepal and Bhutan. The current ministry spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava, is set to become the next joint secretary (North), the people said. Srivastava, an officer of the 1999 batch of IFS, had taken over as the spokesperson in April last year. Before that, he had served as India’s ambassador to Ethiopia and the African Union. Bagchi, who was appointed as joint secretary (North) in June 2020, had been in contention for the post of spokesperson last year. He has earlier served as the ambassador to Croatia (2018-20), the deputy high commissioner to Sri Lanka (2014-18), and as a director in the Prime Minister’s Office (2010-14). He has also done stints in India’s permanent mission to the UN in New York and in the embassies in Peru and Spain. Srivastava, who has degrees in engineering and business management, worked in the corporate sector before joining the IFS. He also served at the permanent mission to the UN in Geneva and headed the finance division of the foreign ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arindam-bagchi-to-be-next-ministry-of-external-affairs-spokesperson-101616090237057.html
18-03-2021||India||Russia leg almost over, Gaganyaan astronauts to start simulation, crew module tests in India soon||Four astronauts selected for India’s first human spaceflight will start their mission-specific training in India by May or June, the government said on Thursday, with the Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots almost at the end of their generic space training in Russia.In his August 15 speech in 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that India would send a human mission, Gaganyaan, to space in the 75th year of Independence. With the Covid-19 pandemic, however, the mission is likely to get delayed.“Due to Covid pandemic and subsequent budgetary guidelines, programmatic milestones of Gaganyaan Programme are reassessed and are as follows; First unmanned flight: December 2021 Second unmanned flight: 2022-23 Manned flight: After successful completion of the above two flights. ISRO is making all efforts to make up the schedule delays due to Covid,” minister of state for department of space Jitendra Singh said in a reply in the Lok Sabha.Currently, the astronauts are undergoing generic space training such as survival in snow, water and steppe, parabolic flight, orbital mechanics and astro-navigation at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre in Russia.For the India leg of the training, the astronauts will be familiarised with India’s crew module and systems. The training will include the simulators of India’s crew module and flight hardware and software, Unnikrishnan Nair, director, Human Spaceflight Centre, has said.An expert team has been constituted to define the training curriculum. It will include training in at least three types of simulators. The independent training simulator will familiarise the crew with the electrical and mechanical user interface and train them in “off-nominal” conditions. The crew module mock-up training simulator will train them in procedures within the crew module, where the three member crew would be seated. The mission simulator will train them in flight hardware and software.“Once they are back from Russia, they will then receive specific training in India for which the simulators have been defined. These are the areas where the industry will be contributing in a rich way to realise the simulators. Each one is more and more complex in terms of the training imparted to the astronauts,” Nair said.In Russia, the astronauts received a 12-month training on astro-navigation, extra-vehicular activity, heat tolerance, how to adjust with depressurisation and working in depressurised modules and gravitational tolerance. They are also being trained for abnormal descent in winter, water, and steppe conditions.The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is in the process of human-rating its systems to ensure that there are enough redundancies to make the rockets safe for crew members. An inter-agency certification board has been constituted for providing human-rating certification for the mission, according to the Lok Sabha reply by the government.The space agency has already tested the liquid-fuel Vikas engine and the cryogenic engine to be used for the mission. The solid booster engine and the crew escape system will be tested by the space agency this year, the government said. The fabrication of hardware for the ground test as well as the unmanned mission is at an advanced stage. A national-level Gaganyaan Advisory Council has been constituted for planning and coordination for the mission, according to the government.The Indian Navy has been identified as the lead agency for recovery operations such as getting the crew back after they return to Earth, it said.The pandemic has also delayed other big-ticket missions that Isro planned for the year, including India’s first solar mission – Aditya L1 – scheduled for mid-2020. Apart from the solar mission, Isro was to also send a lander-rover mission to moon either by 2020-end or 2021 beginning.The agency is yet to set a date for its third mission to the Moon. The government green-lit the third mission soon after the lander-rover of the Chandrayaan 2 mission crashed and lost communication just 2.1km from the surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-leg-almost-over-gaganyaan-astronauts-to-start-simulation-crew-module-tests-in-india-soon-101616089792223.html
18-03-2021||India||Ask Kejriwal why no woman minister in his govt: Delhi BJP to DCW chief||Appreciating DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal for issuing a notice to Delhi Police over the lack of woman SHO in the force, the Delhi BJP on Thursday said she should also question Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal why there was no women minister in his government.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had recently issued a notice to the city police, seeking reasons for no female station house officer (SHO) at any police station.In a letter to Maliwal, Delhi BJP vice president Virendra Sachdeva appreciated her concern and said she should also send a notice to Kejriwal asking him the reason for not including any woman in his cabinet.Every government in Delhi from 1993 till 2014, had women ministers. However, the Kejriwal government discontinued this tradition despite having several women MLAs in his party, Sachdeva said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-kejriwal-why-no-woman-minister-in-his-govt-delhi-bjp-to-dcw-chief-101616088448401.html
18-03-2021||India||Nepal draws inspiration from India's democracy, says envoy||Noting the strong bilateral ties with New Delhi, Nepal's Ambassador to India, Nilambar Acharya on Thursday said the Himalayan nation draws inspiration from India's democracy and also praised its vaccine programme."We (India and Nepal) are close friends. Nepal draws inspiration from India's democracy. The meeting (with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla) reflected the affinity the two countries share with each other," Ambassador Acharya told ANI.Nepal Ambassador made the remarks after his visit to parliament and meeting with Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla.He also lauded New Delhi's vaccine programme saying that India is a vaccine power."India's vaccine programme is wonderful. India is a vaccine power. We are thankful to India for a vaccine grant of Covishield. And India has provided vaccine to many countries free of charge and they are providing on a commercial basis also," Ambassador Acharya said.On the ongoing political crisis in Nepal, Acharya said, "In a democracy, it happens sometimes. It will be settled and democracy will move forward. By overcoming difficulties one becomes stronger."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-draws-inspiration-from-india-s-democracy-says-envoy-101616086633116.html
18-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh temporarily stops bus service to and from Maharashtra||The Madhya Pradesh state transport authority announced on Thursday that it is temporarily suspending bus services with Maharashtra, which has been badly hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The temporary suspension of inter-state bus service will come into effect from March 20 and will remain in place till March 31, news agency ANI reported.The decision was taken by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation with municipal commissioners and district collectors, ANI quoted an official as saying. The order was issued to check the spread of the disease in Madhya Pradesh, the official added.The government has already advised officials in border districts to place the passengers arriving from Maharashtra in week-long quarantine.Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 917 coronavirus positive cases, taking its tally to 2,71,957 while with one more death, the toll rose to 3,894.Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, recorded 25,833 new cases of Covid-19 - its highest ever since the beginning of the pandemic. This took the state's caseload to 23,96,340, while the death toll jumped to 53,138 with 58 new fatalities.The earlier record was 24,886 cases, reported on September 11 last year.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked divisional commissioners to ensure that restrictions announced to curb the spread of Covid-19 are implemented strictly in view of the spike in the number of infection cases.The state is in the beginning of second Covid-19 wave, a central team report had said earlier this week.On Thursday, 12,764 patients were discharged from hospitals, the highest in single day this year.The total of recoveries now stands at 21,75,565. There are 1,66,353 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-temporarily-stops-bus-service-to-and-from-maharashtra-101616086511723.html
18-03-2021||India||Manipal institute campus declared a containment zone after 59 people test positive for Covid-19||The prestigious Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) in Karnataka's Udupi district was declared as containment zone by the administration after 59 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past few days.District Health Officer Dr Sudhidra Chandra Suda said that 33 people tested positive for the disease in Udupi on Wednesday, out of which 27 were from MIT. "Most students who tested positive are from other states. Some first contacts with the Covid-19 positive have also tested positive. The district health administration has declared the campus as a containment zone," he added.The MIT administration has already decided to conduct all theory classes in online mode and defer the laboratory, practical and contact classes to a later date."Pending end semester examination of First semester B.Tech will be rescheduled to a later date," the institution said in a letter on Wednesday.The state has reported a surge in the coronavirus disease cases in the last two weeks and travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala have been mandated to carry negative Covid-19 test certificates.Karnataka reported as many as 1,488 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Thursday. This is the third straight day when the state's Covid-19 tally has been in four figures.Eight more people died, which takes the death toll to 12,415 across the state. The number of active cases in Karnataka stands at 11,359.On the same day, the state government said that the daily tests of Covid-19 will be increased to one lakh in the state.The Karnataka government on Monday said that it is putting together a concerted effort involving healthcare workers, officials and other personnel to prevent the second wave of covid-19 in the state. K Sudhakar, Karnataka's health and family welfare and medical education minister said that all agencies and personnel will work on "mission mode" for the next 50 days to prevent a rise in positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipal-institute-campus-declared-a-containment-zone-101616085624070.html
18-03-2021||India||'Centre wants to govern Delhi by proxy': Mamata Banerjee supports Kejriwal over NCT bill||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote a letter to her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, supporting him over the opposition to National Capital Territory (NCT) bill introduced by the Centre recently in Parliament. Banerjee said the Centre's move was "devious, anti-democratic and anti-constitution"."I stand in full solidarity with you in your principled opposition to Centre's devious, anti-democratic and anti-constitution move to disempower Delhi government and reduce status of Delhi CM to a subordinate to the Lieutenant Governor," Banerjee said in her letter.On Monday, the Centre tabled the 'Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Parliament that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor. The bill mandates that 'government' referred to in any law passed by the legislative assembly would directly mean the L-G and not the government. It also makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action.Since its introduction in the lower house of Parliament or Lok Sabha, the bill sparked major protests from the Delhi government. It also revived the old-running power tussle between the Centre and the Delhi government over the control of the national capital. Kejriwal says that the Centre's legislation seeks to drastically curtail the powers of an elected city government. But the Centre says that the bill will "promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the lieutenant governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court." The Centre's stand was laid out in a statement attached with the draft legislation, attributed to Union home minister Amit Shah.The bill is the "surgical strike on the federal structure of the Indian Republic," said Banerjee in the letter. The bill "also makes a mockery of the letter and spirit of the democracy by disempowering the Delhi government," she added.Underlining the 2018 verdict of the Supreme Court, the West Bengal chief minister pointed out that "the bill violates the unambiguous verdict... which upheld the pre-eminence of Delhi's elected government in all matters other than police, public order and land".She further sharpened her attack against the BJP government and said, "It is evident to all that both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have not been able to stomach the humiliating defeat the BJP suffered at the hands of the Aam Aadmi Party in both 2014 and 2019 assembly elections.""I am not at all surprised by the BJP's move to strip away the legitimate powers of the Delhi Government," she also said in the letter. "They want to govern Delhi by proxy, which is the real purpose of the proposed amendments to the GNCTD Act," Banerjee added.The letter comes as Banerjee is engaged in a fierce battle in West Bengal with the BJP ahead of the assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-wants-to-govern-delhi-by-proxy-mamata-banerjee-supports-kejriwal-over-nct-bill-101616084402152.html
18-03-2021||India||Gaganyaan: Astronauts set to finish training in Russia this month, says minister||The training of four astronauts in Russia for India's first human space flight will complete this month and the second phase of training, which will be module specific, is scheduled to take place in the country, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Thursday.India's first human space flight, 'Gaganyaan', will be preceded by an unmanned flight by 2021, followed by another flight carrying "Vyom Mitra"."Four astronauts are being trained for India's first human space flight. Their one-year training in Russia is completing this month, with some delay on account of the COVID pandemic," Singh told PTI."The second phase of training, which will be module specific, is scheduled to take place in India," the minister said.The 'Gaganyan' flight, estimated to be around ₹9,023 crore, is scheduled sometime before or on the eve of the 75th anniversary of India's independence.India's heaviest launch vehicle, 'Bahubali' GSLV Mark-III, will carry astronauts to space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-astronauts-set-to-finish-training-in-russia-this-month-says-minister-101616083166538.html
18-03-2021||India||‘A word picked up, blown up’: Tirath Rawat’s wife on his ripped jeans remark||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s wife, professor Rashmi Tyagi, has rallied behind her husband over his “ripped jeans” comment, saying it was “blown out of context” and “wrongly interpreted”. Clarifying further, she said her husband was making a point about blindly aping western culture while ignoring one’s own. “He was talking about how we are aping western culture blindly and not following our own traditions and values which are seeped with thousands of years of cultural wisdom. But his one word was picked up and blown out of context and wrongly interpreted. He spoke for nearly one hour, but nobody talks about the whole theme he was trying to focus on. Did he say only one word-jeans?” asked Prof Tyagi, who teaches psychology at Garhwal university.On Tuesday, CM Rawat made the comments about distressed jeans while discussing substance abuse at a workshop organised by the Uttarakhand state commission for protection of child rights in Dehradun. “Showing bare knees by wearing ripped jeans just to look like rich kids is the value given now which is just a race towards westernisation when the western world today are following us. Ripped jeans pave the way for societal breakdown and is a bad example parents set for children,” said the CM while recounting an encounter with a woman wearing distressed jeans in a plane. The new CM’s remarks drew flak with women rights activists and opposition Congress panning him for his controversial remarks. Prof Tyagi said her husband can never say such things as his intention was altogether different. “My husband was saying that our food and dress should be in tune with the local culture and aping Western culture blindly was not the right thing. It is our moral responsibility to keep alive our culture and traditions”, she said. “My husband has been doing such good work for the last four days, why are they not focusing on that, debating that. There are so many more pressing issues people are facing in the country; why is that not being discussed,” she said. Tyagi said her husband has been a big supporter of women related issues. “My husband has a progressive and mature outlook. He has reached this point because of his positive behaviour with people, with party cadre. He works in accordance with the sentiments of people and takes a lot of care about what people feel about various issues,” she stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-word-picked-up-blown-up-tirath-rawat-s-wife-on-his-ripped-jeans-remark-101616083156406.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Minister gives reason for ex- Mumbai top cop's transfer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Serious and unforgivable mistakes': Maharashtra minister on why Mumbai police chief was transferredA day after Mumbai police commissioner Pram Bir Singh was shunted out by the Maharashtra government, a state minister gave the reason for the decision. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday that Singh was transferred after some of his colleagues committed "serious and unforgivable mistakes". Read moreGovt announces vehicle scrappage policy: All you need to knowThe central government on Thursday announced the long-awaited vehicle scrappage policy, which was announced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech. Calling the policy a "win-win" for everyone, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said that it will reduce pollution and increase road safety. Read moreEU to slap sanctions on Chinese officials over rights abuses in Xinjiang: ReportEuropean Union officials have approved sanctions on Chinese officials, who are accused of human rights abuses in Xinjiang province. The penalties were approved at preparatory meetings for next week's Foreign Affairs Council, according to people familiar with the discussions. Read moreKareena Kapoor can't stop staring at her newborn baby. Check out her new picKareena Kapoor Khan says she just can't help staring at her newborn son. She made the comment even as she posted a new picture of herself but not her son. She wrote: "Can't stop staring... at him." The black and white picture shows her in a relaxed mode at home and looking downwards. Read moreHigh in 'Sky': Suryakumar starts off with astonishing one-legged six off ArcherSuryakumar Yadav started his international career as a batsman in an India shirt with a majestic shot that many wouldn't have expected a player playing his first international innings to go for on the very first delivery he faced. Read moreIf Popeye came to India, he'd surely binge on this dinner recipe of Palak PaneerAs a wonderful source of iron, folate, chlorophyll, Vitamin E, magnesium, Vitamin A, fibre, plant protein and Vitamin C, spinach or palak is one green vegetable that must certainly be included in your diet for being packed with varied health benefits and so, we are whipping up some Palak Paneer for dinner. Read more5 air conditioner myths busted just in time for summerCan you imagine being stuck at home without an air conditioner during the lockdown? Air conditioners (ACs) have become a quintessential part of our lives given the fluctuating climatic conditions. And these gadgets have evolved from just being big cooling machines to sleek appliances that are suitable for use throughout the year to maintain comfortable indoor temperature. Read moreGordon Ramsay’s daughter Tilly pranks him with raw egg and water. WatchCelebrity chef and restaurateur Gordon Ramsay was on the receiving end of a naughty prank played on him by his daughter and the Internet’s here for it. A video posted by the renowned chef on Insatgram shows how Tilly Ramsay pulled off the prank on him and it’s since collecting a ton of reactions on Instagram. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-minister-gives-reason-for-ex-mumbai-top-cop-s-transfer-101616080748347.html
18-03-2021||India||Ahmedabad to be under extended night curfew from Friday as Covid-19 cases rise||Amid the rising number of cases in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat government on Thursday increased the timing of night curfew in the city. From Friday, the restrictions will remain in place from 9pm to 6am instead of 10pm to 6am, the district administration said, according to news agency ANI.The order further said that all shopping malls and movie theatres in the city will remain shut on Saturday and Sunday, ANI reported.Ahmedabad, being one of the high caseload cities in Gujarat, has been facing several restrictions. The city's civic body on Wednesday ordered the closure of all gardens and parks till further orders. Apart from this, bus services coming under the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System have also been suspended until further orders.Gujarat on Wednesday registered 1,122 fresh Covid-19 disease cases and three more related fatalities, pushing the caseload and death toll to 2,81,173 and 4,430 respectively. The active cases have climbed to 5,310 and more than 2,71,000 people have recovered so far.Gujarat: Night curfew to remain in force from 9 pm to 6 am in Ahmedabad from tomorrow. Malls and cinema halls to remain close on Saturday and Sunday.Wednesday’s case count in Gujarat has been the highest for the first time in nearly three months. Surat added the most number of cases (353), followed by Ahmedabad (271), Vadodara (114) and Rajkot (112). The three new fatalities were reported from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara.Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the overall situation in Gujarat where it was decided to increase daily Covid-19 testing and administering vaccine doses apart from focusing on contact tracing and increasing the number of micro containment areas. More than 28.5 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the disease till now.Rupani said during the review meeting that 3,00,000 lakh vaccine doses will be administered on a daily basis against the 1,50,000 doses which were being given before, according to a release issued by the chief minister's office (CMO). The vaccination figures would increase by increasing the number of vaccination centres and extending operation hours till 9pm, the release added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-gujarat-s-ahmedabad-from-march-19-between-9pm6am-101616079899686.html
18-03-2021||India||Man dies two days after Covid shot, autopsy finds brain haemorrhage||A labourer died in this district two days after getting vaccinated against coronavirus but doctors have not linked the death to the inoculation.An autopsy report identified brain haemorrhage as the cause of 38-year-old Lalmani’s death, chief medical officer PD Gupta said on Thursday.Dr Gupta also said there was also swelling in the man’s liver and spleen.It was not immediately clear whether the man, described as a labourer from Bahuti Basita village, was a frontline worker and entitled to a Covid-19 shot under that category.Lalmani was vaccinated at the government-run Lalganj primary health centre on Monday.His wife Meera said he complained of body ache and lethargy after getting the shot and was rushed to hospital on Wednesday morning when his condition turned serious.He was given medicines there but he vomited and died, she said.The body was sent for a post- mortem examination following Meera’s allegations and the report received the same night.The opinion of the doctors who conducted the post-mortem was that excessive bleeding in the brain led to the death, the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-two-days-after-covid-shot-autopsy-finds-brain-haemorrhage-101616079246618.html
18-03-2021||India||India, Kuwait announce joint commission to boost ties in energy||India and Kuwait on Thursday announced the creation of a joint commission to further institutionalise their relations in areas ranging from energy to defence and to forge a framework for cooperation in the future. The decision to establish the joint commission co-chaired by the foreign ministers of the two sides was part of a joint statement issued at the end of Kuwaiti foreign minister Ahmed Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah’s brief visit to New Delhi. Al-Sabah, who arrived late last night, held talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar before leaving for Pakistan. Al-Sabah and Jaishankar reviewed all aspects of bilateral ties and discussed regional developments. India is among the largest trading partners of Kuwait, and bilateral trade was worth $10.86 billion during 2019-20. India’s imports, mainly oil, were worth $9.6 billion in this period. Kuwait was the 10th largest oil supplier to India during 2019-20 and met 3.8% of the country’s energy needs. Kuwait is also home to nearly 900,000 Indian expatriates. The joint commission will act as an umbrella for all bilateral institutional engagements such as foreign office consultations and joint working groups. Apart from existing working groups on hydrocarbons, manpower and mobility, and healthcare, new groups will be created on trade and investment, defence and security, and maritime cooperation. The joint commission will work to strengthen ties in the fields of energy, trade, investment, manpower, skills, science and technology, IT, health and education. It will also review existing bilateral agreements and find solutions to any hurdles in their implementation. Al-Sabah thanked the Indian government for supplying 200,000 doses of Covishield vaccines to Kuwait in February. Jaishankar, in turn, thanked the Kuwaiti government for taking care of the large Indian community during the pandemic. He hoped the Indian community will be able to resume travel to Kuwait in big numbers soon. Ahead of his talks with Jaishankar, Al-Sabah told a small group of reporters late on Wednesday that Kuwait is looking to India and the world community to help revive the peace process between Palestinians and Israelis as allowing the matter to linger could jeopardise any potential for progress. He described the Abraham Accords signed by Israel and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) members such as Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as sovereign decisions by countries regarding the conduct of foreign relations. “Saying that, we think that the peace process is very important. We think that now it is the opportune time to revive the peace process between the Palestinians and the Israelis. We think that if we leave the peace process to linger even further...it might jeopardise any potential for it to see the light of day,” he said. “And it needs the understanding and the support of the whole international community, including India, in this matter,” he added. Al-Sabah lauded India for standing by Kuwait in its “darkest moments and in our direst time”, including the provision of medical aid at the peak of the pandemic last year. He singled out the “white army of Indian nationals” – or nurses and doctors – who were combating Covid-19 alongside Kuwaitis. India had deployed a 15-member medical rapid response team to Kuwait last April to help in testing and treating infected people. Al-Sabah also played down a bill on reducing the number of foreign nationals that was discussed by Kuwait’s Parliament last year, saying it was only aimed at illegal residents. Kuwait’s population of 4.1 million includes 1.4 million Kuwaitis and almost 900,000 Indians, he noted. “They [Indians] share with us our bread and butter. They have contributed very much and are still contributing in our development and strengthening our cooperation,” he said. “The Indian community is an element of security of Kuwait and also an integral part of the new generation ahead as they are very much involved in our education system. The bill discussed last year was only for illegal expats in Kuwait and is not aimed at any of the more than 170 nationalities present in the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-kuwait-announce-joint-commission-to-boost-ties-in-energy-101616079076167.html
18-03-2021||India||Govt announces vehicle scrappage policy: All you need to know||The central government on Thursday announced the long-awaited vehicle scrappage policy, which was announced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech. Calling the policy a "win-win" for everyone, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said that it will reduce pollution and increase road safety.As per the new policy, in case of failure to get a fitness certificate, commercial vehicles will be de-registered after 15 years, said Gadkari. Private vehicles will be de-registered after 20 years if found unfit or in case of a failure to renew registration certificates, he added.The policy is touted as a major step to boost the Indian automobile sector, reeling under the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Once it is implemented, the scrappage policy will make India the world's largest automobile hub in the next five years, Gadkari stated in Parliament.The rules for fitness tests and scrapping centres are likely to be notified by October 1 of this year.On February 1, the Union finance minister announced a vehicle scrapping policy in an attempt to give a boost to the automobile manufacturing sector and lower carbon emissions.Here is all you need to know about the policy:1) Personal vehicles will be required to undergo a fitness test at government-certified fitness centres. Owners can scrap their vehicles anywhere in the country irrespective of their registration place.2) The policy will not be applicable on vintage cars.3) Appointment for fitness centres may be booked online, according to the new guidelines. Test reports will be generated in an electronic mode.4) In case of failure to obtain fitness certification or found unfit, vehicles will be de-registered.5) The government also proposed that all vehicles of the central government, state government, municipal corporation, panchayats, state transport undertakings, public sector undertakings and autonomous bodies with the Union and state governments may be de-registered and scrapped after 15 years from the date of registration. The tentative date for scrappage of government and PSUs vehicles above 15 years of age is April 1, 2022.6) The owners will be provided with a scrapping certificate after which they will be eligible for the incentives proposed under the scheme.7) The incentives include scrap value for the old vehicle, which will be approximately 4-6% of the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle.8) The state governments may be advised to offer a road-tax rebate of up to 25% for personal vehicles and up to 15% for commercial vehicles.9) The vehicle manufacturers are also advised for providing a discount of 5% on the purchase of a new vehicle.10) The registration fees may also be waived for the purchase of a new vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-vehicle-scrappage-policy-all-you-need-to-know-101616078006047.html
18-03-2021||India||Mallya, Nirav Modi & Mehul Choksi all coming back to face law: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back" to India" to face the law.The government is persuing extradition of Mallya and Modi from the UK while Choksi is believed to be in Antigua.Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill.Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over ₹9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016.Nirav Modi and his maternal uncle Choksi fled the country allegedly after committing fraud in the public sector lender Punjab National Bank. Modi is accused of committing a fraud of $2 billion (around ₹14,500 crore) in the PNB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mallya-nirav-modi-mehul-choksi-all-coming-back-to-face-law-fm-101616076500697.html
18-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes bill to raise FDI in insurance to 74%||A bill to increase foreign direct investment limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from the current 49 per cent was approved by the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.Replying to the debate on Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said foreign investment will supplement domestic long-term resources with a view to further insurance penetration in the country.The bill was passed with a voice vote.Sitharaman said the decision to increase the FDI limit to 74 per cent was taken after sector regulator IRDAI held detailed consultations with stakeholders.As per the bill, the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50 per cent of directors being independent directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as a general reserve.It was in 2015 when the government had last hiked the FDI cap in the insurance sector from 26 per cent to 49 per cent.Increase in FDI is aimed at improving life insurance penetration in the country. Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP is 3.6 per cent in the country, way below the global average of 7.13 per cent, and in case of general insurance, it is even worse at 0.94 per cent of GDP, as against the world average of 2.88 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-raise-fdi-in-insurance-to-74-101616076257854.html
18-03-2021||India||Assam: Politics over tea, wages and a court order in poll season||On Tuesday, the Gauhati high court directed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam not to take coercive action against tea garden owners over non-compliance of a recent order to increase daily wages of tea-garden workers in the state. Acting on a petition by Indian Tea Association, the biggest organisation of tea producers in India, and 17 other petitioners, justice Michael Zothankhuma ruled that tea garden owners were at liberty to pay workers any interim enhancement of wages, they deemed proper, till the issue was decided by the court. The order follows another one by the court a few days back, staying the government order in February to raise daily wages of tea workers by ₹50, from ₹167 to ₹217. The move ahead of the assembly polls was aimed at wooing the tea-tribe community. The ITA and other tea planters approached the court challenging the order. While the court directive comes as a relief for tea planters, it might not be so for two major political parties in the poll-bound state-- the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress. While the saffron outfit announced an increase in daily wages (and also daily ration allowance of ₹101, taking the total to ₹318 per day), the Congress said it guaranteed an increase in daily wages to ₹365 if it came to power in Assam. Significantly, the HC fixed the next date of hearing in the present case on April 23, by which time, polling in Assam will be over. The state goes to polls in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. Tea-tribe and Politics Tea-tribes as they are called in Assam are a community of workers or families of former workers in tea-gardens, spread across most districts of Upper Assam. The workers were brought here from West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh etc in several phases from the mid-19th and mid-20th centuries by British tea planters. Over the years, the community has grown and at present it comprises around 17% of Assam’s total population of 31 million. Around a million of them are still employed in the 800 big gardens, some in small tea holdings, while some have left work in tea gardens for other professions. Due to their sizable numbers, the community plays a key role in outcome on around 35-40 of the total 126 assembly seats. Political parties routinely give tickets to members of the community and over the past decades, several of them have become ministers in both the state and Central governments. But the lot of most members of the community hasn’t improved much as their health, education and sanitation levels are still poor, making them one of the most marginalised sections despite their numbers. The community was traditionally considered a Congress vote bank. But in the past few years, the BJP has been able to make inroads. In the first phase, polling will take place in 47 seats in the tea-rich belt. In 2016, when BJP came to power for the first time, the party along with ally Asom Gana Parishad won 35 of these seats (BJP alone won 27). Since coming to power, the BJP-led government has launched many schemes targeting the tea-tribe community, including promise of granting them scheduled tribe status, cash benefits to pregnant women, reservation of seats in educational institutions, setting up schools in tea gardens as well as providing mobile phones, bicycles, money to meritorious students and funds to youths to set up small businesses. “We have been implementing several schemes for the tea-tribes community over the years. The schemes have earned heavy praise from members of the community,” finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the state assembly last month, while presenting a vote on account. He mentioned how the government has opened 730,000 bank accounts for tea workers and transferred ₹2500 to each account in two tranches and ₹3000 in the third tranche. Organisations of tea garden workers have been demanding an increase in the daily wages to ₹351 for long. In 2018, the state government in an interim order increased daily wages of tea workers by ₹30 from ₹137 to ₹167. While the earlier order was yet to be notified, another interim order was issued in February this year, taking the total hike to ₹80. The move came a few days after the Congress promised to increase the daily wages of tea workers to ₹365. Accusing the ruling BJP-led government in the state of exploiting the tea garden workers and giving benefit to businessmen from Gujarat, Rahul Gandhi promised at a rally in Sivasagar on February 14 that if the Congress returned to power in the state it will increase daily wage of tea workers from present ₹167 to ₹365. During her visit to Assam a few days after her brother, Priyanka Gandhi also made it a point to visit homes of tea workers, interact with them and even pluck tea leaves.The tea tribe community has two Lok Sabha MPs and one in Rajya Sabha, all three are from the BJP. One of them Rameshwar Teli is also a minister in the Narendra Modi government. In this election, BJP has given tickets to four members from the community, including two sitting MLAs. State minister Sanjay Kishan from Tinsukia is one of them. On the other hand, Congress has given tickets to six tea tribe members including three sitting legislators.Daily Wages and Economics While political parties try to woo tea workers with promises of increased wages and other schemes, the tea industry, which is trying to recover after the loss of production due to Covid-19 lockdown and other restrictions, feels interventions by governments could hurt the industry more. Assam produces more than half of India’s total tea output. On an average, the 180-year-old industry produces around 650-700 million kg of tea annually. While around half of this comes from the 800 big gardens, small tea growers, who are nearly 70,000 in number, account for the rest. As tea production is a labour intensive industry which involves plucking of tea leaves by workers, nearly half of the costs of companies goes to paying wages. “Nearly 60-70% of our expenses go on the salaries of workers. Earlier, wages were decided between workers and the tea garden owners through discussions. But now political parties have stepped in for political reasons. There can’t be a sweeping order as all gardens have different issues, cost of production and profits. We also know workers need more money, but to do that, we also need more money. Any increase in wages has to be feasible and should not break the industry itself. That’s why we went to court against the government’s interim order hiking wages to ₹217,” said Deboshyam Barua, director of Golaghat-based Dalowjan tea estate and also an office-bearer of Assam Tea Planters Association. “The price of tea hasn’t increased significantly in the past two decades. Some argue that tea-gardens in south India pay much higher wages, so why can’t we? But, while gardens there produce tea almost throughout the year, we do so for a few months. During our meetings with the government, we had suggested that the industry will be able to pay around ₹197 daily to workers. We said that anything higher than that will affect the industry adversely. But the government decided to hike it to ₹217 and pushed us to seek relief from court,” he added. Assam Chah Mazdoor Sanga (ACMS), the most prominent tea workers’ body (affiliated to Congress) accuses the BJP government of playing politics over wages without having any serious intention of implementing it. The government’s move to increase wages by issuing interim orders without notifying them is seen as an attempt in that regard. “The government has been issuing interim orders on wages, the latest one issued days prior to the announcement of polls. Tea gardens found flaws in the order on technical grounds and went to the court, which in turn stayed the government move,” said Pawan Singh Ghatowar, president of ACMS, which is also a party to the HC petition. One of the most prominent politicians from the tea-tribe community, Ghatowar has been elected an MP from Congress five times and was also a union minister. “If the tea industry in Kerala can pay ₹380 daily to workers, why can’t we do it in Assam? The government should also come to the aid of nearly 500,000 workers in small tea gardens, who don’t have any provision of minimum wages or other benefits that workers in big gardens get. A minimum wage for them should also be fixed. If the government can fix wages of those in the unorganized sector why should workers in small tea gardens be left out?” he questioned. Amidst all this, the Assam Tea Tribes Students Association (ATTSA), a student body of the tea community, has called for a complete shutdown of tea gardens across Assam on March 22 in protest against the state government’s alleged negligence towards tea garden workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-politics-over-tea-wages-and-a-court-order-in-poll-season-101616075296172.html
18-03-2021||India||Sikkim issues new Covid-19 rules, no movement of vehicles at night||Sikkim has partially modified its earlier official protocols regarding the Covid-19 situation in the state and issued a fresh set of rules, which include restrictions on vehicular movement at night. The state imposed a 'night curfew' since last night, instructing restaurants, bars, nightclubs, and other commercial establishments to shut shop by 10 pm daily.Yesterday, Sikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang had announced that night curfew will be imposed in the state from Wednesday night in the wake of a spurt in Covid-19 cases.The Sikkim government's official order today was shared by news agency ANI. It is signed by SC Gupta, the chief secretary of the state government, and details the fresh set of protocols concerning measures for containment of the coronavirus disease.Sikkim Government issues measures for containment of #COVID19; There shall be no movement of vehicles from 10:30 pm till 6 am except for emergency purposes, all commercial establishments including restaurants, bars, night clubs, pubs, gyms etc shall close by 10 pm every day. pic.twitter.com/JXijeGw23xRestriction on vehicular movement at night: The new rules in Sikkim dictate that there shall be no movement of vehicles from 10:30 pm to 6 am, except for emergency purposes. The restriction shall also not apply to commercial goods vehicles, including LCVs and vehicles on emergency duty. For every other sort of vehicle, however, the district police have been instructed to ensure compliance with the order.Markets, shops to shut down by 10 pm: All commercial establishments, including restaurants, bars, nightclubs, discos, pubs, and gyms, have been instructed to close by 10 pm every night. In-house guests, staying in the hotels, may however continue enjoying services from the facility, the order added.All such commercial establishments have also been instructed to ensure compliance with the pre-existing Covid-19 protocols — wear masks, practice social distancing, and follow the proper sanitisation procedures.Schools to carry out special awareness drive on Covid-19: All schools, institutions, and establishments in the state have been instructed to carry out a "special drive" to ensure that students, employees, and customers continue to follow the proper Covid-19 protocols, wear masks, and practice social distancing. The police have also been asked to 'strictly enforce' the norms in public places.--Sikkim is one of the 18 states/union territories in India that have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, reported ANI earlier in the day.Chief minister Prem Singh Tamang had appealed to the people of Sikkim yesterday, urging them to regularly wear masks and continue to follow social distancing norms as per the official Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-issues-new-covid-19-rules-no-movement-of-vehicles-at-night-101616072300315.html
18-03-2021||India||India slips to 56th in house price index: Report||Roiled by the pandemic, home prices in India fell 3.6 per cent in December quarter 2020, pushing down its global ranking to the lowest 56th as compared to 43rd in the year-ago period, while Turkey continued to lead the tally, says a report.According to international property consultancy Knight Frank, India was the weakest-performing housing market in October-December last year with a decline of 3.6 per cent year-on-year in prices.The Knight Frank global house price index tracks the movement in mainstream residential prices across 56 countries and territories worldwide using official statistics.During the quarter, Turkey continued to lead the annual rankings with prices up by 30.3 per cent year-on-year, followed by New Zealand at 18.6 per cent and Slovakia at 16 per cent.In the US, the worst affected by the pandemic, the home prices rose 10.4 per cent in the quarter.India's ranking stood at 56th globally in terms of home price appreciation, down 13 notches from 43rd in the same quarter last year, according to the report, which said as much as 89 per cent of the countries and territories saw prices going up in 2020.India was the weakest-performing country, with a yearly decline of 3.6 per cent in home prices, followed by Morocco with a drop of 3.3 per cent, the report said.India had maintained its 43rd position in January-March 2020 as well. It then slipped to 54th in June quarter and retained that in the following three-month period. It further fell to 56th in December quarter 2020 -- the lowest among the 56 mapped markets ,the report said.The fall, due to the pandemic, comes despite the Centre and states taking many steps to create housing demand, and also historic low home loan rates, lower stamp duty and other levies on residential purchases in key markets.Shishir Baijal, chairman of Knight Frank India said the pandemic has changed the end-users' outlook towards home ownership leading many fence-sitters make their purchase decisions."As the vaccine rollout takes place, we expect normality to return, after which the government will have to device measures to extend the current sales momentum," he said.According to the report, 89 per cent of markets saw prices increase in the year, with several emerging markets performing strongly, including Turkey, which leads the index for the fourth consecutive quarter.In the US, the worst affected by the pandemic, the home prices rose 10.4 per cent in the quarter. In Canada and Britain, prices surged 9 per cent each , Japan saw 5 per cent rise, Singapore( 2.5 per cent) and Russia (14 per cent). Hong Kong and Malaysia both saw annual price growth slip into the negative territory.Globally, mainstream residential prices across the 56 key markets rose at an annual rate of 5.6 per cent on average in 2020, compared to 5.3 per cent in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slips-to-56th-in-house-price-index-report-101616071232721.html
18-03-2021||India||Prohibition on use of social media illegal, Air India pilots write to chairman||Air India-Indian Commercial Pilots' Association (ICPA) on Thursday wrote to the Air India chairman, stating that the prohibition on the use of social media and policy introduced by the airline in this regard is illegal and violates a fundamental right."At the outset, we note with alarm that such a Policy introduced by Air India is entirely illegal and with no basis in law whatsoever. By way of the Policy, Air India has effectively imposed a blanket ban or prohibition on the use of social or digital media by all its employees, including those that have superannuated," it said in a letter to the airline's Chairman and MD (CMD) Rajiv Bansal.They said that they have examined the Policy introduced by Air India and it appears that the Policy bars all employees of Air India, both serving and retired employees, from posting any content on social media, including but not limited to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and other such forums."At present, there is no law in India that either empowers or even remotely justifies such an act by an employer, especially Air India, being a State instrumentality under Article 12 of the Constitution, to impose such a blanket ban on the use of social or digital media by its employees. The same, it is reiterated, is without any basis or lawful sanction," the letter reads.They further said that is a veiled threat, imposed on the employees under the garb of a set of guidelines and an advisory."The present Policy introduced by Air India, is also, and most importantly, violates the fundamental right of freedom and speech, guaranteed to the employees of Air India, under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, being citizens of India," it further reads.The union further stated that the policy, unlike social media policies adopted by several other employers, does not even attempt to draw a distinction between the content posted during working hours or from the workplace and that posted after working hours or outside of the workplace."For instance, not only does the Policy not distinguish between content uploaded through an official device and a personal device, the Policy goes on to in fact, expressly include content uploaded through personal devices of all its employees," it reads.The pilot union said that the introduction of a policy is entirely unheard of and infringes upon various rights of its employees."It has also been set out in the Policy that violation of the said guidelines, service regulations and standing orders would be tantamount to misconduct and shall also apply to the employees' online behaviour and conduct on social media or digital platforms," the letter addedIn this regard, we draw your attention to the order dated September 27, 2016, passed by the Supreme Court, in SLP(C) Nos. 12575-12577/2014, wherein it has been categorically recorded as follows, and the questions of law have been referred to a larger bench, comprising three judges:"The present dispute, inter alia, relates to whether Section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 would apply to the respondents herein, by virtue of a 1960 Regulation made under proviso (b) thereof no longer having any effect in law, as a result of the introduction of The Air Corporations (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1994. By Judgment dated 27.01.2014, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court has relied upon a Judgment of this Court in Air India Vs. Union of India reported in (1995) 4 SCC 734, which held that on the coming into force of The Air Corporations (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1994 with effect from 29.01.1994, Regulations made under The Air Corporations Act, 1953 would also come to an end. This Judgment, as has been noted by the impugned Judgment itself, has been referred to a larger Bench by an order dated 11.12.2006 in Civil Appeal No. 5921 of 2006."Earlier Air India has issued letters to all its serving as well as retired employees regarding engagement on Social Media or Digital platforms.In its policy the Air India has said has advised its employees to desist from posting any personal views contradicting the organisation's message or on policy matters related to the aviation sector.The guidelines are valid for all types of participation on social media, including indirect participation, when an employee does not own a profile or social media account but endorses or participates in any content or debate adversely.The Policy also states that Air India reserves the right to monitor comments or discussions about the company, employees, clients and the industry posted by employees on the Internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prohibition-on-use-of-social-media-illegal-air-india-pilots-write-to-chairman-101616071011048.html
18-03-2021||India||Compliance, increased testing: Key points from UP govt's new Covid-19 guidelines||The spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases has led the Uttar Pradesh government to impose stricter guidelines to contain the spread of deadly virus.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said compliance with Covid-19 protocol is essential and that special vigilance is required ahead of panchayat elections and festivals. Contact tracing needs to be strengthened, he assertedClick here for complete coverage of Covid-19"In each case, compliance with the Covid protocol should be ensured. In view of panchayat elections and festivals / festivals, we have to take special vigilance. Contact tracing needs to be speeded up and strengthened," the chief minister's office (CMO) tweeted in Hindi.प्रत्येक दशा में कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का अनुपालन सुनिश्चित किया जाए। पंचायत चुनाव और पर्व/त्योहारों के दृष्टिगत हमें विशेष सतर्कता बरतनी होगी। कॉन्टैक्ट ट्रेसिंग को तेज और सुदृढ़ किए जाने की आवश्यकता है: #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जीIn other tweets, the UP CMO said that the recent rise in Covid-19 infections is a warning to everyone. In the wake of surging cases of the virus the minister said antigen tests should be made mandatory at railway stations, airports, bus stations etc. including an increase in the number of RT-PCR tests. Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals should be kept active at all times in every district of the state, he added.Here are the key points from UP government's guidelines:Chief secretary RK Tiwari has instructed all district magistrates to test people coming from states with higher Covid-19 cases.Gautam Buddh Nagar Police and Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey in Uttar Pradesh have imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) from March 17- April 30 to restrict gathering ahead of festivals.Agressive contact tracing of railway co-passengers of people who test Covid-19 positive. The stations where long distance trains stop should have testing facilities.Intensified surveillance of areas where people have arrived from states with a high number of Covid-19 cases.Strict measures like barricading, pasting stickers on houses of those found Covid-19 positive in containment zones have also been ordered.Region wise calendar of areas has been prepared by the state government for intensive surveillance of people returning in large numbers.Asserting the importance of Covid-19 vaccination, the chief minister also said that the inoculation process is going smoothly in the state and Uttar Pradesh is the first state in the country to administer 33 lakh vaccinations. This situation needs to be improved further, he added.India on Thursday reported the highest spike (35,871) in daily coronavirus cases in more than 100 days. More than 3.71 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compliance-increased-testing-key-points-from-up-govt-s-new-covid-19-guidelines-101616066377406.html
18-03-2021||India||In last one year, more people died of road accidents than Covid-19: Nitin Gadkari||The government is serious about reducing road accidents as more people died from such mishaps in the last one year than from Covid-19 infection, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday.During the Question Hour in the Lok Sabha, Gadkari said the government is very much concerned about road accidents and will have to take all steps to reduce road accidents."Our government is serious about reducing road accidents...1.5 lakh people died due to road accidents in the last one year which is more than 1.46 lakh deaths due to Covid-19," he said.The minister further noted that most of those who died due to road accidents were people in the age group of 18-35.According to a recent  World Bank report, India accounts for the highest number of road accidents globally, with 1.5 lakh people being killed and more than 4.5 lakh crippled annually in 4.5 lakh road accidents with losses amounting to 3.14 per cent of the GDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-last-one-year-more-people-died-of-road-accidents-than-covid-19-nitin-gadkari-101616068193014.html
18-03-2021||India||Roll back ban on posting on social media, digital platforms: Air India pilots||Air India’s union of airbus pilots, Indian Commercial Pilots Association (ICPA), has requested its management to roll back the policy that does not allow any Air India employee, whether serving or retired, to post anything on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, Wikipedia, WhatsApp or Twitter, blogs or video channels, be it during or after duty hours, and has termed the policy to be entirely illegal and with no basis in law.Besides all the other restrictions, the pilots, in a letter to Air India chairperson and managing director Rajiv Bansal, objected to needing approval from the airline even to upload personal content related to Air India or any of its activities. The pilots also pointed that the policy implemented from March 1, 2021 states that the airline has the rights to monitor comments or discussions about them, their employees, clients and the industry posted on the Internet.The pilots said that India currently has no law that either empowers or remotely justifies such an act by an employer to impose a blanket ban on the use of social/ digital media.Also Read | Air India staff’s takeover plan fails to make the cutThe letter read, “While we note the concerns that Air India may have, in respect of protecting its image over social/digital media, especially preceding its proposed disinvestment, the introduction of a policy as the present one, is entirely unheard of and infringes upon various rights of its employees. It goes on to categorically state that it covers conduct of employees as private participants on the social media platforms, thereby making it patently illegal. The present policy, introduced by Air India, is most importantly, violative of the fundamental right of freedom and speech, guaranteed to the employees of Air India, under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, being citizens of India.”The union said, “Even assuming for a moment that Air India still has the authority and the power to introduce the present blanket policy, the same is expressly hit by the bar under Section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (ID Act), and cannot be allowed to subsist.”Stating the law, the pilots reiterated that the introduction and enforcement of the policy by Air India, with no consultation, discussion, notice or any other form of communication with the employees will result in multiple violations by them and hence asked them to drop the policy.An Air India spokesperson refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roll-back-ban-on-posting-on-social-media-digital-platforms-air-india-pilots-101616068936936.html
18-03-2021||India||Actor Arun Govil, famous as Lord Ram of ‘Ramayan’ TV series, joins BJP||Actor Arun Govil, known for playing Lord Ram in Ramayan TV series, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday. Govil joined the party at its office in Delhi in the presence of Arun Singh.He joined the BJP just ahead of the assembly elections in four states and the union territory of Puducherry.The 63-year-old said he was not inclined to enter politics earlier in his life, but the "work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi" has changed his perception of politics.He said that the "objection" raised to the 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was "the immediate trigger" for him to take the political plunge.He also said 'Jai Shri Ram' is not just a mere slogan but our lifestyle and "sanskar".Brought up in the cantonment town of Meerut, Govil, the son of a waterworks engineer, studied in a number of schools across Saharanpur and Shahjahanpur. After school, he enrolled for a BSc at Meerut and completed it from Mathura.Before he essayed the role of Ram, Govil tasted success on the big screen with in his debut film Paheli (1977) from the house of Barjatyas of Rajshri Productions.According to reports, Ramayan found a place in the Limca Book of Records because of its historic viewership, back in the day. The show held the record for the World’s Most Viewed Mythological TV Series until 2003.After Ramayan, Govil continued to work in television, appearing in a bunch of mythological serials such as Luv Kush, played Harishchandra in TV series Vishwamitra and Buddha in a serial of the same name.He has also worked in a number of Bhojpuri, Braj Bhasha, Odia and Telugu films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-arun-govil-famous-as-lord-ram-of-ramayan-tv-series-joins-bjp-101616066466273.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amarinder Singh threatens to move SC in fight against farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On fight against farm laws, Amarinder Singh threatens to move Supreme CourtPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that his government will move the Supreme Court if the bills passed by the state Assembly do not receive presidential assent. Read moreTamil Nadu to ramp up vaccination drive as total Covid cases go over 8,62,000The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced expanding the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The doses of the vaccine will now be administered at mini-clinics, primary healthcare centres and special temporary hospitals set up by the government, according to news agency ANI. Read moreWith believers, awaiting final verdict on Sabarimala: Pinarayi VijayanKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday underscored that his government was with the believers on the Sabarimala issue and everyone will be consulted after the Supreme Court delivers its final verdict in the case regarding temple entry of women of all ages at the hill shrine. Read moreSharp rise in Delhi’s jobless during lockdown, women worst hit: SurveyThe unemployment rate in Delhi rose by 17.4 percentage points during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown—from 11.1% recorded in January-February 2020 to 28.5% recorded in October-November 2020—according to a Delhi government survey, which HT has seen.. Read moreOpen season in Indian cricketAs India made a sensational comeback to win a second successive Test series in Australia early this year, their seemingly endless pace resources, following injuries to their senior quartet, made it a remarkable achievement. Read moreKangana Ranaut shares pics in ripped jeans with advice, says most young people look like 'homeless beggars' these daysActor Kangana Ranaut has joined the debate around women who wear ripped jeans, sparked by Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat's latest controversial comments. Read more'Mereko utar do': Woman’s reaction while paragliding goes viral. WatchRemember the viral ‘Land kara de’ video in which a man freaked out while paragliding in Himachal's Kullu? Another video of a woman trying the same adventure sport has now reminded people of that clip. Read more2021 Skoda Kushaq SUV breaks cover globallyCelebrating its 20th year in India, Skoda has unveiled its latest offering - the 2021 Kushaq SUV - in Mumbai today during a global premiere. Read moreWatch: PM Modi on Mamata’s injury; ‘transfer my commission’ jibe at TMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amarinder-singh-threatens-to-move-supreme-court-in-fight-against-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news-101616064473835.html
18-03-2021||India||UP government releases fresh Covid-19 guidelines, ramps up testing||The Uttar Pradesh government has released a set of guidelines in the wake of rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-9) cases. Chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed all the district magistrates to ensure testing of people who are coming from high caseload areas/states.According to the directive issued by Tiwari, such people should undergo rapid antigen tests to know the presence of Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. RT-PCR and other tests have also been made mandatory for people arriving at various railway stations in Uttar Pradesh from states like Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, according to Live Hindustan.The authorities have also been asked to conduct aggressive contact tracing of railway co-passengers of people who are found positive with Covid-19. In fact, the district administrators have been asked to put all the passengers who arrived in that particular train under surveillance, Live Hindustan reported.The stations where long-distance trains make a halt should have 24-hour testing facilities.The state government has also prepared a region wise calendar of areas where people have returned in large numbers. The chief secretary said that these calendars have already been given to chief medical officers, Live Hindustan reported. The frontline workers have been asked to survey those areas and submit a report to medical officers, according to Live Hindustan. The government has intensified surveillance in areas where a large number of people have arrived from other high caseload states.Meanwhile, the police have announced strict measures for areas which have been declared as containment zones. In state capital Lucknow, the number of containment zones have reached 84 and will be placed under barricading, announced police commissioner DK Thakur. The district administration will also paste stickers on the houses of those found positive with Covid-19.The Gautam Buddha Nagar district administration has imposed fresh restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) till April 30 in light of the rising trend of Covid-19 cases."This step is taken also to prevent any untoward incident during the upcoming festivals," said Ashutosh Dwivedi, Additional DCP (Law and Order), Gautam Buddha Nagar.The Additional DCP also appealed to the public to comply with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, wear masks, maintain social distancing.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,014 from 1,912 on Tuesday while the overall recoveries reached 5,95,150 and the death toll reached at 8,751 on Wednesday, the data from state health department showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-government-releases-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-ramps-up-testing-101616065723319.html
18-03-2021||India||With believers, awaiting final verdict on Sabarimala: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday underscored that his government was with the believers on the Sabarimala issue and everyone will be consulted after the Supreme Court delivers its final verdict in the case regarding temple entry of women of all ages at the hill shrine. The comment comes a week after his temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed regret over the state government’s handling of the protests against the entry of women into the Sabarimala temple more than two years ago. Joining the debate yesterday, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury told a news channel in Delhi that he had no idea why the minister expressed regrets and that the party’s position on it was based on policy of equality as enshrined in the constitution.After Yechury’s statement, many Hindu outfits, including the Nair Service Society and Sabarimala Karma Samiti, asked the chief minister to explain these divergent views. Talking to newsmen in Malappuram, CM Vijayan said there was no problem in the temple for the last two years and some vested parties were raking it up unnecessarily for votes. “Since the election is round the corner some people take special interest in Sabarimala. We have seen peaceful pilgrimage in the last two years. We will talk to all concerned once the Supreme Court delivers its final verdict,” he said, adding some parties were out to exploit the issue and try to turn believers against the government. “As continuation of power is sure for the left some parties are coming out with new theories and busy raking up old issues to target the government which always surged ahead with development activities. Dragging the temple issue was part of it,” he said. “We have made it clear that we are with believers. Once the court takes a final decision we will talk to all concerned parties,” he reiterated. In 2018 the state had witnessed high drama and violence as at least 18 women in the age group of 10-50 were prevented by protesting devotees when they tried to enter the temple after the Supreme Court verdict. The ruling CPI (M) had drawn flak for its hastiness in implementing the court order. After widespread protests, revision petitions were referred to a nine-member bench by the top court.The emotional temple issue turned live again after Yechury’s statement and the opposition Congress and the BJP saying the regret expressed by the state minister was just a smokescreen ahead of the assembly elections. BJP’s Kerala unit president K Surendran said the two contrasting comments by the two CPI (M) leaders exposed the party’s double standard.“The party’s double standard is exposed yet again. Many devotees were making regular rounds to the court for chanting hymns during the height of protest. Yechury has now made it clear that the party is not with devotees. Devotees can’t be deceived like this,” Surendran had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-believers-awaiting-final-verdict-on-sabarimala-pinarayi-vijayan-101616064915257.html
18-03-2021||India||As Delhi sees fresh Covid-19 surge, CM Kejriwal urges Centre to make vaccine available to all||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged the central government to extend the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to all eligible beneficiaries in view of the rising cases. "Request Centre to make list of those not eligible for Covid-19 vaccine and make it available for all others," Kejriwal said at a press briefing.He also claimed that the Delhi government can vaccinate the entire city within three months. "We can vaccinate all of Delhi in three months if walk-in vaccinations are allowed," Kejriwal said."I appeal to Centre that their current guideline for vaccination centres is very stringent. We now have two months of experience in vaccination. So we're writing to Centre to relax some parametres so that vaccination can be done at more centres. We will take all precautions," said Kejriwal.The Delhi chief minister also appealed to people, eligible to get the vaccine according to the government-mandated guidelines, to get themselves vaccinated without hesitation. He also assured that his government will double the capacity in the coming few days. "Vaccination is being done in about 500 centres in Delhi, it will be doubled to 1000," he said. "As of now, 30,000-40,000 vaccines are being administered per day. We will increase this to 1.25 lakh vaccines per day," Kejriwal added.The Delhi government also increased the vaccination time by four hours. "In centres, especially government centres, vaccination is being done from 9am to 5pm. Now the hours are being increased from 9am to 9pm so that more and more people can be vaccinated," Kejriwal announced.This comes as the national capital is witnessing a surge in the daily Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, Delhi added more than 500 cases, which pushed the city’s tally to 645,025. The death total toll climbed to 10,948, with one death reported in the last 24 hours.India rolled out its vaccination drive on January 16 and currently it is the second country after the United States to vaccinate the highest number of people. In the first phase of the vaccination, only health care workers and frontline workers were allowed to be immunised. In the following phase, the government permitted those above 60 years and people with commodities to be included in the drive.According to the current guidelines, the vaccination drive will be extended to the general public once people considered to be more vulnerable to the viral disease are covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-delhi-sees-fresh-covid-19-surge-cm-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-make-vaccine-available-to-all-101616063888890.html
18-03-2021||India||Highest rise in child mortality, maternal deaths likely in India: Unicef report on Covid-19 impact||India is likely to register the greatest increase in the number of deaths among children below five years among six South Asian countries in 2020 and also the highest number of maternal deaths amid the coronavirus pandemic, which disrupted the country's health services, according to a Unicef report.The 'Direct and Indirect Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic and Response in South Asia’, a report commissioned by Unicef Regional Office for South Asia (ROSA) is based on the six most populous countries of the South Asian region - Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. It studied the impact of Covid-19 on mortality, hospitalisations, and ICU admissions due to the disease and the impact of nation-wide lockdown on maternal and child mortality, educational attainment of children, and the region’s economy. The report indicated grim results for all the countries with major impact of Covid-19 on maternal and child mortality, education and economy.Also Read | FIR against Mumbai restaurant for flouting Covid-19 normsDue to observed and expected reduction in coverage of modern contraceptive methods, the report said more than 3.5 million additional unintended pregnancies are expected in South Asia with the highest number or over 3 million likely in India. The largest increase in the number of stillbirths as a result of reduced SRMNCH services are also expected in India (10 per cent) followed by Pakistan. SRMNCH services include family planning, antenatal care, facility births, vaccines, full immunisation, zinc supplements, antibiotics for pneumonia, acute malnutrition treatment etc.Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka are expected to have fewer maternal deaths in the first and second quarter of 2021 in comparison to 2019, however additional unintended pregnancies are still projected to be higher. Additionally, the number of deaths due to maternal causes among young females is estimated to increase in the region with the highest rise in India followed by Pakistan. "India is expected to be hit hardest with an additional 3,412 adolescent deaths followed by Pakistan (1,629) and Bangladesh (836)," the report said. The rise in deaths has been cited to malaria and typhoid.The report said children in rural areas and poorer households are less likely to access remote learning. As a result of prolonged school closures, almost 9 million primary and secondary school children are expected to permanently drop out, with the highest number or 7 million expected in India. Adding to this, the report also suggested that the highest cost of lower education attainment by this cohort will be borne by India, followed by Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.As a result of the increase in the number of girls dropping out of schools due to the pandemic, the region is anticipated to see a rise in early marriage and adolescents pregnancies.The coronavirus pandemic has had a significant economic impact on the region from staggering GDP to increased unemployment. The report suggests that even in the least severe stage the increase in food security among the population ranges from 17.4 per cent in Afghanistan to 18.9 per cent in Sri Lanka. The report said given the trajectory Covid-19 will extend in the foreseeable future and maybe till 2020. As part of the way forward, the report suggested strategies as smart lockdown, which have been proven to be more effective than blanket stay-at-home orders, safe schools, securing food supply, resumption of maternal care services etc.On the impact of Covid-19, the report said it is estimated to have cost the South Asian region more than $2.4 billion including the cost of testing and healthcare utilisation for deaths. "If the current status quo in terms of testing, and infection control and prevention, is maintained, the region is expected to spend an additional $8.1 billion on Covid-19 diagnostic tests, and between $520 million and $2.4 billion on healthcare utilisation by September 2021, depending on the level of mitigation response instituted," the study said, adding that India is expected to bear the largest share of this cost.Also Read | Telangana launches Dalit scheme in budget, says state growth better than Centre﻿The highest number of deaths, hospitalisations and ICU admissions are expected to occur in India with the numbers expected to rise highest in February 2021.The report also noted that since the observed number of cases and deaths are rising most rapidly in the country as compared to other South Asian neighbours, the impact of modelling the increased coverage and effectiveness of mitigation strategies is also highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-rise-in-child-mortality-maternal-deaths-likely-in-india-unicef-report-on-covid-19-impact-101616054990264.html
18-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to ramp up vaccination drive as total Covid cases go over 8,62,000||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced expanding the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The doses of the vaccine will now be administered at mini-clinics, primary healthcare centres and special temporary hospitals set up by the government, according to news agency ANI.The decision has been taken amid a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 945 fresh coronavirus disease cases, eight related fatalities taking the caseload and death toll to 8,62,374 and 12,564 respectively, the state health department’s bulletin showed. The active cases in the state have climbed to 5,811 while almost 8,44,000 people have recovered so far.Wednesday’s case count is the highest since early January as the state has been witnessing an upward trend in its daily cases since the first week of March. The state government has attributed this surge to people not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour and shunning masks.Chennai continues to be the worst-hit in the state and is leading the infection and death figures in the state. The capital city added 395 news cases and five related fatalities on Wednesday. Other districts such as Thiruvallur, Tiruppur, Thanjavur and Coimbatore are also seeing a fresh surge in cases.Also Read| At meeting with Modi, CMs seek expansion of vaccine coverageTamil Nadu started its first phase of the vaccination drive from January 16 - along with the Centre - to administer jabs to all healthcare and frontline workers. The second phase, which rolled out from March 1, is seeing the inoculation of people above 60 years of age and those between 45-59 years with specific comorbidities. A total of 17,18,313 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the state so far of which 15,44,770 beneficiaries have been administered the first dose and the remaining 1,73,543 have been given the second dose as well, the Union health ministry’s update at 7am showed.On Wednesday, Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the state government had urged the Centre to bring down the age limit of vaccination - from 60 to 50 years and above in order to vaccinate a larger number of people. “We appeal to those engaged in public activity and are above the age of 45 with co- morbidity to get vaccinated”, Radhakrishnan added while addressing reporters after he had reviewed the coronavirus ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, according to PTI.This comment of the health secretary comes after Tamil Nadu chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and other senior officials had taken part in a virtual meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the country’s overall Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-ramp-up-vaccination-drive-as-total-covid-cases-go-over-862000-101616061927513.html
18-03-2021||India||Telangana launches Dalit scheme in budget, says state growth better than Centre||Telangana introduced a Dalit empowerment scheme in the state budget tabled on Thursday, while setting aside ₹1,000 crore for the programme. The state finance minister also claimed that Telangana’s growth figures were better than the national gross domestic product (GDP) since the state prevented any adverse impact of Coronavirus on the rural economy.“As compared to the national GDP growth, the State’s GSDP (gross state domestic product) growth is much better. We have been able to prevent any adverse impact of Coronavirus on the rural economy. The improvements in power supply, increase in irrigated area as a result of new projects and implementation of many development and welfare schemes, helped improve the growth rate,” state finance minister T Harish Rao claimed while presenting the budget.The minister said the state spent ₹5,761 crore on development of gram panchayats in the last one year and was bridging the gap in funding to local bodies, created by the 15th Finance Commission’s decision to cut ₹699 crore allocation to Telangana. “An amount of ₹29,271 crore is proposed in the 2020-21 budget for Panchayati Raj and Rural development departments,” Rao said.Speaking on the Chief Minister’s Dalit Empowerment Programme, Rao said it was aimed at all-round development of the Scheduled Castes in the state, however, its modalities remained to be worked out.Rao said the GSDP declined significantly from 13.5% in 2019-20 to 1.3% in 2020-21 as compared to the national GDP decline from 7.8% to -3.8% in the same period.He said ₹25,000 crore will be earmarked for agriculture sector spending, including ₹1,200 crore for Rythu Bima scheme, ₹1,500 crore for incentivising farm mechanisation, ₹14,800 crore for Rythu Bandhu (direct cash transfer of ₹10,000 per acre per year to each farmer), ₹5,225 crore towards waiver of crop loans up to ₹1 lakh.Apart from this, ₹16,931 crore has been allocated for the irrigation sector in the state budget this year. The minister said Kaleshwaram project on Godavari river was almost finished, while Sitarama project was nearing completion. “Similarly, works of Palamuru - Rangareddy lift irrigation project, Dindi lift, Sammakka Sagarare and other lift schemes were also going on at a brisk pace,” he said.He also allocated ₹800 crore for constituency development fund, translating into ₹5 crore grant to each MLA and MLC for taking up developmental works in their respective constituencies.Rao also explained how the state government was trying to overhaul the revenue administration by introducing ‘Dharani’ portal for recording of all land transactions and digitalised land surveys to streamline the land records. “An amount of ₹400 crore is proposed in Budget Estimates 2021-22 for comprehensive land surveys,” he said.The minister also announced ₹2,750 crore for Kalyan Lakshmi/Shadi Mubarak scheme, ₹21,306.85 crore as special component for SCs, ₹12,304.23 crore as special component for STs, ₹338 crore for weavers’ welfare, ₹5,522 crore for backward classes (BC) welfare and ₹1,600 crore for minorities’ welfare.The other major budgetary allocations are: ₹1,702 crore for women and child welfare; ₹11,000 crore for double-bedroom housing scheme; ₹6,295 crore for medical and health; ₹4,000 crore for new education scheme aimed at providing basic facilities in government schools; ₹11,046 crore for electricity sector; ₹750 crore for land acquisition towards regional ring road approved by the Centre.The total budget outlay was ₹2.30 lakh crore, with a projected revenue surplus of ₹6,743 crore and the estimated fiscal deficit was ₹45,509.60 crore, said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-launches-dalit-scheme-in-budget-says-state-growth-better-than-centre-101616061915102.html
18-03-2021||India||On fight against farm laws, Amarinder Singh threatens to move Supreme Court||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that his government will move the Supreme Court if the bills passed by the state Assembly do not receive presidential assent. The Punjab Assemby passed a bill against the three central farm laws last month."Unfortunately, the governor is still sitting on instead of forwarding them for presidential approval, even though the Vidhan Sabha had unanimously passed the bills, with all parties voting for them," said Singh.The Centre should scrap the three farm laws, sit with the farmers and make new legislations in their place, the chief minister said while addressing mediapersons on completion of four years of his government."I fail to understand why the central government is trying to break the age-old time-tested relationship between farmers and arhtiyas," Singh said adding that the new laws are not an improvement on the existing system and will destroy the farming sector.Ahrtiyas are commissioning agents who help farmers sell their crops to buyers. Ahrtiyas facilitate the transaction between farmers and buyers - the buyers can be a person, a firm or a company or a cooperative society or a government agency or even to a public undertaking agency, a public agency or a corporation - and receive a commission for facilitating the transaction following which they pay farmers money for their crops.Punjab became the first state in the country to pass four bills and a resolution against the central laws in October last year. The Amarinder Singh government said that these amendments will safeguard the interests of the state’s farmers, who are concerned that the central legislation would deprive them of government-fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) for their produce and put them at the mercy of big corporate houses.Since the state laws are in conflict with the central laws, which have been signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, they would require presidential assent to be enacted.In February this year, Singh said that his government will bring the amendment bills to negate the Centre’s three farm laws again in the Vidhan Sabha since the governor failed to send the earlier Bills to President Ram Nath Kovind.Earlier this month, the Congress government in Punjab passed a resolution during the budget session of the state assembly, demanding withdrawal of three farms laws unconditionally by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fight-against-farm-laws-amarinder-singh-threatens-to-move-supreme-court-101616060676114.html
18-03-2021||India||A cop who lives for the love of the people||Started in 2015, Operation Smile was a campaign launched by the Ghaziabad police to trace and recover missing children. The operation has yielded stunning results and has directly led to the reunion of 3,178 children with their families. Among the pioneer individuals who first conceptualised and then spearheaded the campaign, which has now been adopted by multiple states of the Indian subcontinent was Kumar Ranvijay Singh, Additional DCP, Noida. It is not uncommon to hear press briefs about waxing eloquent on the successes of the operation such as recently in the month of January, as many as 3,178 missing children, including 277 girls, engaged as labourers or seeking alms across the Telangana State, were rescued by Telangana police during the month-long drive to trace missing children. Of them, a total of 2,373 children are from Telangana, while the remaining 805 belong to other states.Little is spoken about the fundamental and the pivotal role played by Singh, Additional DCP, Noida. One finds him sitting in his office on his swivel chair, the unassuming police officer very graciously asks each and every person who knocks at his door to take a seat in his ever accommodating office. A young woman walks up to him and presents him with a chocolate, just thanking him for being a kind and a helpful police officer. The surprise gift brings a huge smile on his face, and he feels honoured with the gesture. He says, “This is what we live for - The love of people.”A masters in Philosophy from Delhi University, he feels empathy, compassion, active listening, conflict resolution and building trust are the foremost pillars of an enforcement organisation. He says, “ I don’t believe in serving people mechanically. Connecting yourself with the issues of people as if they are your own is important. The ability to understand and share someone else’s feelings, to know what it’s like to be in somebody else’s shoes and it is always appreciated. It allows for a deeper understanding of what other individuals are experiencing. In turn, this leads to more positive interactions and communication between police officers and the people they encounter.”Compassion also forms one of the key tenets of police work. “Treating individuals with compassion, whether they’re witnesses, victims, or suspects helps build a rapport and brings healing to dangerous and traumatic situations. Compassion with sensitivity is perhaps the most important attribute for modern police officers in their daily interactions,” says Singh, the son of a war veteran who fought the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.In the pandemic, Singh ensured that no one went hungry and distributed food packets personally. The Additional DCP, believes that to build trust in the community, police officers must be in constant communication with citizens, listening to their wants and needs, and building a rapport with those they work with on a day-to-day basis. Narrating an incident, he says, “ An executive who was stuck here in Noida in the pandemic had to return to his expecting wife but couldn’t as there were no modes of travel. We facilitated his return to Bareilly where he welcomed a baby boy with his wife.”He smilingly continues, “ The Muslim family named the boy, Rannvijay Khan, as a token of appreciation. These are reflections of the bonds we forge, the promises we keep and actions we undertake for the larger good of people.”Commenting on the negative light in which police officers are perceived, he says, “The perception of law enforcement is created by its relationships with community members. Building trust means acting in a manner that promotes community safety and security, and avoiding actions that can undermine trust.”In a very thoughtful manner, his parting comment is, “Social issues can not be handled by law but by human connection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-cop-who-lives-for-the-love-of-the-people-101616060055036.html
18-03-2021||India||Toll booths to be removed, GPS-based toll collection within 1 year, says Gadkari||India will do away with toll booths and implement complete GPS-based toll collection within one year, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday.He said 93 per cent of the vehicles pay toll using FASTag, but the remaining 7 per cent have still not taken it despite paying a double toll. "I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed. It means that toll collection will happen via GPS. The money will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said in the Lok Sabha during Question Hour.The minister said he has instructed police inquiry for those vehicles which do not pay toll using FASTags. There are cases of toll theft and GST evasion cases if FASTags are not fitted in vehicles. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016.From February 16, vehicles without FASTag are required to pay double toll fee at electronic toll plazas across the country.Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas, as the fee payment would be done electronically.Gadkari said new vehicles have FasTags fitted in them, while the government has said it will give free FASTags for old vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-booths-to-be-removed-gps-based-toll-collection-within-1-year-says-gadkari-101616058928610.html
18-03-2021||India||These 9 districts in Punjab will see extended night curfew from today||Nine districts in Punjab, which have been reporting more than 100 cases of the coronavirus disease every day, will be put under extended curfew from Thursdduring the night as one of the measures to stop the spread of Covid-19. Night curfew will now be in place from 9pm to 5am, instead of 11pm to 5am, in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Ropar.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday also warned of other tough measures and restrictions over the next few days as Punjab’s daily Covid-19 cases shot up to 2039 and the state saw 35 related deaths on Wednesday. Singh, while addressing a press conference to mark the completion of four years of his government, said the situation in the state was critical and he was going to be tough.“I won’t be easy on the people. People may not like it, but it’s my duty,” he said, adding that he hoped the daily caseload won’t cross 3000, as projected by some experts. He also expressed the hope that all residents will cooperate and adhere to the restrictions. “For God’s sake, save the lives of Punjabis,” he urged citizens.Also read | Focus back on Punjab’s high death rate, worries mountHe said several stringent measures, including restrictions on gatherings, will be announced after discussions with the state government’s expert Covid team over the next couple of days. A decision about restrictions on political gatherings will be taken as per the medical expert team’s advice, he added.The chief minister also urged people to go to the doctor and get themselves tested even if they feel slightly unwell, saying citizens were going to hospitals too late. He appealed to all citizens to wear masks and maintain social distance, warning that penalties may also be enhanced if needed.Also read | Covid-19 positivity rate in Punjab has doubled, says health ministryMeanwhile, with 35,871 Covid-19 cases and 172 related fatalities, the highest single-day rise in more than 100 days, India’s disease tally rose to over 11.47 million and its death toll mounted to 159,216, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning. As many as 36,011 infections were recorded on December 6 last year.India, which is now the third worst-hit country after the United States and Brazil, has an active caseload of 252,364. The country’s recovery rate is 96.41 per cent, the health ministry’s data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-9-districts-in-punjab-will-see-extended-night-curfew-from-today-101616057538837.html
18-03-2021||India||RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha calls for law to regulate online hate speech||Rajya Sabha RJD member Manoj Kumar Jha on Thursday demanded legislation to regulate online hate speech and improve information disclosure about paid content.Raising the issue in the pre-noon session in the House, Jha said the use of the online sphere for spreading hate speech is reaching new heights.Even new channels deliberately broadcast TRP-centric news without or contrary to officially known facts, he added."Thus, I request to bring legislation to regulate the problem of online hate speech. The legislation should aim to detect monitor and safeguard against coordinated inauthentic behaviour, the misuse of online account bots, for the spread of hate speech and the deliberate broadcasting of fake news," Jha said.The senior RJD MP said the legislation should have measures to be taken to improve information disclosure about paid content aimed at spreading hate speech for a political end.He also suggested that such legislation be introduced only after discussion with stakeholders for a balance between the censorship of harmful content and freedom of speech and expression.The RJD MP made a case for including internet education in the school curriculum to impart basic knowledge and sensitise children about the responsible use of the internet and the risks of hate speech and abuse.The issue of household air pollution was also raised in the House.Citing a study published in 2018, NCP member Vandana Chavan said household air pollution claims the lives of almost half a million Indians and is also a cause for major lethal diseases.The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojanam, which boosts the use of clean cooking fuel and helps control these related diseases, came as solace and the right step of the government in that direction, she said.Chavan said it was also heartening that the government, in a very short time, claimed success in achieving 98 per cent LPG coverage pan India,In spite of the 98 per cent coverage claimed, there was only a 20 per cent increase in the actual usage of clean cooking fuel from 2015 to 2020, the MP noted.The NCP member highlighted that 44.5 per cent of rural households were still using firewood chips and crop residue, meaning usage of LPG cylinders was very low.Under the DBT Scheme, she said, the beneficiary has to pay the amount and then wait for the subsidy to come into his account."So a huge challenge for the poor families, So I sincerely urge...that the government should reconsider, restructure the Ujjwala scheme, and additional monetary incentive be given to encourage refills (of LPG cylinders), as recommended also by the Committee on petroleum and natural gas in 2020, and a system be devised that is practical and works for the poor," Chavan said.D P Vats of the BJP said non-populist, drastic measures are needed to check rising pollution and shed the tag of Delhi as the world's most polluted capital.Citing the recent report of a Swiss air quality technology company, he said Delhi remains the most polluted capital city in the world for the third consecutive year while towns of the national capital region (NCR) rank among the most polluted.Joining the issue, Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena) said instead of discussing pollution "we end up discussing women wearing ripped jeans", a reference to a remark by Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat.She said premature deaths due to pollution are more than deaths associated with COVID-19.Raising the Maharashtra-Karnataka border row, G C Chandrashekar of the Congress said since the dispute is in the Supreme Court, the Maharashtra government should not make provocative statements.Shiv Sena had on Wednesday demanded that Belagavi be declared a union territory."Belagavi will remain part of Karnataka," Chandrashekar declared. His party colleague Anand Sharma raised the need for setting up virtual classrooms at community centres and providing wifi connectivity to help students with no devices to join online classes,Jyotiraditya Scindia (BJP) wanted a national mission for eradicating malnutrition in children to be set up.P Wilson (DMK) raised the issue of the Centre curtailing reservation in the M.Tech biotechnology course in Anna University to 27 per cent, saying the institution is a state university and should be governed by Tamil Nadu's reservation policy of providing 69 per cent reservation.KC Ramamurthy (BJP) sought the setting up of Supreme Court's benches in four regions to ease the burden on the apex court. For the south, he suggested Bengaluru as the ideal location.Kumar Ketkar (Congress) sought a full investigation into the supplier of the gelatin sticks founds in an SUV parked near the Mumbai residence of the richest Indian Mukesh Ambani, the purpose and the associates of the person.Banda Prakash (TRS) raised the issue of posts belonging to reserved categories lying vacant in higher education institutions such as IIMs and IITs while Ahmad Ashfaque Karim (RJD) demanded that charitable education institutions be exempted from GST just like income tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mp-manoj-kumar-jha-calls-for-law-to-regulate-online-hate-speech-101616056852611.html
18-03-2021||India||700+ companies of central forces to be sent for Bengal polls: CRPF chief||The Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) director general Kuldiep Singh said on Thursday 725 companies of central forces will be deployed for pre-poll duties in West Bengal ahead of the upcoming assembly elections. Out of the 725 companies, 415 have already reached the state, the newly-appointed director general said.Around 350-370 of them will be from CRPF, Singh said during the annual press conference, adding the Election Commission of India will decide which phase of polling will be difficult according to which the deployment will be done. Polling in West Bengal will be held in eight phases beginning from March 27 and ending with the last phase on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.A company of central forces has around 100 personnel that amounts to deployment of nearly over 70,000 personnel for pre-poll duties in the state.Click here for complete coverage on assembly electionsEarlier this month, the Election Commission had held a meeting with all the observers appointed for election duty. The briefing session that saw the participation, physically and virtually, of more than 1,600 observers focussed on election planning, security management and SVEEP aspects including state-specific issues and Covid-19 guidelines.Last month, a maximum of nine companies of CRPF were planned to be deployed in Purulia and Jhargram districts with the poll body mulling the deployment of three companies of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in Kolkata, four companies of CRPF in the Howrah Police Commissionerate area and two companies in rural Howrah, reported Mint.Also Read | In Purulia, PM Modi refers to Ramayana to point to its water crisisAs per the report that cited a senior official, the central forces were aimed to be deployed for area domination especially in the sensitive zones with the assistance of state police and senior officials of district administration.The announcement comes ahead of the elections in a volatile state witnessing continuous clashes between the workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/725-central-forces-companies-to-be-deployed-in-west-bengal-polls-says-crpf-dg-101616051870150.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Unemployment rises in Delhi during lockdown, women hit worst and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharp rise in Delhi’s jobless during lockdown, women worst hit: SurveyThe unemployment rate in Delhi rose by 17.4 percentage points during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown—from 11.1% recorded in January-February 2020 to 28.5% recorded in October-November 2020—according to a Delhi government survey, which HT has seen. Read moreSupreme Court to hear plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds on March 24The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear next week a plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of these bonds. Read moreDelhi CM Kejriwal to meet officials amid rise in Covid-19 casesA day after Delhi recorded the highest spike in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in more than two months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to hold a review meeting with the health minister, health secretary and other officials, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Read moreAfghan special forces helicopter crash lands, 9 deadNine people on board a special forces helicopter were killed after it crash-landed in the Maidan Wardak province, on Wednesday night, according to the Afghan Ministry of Defense on Thursday. Read moreHe will be disappointed: Laxman explains what’s going wrong with KL Rahul’s techniqueIndian opener KL Rahul is having a tough time in the ongoing T20I series against England in Ahmedabad. One of India's most consistent T20I batsmen over the last few years, Rahul has been struggling badly to get runs against his name. In the last three games, the Karnataka batsman has registered scores of 1, 0 and 0. Read moreHyundai reveals more details about its new Staria MPV ahead of unveilingNearly a week after teasing its upcoming MPV, Hyundai has revealed clearer pictures for the successor to its Starex MPV called the Staria. The design of the new Hyundai Staria MPV have been completely revamped compared to Starex, and now look more modern. Read moreKiara Advani works on her abs in new fitness clip, does leg raises, seen yet?There are a few celebrities who rarely share snippets from their gym sessions, but whenever they do, those videos go viral and leave their followers feeling lazy. Kiara Advani is one such actor. Not long ago, a clip of her nailing an intense session with her trainer had surfaced on the internet and it left us breathless, her latest clip is also doing the same. Read moreZack Snyder's Justice League movie review: An exhausting yet exhilarating superhero epic; fan-service at its finestYou can’t fault a film for being an indulgent endurance test if that is exactly what it was aiming for. What would have been criticism in normal circumstances, in a post Snyder Cut world, has become indistinguishable from praise. Read moreOhio resident finds raccoon invading his home. It was napping in the dishwasherUnwanted and uninvited guests can make anyone uncomfortable. For an Ohio resident, this unwanted guest came in the form of a raccoon. A post shared on Facebook details what happened once this guest was found taking a nap in the resident’s dishwasher. Read moreWatch: Param Bir Singh Out: Decoding the fallout for Uddhav-led Maharashtra coalitionThe Maharashtra government transferred Mumbai Police Commissioner, Param Bir Singh on March 17, who faced flak over his handling of the Ambani bomb scare episode. This came in the backdrop of a police officer, Sachin Vaze, being blamed by the National Investigation Agency for the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near Ambani's house in Mumbai on February 25. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-unemployment-rises-in-delhi-during-lockdown-women-hit-worst-and-all-the-latest-news-101616049796813.html
18-03-2021||India||SC to hear on March 25 plea to stop deportation of Rohingya refugees||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear on March 25 a plea seeking release and protection of over 150 Rohingya refugees, who have been sent to a holding centre in Jammu as part of the Jammu & Kashmir administration’s process to identify undocumented immigrants in the Union Territory. The administration has said it will work on their deportation next to Myanmar.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to come with a response to the plea next week.The Jammu & Kashmir administration began the process of identifying undocumented immigrants on March 6. Over 150 of them were sent to the holding centre under the Foreigners Act. Officials insisted due process of law was followed and added the immigrants sent to the centre did not carry any valid travel documents.Hundreds of thousands of Muslim Rohingya have since 2017 fled Myanmar to escape persecution and many of them have been staying in the Union Territory. The UN has called a Myanmar army’s campaign against the Rohingya “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing”.Advocate Prashant Bhushan requested an urgent hearing of the plea on behalf of a Rohingya, Mohammad Salimullah. Bhushan said an urgent intervention was required since those “detained” in Jammu could be deported anytime to Myanmar, where they fled from fearing persecution.“There is a military government in Myanmar now. Their life is under threat,” said Bhushan, referring to the latest military coup in Myanmar in February.Mehta said Bhushan’s submissions were factually incorrect and added the government would respond on March 24.Salimullah has, in his plea, cited news reports of “detention” of around 150 refugees in a “temporary jail” for their deportation.“This follows the Union Minister Jitendra Singh’s statements two months ago that the Rohingya (identified as Muslim refugees by the government) would not be able to secure citizenship. These refugees have been illegally detained and jailed in the Jammu sub-jail, which has been converted into a holding centre with the IGP (inspector general of police, Jammu) Mukesh Singh stating that they face deportation back to Myanmar following verification by their embassy,” he said in his plea.The plea has urged the court to order the release of the Rohingya refugees immediately and direct the government to expeditiously grant refugee identification cards to them.It cited records from the deputy commissioner’s office and added it showed 6,523 Rohingyas were living in Jammu. The plea requested the court to stop the Centre from implementing any orders on deporting the refugees. It added the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees should be asked to “intervene and determine the protection needs of the Rohingya refugees not just in the Jammu but also in camps across the country and complete the process of granting them refugee cards”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-on-march-25-plea-to-stop-deportation-of-rohingya-refugees-101616051474216.html
18-03-2021||India||To Trinamool’s ‘Khela Hobe’ poll slogan, PM Modi says game over||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday turned around the ruling Trinamool Congress’ campaign slogan of Khela Hobe to criticise what he said was the party’s ‘misrule and politics of appeasement' for the last decade. The Prime Minister, during an election rally in the state’s Purulia, pointed out the region was still underdeveloped and has been facing a water crisis, forced migration and an administration that discriminates.“First the Left government and then the TMC government did not let industries develop here. The kind of work that should have been done for irrigation, did not take place. I know the problems faced in rearing livestock due to less water. The TMC government was busy in its 'khela’ by leaving farming on its own,” PM Modi said. “These people have given Purulia a life riddled with water crisis. They have given Purulia migration, they have given the poor of Purulia discriminatory governance, they have given Purulia an identity of being one of the most backward areas of the country,” he added.Also read | How Bengal economy has fared over the last decadeOn the ‘Khela Hobe’ poll slogan of West Bengal’s ruling party, the Prime Minister replied in Bengali. “Didi bole khela hobe, BJP bole chaakri hobe. Didi bole khela hobe, BJP bole vikas hobe. Didi bole khela hobe, BJP bole shiksha hobe. Didi bole kela hobe, BJP bole mohila der utthan hobe. Didi bole chela hobe, BJP bole school hobe… Khela shesh hobe, vikas aarambh hobe,” he said.West Bengal, the Prime Minister said, made up its mind long back. “It has been saying Lok Sabha mein TMC half aur iss baar poori saaf' (TMC’s strength is half in the Lok Sabha and now it will be completely decimated). Seeing this determination, Didi is taking out her frustration on me. But for us, she is a daughter like the crores of daughters of India. Respecting is a part of our culture,” he said.The Prime Minister also referred to the Hindu epic Ramayana on his campaign trail in poll-bound West Bengal's Purulia to point out the crisis facing the area currently. "This land is a witness to Lord Ram and Goddess Sita's exile. This land has Sitakund. It is also said that when Goddess Sita was thirsty, Lord Ram got water from the ground by hitting it with an arrow... It is an irony that Purulia faces a water crisis today," PM Modi said.Also read | Your pain is more than mine, says wheelchair-bound Mamata Banerjee in PuruliaChief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Monday held two successive rallies in the tribal-dominated district, located in the western part of the state in the Jangalmahal area. Banerjee had attacked the BJP, saying that she was a street fighter and none should dare to stifle her.People in the Purulia assembly seat, part of the Purulia Lok Sabha constituency, will vote in the first phase of polls on March 27. Congress candidate Sudip Mukherjee defeated his nearest rival Jyotiprasad Singh Deo of All India Trinamool Congress in the last assembly elections in 2016. The eight-phase assembly elections in the state are scheduled to begin on March 27 and end on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irony-that-purulia-faces-water-crisis-today-pm-modi-in-bengal-101616048366943.html
18-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds on March 24||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear next week a plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on the validity of these bonds. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, fixed Wednesday next week to hear a new application by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), which has requested the court to put a restraint on sale of these bonds ahead of the assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing the ADR, mentioned the matter before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, for an urgent listing of the case. Solicitor general (S-G) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Central government, informed the bench that attorney general KK Venugopal appeared in this case on behalf of the government and that they had no objection to the plea being heard next week. Also Read | Cancellation of ration cards a serious issue: SC“In a matter like this, we are sure you will find some time,” the CJI told the S-G, fixing the matter for a hearing on March 24. The new application has been moved in a pending petition on this issue by the same organisation. The plea has stated: “There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of electoral bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks a direction that no further opening of window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition.” The petitioner pointed out that the petition challenging electoral bonds has been pending in the Supreme Court since September 2017. The matter was last heard on January 20 last year following which ADR had requested the court in October last year to list the matter ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. However, the matter was not listed. In its PIL, the ADR had sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act -- that were passed as Money Bills which provided an anonymous route for political parties to receive corporate funding through electoral bonds -- be struck down. This lack of transparency in the accounts of all political parties was cited as the ground by ADR to oppose this scheme. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added. “The Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy,” the application filed by ADR stated, adding that the Finance Act of 2017 exempts use of electoral bonds from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act. The ADR moved applications in March 2019 and again in November 2019 to stay the implementation of the Electoral Bond Scheme but the same was not granted. In April 2019, the Supreme Court, in an interim order, asked political parties to disclose to the Election Commission in sealed covers details of donations received by way of electoral bonds. In the same order, the top court had observed that the matter of electoral bonds gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” which require an in-depth hearing. The fresh application filed on March 9 went on to say: “As per data on Electoral Bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for the FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19, the ruling party had received more than 60% of the total electoral bonds issued till date.” So far more than ₹6,500 crore worth of electoral bonds have been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party, the ADR claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-to-stop-fresh-sale-of-electoral-bonds-on-march-24-101616048234215.html
18-03-2021||India||Delhi CM Kejriwal to meet officials amid rise in Covid-19 cases||A day after Delhi recorded the highest spike in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in more than two months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to hold a review meeting with the health minister, health secretary and other officials, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The meeting has been called to review the rise in Covid-19 cases, said health minister Satyendra Jain.Delhi on Wednesday recorded 536 coronavirus disease cases, the highest in about two-and-a-half months, and three more people died, officials from the health department said. The national capital witnessed a steep rise in active cases which rose to 2,702 from 2,488 a day ago, according to the health bulletin.The 536 cases on Wednesday took the infection tally to 645,025 and 6.31 lakh people have recovered so far. Three new fatalities took the toll to 10,948, while the positivity rate rose to 0.66%, the bulletin said. On Tuesday, 425 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.61%.Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now".There were 585 Covid-19 cases reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-to-meet-officials-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101616044933097.html
18-03-2021||India||Fresh rain and snowfall predicted in Kashmir later this week||The weather department in Srinagar has predicted fresh rain and snowfall in Kashmir later this week, continuing the trend of back to back rain and snowfall in the upper reaches of Kashmir in the month of March this year. Regional director of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Sonam Lotus said the weather will mainly be clear to partly cloudy on Thursday. “Light rain may occur at isolated places of Kashmir towards evening. There’s no forecast of any major rainfall activity till the 20th. As of today, it looks like 70% chance of light to moderate rain and snow during 21-23 March,” he said in a statement on Thursday morning.The summer capital Srinagar recorded a maximum of 4.2 degrees Celsius during the night while Jammu recorded 15.5 degrees. Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as night temperature was recorded at 1.5 degrees C.Although the month of February witnessed a number of snow spells, it also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. Kashmir experienced harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in the month of January. On January 31, Srinagar recorded minus 8.8 degrees C, lowest since the January of 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-rain-and-snowfall-predicted-in-kashmir-later-this-week-101616047213903.html
18-03-2021||India||Schools shut in Maharashtra’s Palghar after students, teachers contract Covid-19||Authorities in Palghar of Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit state, closed all educational institutions in the district till further orders after students and a teacher of a residential school tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “All government schools, colleges, hostels and private schools in Palghar District to remain closed till further orders,” Palghar’s deputy collector Manik Gursal said, according to news agency ANI.News agency PTI cited an official from the health department as saying on Wednesday that 30 students and a teacher from the Nandore Government Ashram School tested positive for Covid-19. The official from the taluka medical office said that the cases came to light after a couple of students displayed symptoms of the viral infection earlier this week, PTI reported. Of the 193 students of the school, 30 tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, he said. The official also said that one of the teachers also contracted the infection.Also read | Covid-19: Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike in 181 daysThe school was declared a containment zone and a notice has been displayed accordingly at the entrance of the facility following the detection of the cases. Infected students and the teacher are currently undergoing treatment at a Covid-19 centre in the district, PTI said. Last week, as many as 79 people, including students, teachers and other staff, of three ashram schools in Jawhar tested positive for Covid-19.Palghar district has reported 46,967 cases of the coronavirus disease and 1,207 people have succumbed so far. Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 23,179 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest daily infection count so far this year. The western state reported more than 23,000 Covid-19 cases in September last year. According to the state’s health bulletin, 24,886 Covid-19 cases were recorded on September 11, 2020, and there were 24,619 infections on September 17.Also read | Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak: ModiIndia recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in 102 days, which took the infection tally to 11,474,605, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning. The country registered 36,011 infections on December 6 last year. Its active caseload reached 252,364, registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the health ministry’s data showed. The death toll increased to 159,216 with 172 new fatalities between Wednesday and Thursday morning, it also showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-shut-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-after-students-teachers-contract-covid19-101616046346875.html
18-03-2021||India||CJI pushes collegium for new SC judge’s appointment during his tenure: All you need to know||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde has made the final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure. Here is all you need to know about the push just over a month before his retirement:• A meeting of the collegium was held on Wednesday to finalise the names of some high court judges for their elevation to the apex court.• The deliberation could not come to a conclusion, HT reported.• The other judges in the five-member collegium, headed by Bobde, are justices NV Ramana, Rohinton F Nariman, Uday U Lalit, and AM Khanwilkar.Also Read | Anti-Sikh riots case: SC to hear bail plea of Sajjan Kumar today• The discussion took place on a list of at least five names, drawn up by Bobde, from among chief justices and senior judges of the high courts. • The views of the other four senior-most judges in the collegium were sought by Bobde, and no name was finalised for elevation. • Another meeting has been scheduled after next week, HT reported.• Those being considered for elevation to the top court include chief justices of three high courts and two women high court judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjipushes-collegium-for-new-sc-judge-s-appointment-during-his-tenure-all-you-need-to-know-101616045773809.html
18-03-2021||India||PM calls for quick steps to check Covid-19: Key takeaways from meeting with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday warned if a second surge of Covid-19 cases is not stopped, there could be another pan-India outbreak. The warning came at his urgent meeting with chief ministers. Here is all you need to know about the meeting and the issues raised:• Modi said 70 districts have logged an over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases recently, and that “quick and decisive steps” were needed to revamp safety protocols• He called for scaling up RT-PCR testing and vaccination sites.• “This is also a test of good governance,” he said.Also Read | Key sectors must be made disaster-resilient: PM Modi• This was his first such meeting after Covid-19 vaccination started in India on January 16• Modi stressed his “treatment also, stringent protocols also” formula.• He called for bringing the focus back on the test-trace-treat strategy by ensuring at least 70% of tests are through the RT-PCR method.• Modi said more contacts of patients be traced, and micro-containment zones created.• He called for the need to accelerate vaccinations, reduce wastage, and prevent the expiry of doses• Modi highlighted the importance of protecting rural areas that have weaker health resources. • Representatives of at least three states asked Modi to consider allowing more people to seek coronavirus doses. • Several states sought more vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-calls-for-quick-steps-to-check-covid-19-key-takeaways-from-meeting-with-cms-101616043973780.html
18-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Ahmedabad transport services suspended from today till further notice||In view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat, authorities have suspended buses operated by the Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System from Thursday until further notice.The decision to halt transportation services in the city comes in the backdrop of fears of a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday met chief ministers of states and Union territories in this regard and called for "quick and decisive" steps to stop the emerging "second peak" of the infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, the state government also imposed night curfew in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot between 10pm and 6am from Wednesday.Gujarat recorded 1,122 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its highest spike since December last year, taking the infection count to 281,173. According to a health official, Gujarat's daily infection count had dropped to below 1,000 on December 21, 2020, but a surge in cases was seen after February.With three fresh deaths -- in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara -- the state's toll rose to 4,430, while the recovery count reached 2,71,433, or 96.45 per cent of the caseload, news agency PTI said quoting the official. The state's active caseload is 5,310, of which 61 patients are on ventilator support.Also Read: Gujarat imposes night curfew in 4 cities till March 31 as Covid-19 cases surge"Surat led with 353 cases on Wednesday, followed by 271 in Ahmedabad, 114 in Vadodara and 112 in Rajkot," he said. Meanwhile, 67,734 people got vaccinated on Wednesday, taking the number of those who got their first and second doses to 22,71,145 and 5,54,662 respectively.India on Thursday registered 35,871 new cases of the infection as the nationwide resurgence of new infections continued. As many as 11,474,605 people have been infected in the country and 159,216 have lost their lives, according to the data released by the Union health ministry.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ahmedabad-transport-services-suspended-from-today-till-further-notice-101616042879713.html
18-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees highest single-day spike in 181 days||Maharashtra on Wednesday logged 23,179 fresh Covid-19 cases— the highest single-day spike in 181 days. The state had reached its peak on September 11 last year, with 24,886 cases. It has breached the 20,000-mark 16 times since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, of which, it crossed the 23,000-mark six times, government data showed. The state’s total tally rose to 2,370,507, while its active caseload climbed to 152,760 on Wednesday. Mumbai recorded a 159-day high with 2,377 new cases, taking its tally to 349,974. The active case count in the city was 15,410. The state also reported 84 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 53,080. Mumbai reported eight fatalities, taking its death toll 11,551. Also Read | Prisoners across globe, including in India, forgotten during Covid-19: AmnestyNagpur city reported 2,698 fresh cases—topping the city chart on Wednesday—followed by Pune city, which clocked 2,612 fresh cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai) reported 2,434 fresh cases. In MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli logged 637 fresh cases and Thane city, 516 new cases. The first three months of the year have seen a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. In January, the state reported 104,287 cases and 1,561 deaths. This rose to 128,671 fresh cases in February—a jump of 23.38%. Conversely, the deaths reduced by 31.32% in February to 1,072 fatalities. In March so far, Maharashtra’s cases have risen by 67.43% in comparison to February’s cases. In March, the state has reported 215,437 new cases and 926 deaths. State health minister Rajesh Tope said though the cases are increasing, there is no need for panic as the state has adequate number of hospital beds and other life-saving equipment. He said despite the second wave, the number of fatalities and death rate are under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-181-days-101616043253665.html
18-03-2021||India||Direct and indirect losses of disasters need to be accounted for: PM Modi||Disasters cause direct and indirect losses and both should be accounted for holistically, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said while calling upon governments to invest in resilient infrastructure.“When a bridge is lost, a telecom tower falls, power systems fail, or when a school is damaged, the loss is not just the direct damage. We should look at losses holistically. Indirect losses due to disruptions to small businesses and interrupted schooling of children may be several times higher,” Modi said at the inaugural session of the International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure co-hosted by India and the United Kingdom on Wednesday. “We need the right accounting perspective for a holistic evaluation of the situation. If we make our infrastructure resilient, we will reduce both direct and indirect losses and protect the livelihoods of millions.”Modi said the third edition of the conference was being hosted at an unprecedented time when the world is experiencing a once-in-a-hundred-year disaster. “The Covid-19 pandemic has taught us that in an interdependent and interconnected world, no country--rich or poor, in the east or west, north or south--is immune to the effect of global disasters,” he said, quoting Indian scholar Nagarjuna’s verse on the interconnectedness of all beings.Also Read | Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak: ModiWhile 2021 maybe a year of recovery from the pandemic, Modi urged people not to forget the lessons learnt and understand the climate crisis does not have a vaccine yet.“It will take sustained and concerted efforts to mitigate climate change. We also need to adapt to changes that are already being observed and are affecting communities around the world…countries that are making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure that this is an investment in resilience, and not in risk,” he said. “But as the events of recent weeks have shown, this is not a developing country problem alone. Just last month, the winter storm Uri, knocked out around one-third of electricity generating capacity in Texas, United States. Almost three million people were left without power. Such events can happen.”Modi launched the Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (ICDRI) in 2019 at the UN Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York. The coalition has 22 members.Modi said the effect of disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across the world. “Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system. Infrastructure is developed for the long-term. If we make it resilient, we will prevent disasters not only for ourselves but many future generations,” Modi said. He stressed the need to harness the full potential of geospatial technologies, space-based capabilities, data science, artificial intelligence, material sciences, and combine it with local knowledge to pursue resilience.Modi referred to climate change and said concerns of the most vulnerable nations and communities must be put first. “In this regard, the Small Island Developing Nations that are already experiencing the impacts of worsening disasters must have easy access to all the technology, knowledge and assistance that they consider necessary,” said. He said CDRI must take stock of the performance of some of the key infrastructure sectors particularly health infrastructure and the digital infrastructure that played a central role during the pandemic.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called for the need to be ready for whatever challenges may be coming next “...we must not only do everything in our power to strive for global net-zero and ambitious 2030 emissions reductions targets, but we must also adapt to its damaging effects – and build more resilience to disasters. Our roads, our bridges, power lines, schools, hospitals – all the infrastructure we rely on to keep our economies moving and our communities safe – they must be made ready.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/direct-and-indirect-losses-of-disasters-need-to-be-accounted-for-pm-modi-101616043133604.html
18-03-2021||India||Prohibitory orders, large gatherings banned in GB Nagar till April 30||Police in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday imposed restrictions prohibiting unauthorised protests and warned of action against people not following Covid-19 protocols like social distancing and wearing face masks in public places. The police, according to an order, invoked section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) till April 30 as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus disease ahead of upcoming festivals. Holi, Good Friday, Maharishi Kashyap Jayanti, Navratri, Ambedkar Jayanti, Ram Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, and Hanuman Jayanti will be celebrated between March 17-April 30."During these occasions, the chances of anti-social elements attempting to disrupt law and order cannot be ruled out," Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (law and order), said in the order, according to news agency PTI.Also read | UP sees rising trend in Covid casesPeople will have to follow Covid-19 protocols at public places during the period and they will not be allowed to roam around with sticks, rods or firearms at public places except disabled and blind people, the order said. "Nobody will be allowed to hold protests, processions or hunger strikes without permission from the competent authority, nor will they encourage anyone else to do so," the order said. "No firearms will be allowed inside any government or private office during the period. People who have been provided with armed security personnel by the government will ensure that their gunners stay out of offices," it added.Also read | Mayawati welcomes PM Modi’s initiative to convene CMs meet on Covid-19The police also reiterated the complete ban on celebratory firing at events such as weddings and consumption of liquor at public places during the period and cautioned people against selling, playing or displaying any audio or visual, which may create tension."Any violation of the restrictive orders under CrPC section 144 or any of its sub-sections mentioned would lead to the prosecution of offenders under IPC section 188," the order said.Ghaziabad’s district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has also issued orders under section 144 to prevent gatherings amid the rising Covid-19 cases and in view of the upcoming festivals.According to data released by Uttar Pradesh’s health department, Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded seven new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday that pushed the district's tally to 25,693. Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The active cases in the district reached 76 from 78 the previous day and the recovery rate reached 99.35 per cent, according to the data.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prohibitory-orders-large-gatherings-banned-in-gb-nagar-till-april-30-101616041460422.html
18-03-2021||NA||Covid-19 Live | Compared to other states, situation in Delhi is under control: Health minister||The global tally of the cases of the coronavirus disease stands at 120.9 million, a slight rise from Wednesday's record of 120.6 million. The latest death toll record, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker, stands at 2.67 million with the US, Brazil, India and Russia recording the highest infection rates respectively. According to a Bloomberg report, more than 394 million people have been inoculated all over the world.In India, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Covid-19 cases have reached over 11.47 million. The death toll of the country stands at 159,044. The country has inoculated over 35 million people.Follow all the updates here:Manipal institute campus declared containment zone after 59 Covid-19 casesThe prestigious Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) in Karnataka's Udupi district was declared as containment zone by the administration after 59 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past few days. Read moreMadhya Pradesh reports 917 new cases, one deathMadhya Pradesh reports 917 new #COVID19 cases, 500 recoveries, and one death todayTotal cases: 2,71,957Total recoveries: 2,62,031Death toll: 3,894Active cases: 6,032 pic.twitter.com/eaGOuaVoqUMadhya Pradesh reported 917 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,71,957. The death toll after one fresh fatality stands at 3,894. Over half of all adults in England have had first Covid vaccineMore than half of all adults in England have had their first Covid-19 vaccine, the health service said on Thursday, after a bumper 708,927 first and second shots were distributed on Wednesday.Goa reports 98 new cases, one deathGoa recorded 98 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 56,271. The death toll after one new fatality stands at 813. Mumbai reports 2,877 new cases, eight deathsMumbai reports 2,877 new #COVID19 cases, 1,193 recoveries, and eight deaths, as per Brihanmumbai Municipal CorporationTotal cases: 3,52,835Total recoveries: 3,21,947Active patients: 18,424Deaths: 11,555 pic.twitter.com/aLHQjO1IbXMumbai reported 2,877 new coronavirus infections, taking the city's tally to 3,52,835. The death toll after eight new fatalities stands at 11,555. Maharashtra reports 25,833 new cases, 58 deathsMaharashtra reports 25,833 new #COVID19 cases, 12,764 discharges and 58 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 23,96,340Total discharges: 21,75,565Active cases: 1,66,353Death toll: 53,138 pic.twitter.com/wFrIFtp73TMaharashtra reported 25,833 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 23,96,340. The death toll after 58 fresh fatalities stands at 53,138. Tamil Nadu reports 989 new cases, nine deathsTamil Nadu reports 989 fresh COVID-19 cases, 569 discharges, and 9 deathsTotal cases: 8,63,363Total discharges:8,44,568Active cases: 6,222Death toll: 12,573 pic.twitter.com/AIjgXon19tTamil Nadu reported 989 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,63,363. The death toll after nine new fatalities stands at 12,573.Night curfew imposed in Punjab's JalandharJalandhar District Collector Ghanshyam Thori and Ludhiana District Collector Varinder Sharna have imposed night curfew in the respective districts from tonight. The curfew will remain imposed from 9 pm to 5 am until further orders.J&K reports 140 new cases, one deathJammu and Kashmir reported 140 new coronavirus infections, taking the UT's tally to 1,28,097. The death toll after one fresh fatality stands at 1,978.MP: Barwani District Administration imposes Section 144 over rising casesMadhya Pradesh's Barwani District Administration has imposed Section 144 over rising Covid-19 cases. People travelling from Maharashtra would be advised 7-day quarantine and action would be taken against those without masks.Sikkim govt issues guidelines for virus containmentSikkim Government issues measures for containment of #COVID19; There shall be no movement of vehicles from 10:30 pm till 6 am except for emergency purposes, all commercial establishments including restaurants, bars, night clubs, pubs, gyms etc shall close by 10 pm every day. pic.twitter.com/JXijeGw23xThe Sikkim government issued measures for Covid-19 containment, which said that all commercial establishments should be closed by 10pm and there should be no vehicular movement from 10:30pm to 6am unless there was an emergency.Andhra Pradesh reports 218 new casesAndhra Pradesh reports 218 new #COVID19 cases and 117 recoveries in the last 24 hours, no deaths reported.Total cases 8,92,740Total recoveries 8,83,759Death toll 7186Active cases 1795 pic.twitter.com/ImQIA31KFUAndhra Pradesh reported 218 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,92,740. The death toll currently stands at 7186.Kerala reports 1,899 new cases, 15 deathsKerala reported 1,899 new coronavirus infections and 15 deaths, taking the state's active case tally to 25,158. 10,68,378 patients have recovered from the disease after 2,119 fresh recoveries.Kejriwal urges Centre to decentralize vaccination processDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to decentralize the vaccination process so that states could carry out the immunisation on war footing.Can vaccinate Delhi population in 3 months if norms eased: CMDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said that the entire population could be inoculated in three months if the vaccine centre norms were eased.Appeal people to get vaccinated without hesitancy: KejriwalDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urged people to get vaccinated without hesitancy, stating that directions had been issued for strict enforcement of Covid-19 safety norms.Kejriwal extends vaccination timingsDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal extended vaccination timings from 5pm to 9pm. He also said that immunisation cemtres would be doubled.Request Centre to relax norms over Covid-19 vaccination centres, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalChief Minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal asks the Union government to loosen the norms for Covid-19 vaccination centres. He requests them to modify the list of those not eligible for Covid-19 jabs, to making it available for everyone above the age of 18. He also calls for vaccination for everyone in Delhi after 3 months.Maharashtra CM seeks more vaccination centres, Haffkine institute to produce Covid-19 vaccineYesterday, CM demanded the PM that Haffkine Institute be permitted to manufacture vaccines & vaccination for people above 45 years. No decision on lockdown in Mumbai, but people have to cooperate, otherwise, strict action will be taken: Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik pic.twitter.com/AL6KTv4owwSection 144 imposed in Gautam Buddh Nagar as precautionary measure against Covid-19Gautam Buddh Nagar Police has imposed restrictions under Section 144 of CrPC between March 17-April 30 as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 keeping in mind the upcoming festivals: Holi, Good Friday, Maharishi Kashyap Jayanti, Navratri, Ram Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, Hanuman Jayanti.Rajasthan schools: Class 1-5 to be promoted without exams due to Coronavirusकोविड-19 से उत्‍पन्‍न परिस्थितियों को देखते हुए सरकार ने स्‍थानीय परीक्षाओं के बारे में संवेदनशीलता से निर्णय लेते हुए कक्षा 1-5 तक के विद्यार्थियों को स्‍माईल-1, स्‍माईल-2 एवं आओ घर से सीखें कार्यक्रम के तहत किये गये ऑकलन के आधार पर अगली कक्षा में प्रोन्‍नत किया जायेगा। /1 pic.twitter.com/TQUjJrqxtqIndia records 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike this yearOn Thursday, India recorded 35,871 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing tally past 11,474,605 since yesterday, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8am. The country has recorded more than 20,000 cases for the eighth day in a row, indicating a sharp rise in cases and a likely second wave.SK Bioscience, AstraZeneca's Korean partner doubles in its debutSK Bioscience saw its shares gain by their 160% daily limit to 169,000 won per share from the float price of 65,000 won, following a record amount of bids from its retail investors for its $1.33 billion IPO. After boosting its market cap to 12.9 trillion, concerns over the side effects of AstraZeneca's covid-19 vaccine has failed to dent it's Korean partner's image in the global market.Dispute Over Vaccine Supplies between EU and UK escalatesThe dispute between the UK and European Union over covid-19 vaccines escalated as the government in London said it would have to slow down its inoculation program because of a cut in supplies. The UK will prioritize giving second doses to the most-vulnerable people due to the expected four-week reduction in supply from March 29.Australia Unemployment Drops to 5.8% as Recovery StrengthensAustralia’s jobless rate tumbled in February as rising sentiment from a vaccine rollout combined with fiscal and monetary stimulus accelerated the economy’s recovery and returned employment to pre-pandemic levels.Biden to support India, South Africa at WTO on COVID-19 vaccinesLawmakers have Joe Biden to support India and South Africa's plea to the World Trade Organization for emergency temporary waiver of some Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) rules. The 2 countries want allow greater production and supply of COVID-19 vaccines, treatments, and diagnostic tests.Kanpur jail: 10 inmates test positive for COVID-19Ten prisoners have tested positive for COVID-19 at Kanpur jail. All of them are asymptomatic and have been shifted to L1 level hospital established at the jail: RK Jaiswal, jail superintendent (17.03.2021) pic.twitter.com/6REF2Nk7kj||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-live-compared-to-other-states-situation-in-delhi-is-under-control-health-minister-101616033860605.html
18-03-2021||India||CBI books Cadbury for fraudulently availing area-based tax benefits in Himachal||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Mondelez, the maker of Cadbury chocolates, its former executives as well as several government officials for setting up a “ghost” production unit of the company in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh. Cadbury allegedly misrepresented facts to avail area-based tax exemption benefits worth around ₹241 crore, according to the CBI First Information Report. Rather than expanding production by creating a unit, Cadbury decided to increase production capacity in its existing unit and avail tax exemption from May 2005, CBI said. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) had asked the central anti-corruption agency to look into the matter after the latter filed a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) in 2017, which has now been turned into an FIR. A PE is the first stage of any investigation in the CBI. Also Read | Sensex 350 points higher at 50,161, Nifty at 14,800 in opening tradeThe enquiry revealed that a plant was proposed by Cadbury India in Baddi in 2007 to manufacture its popular chocolates, 5 Star and Gems, so that it could avail area-based excise and tax exemption. To avail the same, some members of the executive board of the company along with the key managers, collectively decided to manipulate records, engage intermediaries to route bribes to the government officials, and cover up evidence, according to the CBI FIR. No new plant was constructed.Cadbury officials, CBI added, “paid bribes, misrepresented facts and manipulated records to fraudulently avail area-based exemption benefits (Central Excise and Income Tax) in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, knowing fully well that they were not entitled to avail area-based tax exemption benefits”. People familiar with the development said that the CBI teams carried out searches at five places in Himachal Pradesh and Haryana on Wednesday. Among those named in the FIR include Cadbury’s then vice-president (Finance) Vikram Arora, former director, finance Rajesh Garg, former director Jaiboy Phillips (then director, supply chain), and officials of Central Excise among others. A Mondelez India spokesperson said in a statement, “In 2019, the company settled a potentially protracted litigation through the Sabka Vishwas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme, 2019 – an amnesty scheme introduced by the Indian government to settle tax litigation. This decision was made in the interest of putting an end to protracted litigation to enable us to focus on what we do best, growing our business in India. We are yet to receive any formal communication in the matter from the authorities”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-cadbury-for-fraudulently-availing-area-based-tax-benefits-in-himachal-101616041153705.html
18-03-2021||India||India should help revive Palestinian-Israeli peace process: Kuwait foreign min||Kuwait looks to India and the world community to help revive the peace process between Palestinians and Israelis as allowing the matter to linger further could jeopardise any potential for progress, Kuwaiti foreign minister Ahmed Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah has said. Al-Sabah, who is in India for a brief visit to hold talks with his counterpart S Jaishankar, made the remarks during an interaction with a small group of reporters late on Wednesday. He said his talks with Jaishankar on Thursday will focus on institutionalising the wide-ranging cooperation between Kuwait and India and creating a framework to help both sides move forward in an objective manner in areas such as food security, energy, trade and investment. Al-Sabah described the Abraham Accords signed by Israel and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) members such as Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as sovereign decisions by countries regarding the conduct of foreign relations. “Saying that, we think that the peace process is very important. We think that now it is the opportune time to revive the peace process between the Palestinians and the Israelis. We think that if we leave the peace process to linger even further...it might jeopardise any potential for it to see the light of day,” he said. Also Read | Kuwait bans entry for non-Kuwaiti citizens as part of Covid-19 restrictions“And it needs the understanding and the support of the whole international community, including India, in this matter. We think that this issue has taken a long time and has produced a lot of bloodshed, violence and tragedy, but most importantly, despair in the region and among the Palestinians. We are with the peace process and the potential of reviving the peace process is very important to bring back hope for all those affected,” he added. Al-Sabah lauded India for standing by Kuwait in its “darkest moments and in our direst time”, including the provision of medical assistance during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. He singled out the “white army of Indian nationals” – or nurses and doctors – who were combating Covid-19 alongside Kuwaitis. “Even when there was a total lockdown in India, the Indian leadership sent medical assistance to Kuwait and this was very much appreciated,” he said. India deployed a medical rapid response team to Kuwait last April to help in testing and treating infected people. The 15-member team was sent at the request of the Kuwait government. Al-Sabah also played down a bill on reducing the number of foreign nationals that was discussed last year by Kuwait’s Parliament, saying it was only aimed at illegal residents. Kuwait’s population of 4.1 million includes 1.4 million Kuwaitis and almost 900,000 Indians, he noted. “They [Indians] share with us our bread and butter. They have contributed very much and are still contributing in our development and strengthening our cooperation,” he said. “The Indian community is an element of security of Kuwait and also an integral part of the new generation ahead as they are very much involved in our education system. The bill discussed last year was only for illegal expats in Kuwait and is not aimed at any of the more than 170 nationalities present in the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-help-revive-palestinian-israeli-peace-process-kuwait-foreign-min-101616040733531.html
18-03-2021||India||1 person arrested in Silchar airport hoax bomb threat case||Assam resident Shahid Ahmed Laskar has been arrested in connection with the hoax bomb threat incident at Silchar airport on Tuesday afternoon and is currently under interrogation by Cachar police, said police officials.A chit with a message, “there is a bomb in the aircraft”, was found inside Spicejet flight (SG8152) which was scheduled to depart from Silchar for Guwahati on the afternoon of March 16. It created panic among the passengers and the flight was delayed by seven hours. However, no bomb or any other suspicious substance was found during the search of the aircraft by a bomb squad.As per Cachar police officials, the chit carrying the bomb threat was found near the seat of Shahid Ahmed Laskar, a resident of Hailakandi district, who had flown to Silchar on the same flight from Delhi. His phone was found to be in switched-off mode for hours after he left the airport. The police located him finally by tracking his mobile. Later, he was arrested, said Bhargav Goswami, deputy superintendent of police, DSP (HQ).Laskar was produced before a local court on Wednesday afternoon and was sent to three days in police remand for further interrogation. Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli has appealed to fliers using the Silchar airport, not to panic. “Bomb disposal squad visited the place and did a thorough check up and we couldn’t find any trace (of a bomb). Magistrate in-charge and DSP were on the spot. We will still be on our guard but request the public not to panic or believe in any rumours,” said Jalli.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding a public rally in Karimganj district on Thursday and is expected to land at Silchar airport in a special flight. From the airport, he’ll take a chopper to the venue. Special security arrangements have been made for the trip.Cachar superintendent of police Bhanwar Lal Meena has asked for deployment of 69 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in the district for the upcoming assembly elections.“We have 1,834 polling stations across the district and there are sensitive areas as well. We already have our police and CRPF teams but we need special armed forces for smooth run of law and order during the elections,” said Meena.All the three districts of Barak Valley will vote on April 1. Counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-person-arrested-in-silchar-airport-hoax-bomb-threat-case-101616040613567.html
18-03-2021||India||India records 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike this year||India on Thursday registered 35,871 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the cumulative tally past 11,474,605 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8am. The country has recorded more than 20,000 cases for the eighth day in a row, indicating a sharp rise in cases and a likely second wave.The active caseload in the country, increasing for a week now, was logged at 252,364 on Thursday. This accounts for 2.05 % of the total cases.The death toll soared to 159,216 with 172 new fatalities, the highest in around two months, the data updated at 8 am showed.Also read: Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak, says ModiMaharashtra, India's worst affected state by the viral disease, has been driving the country's tally as it saw 23,179 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day infection count so far in 2021, a health official said. The last time cases hovered past the 23,000-mark in the state was in September last year. On September 11, 2020, the state reported 24,886 cases and on September 17, there were 24,619 infections.This was the sixth-highest one-day spike of infection cases in the state since the pandemic began last year. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday met the chief ministers of states and called for "quick and decisive" steps to stop the emerging "second peak" of Covid-19.Also read: Over 150% rise in Covid cases in 70 districts, states asked to boost testingPM Modi warned chief ministers during a video interaction that a "nationwide outbreak" may emerge again, and asked them to seriously follow the "Test, Track and Treat" approach. In his interaction over the pandemic and progress in the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Modi said states like Maharashtra and Punjab have been seeing a rise in cases while the positivity rate has shot up in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-35-871-new-covid-19-cases-highest-daily-spike-this-year-101616031851455.html
18-03-2021||India||SC to hear NCB’s appeal against bail to Rhea Chakraborty today||The Supreme Court will today hear an appeal by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) against the bail granted to actor Rhea Chakraborty in a drugs-related case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai.A bench of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian will hear the NCB’s appeal against the Bombay high court order.Also Read | NCB arrests 3 in Goa, including 1 linked to Sushant Singh Rajput caseThe court had granted bail to Chakraborty, noting she could not be charged for her alleged involvement in commercial trade of the narcotics because there was no concrete evidence to prima facie make out such a case against her.It had also underlined that no narcotics was recovered from her possession by the NCB sleuths, who had accused Chakraborty of being a part of a drug syndicate in Mumbai.She was arrested in this case by the NCB in September last year and was released on bail after spending more than a month behind bars.In its charge sheet against Chakraborty, NCB has said that she procured and financed narcotic substances for Rajput with the help of her brother Showik. In this regard Maneshinde said, “The court has found no prima facie material, at the stage of bail, of alleged financing drugs etc.”In its charge sheet, in which it named Chakraborty and 32 others, NCB said Chakraborty took delivery of drugs at her residence, and thus drugs were stored at her house. The actor, through her lawyer, has denied all the charges. She has allegedly provided fund for purchase of drugs; thus she has financed an activity related to illicit drug dealings, NCB has claimed. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai apartment in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-ncb-s-appeal-against-bail-to-rhea-chakraborty-today-101616038573270.html
18-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address rallies in West Bengal, Assam today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address rallies in West Bengal's Purulia, Assam's Karimganj todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address public rallies in West Bengal and Assam on Thursday. The events, to be held at 11am and 3pm respectively, are a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) campaign in the two poll-bound states. Read more.Rain, thunderstorms likely over central India for next 5 days: IMDThunderstorms and rain are likely over many parts of western Himalayas and northwest India today, according to the India Meteorological Department. Rain and thunderstorms are also likely over central India for the next five days. Read more.How Bengal economy has fared over the last decadeDuring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)‘s election campaign in West Bengal, home minister Amit Shah said the state’s economic performance was much worse than BJP-ruled states. Read more.'More than half of our team had failed': Sehwag reveals what could have led to Kohli's obsession with fitnessAverage fielding and catches being dropped are nothing new in Indian cricket. But when it happens despite the high fielding and fitness standards set by the current Indian team, it is bound to leave many surprised. As unbelievable as it is, irrespective of how good a physical shape the Indian players are in, the standard of fielding doesn't do justice to it. Read more.Priyanka Chopra is mesmerising in ₹1.8 lakh halter-neck dress with Nick JonasMiss World 2000 Priyanka Chopra had a great start to the week. The actor was all set to announce the Oscar nominees with husband Nick Jonas and was elated after realising that her film The White Tiger had also been nominated in the category of best-adapted screenplay. Read more.Happy birthday Ratna Pathak Shah: Here's why she is Bollywood's hit momRatna Pathak Shah is known to a generation of television viewers thanks to her winning presence in Sarabhai versus Sarabhai. The actor made her debut back in the 1980s with Mandi (1983) and went on to make her presence felt in a number of iconic films like Mirch Masala (1987), The Perfect Murder (1988) and Bharat Ek Khoj (1988, TV). Read more.Watch: Ambani threat accused Sachin Vaze taken to Mahim creek amid probeAmbani bomb scare accused Sachin Vaze was seen with investigators. The suspended cop was taken to Mahim creek as part of probe. National Investigation Agency (NIA) team was seen escorting Vaze. Watch full video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-rallies-in-west-bengal-assam-today-101616037724800.html
18-03-2021||India||Heatwave in Gujarat’s Saurashtra, Kutch; IMD issues yellow alert||Gujarat’s Saurashtra and Kutch region will continue to reel under heatwave conditions till Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The weather bureau has also said there won’t be any significant change in maximum temperatures over most parts of Gujarat during the next 48 hours and it would fall by 2-3°C after that. “No heat wave very likely over the country during next 5 days except over Saurashtra & Kutch, where heat wave conditions in isolated places are very likely on 17th & 18th March,” IMD said on Wednesday.The weather bureau has also issued a yellow alert over the Saurashtra and Kutch region. “Heat is tolerable for the general public but moderate health concern for vulnerable people e.g. infants, elderly, people with chronic diseases,” IMD said and addedthat people should avoid heat exposure.The met department declares a heatwave when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and between 4.5°C and 6.4°C higher than the normal or when the maximum temperature is over 45°C for two stations in a sub-division for two consecutive days.It considers a severe heatwave when the maximum temperature is at least 40°C and more than 6.4°C higher than the normal or when the maximum temperature is more than 47°C.IMD has issued a forecast of above-normal summers for north and east India which usually sees a high number of deaths due to heatwaves. In its summer forecast for March to May made earlier this month, IMD said day temperatures are likely to be above normal in north, northeast, parts of east and west India. "However, below normal seasonal maximum temperatures are likely over most of the subdivisions of the south peninsula and adjoining central India," it added.It has said there is a probability forecast for above maximum temperatures in Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, coastal Maharashtra, Goa and coastal Andhra Pradesh.The IMD had said earlier this year that 2020 was the eighth warmest since 1901 but it was "substantially lower" than the highest warming observed in 2016. According to the weather department, the past two decades - 2001-2010 and 2011-2020 - were also the warmest decades on record with anomalies of 0.23 degree Celsius and 0.34 degree Celsius respectively, indicating the overall rising temperature.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-in-gujarat-s-saurashtra-kutch-imd-issues-yellow-alert-101616036115026.html
18-03-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over central India for next 5 days: IMD||Thunderstorms and rain are likely over many parts of western Himalayas and northwest India today, according to the India Meteorological Department. Rain and thunderstorms are also likely over central India for the next five days.A Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over north Pakistan, and adjoining Jammu & Kashmir.Under its influence, isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall is very likely over the western Himalayan region, including Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Rain and thunderstorms are likely over plains of northwest India on March 17 and 18 also.Due to trough (area of low pressure)/wind discontinuity in lower levels over central parts of India, scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh during the next four days. Hailstorm is also likely over west Madhya Pradesh during March 18 to 19 and over east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on March 19.Under the influence of a trough (area of low pressure), scattered rainfall is very likely over northeast India during the next 24 hours. Heat wave conditions are likely to set in over Saurashtra and Kutch today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-central-india-for-next-5-daysimd-101616035633519.html
18-03-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor to court: Cause of Sunanda’s death not established||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday told a Delhi court that doctors have not been able to ascertain the cause of death or establish whether his wife, Sunanda Pushkar, died by suicide, adding that the case of abetment to suicide against him was nothing but a figment of imagination of the police.Tharoor, represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, contended that Pushkar was already in bad health before arriving in the national capital on the day of her death.Pahwa said there was enough evidence to show that Pushkar boarded the plane on a wheelchair and continued to use it till the time she reached her hotel room. “In January 2014, she was not a healthy person. A lady who can’t walk, who was on a wheelchair, who had autoimmune disease, they say such a lady is fit,” Pahwa told the court.Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a hotel room on January 17, 2014, after which police charged her husband and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for abetment to suicide, among other charges.Tharoor has consistently denied all charges, calling them preposterous and motivated.On May 14, 2018, Tharoor said in a tweet: “ I have taken note of the filing of this preposterous charge sheet & intend to contest it vigorously. No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part...If this is conclusion arrived at after 4+ yrs of investigation it does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police....!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-to-court-cause-of-sunanda-s-death-not-established-101616034764843.html
18-03-2021||India||AIMIM prevents BJP from returning to power in Gujarat’s 2002 epicentre Godhra||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Wednesday prevented the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from returning to power in the municipality of Godhra, which was the epicentre of the 2002 Hindutva assertion in Gujarat, by supporting a battery of independent candidates to capture power, said AIMIM state president Sabir Kabliwala.“Out of the seventeen independents, who are part of the 44 -strong board, five are non-Muslims. We were successful in stopping BJP from returning to power in Godhra municipality," Kabliwala said.Despite the BJP winning 18 seats in the 44-member Godhra Municipality, it could not return to power as the AIMIM, with seven seats, threw its weight behind a group of 17 independents.The AIMIM backed Sanjay Soni was elected as the president of Godhra Municipality. Soni contested as a BJP rebel along with five other rebels, who all won as independents. The rest of the winning independent candidates in the grouping are from the Muslim community.Besides the BJP’s 18, an equal number of independents won the Godhra Municipality polls, held on February 28, with seven members of AIMIM and one from the Congress party. One of the 18 Independents, Sophiya Jamaal, abstained from voting.While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) opened its account in Gujarat by becoming the main opposition party in the Surat Municipal Corporation, the AIMIM won seven seats in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in the elections held last month.Also Read: As Covid-19 cases rise, bus services in Ahmedabad suspended till further ordersSimilarly, nine of the 12 candidates of Asaduddin Owaisi’s party won in the Modasa Municipality polls in North Gujarat and seven of its eight candidates emerged victorious in Godhra Municipality.59 train passengers, mostly Hindu devotees returning from Ayodhya, were burnt alive inside S-6 coach of Sabarmati express near Godhra station on February 27, 2002 in a conspiracy by Muslim miscreants. The incident triggered riots in the state, leading to deaths of hundreds of Muslims and also some Hindus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-prevents-bjp-from-returning-to-power-in-gujarat-s-2002-epicentre-godhra-101616033494428.html
18-03-2021||India||I-T Department detects ₹400-cr black income after raids in Tamil Nadu||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday claimed to have detected undisclosed income of about ₹400 crore after it raided some entities based in poll-bound Tamil Nadu who handle "huge" cash and have offshore links.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), which frames policy for the tax department, said in a statement that the raids were carried out on March 11 at 20 locations in Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Virudhunagar and Theni.The department also seized an "unaccounted" cash of ₹50 lakh, jewellery worth ₹3 crore and nine luxury vehicles worth ₹12.5 crore after the searches on a "group of individuals who are involved in handling huge amount of cash and routing unaccounted money through foreign entities and bank accounts of their related concerns"."The evidences found in the searched premises revealed that cash deposits of more than ₹100 crore were made through various entities in the guise of sale and purchase of agricultural commodities, whereas no such activity exists and no stock was found."The sale and purchase invoices were found to be fabricated by their employees," the CBDT claimed.Sales and stock were circulated among group entities to manipulate the turnover to obtain bank loans, it said."Many of these entities had not filed any tax return so far. While ₹150 crore was received by a group entity through a debenture issue from a foreign entity, the evidences found during the search revealed that this was a sham transaction and all the money went to the personal accounts of these individuals," the CBDT claimed.It said the entities also had imported spices wherein they over-invoiced the import cost to about ₹25 crore. "To this extent, money was siphoned-off from India and diverted to their personal accounts in other countries.  During the search, evidence was also found, which showed that numerous immovable properties have been purchased in the last 3-4 years in the prime locations of Chennai and other towns of Tamil Nadu at a value even lesser than circle rates," the CBDT alleged. Many of these properties were also not disclosed in the tax returns."More than 25 luxury cars were found during the search, and many were unaccounted. Evidence has also been found of the existence of undisclosed foreign bank accounts, foreign credit cards and investments in foreign entities," the statement said.The searches, it said, have resulted in the detection of undisclosed income of around ₹400 crore till now and relevant investigations under the Anti-Blackmoney Act will also be carried out. Tamil Nadu will witness a single phase voting on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-department-detects-rs-400-cr-black-income-after-raids-in-tamil-nadu-101616030156012.html
18-03-2021||India||Key sectors must be made disaster-resilient: PM Modi||The global community must review the performance of key sectors such as health and digital infrastructure during the Covid-19 pandemic, and come up with ways to make them more resilient in future, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday.Inaugurating an international conference on disaster resilient infrastructure, Modi cited the example of a winter storm knocking out a third of electricity generating capacity in the US state of Texas last month, and said countries making large investments in infrastructure, such as India, must ensure such investments are not at risk.Systems such as digital infrastructure, shipping lines and aviation networks cover the globe, and the effect of a disaster in one part of the world can quickly spread across countries, he said. Cooperation is a must for ensuring the resilience of the global system, he added.“We must take stock of the performance of some of the key infrastructure sectors particularly health infrastructure and the digital infrastructure, that played a central role during the pandemic. What are the lessons from these sectors? And how can we make them more resilient for the future,” Modi said.“When a bridge is lost, a telecom tower falls, power systems fail, or when a school is damaged, the loss is not just the direct damage. We should look at losses holistically....If we make our infrastructure resilient, we will reduce both direct and indirect losses and protect the livelihoods of millions,” Modi said at the conference that’s co-hosted by India and the United Kingdom.The Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which is co-chaired by India and the UK, must embody the central promise of the sustainable development goals, which means “leave no one behind” and put the concerns of most vulnerable nations and communities first, Modi said.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who addressed the event virtually, said he and Modi have a shared vision for a sustainable future for the global community, and he was looking forward to discussing such issues during his upcoming visit to India in April.“If our battle with Covid-19 has taught us anything over the past year, it is that we must be ready for whatever challenges may be coming next,” he said.Vaccine Maitri has created goodwill for India: JaishankarThe Vaccine Maitri initiative, which has so far supplied made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries, demonstrated the quality of the country’s products and generated great international goodwill, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.“Our reputation as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ has been reinforced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-sectors-must-be-made-disaster-resilient-pm-modi-101616029746736.html
18-03-2021||India||4 removed from flight for flouting Covid-19 norms||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Wednesday four people onboard a flight from Jammu to New Delhi were deboarded for not following Covid-19 protocol, the first such incident to penalise people who don’t adhere to norms amid a surge in infections in the country.Four passengers on board Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to New Delhi on Tuesday were deboarded after being charged as “unruly/disruptive passengers” and handed over to security agencies at the Delhi airport, the aviation regulator said.The government on Saturday directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes. Those found flouting rules could be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, DGCA said on Saturday.“It was observed during Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to Delhi on 16 March 2021 that four (04) passengers… were not wearing their masks. Repeated Instructions requests were made by the crew including the Pilot In Command through PA system. They were not following the COVID-19 related protocols irrespective of repeated instructions,” the airline said in its communication to DGCA on Wednesday. “These four passengers were treated as unruly passengers as per CAR Section 3 Series M Part VI and all the recommended procedures were followed by the crew. All the four unruly passengers were handed over to security agencies on arrival at Delhi airport,” it added.This came days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing masks properly and to put them on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”.The judge took note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and passed directions to DGCA.“Alliance Air briefs passengers at every touch point, makes regular in-flight announcements. However, on constant request, when the passengers did not adhere to the laid down guidelines and could have endangered other fellow passengers, we apprised the concerned authorities,” the airline said in a statement.On Wednesday, DGCA also informed the Delhi high court that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.DGCA, represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, told a bench of justice Navin Chawla and justice C Hari Shankar that it has also take action against four passengers on the Jammu to Delhi flight on March 16 and declared them “unruly” for not wearing masks.The passengers were handed over to the security officials and action would be initiated against them under the civil aviation requirements (CAR), advocate Anjana Gosain, the central government’s standing counsel (CGSC), said.The court was hearing a plea it initiated after justice Hari Shankar, while travelling on a flight from Kolkata on March 5, observed that the passengers were not wearing masks properly and defied the repeated requests made by the judge himself.DGCA told the court that it issued a circular on March 13 relating to strict guidelines to be followed in the airports.“In case any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear mask or violates the ‘COVID-19 Protocol for passengers’ even after repeated warnings, during the course of the fight, such passenger may be treated as ‘Unruly Passenger’ as defined... Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR)...and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airlines,” it said adding that surprise checks are also being conducted.The bench, after noting the submissions of the counsels, said that proactive steps have been taken by the authorities while noting that the initiation of punitive action against the violators is a welcome step.India’s daily infection tally on Wednesday touched 35,836 – the highest single-day case increase in the country in over a 100 days, or since December 5, clearly underlining the rising second wave of infections.Delhi also continued its trend of rising infections as the city reported 536 new cases on Wednesday, the highest daily infections since January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-removed-from-flight-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-101616026194713.html
18-03-2021||India||Stop 2nd surge to prevent pan-Indian outbreak: Modi||If India does not stop a second surge of Covid-19 cases, it could face another pan-Indian outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday during an urgent meeting with chief ministers, some of whom asked the Union government to open up the vaccination drive to allow more people to become eligible.The PM said 70 districts have logged an over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases recently, and that “quick and decisive steps” were needed to revamp safety protocols, scale up RT-PCR testing, and add more vaccination sites.“This is also a test of good governance,” the PM told the chief ministers in his first meeting with them since vaccination started in India on January 16, and stressed on his mantra of “davai bhi, kadai bhi” (treatment also, stringent protocols also).“We have to stop this rising second surge immediately, and for this, we need quick and decisive steps,” the PM said.The PM raised several key points — bringing focus back on the test-trace-treat strategy by ensuring at least 70% of tests are through the RT-PCR method, more contacts of patients are traced, and micro-containment zones are created; the need to accelerate vaccinations, reduce wastage, and prevent expiry of doses; and the importance of protecting villages and rural areas that have weaker health resources. “Our progress in the fight against Covid gives us confidence. But this should not turn into overconfidence. Our success should not turn into carelessness. We also need to ensure we don’t go into panic, or let fear spread. We have to be proactive in this phase,” he said.On Wednesday, Union health ministry separately listed out districts in 12 states and Union territories where infections have grown significantly. From a low of around 11,000 cases every day in the second week of February – the lowest levels recorded since the outbreak began in the country in March last year – India is now recording over 24,000 cases a day on a weekly average. On Wednesday, it added 35,836 cases, highest since December 5.Representatives of at least three states asked the PM at the meeting to consider allowing more people to seek coronavirus doses. At present, people above the age of 60 or those older than 45 but with certain medical conditions are eligible for doses.The demand to relax these conditions came from Maharashtra’s CM Uddhav Thackeray, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and Kerala’s tourism minister K Surendran, filling in for CM Pinarayi Vijayan. According to officials in Punjab and Maharashtra, both the states pointed to a large number of infections among younger people to call for those groups to be included. Singh also suggested lawyers and judges should be added in the priority list.According to the Maharashtra CM’s office, Thackeray said: “Keeping in mind that there is young population among those who are getting infected, people above age 45, irrespective of comorbidities, should get vaccination”. According to a functionary present in the meeting, the PM replied we might not need to go to that level of vaccination.Several of the states also urged the Union government to send over more vaccine doses. “I have already informed the Union health ministry about the state’s plan to inoculate 300,000 people on a daily basis. At present, the state has a stock that will last only for the next 10 days,” said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope. Similar demands were made by West Bengal and Karnataka.PM Modi outlined the need to accelerate vaccinations as well as the number of tests being carried out, and in particular highlighted regions where vaccine wastage was high. “We need to take the process of test-trace-treat as seriously as we did over the past year. Every infected person’s contacts should be traced in the quickest amount of time, and it is important to ensure at least 70% of all tests are through the RT-PCR method,” Modi said.Modi said governments must focus on ramping up testing in smaller cities. “Till now, over tier-2 and tier-3 cities largely avoided the worst of the outbreaks. Hence, the villages in their vicinities were spared. But if the virus now reaches these regions, our resources could fall short,” he said. The PM asked for micro-containment zones to be set up and noted that “in some places, local administration is not very strict on wearing masks. These issues must be resolved.” He noted that some states made certain recommendations about the vaccination process and that while the country has scaled up the process, it now needs to address wastage. “Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have 10% wastage of vaccines. UP has near 10% wastage. More beneficiaries should be mobilised...States must target zero wastage of vaccines,” Modi said, suggesting daily monitoring of vaccine usage. “If we waste vaccines, we are robbing someone’s right to get vaccinated. We cannot take that right away from anyone.”Since it began vaccinating people on January 16, India has delivered 36.4 million doses. In the last 24 hours, 1.4 million doses were delivered. “If more centres can be added and they work on a mission mode, we will reduce wastage... Also, keep in mind the expiry date of the vaccine. Use the earlier batches first,” Modi said, hailing how 3 million people were vaccinated on one single day.During the meeting, Union home minister Amit Shah highlighted districts that require special focus. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan gave a presentation on the Covid situation and the vaccination strategy.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-2nd-surge-to-prevent-pan-indian-outbreak-modi-101616015307478.html
18-03-2021||India||CJI’s final push for collegium to appoint 1st SC judge in his tenure||Just over a month away from his retirement, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has made the final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure.On Wednesday, a meeting of the collegium took place to finalise the names of some high court judges for their elevation to the apex court but the deliberation could not come to a conclusion, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.The other judges in the five-member collegium, headed by CJI Bobde, are justices NV Ramana, Rohinton F Nariman, Uday U Lalit and AM Khanwilkar.The discussion took place on a list of at least five names, drawn up by CJI Bobde, from among chief justices and senior judges of the high courts, the people cited above said. The views of the other four senior-most judges in the collegium were sought by the CJI, and no name was finalised on Wednesday for elevation. Another meeting has been scheduled after next week, the people added.Those being considered for elevation to the top court include chief justices of three high courts and two women high court judges. After justice Indu Malhotra’s retirement last week, the apex court is left with just one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee.The Supreme Court, which has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, has five vacancies at the moment.As a matter of convention, the CJI usually stops recommending names for appointment of judges a month before their retirement. CJI Bobde will demit office on April 23.There has been no consensus in the collegium over sending any name to the central government for appointment to the apex court since Justice Bobde took over as CJI in November 2019.The last time a CJI retired without making any new appointments to the Supreme Court during their tenure was during CJI HL Dattu’s tenure in 2015. That was owing to a standoff between the judiciary and the central government over the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) that aimed to redefine the appointment process.This time, however, the stalemate within the collegium was triggered by the lack of consensus on recommending justice Akil A Kureshi, currently chief justice of the Tripura high court, as a judge in the apex court.To be sure, the collegium headed by CHI Bobde has made several recommendations for appointments to the high courts.The collegium has been unable to decide on any name for the top court over the past six months because the discussion over justice Kureshi is yet to be resolved, the people said. Due to this, other recommendations have been held up too, they added.HT reported on February 21 that the impasse over justice Kureshi may cost the country the opportunity to have its first woman CJI since it has led to uncertainty over the timely elevation of justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court, who, if elevated now, could become India’s first woman CJI in 2027.Justice Kureshi was appointed as a judge in the Gujarat high court in 2004, and is scheduled to retire in March 2022, at the age of 62. Supreme Court judges retire at 65, and judges get an automatic extension of three years once elevated to the apex court.In May 2019, the Supreme Court collegium recommended justice Kureshi’s appointment as the chief justice of the Madhya Pradesh high court, but the central government expressed its reservations.This prompted the collegium to modify its recommendation in September 2019 and transfer justice Kureshi to a different high court – as chief justice of the Tripura high court, a relatively smaller high court than Madhya Pradesh’s.Under the procedure of judicial appointments, after the names are forwarded to it by the collegium, the Union law ministry has the option of sending the recommendations back to the collegium for review.But if the collegium resubmits them, the government has to approve the names — although there is no time frame mandated for this approval, which means the process can be delayed indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjis-final-push-for-collegium-to-appoint-1st-sc-judge-in-his-tenure-101616009551294.html
18-03-2021||India||Congress built sub-standard buildings: Puri on Central Vista criticism||Responding to Congress’ criticism on the Central Vista project in Parliament on Wednesday, Union housing minister Hardeep Puri said the Congress built “substandard” buildings including Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan adding that they are not fit to be used.“If buildings like Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan will have to come down, will you be sorry because you built those buildings and they were substandard buildings. They are not fit for offices,” Puri said during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha.The minister was responding in Rajya Sabha to questions raised by Congress MP Amee Yajnik over the number of buildings set to be demolished for the redevelopment of the Central Vista.“We are now going to relocate you. Madam, we will relocate you to a new parliament building where you will have enough space,” he added.Puri also said the Centre has not taken any decision on how the old Parliament building will be used.“At this point of time, no comprehensive thought has been given to what precise use the old parliament building will be put to. Several suggestions keep coming, including that there should be an institute for democratic and parliament studies. These are merely suggestions. No decisions have been taken,” he said.The plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the entire project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024. Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.Broadly, the plan also includes razing buildings such as Shastri Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan and Krishi Bhawan that house important government ministries to build a common secretariat for roughly 70,000 central government employees who are currently located across 30 buildings.“We hope that the next Winter Session of Parliament will be held in the new parliament building in 2022 which also happens to be the 75th year of Independence,” Puri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-built-sub-standard-buildings-puri-on-central-vista-criticism-101616006291230.html
18-03-2021||India||Once a Cong bastion in Puducherry, Yanam to witness a close contest||Hyderabad Yanam, an assembly constituency of the Union Territory of Puducherry, geographically located in Andhra Pradesh, is witnessing an interesting battle in the ongoing elections to the 30-member assembly scheduled to be held on April 6. The Congress, which has been dominating this 17th century French colony for the last three decades, has virtually disappeared from the political scene with its five-time lawmaker and former health minister Malladi Krishna Rao quitting the party, triggering the collapse of the Narayanswamy government last month. Rao announced that he won’t be contesting the elections from Yanam again as he wanted to take a break from politics to devote more time to his family. Interestingly, Rao addressed his supporters at Yanam and declared his support to former chief minister N Rangasamy, founder-president of All India Namathu Rajiyam Congress (AINRC), which has now joined the AIADMK-BJP alliance in Puducherry. “As a result of Rao’s announcement, all his followers and other Congress functionaries quit the party and joined the AINRC en masse, giving a massive blow to the grand old party. Now, there is no candidate for the Congress to contest the assembly elections from Yanam,” said Ganga Prasad, a local political analyst. On Wednesday, Rangasamy filed his nominations from Yanam assembly constituency amidst much fanfare. A large number of erstwhile Congress workers and followers of Rao took part in the nomination process. The former CM has already filed his nomination from Thattanchavady constituency in Puducherry. According to Prasad, more than one-thirds of the total number of 37,747 voters in Yanam, all Telugus, hail from Agnikula Kshatriya (fishermen) community. “Malladi Krishna Rao also belongs to this community and had been winning the elections for the last five terms only because of their vote bank. Now that he has supported Rangasamy, these voters are expected to turn in his favour,” he said. However, Rangasamy is expected to face a tough challenge from 35-year-old Gollapalli Ashok, who filed his nomination as an independent. Ashok, originally a BJP leader, had been hoping to get the party ticket from Yanam, but with BJP allotting the seat to AINRC as part of alliance, he turned a rebel. “Ashok represents Kapu community, which is the second largest caste group in Yanam. He is pinning hopes on his caste, besides the anti-Malladi Krishna Rao group in the Congress as well,” he said. Another independent candidate Pemmadi Durga Prasad is also posing a tough challenge to the main parties. The DMK is yet to announce its candidate in Yanam, Prasad said. According to Sadanala Babu, a local whose family is of French nationality, said the major issue that plays a major role in the assembly elections in Yanam is lack of employment opportunities for the youth. “There are no industries, big or small, in this area. The only major industry Regency Ceramics was closed down following worst-ever clashes in January 2012, in which workers killed the factory manager. The youth are forced to migrate to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh towns in search of work. Otherwise, they would have to put up with fishing activity,” Babu said. For everything, including drinking water to irrigation to electricity supply, Yanam has to depend on Andhra Pradesh, which surrounds this tiny town from all sides. “Even the schools are affiliated to Andhra Pradesh secondary education board and colleges with AP universities. The only advantage is that students of Yanam have a quota in medical and engineering colleges in Puducherry, which are very popular,” Babu said. According to P Kumar, a vernacular reporter, a section of people in Yanam is of the view that if Puducherry gets the statehood, they would become part of Andhra Pradesh and they would get access to the welfare and developmental programmes of Andhra Pradesh government. “Many political parties including AINRC and AIADMK have promised Puducherry in the past to fight for its statehood. But majority people from Yanam, including Malladi Krishna Rao, opposed it saying Yanam would lose its identity if it is merged with AP. So, the demand remained only on paper,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-cong-bastion-in-puducherry-yanam-to-witness-a-close-contest-101616006170166.html
18-03-2021||India||Police Violated Nirbhaya Act in Jarkiholi Probe: Petition in HC||A Bengaluru-based non-government organisation (NGO) on Wednesday filed a petition before the Karnataka High Court, claiming the investigation in the alleged sex tape case involving former state minister Ramesh Jarkiholi violated the provisions of the Nirbhaya Act, 2013.“Our organisation has filed an information of offences against the top brass of the Karnataka State Police such as Commissioner of Police, Bangalore City Police, DCP of Central Division, Bangalore City Police and the Inspector of Police at Cubbon Park PS for failing to carry out their duties in a disciplined manner, acting in a prejudiced manner against the said complainant as well as the purported victim…,” read the petition filed with the high court, a copy of which is available with HT.The petition alleged that officers of Bengaluru police displayed “gross incompetence by buckling under the pressure of the powerful ruling political class”. “In the said complaint against the powerful cabinet minister, the complainant is treated like an accused while the accused is treated as though he is the victim,” read the petition.Adarsh Iyer, the co-president of the NGO, said the contents of the complaint registered by activist Dinesh Kalahalli required an FIR under Section 376 C of the Indian Penal Code. “This section was amended under the Nirbhaya Act, 2013. The failure on the side of the police to file an FIR could invite imprisonment under Section 166 of IPC,” said Iyer.“Further, the Home Minister and the Commissioner of Police, Bangalore City Police acted upon the letter by accused Ramesh Jarkiholi and formed an SIT of top officers of the Karnataka State Police, which is a gross misuse of political and official power, respectively and at the expense of taxpayers’ money,” the petition added.The NGO requested the court to take suo motu action on the matter.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the department has not violated any norms.The controversy that led to the resignation of state’s former water resources minister Jarkiholi and the petition against police began on March 2, when social activist Dinesh Kalahalli lodged a complaint of sexual harassment and exploitation against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator.Kalahalli, however, withdrew the complaint within five days, claiming he was distressed by the allegation that he had lodged the complaint for money. Bengaluru Cubbon Park police, which did not register an FIR demanding the woman featured in the purported tape to appear before them, subsequently dropped the investigation.On March 11 four days after the activist withdrew the complaint, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case. While Cubbon Park police refused to file an FIR on the activist’s complaint, the SIT was formed even without the former minister lodging a complaint. Bommai, however, said the SIT was formed based on the letter sent by Jarkiholi.Two days later, Jarkiholi filed a police complaint against a group of unknown persons for making a “fake CD” and releasing it to Kalahalli and on social media. “It is an act of blackmailing, defamation, extortion and forgery, he said in his complaint. He added that the CD was a political conspiracy to get him step down from the minister’s post and that some people who could not “digest” his “political growth” were behind it.Meanwhile, hours after Jarkiholi filed the complaint, a woman claiming to be the person along with the former minister in the purported sex tape, requested the state home minister to provide her family and her police protection.“This is my request to the home minister (Basavarj) Bommai. I don’t know who and how made this video, but my reputation has been spoiled by this. I’m facing harassment. People are coming to my house and asking me about the video. My father and mother have tried to commit suicide twice,” said the woman in the video addressed to the home minister.Bommai announced that the SIT will provide protection to the woman. However, she did not respond to the SIT’s notices.The SIT, meanwhile, picked up five journalists for questioning and conducted multiple raids as part of the investigation. During the probe, two journalists, who were questioned by the SIT, went absconding. Three of the detained men are reporters working with regional TV channels, while the fourth is from Chikkamagaluru and works for a web channel.“A complaint was lodged by the minister alleging extortion using the sex tape. We are investigating it as per the law. For the woman’s complaint, we have asked her to appear before the police to give a complaint, she still has not done so,” said a senior police officer, on the condition of anonymity.The case took a political turn when the BJP alleged one of the absconding journalists, Naresh Gowda, has links with the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, DK Shivakumar. BJP’s social media handles also posted pictures of Shivakumar with the journalist, who is a suspect in the case.Shivakumar had claimed that there was a conspiracy to drag him in the controversy. “A few BJP leaders, including Basanagouda Yatnal and A H Vishwanath, have spoken about it. A suo motu complaint could have been registered based on their reactions. But the government did not do it,” he told media on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-jarkiholi-probe-against-nirbhaya-act-101616005810113.html
18-03-2021||India||Food output to set new record this year despite pandemic||India’s annual food output is set to hit a new record in 2020-21 despite the Covid-19 pandemic, with the country estimated to post a higher yield for the fifth year in a row in the summer (kharif) harvest, and sowing for winter (rabi) crops poised to cross last year’s all-time high, official data shows.Foodgrain production is estimated to be 303.4 million tonnes in 2020-21, an increase of 2% over last year, according to the agriculture ministry’s second of four advance estimates. Farmers have planted winter crops on over nearly 68.5 million hectares, which is nearly 3% higher than last year.During the previous rabi season (2019-20), the sown area expanded by 10% to 66.6 million hectares. The sown area this year has touched 111% of normal, heightening the possibility of a bumper harvest.Ample food stocks help to keep a lid on food prices and inflation levels.Agriculture, which contributes 39% to the rural economy, was able to shake off the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic because of normal rains and ample supplies of subsidised inputs, such as fertilisers, during the pandemic — while announcing the Atma Nirbhar package, the government increased the fertiliser subsidy by an additional ₹68,000 crore to meet an anticipated higher demand.Throughout the peak pandemic months, the farm sector was the only bright spot in the Indian economy. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, even as the rest of the economy fell deep into recession with a -24.4% growth due to a hard lockdown and curtailed business activities.Growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, the latest available data, expanding 0.4%. Agriculture grew at 3.9% in the same period, compared to 3% in the previous quarter.According to the agriculture ministry’s data, the area under wheat, the main winter staple, expanded 3% to a record 34.6 million hectares. The average sown-area under wheat is about 30.3 million hectares. The area under gram expanded by 5% to 11.45 million hectares, the highest on record, surpassing last year’s 10.7 million hectares.The ministry has estimated the total kharif production to be 148 million tonnes, and rabi output to be 155.4 million tonnes.The rice output during the 2020-21 kharif season has been pegged at 103.8 million tonnes, according to the second advance estimate, higher than the first advance estimates of 102.4 million tonnes and last year’s output of 102.3 million tonnes. The higher summer output came on the back of a larger cropped area, which exceeded last year’s levels by 2 million hectares, with a push coming particularly in states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Telangana West Bengal and Assam. Higher sowing was mainly on account of robust summer rains.“The farm economy has turned to be more resilient than the urban economy mainly because of sufficient rainfall. Higher procurement and ample stocks of fertilisers were able to meet higher demand despite the pandemic,” said economist R Mani, who was formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-output-to-set-new-record-this-yr-despite-pandemic-101616004370012.html
18-03-2021||India||Over 150% rise in Covid cases in 70 districts, states asked to boost testing||At least 70 districts spread over 12 states and union territories have logged an over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday, urging the administrations to ramp up testing as well as vaccinations in these regions in order to rein in the outbreak.The warning came on a day when the country recorded 35,836 cases, the highest since December 5. The number is now a clear indicator of the country having entered a second wave of infections, at least in some regions, after a low seen over a month ago.“The Centre has advised these states to look at ways to quickly increase the number of vaccinations in these districts that are also reporting increased positivity rate. The vaccination process should be more targeted and better focused in these areas,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, during the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates.The top officials also said the option of opening the vaccination drive up for more people is on the table but the focus at present is to maximise reach among those who qualify. “It is being considered by the experts but first, our aim is to cover as much elderly population as possible. Once this group is taken care of substantially, then other categories will be opened up,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.India has till now given a little over 36 million doses of coronavirus vaccines. Till 7pm, 1.4 million doses had been administered on Wednesday.“Most of these districts are located in the western and northern part of India. In fact, these districts are located in certain specific states only. However, the way in which the positivity rate is increasing in most of these districts, the number of tests is not being increased accordingly,” he said.There are 55 other districts in 17 states that have reported an increase between 100 and 150% in the corresponding period (between March 1 and 15), the officials said at the briefing.“Our advice to these states, especially Maharashtra, which has 60% of the current active case load, is that they have to increase the number of tests. Among Covid-19 tests, proportion of RT-PCR test should be increased up to 70% at least, but should not go below that,” Bhushan added.The officials also said they are monitoring the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, where experts fear an outbreak could occur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-rise-in-covid-cases-in-70-dists-states-asked-to-boost-testing-101616004309935.html
18-03-2021||India||At meeting with Modi, CMs seek expansion of vaccine coverage||Chief ministers of at least three states urged the Prime Minister to allow more people to become eligible for coronavirus vaccines, pointing out to growing cases in some of their regions where a large number of those becoming infected are from younger age groups.The remarks were made at an urgent meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. The PM said “quick and decisive” steps need to be taken to stop a recent spike in cases from turning into a full-fledged nationwide second wave.“Keeping in mind that there is young population among those who are getting infected, people above the age of 45, irrespective of comorbidities, should get vaccination,” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, according to his office.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to allow vaccination of all age groups in areas where Covid infection rates are high. He also called for occupation-based immunisation for school and college students and teachers, judges, bus drivers and conductors, elected representatives.The chief ministers said that they were ready to increase the number of vaccination centres, especially in private hospitals, to improve overall vaccination. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Bengal sought more doses in order to accelerate delivery. “Several private hospitals have come forward and registered themselves, but looking at their overall preparedness they will be allowed to operate to increase the vaccination numbers. Efforts will be made to take the daily vaccination to 300,000,” Thackeray said.Maharashtra also asked the Centre to relax the norm of requiring private hospitals to have 100 beds in order to qualify to deliver vaccines to 50. The chief minister also said the state-owned research institute in Mumbai — Haffkine Bio Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited – should be allowed to manufacture Covaxin as the state can produce 126 million doses through Haffkine.“We have demanded that if technology transfer from Bharat Biotech [which manufactures Covaxin] can be done to Haffkine Institute. We have two options; firstly, either we can manufacture it on our own or they provide technology and we use our space and equipment and we do it on fill and finish basis,” health minister Rajesh Tope said.In Punjab, as the daily positivity rate climbed to over 5%, the CM said half of the new cases are in people below the age of 40, and therefore, vaccinating them should be allowed in select areas. The state government has already started vaccination of younger people in Ludhiana.“Any area where weekly testing shows a doubling of positivity rates, everyone should be vaccinated,” Singh was quoted in an official statement, adding that this would lead to better outcomes than the periodic cycles of vaccination targeting a small section of the population in each cycle. He also asked that those below 45 and having kidney and liver diseases should be allowed for vaccination.From Kerala, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan busy in election campaigning, the state tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and chief secretary VP Joy attended the virtual meeting called by the PM.They too sought wider access to vaccines. “We appraised the PM about measures we took to control the pandemic. Cases have dipped in Kerala in last three weeks,” said Surendran.After the meeting, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa said the state also sought permission to set up vaccination centres outside medical facilities: at places like old-age homes and apartment complexes.At present, around 150,000 doses are being given daily in Gujarat, and this number will be increased to 300,000 per day soon, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani told the PM, according to a statement.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter told the PM that a cluster approach for vaccination is being adopted to ensure every eligible recipient is reached. “Though vaccination for COVID-19 has been rolled out still we should religiously follow all the guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to stay safe and to ensure containment of virus spread,” the CM said, according to a government statement.Chief ministers of some states like Bihar, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh did not make remarks at the meeting. Officials of some states such as Kerala, West Bengal and Assam, where CMs were busy in election campaign, did not participate in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-with-modi-cms-seek-expansion-of-vaccine-coverage-101616004250661.html
18-03-2021||India||As power tussle intensifies over Delhi, here’s how world capitals operate||The Bharatiya Jana Party (BJP)-led central government introduced a Bill in the Lok Sabha on Monday, giving overarching powers over the city’s daily functions to the Lieutenant-Governor of the Capital, who is appointed by the Centre, prompting fierce protests from the elected Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the city and reviving an old power tussle for control of Delhi.This has, once again, brought into focus the complicated structure of governance in the Capital city. Globally, Delhi is not an exception.Here’s a quick look into how capital cities across the world function:Delhi: Delhi, the Capital of India, is technically a Union Territory that has a 70-member assembly and members are elected by the residents of the city. However, the Union government appoints a lieutenant governor (L-G), who is considered the administrator and whose office has, under its jurisdiction, crucial subjects such as police, land and public order. This special status was granted to Delhi under a constitutional amendment in 1991. Laws cleared by the Delhi assembly are routed to the President for his assent through the office of the L-G. Subjects under the city government’s jurisdiction include education, healthcare, fire services, public buses, water supply, electricity and social welfare. Then there are civic agencies which are independent of the city government. They include the three municipal corporations in the city, a cantonment board and a municipal council that is in charge of the central area that houses the Parliament and Union government offices.Also Read | Kejriwal hits out at Centre over ‘unconstitutional, anti-democracy’ NCT BillWashington DC: The national capital of the United States of America has an elected mayor and a 13-member council to govern the district that was established in 1973. The municipal corporation has limited powers relating to health administration, welfare functions and highway development. The mayor and council set local taxes and a budget, which must be approved by Congress. The Congress also maintains supreme authority and can overturn local laws. Residents of Washington DC elect a non-voting Congressional delegate to the House of Representatives and the federal district has no representation in the Senate.Canberra: In the capital of Australia, the federal government has traditionally been the sole governing authority until the enactment of the Australian Capital Territory (self-government) Act 1988. The assembly — which has a chief minister — has revenue-raising powers and control over a range of municipal functions. Canberra has no other local government. The assembly, however, does not have powers to make laws on subjects that include the establishment of courts, police services and the securities industry.Also Read | Experts trace the political and administrative roots of the Centre-Delhi tussleTokyo: Local municipal bodies in Japan operate at two levels — municipality and prefecture. The prefecture is a local government unit covering a large area including several municipalities. It acts as an administrative tier connecting the national government and municipalities, with its own elected assembly, budget and prefect – also called the governor who is elected through popular vote. The prefecture of Tokyo is the Tokyo metropolitan government, which is a self-governing body with a 127-member assembly and considered superior to all other prefectures. It is in charge of 26 cities, five towns and eight villages that collectively make the Tokyo metropolis.London: London has 32 boroughs with their own councils that are responsible for running most local services, such as schools, social services, waste collection and roads. Then there is the City of London Corporation, which is an independent municipal body for the historic centre of London (a 3 sq km area in the heart of the Capital). These bodies are independent of the Greater London Authority (GLA) — which is a larger regional governance body that was established in 1999. The mayor of London is the head of the executive of the GLA whose primary role is that of a strategist – covering departments such as fire and police services, transport, regeneration and planning. The assembly is a 25-strong body that is designed to scrutinise the mayor’s work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-power-tussle-intensifies-over-delhi-here-s-how-world-capitals-operate-101615961108113.html
18-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till Thursday 11 am||Lok Sabha on Wednesday was adjourned till 1 pm after the House paid tribute to BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma and ex-MP Dilip Gandhi who died today.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma was found dead at his residence in Delhi on Wednesday, police said. Dilip Gandhi passed away at a hospital where was under treatment after testing positive for Covid-19.The Lower House of Parliament has now been finally adjourned till Thursday 11am.The second part of the Budget Session of Parliament commenced from March 8 with all Covid-19 precautionary measures in place.The first part of the Budget Session of Parliament, which commenced with the address of President Ram Nath Kovind on January 29, concluded on February 29. The Union budget was tabled in the Parliament by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1.The Lok Sabha clocked 99.5 per cent productivity during the first phase of the two-part Budget session of Parliament, Lok Sabha Secretariat said. Birla informed that during the first part of the Budget Session 2021, Lok Sabha sat for 49 hours and 17 minutes against the stipulated time of 50 hours.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till Thursday 11 amThe Lower House of Parliament has now been finally adjourned till Thursday 11am.2 Lok Sabha MPs demand free Covid vaccine shots for poorTwo members of the Lower House-- DMK leader Senthilkumar S and NCP leader Amol Kolhe said on Wednesday that free vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should be administered free of cost to all poor and working-class people on demand, according to news agency PTI. Senthilkumar S told Parliament there was numerous people that are poor and below the poverty line and hence they should be given free jabs. While the NCP leader Kolhe stated that citizens feared possible lockdown as much as they feared the disease itself and the working-class populace should be given as per demand. Not giving vaccine to the world at the cost of local population, says VardhanUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday that the Centre was not providing Covid-19 disease vaccines to the globe at the cost of India's population. Addressing the Lok Sabha, Vardhan said, ""The whole world is a family... the whole mankind should benefit from the vaccine. "Rajya Sabha accepts Swapan Dasgupta's resignationThe Rajya Sabha accepted the resignation of nominated member Swapan Dasgupta on Wednesday.Lok Sabha passes Appropriation Bill#LokSabha passes Appropriation Bill @FinMinIndia @PMOIndia @ombirlakota #BudgetSession2021 @nsitharamanoffc pic.twitter.com/l0qmn3S6rAHarsh Vardhan replies to discussion on demands for grants under health ministryHealth Minister Dr. Harshavardhan replies to the discussion held on Demand for Grants under the control of Ministry of Health & Family Welfare@MoHFW_INDIA @drharshvardhan #BudgetSession2021 #LokSabha pic.twitter.com/QdsfNf1wkNNo proposal for social media regulator: Govt in ParliamentThe government on Wednesday informed Parliament that there is no proposal with the IT ministry to set up a regulator for social media. Union IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, however, said that the government has released Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, under the IT Act that specifies the due diligence.Lok Sabha discusses demands of grant from health ministry#लोकसभा में स्वास्थ्य और परिवार मंत्रालय की अनुदानों की मांगों पर जारी है चर्चा@MoHFW_INDIA #बजटसत्र2021 pic.twitter.com/YLoqEBDpA8Covid vaccine supply abroad based on adequate availability at home: JaishankarSupply of vaccine abroad is based on the assessment of adequate availability at home, which is continuously monitored by taking into account the requirement of domestic vaccination program as it unfolds in different phases, said external affairs minister S Jaishankar in Rajya Sabha.India supplied medicines to 150 countries: Jaishankar in RSIndia supplied 150 nations with medicines, 82 of them as grants by India. This generous approach was extended to the Vande Bharat Mission as well. Starting from Wuhan, we brought back nationals of other countries by looking after our own, said S Jaishankar in Rajya Sabha.Engagement with China is "complex", says govt in LSIndia on Wednesday said its engagement with China is "complex" and the two countries agreed that the future direction of ties should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations.Make Facebook, Google pay for news like in Australia: BJP MP demands in RSTaking a cue from Australia, India should enact a law to make tech giants such as Facebook and Google pay local publishers of news content, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi demanded in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pmRajya Sabha passes Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2021The Bill enhances upper gestation limit from 20 to 24 weeks for special categories of women that will be defined in amendments & would include survivors of rape, victims of incest & other vulnerable womenCongress MP demands release of fund for AMU centre KishanganjCongress MP from Kishanganj Dr Javed protest in front of Gandhi statue in Parliament, 'demanding the release of fund to save AMU centre Kishanganj'BJP Parliamentary Party meeting cancelled after death of MP Ram Swaroop SharmaThe Parliamentary Party meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party scheduled for Wednesday was cancelled due to the death of Ram Swaroop Sharma, a party MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh.Ram Swaroop Sharma died allegedly by suicide in the national capital on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-updates-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-march-17-2021-101615958624603.html
18-03-2021||India||Experts trace the political and administrative roots of the Centre-Delhi tussle||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government introduced a Bill in the Lok Sabha on Monday giving overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functions to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor (L-G) even though the capital city has an elected government – ruled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) – in place.While Delhi is not an exception in terms of having a federal government exercise a range of powers in the national capital, and its state government has, over the past three decades, enjoyed more power than its counterparts elsewhere, experts believe that the Centre’s move reflects lack of trust in the local government and there was even need for clear structures in place. The national capital is currently mired in administrative overlapping and contested jurisdictions.Partha Mukhopadhyay, a senior fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, said: “Having a powerful local government in a national capital is not incompatible with national interest. It is a question of political culture. In Washington DC and Australian Capital Territory of Canberra, sub-national powers are indeed curtailed. But there are clear structures in place… What Delhi needs is more clarity. Its chief minister is a visible leader. It comes down to whether the national government and political parties have the maturity to be comfortable with federalism generally, and with strong local leadership in the national capital, in particular.”Niranjan Sahoo, a senior fellow with ORF’s governance and politics initiative, said: “A survey of major national capitals which I undertook shows that an overwhelming majority of national governments have serious reservations even on granting autonomy, let alone statehood for capital cities. Given that national capitals house critical infrastructure such as parliament, presidential estates, defence and foreign missions, most governments maintain strategic control over the city’s critical services like land and public order. The uncomfortable truth is that central governments lack complete trust in the ability of city governments.”Washington DC has a municipal corporation whose powers are curtailed by the federal government, which can overturn local laws and even approves the local budget. Canberra is run by an assembly which doubles up as a local executive but cannot make laws on subjects that include establishment of courts, police services and securities industry.Delhi has a 70-member assembly whose members are elected by the residents of the city. The political party with majority in the assembly forms the local government. Similarly, there are civic agencies which are independent of the city government. They include the three municipal corporations in the city in which leaders are elected through separate elections, a cantonment board and a municipal council that is in charge of the central area that houses the Parliament and Union government offices.However, the Union government appoints a lieutenant governor (L-G), who is considered the administrator of Delhi and whose office has under its jurisdiction crucial subjects such as police, land and public order. Such special status was granted to Delhi under a constitutional amendment in 1991. Laws cleared by the Delhi assembly are routed to the President for his assent through the office of the L-G. Subjects under the city government’s jurisdiction include education, health care, fire services, public buses, water supply, electricity and social welfare.However, accommodating such multiplicity of governing agencies for the national capital becomes difficult in day-to-day governance and has often led to frictions between the elected government in Delhi and the Union government which intervenes through the L-G – especially at times when two opposing political parties are in charge of the two governments. The current scenario is one such phase and, according to experts, have witnessed the worst of such frictions.The BJP today controls most Indian states but in the national capital’s assembly, its presence is limited to a mere eight out of 70 legislators. The AAP government in Delhi has had a long history of power tussle with the Centre now. If put into a timeline, it would be prominently marked by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s resignation in 2014 after failing to clear the Jan Lokpal Bill, major fights over appointments and transfers of bureaucrats, conflicts over getting files cleared by the L-G, which led to obstructions in launch of several flagship projects that include Mohalla Clinics, doorstep delivery of ration and CCTV in public places, and more.Praveen Rai, a political analyst with the Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said: “The power tussle between the Central and Delhi government has been a recurring feature and will continue unabated till it becomes a full state. But it seems like a distant reality, as AAP does not have the required numbers in the Parliament to pass a bill for Delhi’s full statehood. On the other hand, the BJP, like other national governments in the world, is not likely to relinquish its political supremacy over the national capital. The incessant frictions in the power sharing structure between the Central and state government is not only disruptive, but also slows down the development story of Delhi.”Sahoo said, “While there is no harm in aspiring for statehood, a long history of flip-flops by governments of every hue at the Centre suggests that it is like chasing a chimera. With overlapping and contested jurisdictions, it is imperative to institutionalise dispute resolution as has been adopted by national capitals around the world.”In 2018, the Supreme Court’s intervention brought some clarity and helped reduce the power tussle. In a judgment, the top court said that the L-G is bound by the aid and advice of the elected government in Delhi except for matters pertaining to land, police and public order. While the AAP asserts that the new Bill of the central government essentially overturns the Supreme Court judgment, the BJP claims it is aimed at bringing more clarity in Delhi’s administration.“If the current Bill is enacted, Delhi’s legislature will be made clearly subordinate to the Lieutenant Governor – a feature already frowned upon by the Supreme Court. This kind of second-guessing makes the democratic system irrelevant. Perhaps the Union Territory with Legislature is an oxymoron-like concept and it is time to end the charade,” said Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-trace-the-political-and-administrative-roots-of-the-centre-delhi-tussle-101615960088071.html
18-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Maharashtra reports 23,179 new Covid-19 cases||India recorded 28,903 new Covid-19 cases and 188 more related deaths on Tuesday, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. With this, the active cases in the country reached 234,406 while the total recoveries reached 11,045,284. Globally, the confirmed cases of Covid-19 reached 121,231,075 on Wednesday, according to data by worldometer. The tracker also said 2,682,138 people have succumbed to the viral disease and 97,784,451 have recovered from the infection across the world. The US, India and Brazil occupy the first, second and third positions, respectively in terms of the caseload of Covid-19.Follow all the updates here:Ahmedabad: 2 major bus services to be suspended from Thursday as Covid-19 cases surgeGujarat: In wake of the increasing number of #COVID19 cases, Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System buses operation to remain suspended from tomorrow until further orders.Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) and Ahmedabad Bus Rapid Transit System buses to suspend operation starting Thursday as Covid-19 cases surge, reports ANI.Over 36 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far: GovtCOVID19 Vaccination-Day 61.More than 3.64 Cr COVID19 vaccine doses administered.14.03 lakh vaccine doses given till 7 pm today.#LargestVaccineDriveUnion minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Choubey tweeted that over 36 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India so far. Of this, more than 1.4 million doses were administered on Wednesday.Maharashtra reports 23,179 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai sees 2,377 fresh infectionsWith 23,179 new Covid-19 cases and 84 related deaths, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally reached 2,370,507 cases and death toll climbed to 53,080. Also, Mumbai reported 2,377 new cases and eight new deaths.Delhi reports over 500 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 536 new COVID-19, 319 recoveries, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,45,025Total recoveries: 6,31,375Death toll: 10,948Active cases: 2,702 pic.twitter.com/IPqldYucmbDelhi reports over 500 new Covid-19 cases and three related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 645,025 cases and 10,948 deaths, according to the health department.Nagpur reports 3,370 new Covid-19 cases, 16 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Nagpur District reported 3370 new #COVID19 cases, 1216 recoveries, and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon.Total cases: 1,78,756Total recoveries: 1,53,133Active cases: 21,118Death toll: 4505Nagpur in Maharashtra reported 3,370 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the district's tally to 178,756 cases and 4,505 deaths, reports ANI.Kerala reports 2,098 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths2098 new #COVID19 cases, 2815 recoveries, and 13 deaths have been reported in Kerala today. Number of active cases now at 25,394; so far 10,66,259 patients have recovered from the disease.Kerala recorded 2,098 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths, as active cases reached 25,934, reports ANI.'We are mindful, but the vaccination program will go on': Dr VK Paul on AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccineWhen asked about the suspension of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine in some European countries, Dr VK Paul said that the it has only been done as a precautionary measure. He also said that the WHO has advised to go ahead with the vaccination program.He also said that the government is mindful of the issue, but the vaccination program will continue as planned for now.Centre's directions to state governments regarding handling increasing Covid-19 casesCovid-19 vaccine wastage higher than national average in 5 states : GovtCovid-19 vaccine wastage in five states, namely, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir, higher than 6.5 per cent, which is the national average, said Rajesh Bhushan.India accounted for 3.04 million doses of 8.34 million vaccines administered worldwide on March 15: GovtOf the 8.34 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the world on March 15, India alone accounted for 3.04 million doses, says health secretary Bhushan.Over 150% increase in Covid-19 cases between March 1 and 15 in 70 districts over 16 states: GovtBetween March 1 and 15, 70 districts in 16 states witnessed Covid-19 cases increase by over 150 per cent, said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.Poland reports 25,052 Covid-19 cases, highest daily total this yearPoland reported 25,052 daily coronavirus cases on Wednesday, according to health ministry data, the highest number so far this year.In total, the country of 38 million has reported 1,956,974 cases and 48,032 deaths.PM Modi urges local administration to set up micro-containment zones amid Covid-19 surgeWe should urge local administration to set up micro-containment zones, says PM Modi at meet with CMs. He also said that more than 96% of the cases have recovered. India is one of those countries where the fatality rate is one of the lowestRussia reports 8,998 new Covid-19 cases, 427 deathsRussia on Wednesday reported 8,998 new Covid-19 cases, including 1,201 in Moscow, pushing the national infection tally to 4,418,436 since the pandemic began. The government coronavirus task force also said that 427 people had died in the last 24 hours, taking Russia's death toll to 93,364.1,271 new Covid-19 cases in Aurangabad, 7 more deathsWith the addition of 1,271 new cases of coronavirus, the tally in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district has gone up to 60,100, an official said on Wednesday.Besides these new cases reported on Tuesday, seven more people also succumbed to the viral infection, raising the death toll in the district to 1,351, he said.Odisha logs 82 new Covid-19 cases, tally surges to 3,38,405Odisha's Covid-19 caseload on Wednesday mounted to 3,38,405 after 82 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said.The new cases were detected in 20 of the state's 30 districts, with 48 reported from different quarantine centres and the remaining 34 local contact cases.Ukraine reports record daily high of 289 coronavirus related deathsUkraine registered a record daily high of 289 coronavirus-related deaths over the past 24 hours, the health minister Maksym Stepanov said on Wednesday.1 new Covid-19 case in Andamans, tally rises to 5,032Andaman and Nicobar Islands Covid-19 tally rose to 5,032 as one more person tested positive for the virus in the union territory in the last 24- hours, a health department official said on Wednesday. The archipelago now has three active Covid-19 cases and all the three patients are in South Andaman district, he said.One more person recovered from Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 4,967.1,359 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 6 more deathsThane has added 1,359 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 2,78,928,an official said on Wednesday. These new cases were reported on Tuesday, he said. The virus also claimed the lives of six more persons, pushing the death toll in the district to 6,349, he said.US promotes 'serial testing' for Covid-19 with streamlined approvalThe US government issued simplified rules for developers of coronavirus tests to promote serial screening, a process in which the same individual is tested multiple times within a few days, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said."Today, we are providing information for test developers about a streamlined path to emergency use authorization," the FDA said in a press release on Tuesday. "This [path] applies to developers of molecular and antigen tests, for use in serial testing programs, as well as at-home tests for use in a serial manner outside of a testing program."Australia seeks one million vaccines for Covid-hit Papua New GuineaAustralia on Wednesday asked AstraZeneca and the European Union for urgent access to one million vaccines to deal with an alarming Covid-19 surge in neighbouring Papua New Guinea. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said he wanted to divert doses that Australia had already ordered and paid for "as soon as possible", to address a coronavirus explosion beyond Australia's porous northern border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-march-17-2021-101615948641920.html
18-03-2021||Today's||The transformation of Uttar Pradesh||On March 19, we complete four years of our pledge to realise the aspirations of 240 million people of India’s largest state, with endless possibilities of progress. With a determination to achieve “Target Antyodaya”, we have been focused on pursuing our goals. I am of the firm belief that if work is done for the larger good with good intent and conviction, it is definitely successful.It is a matter of great spiritual satisfaction that our government succeeded in preserving both lives and livelihoods of the people amid the horrors of the coronavirus pandemic, under the guidance of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Whether residents or migrants, everyone was taken care of during Covid-19. We succeeded in breaking the chain of infection and continued to create employment, while pursuing developmental goals. Even the World Health Organization and the global media praised Uttar Pradesh (UP)’s strategy to contain the virus. All this became possible because of our sincere, sustained and collective effort. In this battle against the coronavirus, a new UP has emerged on the national scene.UP has immense potential for development. However, there was a need to explore ways to exploit this potential through coordinated policies and clear intentions. The first effort in this context was to focus on infrastructure and industrial development. In fact, infrastructure is the growth engine for any economy. Without it, economic growth cannot be rapid, sustainable and competitive. We have made continuous efforts in the last four years keeping this in mind. UP is also the most promising state in terms of the demographic dividend. It was not easy to rise to number two in the national Ease of Doing Business rankings within four years, but we did it. In terms of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), UP has surpassed Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to become the second largest economy in the country today.To rid UP permanently free of the brunt of unemployment and migration, we decided to make every village and every district self-sufficient. Reviving traditional industries through the One District-One Product (ODOP) scheme, with the “Swadeshi to Swavalamban” and “Vocal for Local” mantra, millions of units of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) provided loans on easy terms. This gave an impetus to the economy and paved the way for job creation. Under the ODOP scheme, units of cottage industries, supported by subsidy-based financial incentives and favourable environment, created more than four million jobs.This is the new picture of the “New and Self-reliant (Atmanirbhar) Uttar Pradesh of New India”. PM Modi has given the call of a “Self-reliant India”. He is pursuing the goal of making the country a $5 trillion economy. UP expresses its commitment to play a leading role in realising this dream.Schemes such Mission Shakti and Mission Rozgar are becoming instrumental in achieving the goals of women’s safety and empowerment by helping them become self-dependent. Rigorous efforts paved the way for economic upliftment of more than 10 million women from one million self-help groups in the state. The innovative experiment of connecting 58,758 women — one each in all of UP’s gram panchayats — to the banking system through the banking correspondent Sakhi Scheme, and extending the bank to every village has also emerged and flourished. Today, women are being entrusted with the responsibility of running community toilets (Izzatghar) of the state, while giving priority to women under the Swamitwa Yojna, a new script is being prepared for their social empowerment. The policy of reserving 20% of the posts in the police department for women has also brought favourable results.Four years ago, the present government’s journey of public welfare started with the waiving of loans of farmers. Today, farmers in the state are moving towards agricultural diversification by connecting with advanced technology. Efforts are also being made towards reducing the cost for farmers and doubling their income.We have a firm approach towards faith and economy and these are manifested clearly in our policies. The light of cultural nationalism, which has ignited in UP in the last four years, has illuminated the heart of every believer in the eternal force. Through the Ganga Yatra, the objectives of both faith and economy were fulfilled. The foundation stone for the centuries-old, long-awaited, grand temple of Lord Sri Rama at Sri Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya was also laid in 2020. Ayodhya Deepotsav, Dev Deepavali of Kashi and Braj Rangotsav were widely appreciated. The government is also making planned efforts to enrich Ayodhya by presenting it as a blend of Vedic and modern cultures.Four years ago, UP was fifth-largest state in terms of the economy and youth migration was the order of the day. The state with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of ₹10.90 lakh crore in 2015-16 has, today, emerged as the second economy in the country with a GDP of ₹21.73 lakh crore. The state is the same, the resources are the same, the workers are also the same, but the work culture has changed. This committed, transparent work culture with dedicated spirit is the hallmark of this new UP.We have been successful in implementing our policies in line with the PM’s path of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas”. Yes, we are not following the policy of appeasement. But our political rivals also recognise that in the last four years, there has not been a single scheme which differentiates on the basis of caste or religion. Farmers, youth, women and the poor are at the centre of the policies of the present government. The policy and intention of the government is clear and that is why the people are with the government. The success of the last four years, and continuous development, is today giving rise to a self-reliant UP.Yogi Adityanath is the chief minister of Uttar PradeshThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-transformation-of-uttar-pradesh-101616074099761.html
18-03-2021||Today's||The centrality of defence in India-US ties||America is back. Diplomacy is back. Alliances are back.” This is, undoubtedly, United States (US) President Joe Biden’s foreign policy bumper sticker. It was Biden’s underlying message in the Interim National Security Strategic Guidance published earlier this month by his administration. It is this simple, clear, and irrevocably direct message that the US secretary of defense, Lloyd Austin, brings to India on March 19, as he touches down in New Delhi for a short visit. This is the tail-end of a trip to Asia. He, and the US secretary of state Anthony Blinken have visited Japan and South Korea — America’s “treaty allies”.India is not an ally, clearly. The relationship with India represents an abiding partnership unlike any other. As Austin noted, on his way to Hawaii, the first stop before the Asia tour, the aim of his travels was to rediscover “great alliances” and “great partnerships”. Every American principal in the present day understands that India will never be an ally of the US. This has been established through decades of jostling, misunderstandings, uncanny interventions, and finally, the management of expectations on both sides.There is a democratic, economic, and even a cerebral promise that ties this relationship together. Equally, there is enough argument between the two sides — from data diplomacy to the price of stents and from agricultural standards to taxes on motorcycles — to keep practitioners on their toes.For the US department of defense, India offers stability, or at least a degree of balance, in a region beset by Chinese bellicosity. Whether on land, on the commons, or in cyberspace and the internet, China’s one-sided, forceful, and obstructionist imperatives are clearer today that at any time since the end of the Cold War. Decisive discussions on the future shape and form of the Indo-Pacific, giving additional substance to Quad following the summit last week, and navigating the challenge of maintaining regional stability are the key topics that are likely to inform discussions during Austin’s visit.As far as bilateral defence ties are concerned, situationally, India and the US could not be in a better position. In October 2020, days before Donald Trump lost the election, both sides signed what is popularly known as the fourth “foundational” defence agreement. It concluded a two-decade long process of tiresome negotiations. The first agreement, setting standards for sensitive information shared between India and the US, was signed in 2002.The remaining three were concluded in the last five years. In essence, these agreements facilitate greater military interoperability; they make it easier to share geo-spatial intelligence — which reportedly helped India a great deal during the 2020 standoff with China; and they allow India to access encrypted and highly-sensitive military technologies. In sum, these agreements are potentially transformative, if and when they are fully implemented.In many ways, defence ties have saved the larger bilateral relationship from political lethargy when negotiators dealing with matters of commerce and trade have been unwilling to reconcile differences. In some quarters, both in the US as well as in India, there is an argument to connect the defence dialogue more clearly within a larger political framework. Experts argue that the “over-securitisation” of the defence relationship presents an uneven organising principle for a broad-ranging relationship. Trade, data, and US and Indian positions in multilateral fora, some suggest, ought to be considered alongside and parallel to strengthening defence ties.This would be a mistake.The differences on trade and the future of technology are unlikely to be resolved anytime soon. Trying to balance the scales between dairy standards, carbon emissions, and the sale of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles unnecessarily over-complicates the tightly negotiated defence relationship.Austin’s visit provides an excellent and timely opportunity to further develop military-to-military ties, enhance joint training, and deepen discussions on the import of emerging technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, for military adoption.Equally, Austin should be left with no uncertainty about the fact that sanctioning India — under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) — for the purchase of the Russian made S-400 air defence system will be nothing less than a strategic blow to India. US officials argue that critical equipment such as the S-400 make the sharing of sensitive information with India difficult. Others make the case that the relationship can absorb the sanctions.Whilst each of these arguments may well be merited, what is clear is that India will not stop buying Russian military equipment. This, however, does not take away from the steady drift towards American-made platforms. It’s worth recollecting that between 2008 and 2020, defence sales have jumped from zero to $20 billion. This is partially why the US gave India the Strategic Trade Authorisation tier 1 status in 2018, making it much easier for India to access critical military technologies.Partnerships such as these, rather than treaty alliances, are designed to provide more room for manoeuvre. This is what “great partnerships” ought to account for. It is clearly outside the purview of the defence secretary’s remit to make a call on CAATSA. Yet, as much as this visit is about bolstering ties, he needs to appreciate that sanctions, if authorised, will, in no small way, undermine the spade work invested in a relationship between these two oversized democracies.Rudra Chaudhuri is director, Carnegie IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-centrality-of-defence-in-india-us-ties-101616073975769.html
18-03-2021||Today's||In the Congress, the Nehru-Gandhi family has to sit out or step up||The internal upheaval in the Congress continues, with PC Chacko, a four-time Member of Parliament (MP) from Kerala, now quitting the party. His gripe — factionalism in the state unit and the lack of leadership at the central level.That Chacko failed to find an attentive ear in Delhi spoke volumes about the internal state of play in the Congress. Why couldn’t the veteran leader be talked out of leaving the party? The question is even more relevant when Rahul Gandhi is an MP from Kerala, which is also the home state of KC Venugopal, the general secretary in-charge of organisational affairs.Not that there weren’t any election-time threats to leave the party in the past. But timely interventions saved the day. Among the leaders placated or persuaded to stay included such weighty names as Siddaramaiah, Amarinder Singh, Virbhadra Singh and more recently, Sachin Pilot. The leadership’s emissary in most of these cases was the late Ahmed Patel, whose word carried the weight of Sonia Gandhi. Patel had his work cut out as the Congress president’s plenipotentiary. His brief was to persuade or cajole party-persons to fall in line, upon conveying her desire or decision.It won’t be easy to substitute the temperament and the agency Patel brought to the 24x7 job. Only three among his peers can, perhaps, match his network and political experience: Ashok Gehlot, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Digvijaya Singh. Of them, Gehlot alone passes the “loyalty test”, but is reluctant to move out of Rajasthan.Truth be told, what the Congress needs is the utility, not as much the individual loyalty, of leaders with proven capability. Many among the Group of 23 who sought election-driven intraparty reforms have been assigned duties for the upcoming assembly polls. Why the rest of them are out in the cold remains unclear. On paper, the G23 might have been reduced to G7 or 8 if one takes out the original signatories who’ve since been drafted for party work. That, however, doesn’t dilute their case for the party’s organisational revival. Even if a few among them are pursuing personal goals, the leadership must take a generous view of them as a group the party needs. For their part, the reformists who haven’t found a place in the list of campaigners should have, by now, written another letter to Sonia Gandhi, offering to campaign in states up for polls. This would have burnished their credentials.The advice isn’t out of place at a time the Congress’s internal consultative mechanism is in a shambles. With access to Sonia Gandhi limited after Patel’s demise, and Rahul Gandhi remaining out of bounds for most party-persons, the Congress is undergoing a multiple organ dysfunction. Rather than awaiting word from the interim chief, the ginger group, whose key members had an interaction recently with Priyanka Vadra, has to be proactive if it’s keen to be co-opted for canvassing. To be fair, Rahul Gandhi has shown no signs of changing the stance he took while demitting office as party chief. He remains convinced that the de jure leadership must move out of the Gandhi family domain. The hiatus between what he thinks and what his mother wants is an open secret. The other conundrum is whether his and Priyanka Vadra’s presence in the party, without leadership responsibility, will help the new dispensation after organisational elections. Talk privately to even those who are committed to the Gandhis, and they agree that the family has no place in the back benches. They should either sit out or step up to lead.The contradiction between the designated and de facto leadership can exist only when the top leader, as is the case with the Bharatiya Janata Party, makes the party win elections without holding organisational office. That hasn’t happened for the Congress in a long time. It has, instead, seen 170 legislators resigning their seats to contest from other parties in seven big and small states where it had governments or was the single-largest party. The talent-drain continues unabated — the leader refusing to return to do the heavy lifting.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-congress-the-nehru-gandhi-family-has-to-sit-out-or-step-up-101616073916397.html
18-03-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: The PM issues a warning||On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a virtual meeting with chief ministers to urgently deal what he called the “emerging second peak” of Covid-19 in the country. He discussed a worrying spike in infections in several states and said that “quick and decisive steps” are needed to combat another pan-Indian outbreak. A few hours later, when the day’s new Covid-19 cases were tallied from all states, the total came to 35,836 new infections — the highest number of single-day cases in the country in more than 100 days. In India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, Wednesday’s case toll (23,179) was the highest single-day rise since September 17, 2020 — that was a time when the country’s first Covid-19 wave was raging at its peak. Like in the first wave, the western state is again the first major hot spot region, and if things don’t change soon, it will be the first of many. Coaxed into a sense of false security due to six months of declining cases, and a high degree of fatigue (for both people as well as governments) against the disease, there is an alarming degree of laxity at all levels. Testing numbers have been steadily dropping; the concept of contact-tracing has been reduced to just getting immediate family members of positive cases tested; and mask etiquette, as well as enforcement of social distancing norms, are near non-existent even in metros, leave alone smaller cities or rural areas. It is now nearly a year since a nationwide lockdown was introduced on March 24, 2020 to fight the disease. Neither the economy nor citizens can cope with such strict measures again. The best way to fight the second wave, apart from strictly instituting Covid-19 management protocols, is to use the one advantage that the country did not have a year ago — vaccines. At present, people above the age of 60 or those older than 45 but with certain medical conditions can get doses. The government must, as this newspaper has consistently argued, relax the eligibility criteria. Protecting the ones most vulnerable is crucial, but a large number of infections are still among younger people who are more mobile, and likely to be the ones spreading the virus most. As Covid-19 numbers rise again, PM Modi’s warning is apt. The government’s policies need to reflect that sense of urgency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-the-pm-issues-a-warning-101616071879813.html
