21-03-2021||Other||Two arrested for killing woman in Geeta Colony for resisting robbery attempt||New Delhi: Three days after a woman was gunned down by two men on a bike, in north Delhi’s New Aruna Nagar, Delhi police in a late night operation on Saturday night arrested two men for the murder from Geeta Colony in east Delhi. Police said the woman was killed when she resisted to a robbery attempt by the men. The same morning, fifteen minutes before the murder, the two men had robbed two other women at gun point, while they were out for a morning walk in Rohini. The arrested men, police say, are previously involved in multiple cases of robberies, snatching, illegal possession of arms and thefts. Police have identified the two arrested men as Sameer alias Sahjad, 30, and Faizan, 25, both residents of Geeta Colony. While Sameer is involved in two cases, one each of robbery and snatching, Faizan has at least 25 criminal cases against him including robbery, snatching, and illegal use of firearms, police said. Joint commissioner of police (central range) Narendra Singh Bundela confirmed the arrests. On Saturday night some residents of the area also allegedly attacked the police team that had gone to Geeta Colony to arrest the suspects.Police have also booked some locals for attacking the police and obstructing police in their duty.An investigating officer, who wished not to be named, said the two incidents took place at a difference of just fifteen minutes. “On March 17, at 6.30 am, in Rohini sector-7, two women were robbed of their valuables and ornaments by two men on a bike. The same men, after fifteen minutes, around 6.45 am, reached New Aruna Nagar in Majnu Ka Tila and tried to rob 45-year-old Meena Tamang, a Nepalese origin woman who ran a tea stall there with her husband. It has been established that when Tamang resisted and tried to raise alarm, one of the men shot her on the left side of her chest and fled the spot. Tamang died before she could reach a hospital,” he said. The officer said, two separate cases, of robbery and of murder, were registered in Rohini and in Timarpur police station on that day. On Sunday, the CCTV footage of the robbery that took place in Rohini, on a busy main road, was also widely shared on social media. The video shows the two men stopping by two women walking on a main road. Both the men can be seeing getting off the bike and chasing the women to rob them of their valuables. The video also shows vehicles passing by but no one is seeing intervening to save the woman. “While probing the murder case of New Aruna Nagar, as our teams checked CCTV footages from the stretch, we were able to establish that the accused were using a black Yamaha bike. More than 100 CCTV footage for more than a 25 kilometer long stretch were then checked and it was found that the two suspects had fled after the murder through Kashmere Gate, Outer Ring Road, Sarai Kale Khan Road and went towards Akshardham. It was also found that the suspects involved in the Rohini robbery were also using a similar bike. Based on local enquiry and technical evidences, multiple police teams from Rohini, south district and north district managed to zero down on the suspects in West Laxmi Market, Geeta Colony and a raid was conducted in the area late on Saturday night and the two men were arrested,” the officer said. The officer said, during interrogation, both Faizan and Sameer confessed to have shot Tamang in New Aruna Nagar for resisting to robbery. They also accepted their involvement in robbing the two women in Rohini. The bike used in the crime has been recovered from them and their involvement in other cases is also being verified, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-killing-woman-in-geeta-colony-for-resisting-robbery-attempt-101616350125515.html
21-03-2021||Noida||Double-decker bus stolen in Greater Noida West||Noida: A double-decker private bus has been allegedly stolen from Greater Noida West. A case was registered at Bisrakh police station more than two months after the incident when a local court directed police to lodge an FIR.The complainant, Shiv Naresh Singh, is a resident of Sai Garden in Shahberi. He said that he owned a double-decker private bus which used to ply between Noida and Auraiya. “On January 15 this year, we had parked the bus outside our home. However, next morning we found the bus missing. We launched a search but failed to trace it,” he said. Singh said that the bus was the only source of his livelihood. He claimed that he had visited the local police station then but his complaint was not registered. He then moved the court which directed police to register an FIR into this case. Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said that a case was registered against unknown person under Section 379 (theft) of IPC on Saturday. “The case has been registered on the court’s order. We have launched an investigation in the matter,” Chauhan said. Sandeep Dhupar, president of Noida bus association, said that sometimes thieves steal buses and other heavy vehicles and sell them in the scrap market. “They (thieves) also alter the chassis number and other details and use them in remote areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/doubledecker-bus-stolen-in-greater-noida-west-101616348985376.html
21-03-2021||Noida||Man detained for reporting fake car theft||Noida: The Noida police has detained a 32-year-old man for allegedly claiming that his vehicle was stolen by unidentified men at gunpoint, near the Parthala Chowk late Saturday night.A man had called and alleged that he was robbed of his Brezza car, said the police officials, adding that they set up check posts following this.“However, it turned out that the man and his accomplices were chased by police officials for consuming alcohol in public,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (zone 2).A senior police official said that the suspects were carrying a large quantity of alcohol in their car to Noida, crossing a state border. “The man shared false information about the carjacking to avoid police scrutiny and getting caught. The suspect was travelling with his accomplices. Police have recovered the car, and seized it under the Motor Vehicle Act... We are trying to find more information about their operation. The liquor recovered from the vehicle was seized under the Excise Act, while the main suspect will be booked under relevant sections,” said the official.The police did not reveal any information about the main suspect, or the amount of liquor recovered from his car, claiming that “he is a part of a much larger and organised group involved in smuggling illicit substances”. All information will be shared once the gang is busted, and arrests are being made, the official added.The carjacking information came just days after an engineer in Greater Noida was robbed of his SUV at gunpoint by two men, while his wife and daughter were inside the vehicle. They were pushed out of the car 200 metre away from the crime stop, in Sector Omicron.The Noida police is cracking down on the consumption of alcohol in public and booking people for violating the rules. This is in the view of imposition of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) Section 144 in the district amid panchayat elections, coronavirus crisis, and upcoming festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-detained-for-reporting-fake-car-theft-101616348925411.html
21-03-2021||Noida||Man masturbates at woman in Ghaziabad hospital, arrested||Ghaziabad: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly masturbating at a 40-year-old woman while she was standing in a queue for medicines at the MMG district hospital. The man was caught at the spot by the public, police said. In her police complaint, the woman said that the man was standing behind her when he allegedly gave way to the “indecent” act. She stated that some others in the queue noticed the incident and informed her. The suspect, Arshad (single name), is a resident of nearby Kaila Bhatta locality, police said. “It was an unfortunate incident. The public nabbed the suspect and brought him to the Ghantaghar Kotwali police station. The woman also gave in writing about the incident, and we registered an FIR. We will beef up checks at the hospital, and will also ask the authorities at the hospital to take measures to check such incidents,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). Authorities at the MMG hospital said that they will deploy more guards to ensure that no such incident takes place. “We have come to know about the incident. At present, we have three guards which are deputed at different locations. We will deploy at least one to keep an eye at the queues. However, the queue for women and men are separate at the hospital,” said Dr Anurag Bhargawa, chief medical superintendent of the hospital. A case was registered under IPC Section 354 (molestation) against the suspect, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-masturbates-at-woman-in-ghaziabad-hospital-arrested-101616348866750.html
21-03-2021||Noida||Five injured as truck hits cars at Yamuna Expressway toll plaza||Greater Noida: Five persons were injured on Sunday morning when a speeding truck hit a car, which was in the queue to pay toll at Jewar toll plaza, on the Yamuna Expressway, police said. The incident that took place around 6am led to a pile-up of six vehicles on the expressway, police said.Yash Kapoor, a resident of Delhi, filed a complaint at Jewar police station. In the FIR, Kapoor said that he was going towards Agra from Noida. “A speeding truck hit my Maruti Suzuki WagonR. My car then hit a Renault Kwid, which then collided with a Honda City standing ahead. The Honda City then hit a Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza,” he said. Kapoor said that at the same time a Tata Nexon reached the spot and collided with the truck. Pankaj Kumar Karn, who was in the Renault Kwid, said that he had spotted the truck a few kilometres before the toll plaza. “It appeared that the truck driver was drunk. I and my wife were going from Noida to my hometown Madhubani in Bihar. We reached the toll plaza and were in the queue when a WagonR came behind us. At the same time the speeding truck reached the toll plaza and hit the WagonR, which hit my car,” he said.The five cars were badly damaged and five persons were injured in the accident, police said, adding that the truck driver fled the spot after the incident. The police brought all the damaged vehicles and the truck to the police station. The traffic was affected on that lane for about one hour, police said.Umesh Bahadur, station house officer, Jewar police station, said that a police team reached the spot and sent the victims to a private hospital from where they were discharged after first aid. “We have registered a case against the unknown truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others). We have launched a search to arrest him,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-injured-as-truck-hits-cars-at-yamuna-expressway-toll-plaza-101616348866139.html
21-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar forest dept to treat polluted stream in Surajpur wetlands||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department has said that it will treat the polluted stream that charges lake at Surajpur wetland through an alternative method, known as phytoremediation. It has also decided to ask the department concerned to ensure that “the stream is not polluted through illegal discharge of untreated effluents into it”.The storm water stream — Havelia drain — originates in Hapur districts and meets the Hindon River, while its tributary stream enters and recharges the lake in Surajpur reserve forest in Greater Noida, according to the officials. The small stream is now heavily polluted with excessive industrial and domestic effluents that are discharged into it, due to which the drain needs to be treated before it causes further impact on the lake, they added.The forest department will use phytoremediation to treat the polluted stream naturally. Phytoremediation is a natural method of treating the effluents by passing a drain through a pond or tank with certain aquatic plants in it, that filters the drain and increases the biochemical oxygen levels in the water. The aquatic plants used includes cattail, phragmites or common reed, sedges, and ipomoea carnea or besharam plant, experts said.“We will write to the department concerned to get the drain cleaned, but we would not rely on them completely. As an experiment, we will also use phytoremediation. The department is capable of setting up alternative ways of cleaning streams, and it will construct a small pond at the inlet of the stream and pass the drain though it to treat the effluents. The work will begin by next month,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Currently, the 60-hectare lake in Surajpur wetlands — city’s largest reserve forest — is excessively polluted and the water has turned black, it stinks, and is covered with foam, indicating the presence of industrial effluents in it. The divisional forest department is yet to test the toxicity levels of the lake and send the water samples to a lab to find out its quality or the number of effluents in it.The Surajpur wetlands is one of the three major birding hotspots in the district, with others being Okhla Bird Sanctuary and Dhanauri wetlands.CR Babu, professor emeritus, Delhi University, said, “Any alternate technology is better, as the conventional technologies like STP, RO among others are very expensive to build or to maintain. For one MLD of sewage treatment the cost is ₹5 crore, and the maintenance is in lakhs. While phytoremediation, floating island, constructed wetlands etc., are most widely used throughout the world, they work on the same principle of STP. It has a stabilising or oxidation tank or pond, a filtration chamber, and plants. The aquatic plants pump more oxygen to clean the water. The maximum cost for such alternative methods is around ₹10 lakh at the time of the construction and needs just one gardener to maintain it. They can be used for primary, secondary or tertiary treatment of industrial effluents too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-forest-dept-to-treat-polluted-stream-in-surajpur-wetlands-101616348865398.html
21-03-2021||Other||Work on Sector 71 underpass to be expedited||NOIDA: The issues delaying a six-lane underpass project in Sector 71 have been resolved, said officials of the Noida authority. The officials also said that the project cost of the 780-metre-long underpass has been revised from ₹52.58 crore to ₹59 crore.Now, the project is expected to be complete by June this year as against its original deadline of December 2020.According to the authority officials, there were mainly two issues affecting pace of the project work -- alignment finalisation of a 7km Metro extension of Blue Line towards Greater Noida West and rising cost. “These issues have been resolved, so the work will be expedited now,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The contractor citing increased construction cost had sought 25% to 30% additional payment from the Noida authority.“The authority was to obtain clearance from metro railways safety commissioner as a pillar of the Blue Line was aligned extremely close to the underpass. This issue is addressed. Also, after getting the proposal of the construction company vetted by experts, the authority agreed to pay 12% of the total project cost as additional amount,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to media.Once ready, the underpass will make the ride over Vikas Marg, the arterial road linking Noida to Greater Noida West, as well as Vishwakarma Marg which connects the expressway in the city on one end to Indirapuram in Ghaziabad on the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-sector-71-underpass-to-be-expedited-101616348805429.html
21-03-2021||Noida||Vaccination of senior citizens: GB Nagar leads in vaccine coverage across UP||Ghaziabad: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination of senior citizens and people over 45 years having comorbidities, Gautam Budh Nagar district has emerged as leader in vaccination coverage across the 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh. GB Nagar has achieved 73.56% of its vaccination target for the month of March, while Ghaziabad has 49.7% coverage till March 20, according to figures of the Co-Win portal.The UP government has given a target of inoculating 65,048 beneficiaries to GB Nagar and 93,480 to Ghaziabad for March. According to the Co-Win figures, GB Nagar vaccinated 47,852 beneficiaries till March 20, while Ghaziabad inoculated 46,463 till the same period. Against the target of 4,858,028 beneficiaries under the category, 1,877,497 were vaccinated till March 20 across the state with an overall coverage of 38.65%. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the health department is taking up more than 5,000 vaccination per day. “We have plans to improve and can also surpass our target. We held a meeting with different RWAs, apartment owners’ associations and NGOs, among others, and it was agreed that they will help us in taking up more registrations for vaccination,” the DM said. The online meeting was held on Sunday which also saw participation of senior police and district administration officials. “Apart from improving our vaccination coverage, the meeting also focussed on various measures to control spread of infection through self-regulation so that we can avoid enforcement. So, everyone agreed that they will take all precautions and more so in wake of Holi festival and also during the upcoming panchayat elections,” Suhas said. According to the portal figures, GB Nagar administered 105,644 doses while Ghaziabad consumed 107,881, including first and second doses, till Sunday afternoon. The figures included vaccine doses given to health-care and front-line workers, and senior citizens/ 45-plus having comorbid conditions. In Ghaziabad, officials said that the vaccination process at the rural centres needs to be beefed up as the coverage is just about 8-10%. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Saturday visited different vaccination centres in rural areas and directed that the primary health centres which are vaccinating 100-150 beneficiaries a day will now vaccinate 300 people per day starting Monday. “We have termed the measure ‘village vaccination drive’, and the target of 300 per day will be taken up for the next 15 days. Under this, apart from the health department teams, teams of the revenue department will also participate and ensure that people come out in large numbers to the vaccination centres. The teams will be supervised by additional district magistrates,” Pandey said. Under the plan, the workers as well as the best performing centres will also be rewarded. According to the official estimates, GB Nagar has about 260,792 beneficiaries while Ghaziabad has 373,920 persons under the category of senior citizens and people over 45 having comorbid conditions. All the districts in UP, including GB Nagar and Ghaziabad, have been given a target to vaccinate at least 25% of the beneficiaries in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-of-senior-citizens-gb-nagar-leads-in-vaccine-coverage-across-up-101616348685400.html
21-03-2021||Bhopal||‘Turned pandemic into opportunity’: Shivraj Singh Chouhan on past year’s experiences as CM||On completing one year of his third term, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh spoke to Hindustan Times about the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic revival and the revenue shortfall the state is facing. He also expressed confidence in BJP winning the West Bengal and Assam polls. Here are the excerpts from the interview.Q. In a few days, you would complete a year in office in your third term. You took charge when Covid-19 was spreading fast. How do you rate your first year?A. When I took charge, there was no minister with me and Covid was starting to spread fast. There was no one with me for one month. I ran the government alone. We made arrangements for Covid management, creating testing facility in the states, getting masks, PPE kits and making arrangement in hospitals. Another big challenge was that in March, the wheat harvest starts in MP. We have to prepare for procuring wheat and we bought 1.39 crore metric tonnes of wheat, which is even more than Punjab. During Covid, we provided work to all workers and ensured those crossing MP from other states get food and buses. On PM’s call, we turned the Covid-19 pandemic into an opportunity. Started ‘Amtanirbhar MP’ and began working on infrastructure, education, health, good governance and employment. We have done well on all schemes from road construction to providing drinking water to giving loans to street vendors in the last year.Q. You have been the CM for almost 15 years. What do you say about other tenures?A. In my first term, we worked for better roads and brought laws to ensure Public Service Delivery law, the first state to do so in India. In the second term, we promised 24-hour power when people were getting five to six hours of power, expanded the irrigation network from 7.5 lakh hectare to 45 lakh hectare and started river linking projects. In my third term, MP crossed all landmarks. We got nine awards for being the best agriculture state both by Manmohan Singh ji and Modi ji’s governments. We now have surplus agriculture produce. Still, a lot more has to be done on bringing investment.Q. In this year’s budget, the state proposed to borrow ₹2,00,000 crore. Do you plan to overcome this huge borrowing of 80 per cent of the plan size?A. This budget is to make MP Atmabirbhar. We had proposed CM rise schools for quality education that will have top-quality teachers, labs and playgrounds. In the health sector, we have proposed 13 new medical colleges and plan to improve community health sectors. For infrastructure, Narmada Expressway and Atal Expressway in Chambal would be developed to give an industrial fillip to the state. It is true, we will have to spend ₹2 lakh crore but this is within the Central government parameters. This money will help give further stimulus to the state’s economy and there is nothing unusual in this.Q. Despite your claims, MP has a very low per capita income and it is among the lowest-ranked states on health parameters.A. When I took charge, MP was a ‘Bimaru’ state and had ₹13,000 per capita income. Now it is 99,000 and this year we will cross ₹1,00,000. Our GDP will cross ₹10,000 lakh crore. We were a landlocked state and no industry came. Now, we have changed that. On the human index, we are on the lower side, we are not near the national average. In Atmabirbhar MP, we will work to reduce maternal mortality and neonatal mortality rates and bring it at par with the national average. Q. One impact of three farms laws seen in MP has been a fall in revenue of agriculture markets. How do you see the three farm laws?A. We reduced mandi tax by one-fourth, a reason for the fall in revenue. In MP, farmers have the freedom to sell outside or inside the mandis. The three farm laws benefit farmers in MP as they provide the freedom to sell. Contract farming has been there for many years and the government has just brought a law to regulate it. There is nothing wrong with this.Q. Protesting farmers are demanding a law to protect minimum support price (MSP). What is your view on MSP?A. There should be provisions to give farmers the right price for their produce. I think we need to think about alternate ways to ensure the right price. We can provide the right price through schemes such as Bhavanter, in which the government pays the difference between the MSP and the market price to farmers. If the market is buying at less than MSP, the government can pay. Bhavanter was a popular scheme but was discredited by vested interests and was scrapped by the last Congress government.Q. There have been accusations that minority groups are being targeted through the MP Religion of Freedom Law?A. There is no question of targeting. It is the same for all. If someone tries to lure someone through coercion, threat or any other wrong means, action would be taken. It is The law is not against any religion. People doing good work for communities can continue to work without any fear.Q. The Supreme Court has sought states’ views on removing the 50 per cent cap on reservation. What is your view?A. Many states have more than 50 per cent reservation, especially in the south. Some sections have been left behind and they are backward and poor and should get the benefit of reservation. The entire country should think about it and I think, there should be one policy across the country. We will study the SC order and will give you comments.Q. The second wave of Covid-19 has started and cases in MP are also rising at an alarming pace. What steps are being taken to control the spread?A. In mid-February, we had 141 new cases and we thought things were getting normal. Economy and social activities had increased and gatherings also resumed. But, in the past 15 days, cases have increased and the pace of spread has intensified. People are not so scared of Covid and are not wearing masks and are going to social programmes. We need to tell people about the seriousness of Covid again. That is why we have imposed a one-day lockdown in Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur as it would break the chain of infection. With night curfew, it would be a 36-hour lockdown. Strict mask-wearing enforcement would be resumed and action would be taken for social gatherings in violation of government norms. We would also increase vaccination to 2 lakh persons per day.Q. How do you rate BJP’s chances in West Bengal and Assam polls?A. I went to both the states and I am confident that the BJP wave is there in the two states. In West Bengal, there is a wave of change. The TMC has become a symbol of terror, murder and corruption and people are fed up. People are mad for Modi ji. Congress has damaged itself by having an alliance with Badruddin Ajmal while the BJP has brought an all-round development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/turned-pandemic-into-opportunity-shivraj-singh-chouhan-on-past-year-s-experiences-as-cm-101616348266219.html
21-03-2021||Other||Couple arrested in Rohini for blackmailing employer with video clip||New Delhi: The police have arrested a couple for blackmailing a woman in outer Delhi’s Rohini. The man was victim’s driver and had recorded a video on his phone when his employer was getting intimate with her colleague in the car, police said on Sunday.The driver demanded ₹80,000 from the woman, threatening her to release the video online. The woman paid the money and got the video deleted from the driver’s phone. A few days later, however, the driver’s wife demanded ₹5 lakh from the woman, following which she approached the police. While the driver told the police that he wanted to buy a motorcycle, his wife wanted to purchase a house, said Pranav Tayal, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini).Tayal said the driver did not conceal his identity when he asked for money and did not quit the job either. However, when the driver’s wife called to extort money, she recorded the call and gave it to the police. “She approached the police on Wednesday with the recording of the call,” the DCP said.The police registered a case of sexual harassment and extortion and arrested the couple from their house in Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-arrested-in-rohini-for-blackmailing-employer-with-video-clip-101616348145452.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||GMDA offers 30 acres in Panchgaon for shifting Kherki Daula toll plaza||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Saturday said that land issues at Panchgaon for shifting the Kherki Daula toll plaza were resolved, barring for one non-critical patch, and offered to transfer 30.52 acres to the highways authority.In a letter to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) headquarters on Saturday, the GMDA offered it the land parcels for construction of a 28-lane toll plaza, which remained stuck for the last couple of years. The GMDA said that disputes have been cleared and barring a small patch, which was non-critical, it was ready to hand over the land. The transfer of Kherki Daula toll plaza was announced by union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 — following repeated demands from the Haryana government and local politicians — but on the condition that land would be made available free of cost by the state to the NHAI. Initially, the plan was to shift the toll plaza to Sehrawan near Manesar, but the plan was shelved after opposition from residents and environmentalists. Later, the state government identified over 30 acres at Panchgaon but this move was opposed by landowners, who approached the court for relief and the land transfer was delayed by almost three years. The letter written to NHAI by Sudhir Rajpal, the chief executive officer of GMDA, states,” This is with reference to NHAI letter number 1733 dated fourth December 2019, providing for 28 lanes toll plaza in land measuring 30.92 Acres at Panchgaon in district Gurugram. The forest clearance for the said land has been obtained from the principal conservator of forest Haryana Panchkula on 31/01/2020. GMDA had already offered 30.92 acres land to NHAI vide letter dated 16/12/2019 for the construction of toll plaza with 28 lanes for which design has been prepared by the consultant of NHAI.”“However, due to certain court restrictions, the site could not be physically handed over till now. Now, all the encumbrances on the site have been removed except for a non-critical patch of 0.40 acres. The land measuring 30.52 acres is now being offered to the NHAI for the establishment of a toll plaza at Panchgaon. You are requested to issue necessary directions to the local NHAI unit to take over possession of land for establishment of toll plaza at Panchgaon by shifting it from Kherki Daula,” it stated.The Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the highway concessionaire that took over the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway in 2014 has a concession agreement to collect toll till 2023.A senior NHAI official, on the condition of anonymity, said that the local project unit of the NHAI has not received any communication in this regard. “The GMDA must have written to the NHAI headquarters in this matter and the directions in this regard will come from there. We have not received any communication till now,” he said, adding that proposal for takeover of land will be analysed and necessary steps taken once the letter with necessary directions reaches the project implementation unit of Gurugram. He said that it would take around six months to build a new toll plaza at Panchgaon, depending on the transfer of land and directions from the headquarters. On March 5, union transport minister Nitin Gadkari announced that the Kherki Daula toll plaza would be shifted by August 15, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-offers-30-acres-in-panchgaon-for-shifting-kherki-daula-toll-plaza-101616347726081.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||Third phase of online training sessions for teachers to begin||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Haryana, will be initiating the third phase of online training sessions for government school teachers under the Diksha initiative from Monday, officials familiar with the development said.Rishi Goel, director, SCERT, Haryana, said that the state had been equipping teachers with skills that would aid them in online teaching since last year and the new phase was a continuation of the. “Since the focus on online classes has increased, these training sessions will help build the digital competencies of teachers. These training sessions will be of use for teachers during online classes and will allow them to learn new concepts of teaching,” said Goel.Aimed at online capacity building, the third phases will train teachers through 12 new courses that will focus on various aspects of pedagogy. The training sessions will aim to ensure that educators are familiarised with newer ways of teaching and assessment as classes take place remotely, said SCERT officials.Diksha is a national initiative that offers a framework for equipping teachers with advanced digital technology. SCERT Haryana, the implementing agency for the initiative, has already conducted 26 online courses in two phases, from July 2020 till February 2021.Manoj Kaushik, nodal coordinator, Diksha (SCERT Haryana) said that the third phase of training would be aimed specifically at teachers in senior classes from grade 9 to 12 though teachers from other grades could avail of the courses. “In the first phase of training, the state conducted courses from July till October last year. A different set of training courses were conducted from October to February. We will now be starting the third phase of online courses from tomorrow. While our primary target audience will be secondary teachers, teachers of other grades seeking to enhance their skills and knowledge base can also take up these courses,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-phase-of-online-training-sessions-for-teachers-to-begin-101616347725388.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||Hospital revamp inaugurated, training facilities to come up in city||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday laid the foundation stone for health and environment facilities as well as inaugurated training and recreational facilities for the city, through videoconferencing during a statewide programme. A kisan training hostel in Badshahpur, a community centre in Manesar’s Sector 1 and an industrial training institute in Musaidpur of Pataudi, with a combined budget of ₹18.13 crore, were inaugurated, while foundation stone was laid for Swarna Jayanti Environment Training Institute in Manesar and revamp of the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 to a 200-bed facility. In all, 163 development projects pertaining to basic infrastructure and other requirements worth ₹1,411 crore were dedicated to the people of the state by the chief minister.Senior officials in the city said that the revamp of the Civil Hospital, from a 100-bed facility at present, would greatly boost healthcare infrastructure in the city and help meet the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. The project is estimated to cost ₹47 crore and all formalities for constructing a new building with better facilities have been completed, said officials.Union minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh, who participated in the inauguration through videoconferencing said that building healthcare infrastructure, saving environment and training youth for jobs were key priorities of the government. “We have worked hard to boost road infrastructure in Gurugram and across the state and now, the focus would be on healthcare and training youth for future jobs. The projects launched today will strengthen the existing infrastructure both in Gurugram and Rewari,” said Singh. Senior officials of the district administration were present at an inaugural event held at the Sector 10 hospital. The Swarn Jayanti Environment Training Institute, which will come up at a cost of ₹7.5 cror, will play an important role in studying air quality and training personnel for pollution control in Manesar and Gurugram. The community centre in Sector 1 of Manesar has been a longstanding demand of residents, while the industrial and kisan training institutes were well received by city industrialists.Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Industrial Association, said that the community centre In Manesar is a modern facility with an air-conditioned building, spread over 6.5 acres. “It is a great amenity and would help both locals and industry,” said Yadav. Om Prakash Yadav, former Sarpanch of Manesar said that residents were demanding a community centre for long. “People were forced to go outside Manesar to hold functions and now, this will stop,” he said. Eight developmental projects worth ₹117.4 crore were announced for Rewari, while 10 projects worth ₹16.55 crore were inaugurated in Nuh.The facilities in Nuh include an Ayush Wing Centre in Firozepur Jhirka, primary health centre in Bai, 36 additional classrooms in schools of Tauru block, 79 classrooms in Punhana schools, upgrade of GHS Tapkan school in Nuh, nine classrooms in a Meoli Kalan government school, eight classrooms in GHS Mandikhera of Nagina and three Bal Bhawan buildings in Nuh, Firozepur Jhirka, and Pinangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-revamp-inaugurated-training-facilities-to-come-up-in-city-101616347668241.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||22-year-old held for trying to extort jeweller of ₹30 lakh||The police arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly trying to extort ₹30 lakh from a city-based jeweller and threatening his life by impersonating a gangster, the police said.The suspect, identified as Bablu Patel of Sarwai village in Madhya Pradesh’s Chattarpur, was impersonating Lawrence Bishnoi, a gangster who had made the headlines for threatening actor Salman Khan and is facing changes in over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion, snatching and under Arms Act in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.Bishnoi is lodged in a Rajasthan jail at present and has no connection to the suspect, the police said.The police said that Patel worked with a garment export house and lived at a rented accommodation in Manesar.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said Patel used social media platforms to search names and mobile numbers of 20 city-based jewellers and started making threats. Patel is debt-ridden and wanted to arrange money for his sister’s wedding.The police arrested him from Hero Honda Chowk with the help of CCTV footage.The police said that Patel had gone to his home town when the lockdown was announced last March and returned to Gurugram last month. “He saved money in 2019 but spent all of it during the lockdown and for building a house in his village. He also gambled nearly ₹2 lakh away and took a loan for the same, but could not repay it and was facing pressure,” he said.“He shortlisted 20 jewellers and made a call to one of them who has a shop in Jyoti Park, in Sector 7. He introduced himself as gangster Lawrence Bishnoi,” Sangwan said.The shop owner, identified as Harish Kumar, was scared and did not reveal it to anyone but decided to approach the police after receiving subsequent calls on March 18. A case under Section 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at New Colony police station the same day.The crime investigation unit of Sector 17 zeroed in on the accused and arrested him from Hero Honda Chowk on Sunday morning. Patel was produced before the court and sent to 14-day judicial custody, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/22yearold-held-for-trying-to-extort-jeweller-of-rs-30-lakh-101616347667539.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||Plastic deposit machines remain non-functional since 2019 even as Gurugram works towards eliminating plastic||Two plastic and polythene deposit machines, set up to offer mobile recharge coupons and jute bags in exchange for plastic bottles and polythene bags, remain non-functional since a week of their launch in 2019, even as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) pushes to make Gurugram a polythene-free city.A senior MCG official familiar with the matter said that they found plastic bottles filled with water and polythene bags containing items. “Outside the machine, we had written that only empty bottles and polythene bags needed to be inserted. It seems the public did not understand this concept, and hence, we have not revived the machines ever since,” said the official.The machines were launched in October 2019 at platform numbers 1 and 3 of the railway station in collaboration with an Indian multinational company. This was the first major step taken by the MCG, since its formation in 2008, towards reducing plastic use in the city.However, within a week since their launch, the machines malfunctioned and have not been revived since. “The machines were operational for less than a week. Miscreants had tried to insert stones and other types of objects, hoping to get coupons or jute bags free of cost. We also found lots of mud and heavy debris inside the machine when we opened them for inspection after receiving a complaint that they had stopped working,” the senior official cited above said.In the last six months, the MCG has carried out a major push to make the city plastic and polythene-free.The MCG has been working towards making four markets, Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok-1, Sector 46 market, Sector 4 market and Sector 23 market free of single-use plastic and polythene since last December.On February 27, the MCG banned the use of various types of plastic and polythene under the Haryana Non-Biodegradable garbage (Control) Act, 1988, setting up penalties up to ₹25,000.To supplement alternatives, the MCG launched opened a cloth bag bank in the Nai Basti area of Sector 8 last December and a steel utensil bank in Sector 10 earlier this month.“I am not aware of the plastic and polythene (reverse) vending machines at the railway station as these were opened before I was deputed in the city. However, the MCG is working on a similar project where such vending machines will be placed at various public places across the city, as part of our ongoing efforts to eradicate plastic and polythene,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), MCG.Kumar said that the matter is still under consideration and the MCG is currently engaged in its research and development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/plastic-deposit-machines-remain-non-functional-since-2019-even-as-gurugram-works-towards-eliminating-plastic-101616347666760.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||Zero Waste Day on Mondays||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to observe Zero Waste Day every Monday, a release issued by the civic body on Sunday stated.MCG officials familiar with the matter said that the idea behind the move is to inculcate the habit of waste segregation among residents.On a Zero Waste Day, the MCG only lifts wet garbage from households while dry or mixed waste is lifted the following day.“Zero Waste Day is proving to be an important step to make citizens understand the importance of waste management. All citizens are being made aware of the segregation of waste into four primary categories, wet waste in a green dustbin, dry waste in a blue dustbin, sanitary and medical waste in a yellow dustbin and electronic waste in a grey dustbin. Only wet waste is picked on a zero-waste day, and we have decided to make it a permanent weekly feature,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), MCG.MCG held its first Zero Waste Day on December 25 last year. Initially, it was scheduled to be held on a monthly basis, but due to a positive response, the MCG decided to make it a fortnightly feature. Ahead of its 10th Zero Waste Day, the MCG decided to make it a weekly feature.“When one tonne of waste reaches a landfill, it produces 2.93 tonnes of greenhouse gases for a lifetime. Zero waste is a concept in which waste is responsibly managed in such a way that zero or minimal amount of waste reaches the landfill. This can be done when citizens analyse their waste, focus on reducing, reusing or recycling dry waste and segregate wet waste for converting them into compost,” said Kumar.The MCG, so far, has collected around 1,400 tonnes of wet waste in the nine zero-waste days conducted. All wet waste collected from residents is sent to the MCG’s fertilizer plant in Darbaripur.Kumar said that the plant has a capacity of processing 10 tonnes of wet waste per day and the MCG is in the process of installing more composting plants. He added that the MCG is also considering observing zero-waste days on a bi-weekly basis for increased waste segregation among citizens and eventually, stop sending garbage to the Bandhwari landfill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/zero-waste-day-on-mondays-101616347665493.html
21-03-2021||Gurugram||Air quality worsens, set to improve on Monday||The city’s air quality stayed in the poor zone on Sunday, recording an air quality index (AQI) reading of 245 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin, a rise from Saturday’s AQI reading of 223 (in the same category).The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 136.72 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Sunday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 242.41µg/m3 on Sunday. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the moderate category on Tuesday and the moderate to the satisfactory category on Wednesday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to improve and remain in the moderate to satisfactory category over the next five days. The air quality is expected to improve on account of better ventilation on Monday.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 18.3 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius. As per the India Meteorological Department’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 33 degrees and 19 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday. A partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rains and thundershower has been predicted on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-worsens-set-to-improve-on-monday-101616347666133.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Three arrested in 2018 murder case acquitted based on DNA test||Three men who were in judicial custody for around three years for the murder of a man who went missing and was suspected to have been found after two days in August 2018 were acquitted by a court in Baramati. The main reason for the acquittal was that the body found in the case did not have a head and did not match the DNA of the parents of the man who was initially reported as missing. The order was issued by RR Rathi, additional sessions judge, Baramati while SB Ohol was the public prosecutor and advocate Milind Pawar was the defence lawyer. The missing man, suspected to have been found, was identified as Bhimashankar Anture, a resident of Loni Kalbhor who was reported missing by his family on August 19, 2018, a day after he left allegedly in search of a job. The three acquitted were identified as Keshav Sopan Kalbhor (38), Haridas Namdeo Shendge (34), Prashant Walchand Jagtap (26), according to the court order. The three were arrested in 2018 after a body without its head was found in the jurisdiction of Daund police station on August 23 of that year. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201(destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Daund police station against them. “During investigation, the police prepared a spot panchanama, inquest panchanama, obtained PM report, recorded the statements of the witnesses, sent the muddemal for chemical analysis, conducted the DNA analysis of the dead body with his alleged parents, obtained the CDR report of the accused and the deceased and on completion of investigation they found sufficient material against the accused, and so filed a charge ­sheet against the accused under the aforesaid sections,” reads a part of the order. The family members had identified the decapitated body based on the grown nail on one hand of the body and the undergarments worn by the man when last seen. Along with the parents’ identification, the police had submitted call records of deceased and the accused, 10 witness statements, panchanama of the vehicle, a motorbike, and the weapon, an axe, allegedly used in the crime. While the body was allegedly thrown in the Bhima river, the head was thrown in a canal in Boriandi, according to the police. The defence had asked for a DNA test to prove the identity. “The DNA of that dead body was examined with the DNA of Sumitra Kalappa Atnure and Kalappa Atnure, but on record, the DNA report exh.138 shows that Sumitra Kalappa Atnure and Kalappa Atnure are not the biological parents of that dead body,” reads a part of the order. The judge, therefore, ruled that the prosecution had “utterly failed” to prove the police case. The judge, therefore, acquitted them and has asked each of the three to pay ₹15,000 as surety and ₹15,000 as a personal bond in order to be released from prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-in-2018-murder-case-acquitted-based-on-dna-test-101616347548842.html
21-03-2021||Pune||PMC diverts ₹300 crore reserved for big projects towards ward-wise development works||In an attempt to draw political mileage in the upcoming civic body polls early next year, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has offered an opportunity to corporators ahead of elections to spend around ₹300 crore in ward-level development works. In two days, the general body meeting diverted big projects allocation of funds to around 800 small ward-wise development works. During the general body meeting on Thursday, which was the last for the financial year-2020-21, BJP ruled PMC passed fund diversion proposal of more than ₹300 crore to different ward level works. It includes cement concretization of lanes, asphalting of roads, material for open gymnasiums, development of ward level roads, drainage chamber repairing work, and public toilet repair works. Last year, the standing committee sanctioned a ₹7,390 crore budget for 2020-21 which was higher than the draft budget of ₹6,229 crore of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, development works were hampered as the administration was fully concentrating on health service. The PMC, therefore, cut down the budget by 40 per cent on various development works except for health, water, drainage, and road development. Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor said, “Due to the Covid pandemic, most of the projects could not be completed and major work was hampered. As a result, the corporators did not get money to spend on their ward related development works. At the end of the financial year, it is not possible to spend all allocation of big projects. So, we took a decision to give (divert) the big project allocation to all corporators for ward-level development work.” According to a senior official, even if the general body meeting has passed a proposal of diversion of funds, it is not possible to float tenders and give work order of all these development works by March 31, 2021. Ganesh Bidkar, leader of House in PMC said, “We have taken a decision for the development of the city and to provide the necessary infrastructure to citizens. It was an important decision for the welfare of the city and its citizens. So, we took the decision and passed 196 proposals in two days.” Big project funds diversion In the last general body meeting, all party leaders passed diversion funds of major projects such as the High-Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR), Katraj-Kondwa road widening, Kothrud Kala Akadami, purchase of electronic buses on PPP model, Shivshursti, Kothrud Kala Akadami, renovation of Balgandharv Rangmandhir. Besides that, the general body meeting took a decision to divert the funds of more than five crores which was allocated to lay down the proper drainage system in Ambil-Odha flash flood-affected areas. In 2019, Katraj, Kondhwa, Sahakarnagar, Dhanakwadi faced a flash flood in which around 25 people died. The PMC had evacuated 3,500 people and shifted to nearby schools. Therefore, the administration proposed drainage work in Ambil Odha affected areas in Upper Indiranagar, Gururaj society, Treasure Park, Araneshwar, Gajanan Maharaj Math Mitra Mandal, Ambedkar Vashat, Dandekar Pul – Sinhagad road as well as the construction of a retaining wall along both sides of Ambil Odha. Vivek Velankar, civic activist said, “The PMC has forgotten a note which is mentioned in the budget book that diversion of funds will not entrain. After the diversion of more than ₹300 crore in the last few days, it has killed the purpose of the budget. Actually, the PMC should have to stop drafting a budget. It is really unfortunate that political parties which introduce fancy projects in their budget divert funds to very small ward level work at the last moment. Katraj-Kondwa road widening and HCMTR project is one of the major projects of the city. But all political party corporators divert funds keeping an eye on the upcoming civic polls. It is nothing but misusing taxpayers’ money.” Major diversions Name of project Allocation (in crore) HCMTR Road ₹100 rHCMTR land acquisition ₹1.45 Road development of HCMTR RS 8.55 Katraj-Kondwa road widening ₹12 Electronic Bus (GCC Mode) ₹64 Shivshrusti ₹23 Kothrud Kala Akadami ₹18 Renovation of Balgandharv Rangmandir ₹9.70||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-diverts-rs-300-crore-reserved-for-big-projects-towards-ward-wise-development-works-101616347547733.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Consumer forum orders DSK to return share to investor||The Pune District consumer redressal forum has directed DSK Kulkarni and brothers to pay complainant Varad Patwardhan, a resident of Sadashiv peth, 12 per cent interest on two of his investments worth ₹8.55 lakh since 2014. Patwardhan in his complaint filed before the consumer court had stated that he had invested an amount of ₹3 lakh each as a fixed deposit in two schemes for a period of three years with the DSK Brothers. The total amount promised to be returned to him after the completion of the deposit term was ₹8.55 lakh. On the completion of the fixed deposit term, DSK had issued a cheque of interest earnings to Patwardhan but immediately took back the instrument, the complaint stated. Patwardhan demanded that he be given back his invested amount including the interest, but the company did not pay any heed to his request. The commission passed an ex-parte order in the case. The forum in its order stated that the DSK brothers demonstrated a deficiency in service and did not return the deposit along with interest as promised to the investor. The company has shown unethical practice as it used the interest money for its own profit and did not refund the money to the investor as promised. The order specifically directed DSK to refund the interest on each of the two schemes since May 30, 2014, within 45 days of the receipt of the forum order. If the interest amount is not returned to the investor, then an interest rate of 16 per cent will be levied on an amount of ₹6 lakh. The forum also directed the company to refund ₹15,000 as additional expenses to the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/consumer-forum-orders-dsk-to-return-share-to-investor-101616347547061.html
21-03-2021||Pune||PMC approves mid-block crossings on Lal Bahadur Shastri road||In an attempt to improve the safety of pedestrians and as part of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s road safety campaign initiatives, mid-block pedestrian crossings will be soon seen on Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) road. Former Pune mayor Mukta Tilak had agreed to build mid-block pedestrian crossings on 100 km of divided arterial streets to improve the safety of pedestrians while crossing mid-blocks in the city of Pune. “Safer and well-designed mid-block crossings are required for a pedestrian to cross the street at mid-block safely and conveniently. It helps in increasing the safety on the street for both pedestrians and other road users by reducing the detour length and pedestrians’ fatalities. It also improves traffic discipline as well as visibility of the street,” said Aditya Chawande, architect, who is working with the PMC on the pilot project. The Pune pedestrian policy also has the provision of providing mid-block crossings as per IRC 103:2012 which recommends having mid-block crossings for pedestrians at an interval of 80 metres to 150 metres as per the context. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has selected 12 divided arterial streets of Pune city having a varied edge for the project. The first phase of selected streets combined length is approximately 45 km of the total 100 km project package. Parisar with the support of AXA has developed the proposed typical design templates for the pedestrian mid-block crossings for Lal Bahadur Shastri road and presented it to the PMC and the NMT committee in a meeting held in December 2020 which was approved for pilot implementation. The proposed design has a total of four mid-block crossings of which two of at-grade and two of raised crossings are proposed. PMC engineers Lalit Bode, and deputy engineer Hemant Jagtap visited LBS road on March 19th for a final check before implementation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-approves-mid-block-crossings-on-lal-bahadur-shastri-road-101616347545290.html
21-03-2021||Lucknow||UP CM inaugurates auditorium, cultural centre in Gorakhpur||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the ₹52-crore Yogiraj Baba Gambhirnath auditorium and cultural centre in Gorakhpur on Sunday, stating that positive thinking was promoting the all-round development of Uttar Pradesh.A state government spokesperson said the main auditorium has a seating capacity of 1076 people and the smaller one has a capacity of 250.The other facilities include a state-of-the-art media centre, conference hall, parking, canteen and library. The auditorium and the cultural centre have been constructed by the state’s culture department.The chief minister also released a culture department book on the state government’s achievements of the last four years.Speaking at the function, the chief minister said there had been a constant demand for auditoriums for public programmes by cultural activists and artistes in Gorakhpur after the formation of the (BJP) government in 2017. The state-of-the-art auditorium and cultural centre for the Gorakhpur/ east zone had been inaugurated today (Sunday) as per the demand of artistes, he said.The auditorium should be associated with public welfare and national welfare programmes as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief minister said. Cultivation of art and culture were also a medium for awakening the society, he added. “High-level facilities have been provided in this auditorium for public programmes, seminars and cultural functions. Now, it is the responsibility of the local public to handle (it) properly for the new generation,” he said.“People have the responsibility of protecting public property. They should not cause any loss or damage to the structure,” he added. Asserting that Ramgarh Tal had become a good tourist spot and films were being shot there now, he said there used to be dirt at the place earlier. A water sports complex centre will be built here. Gorakhpur zoo will also be inaugurated soon, he said, adding that the fertilizer factory will be operational by July, providing better facilities to farmers and creating employment opportunities at the local level.Health services had been expanded with the upgradation of BRD Medical College (in Gorakhpur), he said. In collaboration with the central government, the state government had effectively controlled diseases like encephalitis, he said, adding that AIIMS had been built symbolising the development of Gorakhpur.Technology had given a thrust to the development process, he observed. The Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana had been implemented, through which free coaching facilities were being provided to students preparing for competitive exams, he added.It was due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effort that yoga had been recognised at the global level and June 21 was celebrated as the International Yoga Day now, the chief minister noted. Yoga was the basic foundation of a healthy life, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-inaugurates-auditorium-cultural-centre-in-gorakhpur-101616346585823.html
21-03-2021||Other||School of Ram takes shape in cyberspace||A Banaras Hindu University (BHU) student has conceptualised and set up what he says maybe the first virtual school dedicated to spreading the ideals, values, and virtues of Lord Ram among the “youths and coming generations” through videos, lectures, and stories on social media platforms, including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsAppKnown as the School of Ram, this online platform is open to all and anyone may join it for free.“The purpose of the School of Ram is crystal clear. It will work for vyakti nirman (character building), family building and society building by spreading ideals of Lord Ram,” says Prince Tiwari, a BA second-year student at BHU.“Probably, this will be the first such virtual school which will take the ideals of Lord Ram and the universal form of the Ramayana and Ramakatha through social media to the common people,” he adds.Explaining the objective behind the virtual school, he says, “At present, disintegration of the family is becoming a common problem. Many people don’t obey their parents, they don’t care for them well. Many people ignore the elders. Family values are declining. In the absence of ideals and values in the family, its disintegration begins.” “The virtual School of Ram will try to stop this disintegration by spreading the ideals and values of Lord Shri Ram among the people, especially the younger generation, which is quite active on social media platforms. We will upload videos, lectures, and stories of Lord Ram on social media platforms, including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and also on WhatsApp so that the young generation may know about ideals and values of Lord Ram and take inspiration,” Tiwari explains. “Lord Ram is known as a highly obedient son, a caring and loving brother and an ideal husband. He is revered for his virtues, sacrifice, and values. Let us take inspiration from the character of Lord Ram. By living a nature-oriented life like Ram, the challenge of environmental degradation before the world today can be tackled,” Tiwari says. As it is completely online, this “school” has no building. From time to time, the virtual school will organise webinars. Besides, it will post content on Lord Ram daily. Prof Rajneesh Shukla, vice chancellor of the Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishwavidhyalay, Wardha, will formally inaugurate the School of Ram on March 24. Vidya Bharati national secretary Avanish Bhatnagar will preside over the inaugural ceremony in which several other dignitaries will remain present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/school-of-ram-takes-shape-in-cyberspace-101616346585297.html
21-03-2021||Lucknow||Developers under UP RERA scanner for flouting norms||The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP RERA) is identifying developers who are not fulfilling its norms nor meeting the commitments made to homebuyers. Those diverting funds to other projects are also under the scanner. “The regulatory authority has taken steps for effective protection of the interest of homebuyers and ensure compliance of provisions of the RERA Act,” said Rajive Kumar, UP RERA chairman. Last week, UP RERA imposed a fine of ₹1.24 crore on 11 developers for not fulfilling its norms and failing to hand over flats to homebuyers. The regulatory authority has directed these promoters to ensure compliance with its orders and deposit the penalty within a month, failing which the amount will be recovered as arrears of land revenue.The UP RERA has also decided to act tough against developers who divert funds to other projects. This fund is usually generated by developers from advance payments and the booking amount of homebuyers. UP RERA to allow physical hearing from May 1 on requestUPRERA, which has been hearing complaints through the virtual mode under the e-courts system in view of the pandemic, has decided to provide an opportunity of physical hearing to the parties concerned on their request from May 1 subject to strict compliance with Covid-19 protocol. The parties will not be permitted to change the option of physical hearing after having opted for the same. The RERA’s decision comes in the backdrop of normal hearing resuming in the high court and district courts across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/developers-under-up-rera-scanner-for-flouting-norms-101616346525266.html
21-03-2021||Other||Four die after consuming hooch in Chitrakoot village; four excise officials, two police personnel suspended||: Four people died after consuming hooch at Khopa village under the Rajapur police circle of Chitrakoot district on Sunday, officials said. Following the deaths, the authorities suspended four excise department personnel and two police personnel. District excise officer (Chitrakoot) Chatur Sen, excise inspector Ashraf Ali Siddiqui, chief excise constable Sushil Kumar Pandey and excise constable Sandeep Kumar Mishra were placed under suspension, additional chief secretary (excise) Sanjay R Bhoosreddy confirmed in Lucknow He said departmental proceedings were also initiated against them. Chitrakoot superintendent of police Ankit Mittal suspended sub-inspector Brijendra Pandey and constable Bhupendra Singh.Inspector general (Chitrakoot Dham range) K Satya Narayan confirmed that the sub-inspector and the constable were suspended on charges of laxity following the incident, and action was being initiated against the station house officer of Rajapur. “Till now, four people have died,” the IG added. Police said all the villagers had taken the liquor at Khopa on late Saturday night and their condition deteriorated on Sunday morning. When they were being taken to the Rajapur community health centre, Munna Singh, 35, and Sitaram Singh, 50, died. Dur Vijay Singh, 38, and Satyam Singh, 28, died in the Kaushambi district hospital. One Babli Singh, 42 was undergoing treatment.Senior officers, including IG K Satya Narayan and district magistrate Shubrant Pandey, also reached the village. Chitrakoot SP Ankit Mittal said a licensed shop had been sealed and a shopkeeper taken into custody. He was being questioned, the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-die-after-consuming-hooch-in-chitrakoot-village-four-excise-officials-two-police-personnel-suspended-101616346465886.html
21-03-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks farmers to be wary of selfish elements||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday alleged the Opposition parties were misleading farmers over the Centre’s three new agriculture reform laws.At the same time, he said it was after 70 years of independence that the Centre and the state had got such governments that were committed to doubling the income of farmers and ensuring their welfare. The chief minister was speaking at a farmers’ conference organised under the Mission Kisan Kalyan on the Government Agriculture School campus in Gorakhpur.He apprised farmers of the work done by the Modi government at the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party government (BJP) in the state in the interest of the cultivators.He asked farmers to be wary of vested interests and selfish elements who, he said, always misled the farmers and used them for their ulterior motives.“The same people are behind the conspiracy to mislead the peasants who, while in power, did not do anything for the welfare of farmers,” he said.“Such elements used them to make a fortune of their own but allowed farmers to languish in penury and debt,” Yogi Adityanath alleged. He also said those who misled the farmers had always been habitual liars.“These people spread the lie that farm land will be grabbed by contract farming. PM Modi has already made it clear that contract farming is just another option, not an obligation. The farmers have all the freedom to sell their produce anywhere to earn more profit from the market,” he said.“Can anyone tell whether a farmer’s land was grabbed by contract farming? In contract farming, no one can occupy the land of the farmer. The farmer is the owner of his land,” he said.He also allayed fears that mandis would be closed.“Not a single mandi was closed since June 2020, when the farm laws were brought, but a deliberate misinformation campaign has been run to misguide the farmer,” he said.“In fact, mandis were added under the “e-NAM” concept of One Nation One Market, while action is being taken to add over 1,000 more mandis,” he said.When the Opposition parties were in power they either closed or sold sugar mills, he alleged. By contrast, the BJP government set up new sugar mills in Pipraich and Munderwa in east UP, he said. On the other hand, the governments of the SP (Samajwadi Party) and the BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) sold or closed sugar mills of Kushinagar, Deoria and Maharajganj, the chief minister said.“The sugarcane farmers had thousands of crores of rupees of arrears while the current government has made a record payment of ₹1.27 lakh crore to them,” he said.Yogi also said the Central and the state government were of the definite view that “if the farmers are happy, then the village will be prosperous, and the prosperity of the village-farmer will pave the way for the prosperity of the country.”For the first time, the country got such a government in 2014 that did unprecedented work for the welfare of farmers and included them in the agenda of the country’s politics, he said.“Soil health test cards, payment of one and a half times the MSP, PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and farmers’ loan waiver scheme — these are some of the landmark welfare endeavours for the farmers under the guidance of PM Modi,” he added.The farmers were also provided a security cover of ₹5 lakh under the Chief Minister’s Farmer Accident Insurance, while the pending irrigation projects were completed to increase the productivity of farming, he said.Last year, 68 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured at MSP (minimum support price) in Uttar Pradesh and ₹66,000 crore was paid directly into the accounts of the farmers. As many as 2.42 crore farmers in the state received more than ₹27,000 crore under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-farmers-to-be-wary-of-selfish-elements-101616346465311.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Ribeiro says unavailable, asks Pawar to probe Singh's claims||Former IPS officer Julio Ribeiro on Sunday rejected NCP chief Sharad Pawar's suggestion that he probe ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's claim that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh asked suspended police officer Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month."I am not available. Nobody (in state government) has contacted me. And in any case even if they contact me, I am unavailable," Ribeiro told PTI when asked about Pawar's suggestion."I am 92 years old. Nobody goes around doing this work at the age of 92. If the inquiry is against the home minister of Maharashtra, then Mr Pawar should make it because he is the head of the (ruling) party," Ribeiro said.Ribeiro is a former Mumbai police commissioner, who eventually became the chief of Gujarat and Punjab police and was later named India's ambassador to Romania."Why should a retired police officer be asked to do this," he said.Earlier in the day, Pawar told reporters in Delhi that he would suggest Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to seek Ribeiros help to investigate the claims made by Singh.In a letter to Thackeray, Param Bir Singh alleged that Anil Deshmukh instructed suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ribeiro-says-unavailable-asks-pawar-to-probe-singh-s-claims-101616345917152.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||After NCP meet, Jayant Patil says ‘Param Bir Singh's letter attempt to divert attention’||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Maharashtra president Jayant Patil on Sunday said that Param Bir Singh’s letter accusing state home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption is an attempt to divert attention from the probe in Mukesh Ambani security threat case.“The letter by Param Bir Singh is an afterthought and an attempt to divert the attention...Right now our focus is to find out the culprits in the Ambani bomb scare and Hiran death case,” Patil told reporters in Delhi.His remarks came after an urgent meeting of top party leaders convened by NCP’s national chief Sharad Pawar. Patil also ruled out speculations about the party’s plan to replace Deshmukh, saying “there’s no question of taking resignation of home minister.”Patil asserted that the state government has decided to conduct a fair probe in the bomb scare case. “We will reach the guilty even if they are officers in high positions,” he told reporters after the NCP meeting.The meeting was called a day after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who was recently shunted out, wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Deshmukh told Sachin Vaze, the cop arrested in connection the security threat case, to collect ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai.Several opposition leaders including Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s (MNS’) Raj Thackeray demanded the state home minister’s resignation over the charges levelled against him. Deshmukh, meanwhile has denied the extortion claims and accused Singh of trying to save himself as his involvement in the bomb scare case was becoming evident. On Saturday, the minister said that he is filing a defamation case against the former top cop.Earlier in the day, Pawar had said that allegations against Deshmukh are serious and that it is the prerogative of the chief minister to take appropriate action.Following the uproar over the issue, all three constituents, Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and Congress, of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state are expected to hold a series of meetings on Monday. They are likely to take a call on Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-ncp-meet-jayant-patil-says-param-bir-singh-s-letter-attempt-to-divert-attention-101616344639373.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports over 800 cases of Covid-19 for second day in a row, total caseload reaches 6.47 lakh||National capital Delhi on Sunday reported 823 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a span of 24 hours, the data from health department showed. This is the second time on two days that Delhi's Covid-19 daily tally has stayed over 800.After today's spike, the total case tally reached 6,47,984.It also recorded 613 recoveries and one death in the said period, the data further showed, pushing the total recoveries to 6,33,410 and death toll to 10,956, respectively.Delhi on Saturday reported over 800 Covid-19 cases for the first time this year as the positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months.The increase has been particularly sharp since Monday, March 15, when the city saw 368 cases. The trend is in tandem with similar rise in infections in several other states, particularly Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana. Overall, the weekly average of new cases a day across India has risen from around 23,500 on March 15 to over 31,600 on March 19.Union government officials have in recent days attributed the rise in infections to the recent wedding season.Meanwhile, over 46,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Saturday, the highest in a day till date, officials said.In the age bracket 45-59 years, 4,794 beneficiaries received the shots, while 22,376 senior citizens also got their first jabs, a senior official said.Addressing a virtual press conference, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had acknowledged the rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital in the last few days, but said it was not a matter of worry, even as he announced that capacity of inoculation daily in Delhi will be augmented from 30,000-40,000 to 1.25 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-813-cases-of-covid19-101616345385854.html
21-03-2021||Other||IIT-K fest: Participants’ zeal, talent make the event memorable||Lucknow A myriad of artistes, visionaries, and students displayed immense zeal during 55th edition of ‘Antaragni’—the annual cultural festival of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K)— which came to an end on Sunday. The three-day event was held online because of the Covid pandemic.In her virtual address at the event, union minister Smriti Irani asked the students to be very cognisant of every decision they took. She also talked about her journey from acting to politics and the hardship she faced. Irani discussed women and child issues currently prevalent in India and how various policies had been made by the ministry to tackle such issues.At the ‘International Carnival’ event at the fest, the first performance was that of Gonzo, the tambourine master from Japan, whose mission is to establish world peace with his art. Having already earned applause on multiple occasions for his skill at “Got Talent” platforms, the maestro bedazzled Antaragni’s stage with his exuberant performance.Next to set the stage on fire were Dimitris Pekas and Giacomo Gamberucci—the ardent cellists famous for their engrossed performances that have gathered multitudes in the streets of Italy.An India-inspired talk by Andy Mukherjee was undoubtedly an example of such a personality. A Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering industrial companies and financial services, he left a lasting impression on the students’ minds with his motivating talk coupled with a great sense of humour and wit.With a vision to make the young generation familiar with the vast world outside the narrow space of their homes, Antaragni welcomed Arijit Majumdar and Shatabdi Mitra, the founders of “The Indian Travel Diaries” and Kishore Ashokan, the founder of “Exploring India”. While in conversation with Iqlipse Nova, the famous travel vloggers shared with the audience their most memorable experiences and taught them the art of travel vlogging besides certain tips and tricks on how they decided to fulfil their travel dreams.Next was Satyajit Padhye, son of famous ventriloquist Ramdas Padhye, who left the audience in complete awe with his puppeteering skills. Antaragni continued its fervour with Aparshakti Khurana in the event “Unfiltered”.Expanding the creative spectrum of the international carnival, Antaragni welcomed Cristian Duca. A versatile musician with a penchant for piano, he showcased his talent through several compositions and covers. This was closely followed by a beautiful rendition by Alexandra Pana, a member of the prestigious group of Trevor James Flute Artists who has several recognitions to her name.“Talent Fiesta” event welcomed the first runner-up of the reality show Sa Re Ga Ma Pa L’il Champs, Keshav Tyohar, who is a successful singer, songwriter, and producer. The French beatboxing queen Prichia was next in line to bewilder the audience. She left the students in a blissful fascination of the versatility, precision, power and adaptiveness of her voice and ability to cover the entire spectrum of sound.Abhishek Upmanyu, the young comedian, left everyone in splits with his quick-witted humour, punch-filled one-liners and unparalleled observational powers.The event also witnessed enthusiastic participation levels where people joined to become a part of the flair and synergy that Antaragni exudes. Even in a virtual mode, the festival upheld its theme of “Helmed Horizons” as talks and performances enabled participants to rise from the self and become one with the spark, the idea, the raging flame of Antaragni.The opening ceremony of the event was marked by the address of professor Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT Kanpur, and Saurabh Chandra, a retired IAS officer who is also an alumnus of IIT Kanpur. The inspirational talks motivated the students to make the best of opportunities.The first cultural artiste gracing the occasion was Ami Shroff, a master juggler and mixologist, who displayed her dexterity and passion to the bewildered audience.This was followed by an insightful discussion between Siddhartha Bagri, founder and CEO of Pravaig Dynamics, a visionary who aims to seize the future with his innovative electrical vehicles, and Kaustubh Mundra, an alumnus of IIT Kanpur, currently at Bain and Co. The discussion highlighted several inspiring and informational concepts about the future of electrical vehicles and the thought behind innovation.Next was a powerful yet soothing performance by “The Yellow Diary” that played for the “Fusion Night” of Antaragni. The band ensured that the audience went on a psychedelic musical journey of emotions in all its purity and innocence.Aakash Gupta kept the audience rolling over the floor with his relatable observations complementing his exceptional wit and comedic premise||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitk-fest-participants-zeal-talent-make-the-event-memorable-101616343045065.html
21-03-2021||Other||PTR uses multi-pronged strategy to reduce man-tiger conflicts||Lucknow: The Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), which was hitherto known for man-tiger conflict, has finally managed to turn around the situation with awareness campaigns, electric fencing and ban on picking mushrooms found inside the forest and considered a delicacy. As per official data, 11 people died in tiger attacks in the area in the past three years. This is a considerable drop from over 26 recorded encounters between man and tiger in 2017 that resulted in 16 fatalities. All those killed were locals living in over 524 villages located within a distance of one kilometre from the PTR. Close to 4 lakh people are estimated to be living in these villages which are in very close proximity to the reserve. During its inception in 2013, around 20,000 people living inside the core forest areas were moved out, with little resistance, but no large-scale efforts were made to relocate people living near the buffer zone of the reserve. “In 2013 and before it, we were promised jobs as guides and other forest staff. We were told that our lives would improve because people from across the country would visit the reserve which would lead to development of the area,” said Khushnam Singh, former head of Darwal village in Puranpur area. “The authorities have forgotten us and left us to fight the tigers alone,” he complained. The man-animal conflict escalated so much in 2017 that just a few months after taking oath as the state’s chief minister, Yogi Adityanath visited Pilibhit and held an emergency meeting with officials regarding the crisis. The man-animal conflict in the horseshoe shape reserve was caused by several factors. Sameer Zargar, who is a part of various environmental projects in Pilibhit, said that rise in tiger population, an almost negligible buffer zone and dependence of people in the villages on forest were the major reasons for the conflict. According to PTR officials, the number of adult tigers living in the reserve increased from 44 in 2017 to an estimated 68 in 2020. “The rise in tiger population puts a stress on the ecology of the forest reserve forcing the big cats to move outside of the buffer zone into fields nearby,” Zargar said. “The horse shoe shape of the reserve is also a disadvantage because two of its arms consist of narrow patch of forest which tigers easily cross over, unknowingly increasing possibility of conflict with humans,” he added. Ram Chandra, a farmer of Amaria area of Pilibhit was mauled to death by a tiger when he went near the forest to collect firewood. The place where the incident took place is located at the tip of one of the narrow forest stretches of the reserve. “My father left home in the afternoon to collect firewood but didn’t return. When we went close to the forest we found his mauled body near the field on the edge of the forest,” said Shiv Pratap, Ram’s eldest son. To mitigate the rising conflict, PTR officials applied a multi- pronged approach. As an immediate solution, it was decided to build an electric fence around the reserve where man-animal encounter was rampant. By July 2020, electric fencing of over 40-kilometre boundary was completed. “The work on electric fencing will continue. We are planning to extend the fence to 13 more kilometres this year,” said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director, PTR. Besides fencing, the PTR and local district administration increased efforts to spread awareness about ways to avoid conflict with tigers in villages located near the reserve. “We regularly organise awareness camps in villages. We also urge people to not enter the reserve and take measures to prevent any encounter with tigers,” said the officer. “A major aspect of the drive is to encourage villagers to report tiger sighting near villages so that we can send experts to relocate the animal from there,” he added. The efforts have increased awareness among the villagers but done very little to dilute the animosity towards tigers caused due to fear. This was reflected in an incident in February 2020 when a group of locals surrounded and attacked a tiger who ventured out of the reserve. The tiger succumbed to the injuries. Over 50 people were booked in an FIR lodged about the incident. “Bagh ke saath to marne-maarne ka hi kanoon chalta hai. Agar hum bagh ko nahi marenge to vo hame mar dega, hamare bachcho ko, pashuon ko mar dega ( The law of killing or getting killed works with tigers. If we do not kill the tiger, it will kill us or our children or cattle) said Subhash Pal, relative of one of the accused in the tiger killing incident. Considering the threat to tigers from locals, the team in PTR focuses on safely relocating the tigers found living close to villages. The team has relocated four tigers living outside the reserve since 2018. These tigers were reported by villagers and were found to be living near villages. Forest officials first tried to move them back to the forest. After failing to do so, they decided to tranquilise and capture them. While none of the tigers were declared man-eater, at least two of them were known to have attacked humans. The tigers were moved to different zoos in UP. The local officials keep reviewing measures regularly to prevent conflict. This includes banning Katharua, a kind of mushroom which is found inside PTR and is considered a delicacy. When officials came to know that some locals entered the PTR illegally to harvest Katharua, they announced a ban on use and sale of the mushroom in the entire district in 2017. The ban exists till date. The last man -animal conflict that resulted in death of a woman took place in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ptr-uses-multi-pronged-strategy-to-reduce-man-tiger-conflicts-101616342804968.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Fabrication business owner, four others booked for causing death due to negligence||Five people including an employee of a construction company and a fabrication business owner were booked for causing the death of a 22-year-old construction worker and hiding the information from his family in order to prevent them from pressing charges, according to their complaint. The deceased man was identified as Pradeep Kantilal Jogdanda (22) while a complaint in the matter was lodged by his mother Gunfabai Kantilal Jogdanda (50), a farmer resident of Chinchwadgaon area and a native of Osmanabad. The accused were identified as Vijay Abhiman More, Balaji Abhiman Mane, Mahesh Jadhav, Gajanan Bapurao Pansare, and Karan Waghire, according to the police. The deceased man was working to apply fabrication on the 12th floor of the under-construction building in Chikhali. While Jadhav is the owner of a fabrication business, Pansare is the labour contractor, and Waghire is an executive working at the construction company, according to the police. The site that he was working on when he slipped and fell to his death was being developed by Balaji developers and the project was called Vishnu Greens located in Jadhavwadi area of Chikhali, according to the police. However, the accused conspired to tell the complainants that the death had occurred while working on the site of the house of a man living in Chinchwade nagar. The complainants also claimed that the accused hid the information about the 22-year-old’s death from his family members. A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (using forged documents as genuine), 120 (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chikhali police station against the five. Police sub-inspector SP Deshmukh of Chikhali police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fabrication-business-owner-four-others-booked-for-causing-death-due-to-negligence-101616342624930.html
21-03-2021||Other||5,421 fresh Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE Pune district reported 5,421 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths due to the infection in 24 hours on Sunday, as per the state health department. Also, 8,036 beneficiaries got the vaccine, including both first and second dose. The district’s progressive count went up to 4.71 lakh, of which 4.20 lakh have recovered, 8,244 is the dead toll and currently, 42,015 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 18 deaths in 24 hours due to the infection, which took the death toll up to 4,661.Also with 2,978 new cases, the progressive count went up to 2.42 lakh. PCMC also reported 1,350 new cases which took the final count to 1.18 lakh. With two deaths reported, the death count stood at 1,349. Pune rural reported 1,093 new cases which took the count to 1.10 lakh cases, and with five deaths the death toll went up to 2,185. A total of 8,036 beneficiaries got the vaccine on Sunday. PCMC saw 1,518 beneficiaries get the vaccine, of which 1,465 got the vaccine for the first time. Pune rural saw 6,518 vaccinations, of which 6,162 were first-time beneficiaries. Totally, 612 beneficiaries got Covaxin in the district and 7,424 beneficiaries got Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5421-fresh-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101616342264915.html
21-03-2021||Other||Upward trend: 496 fresh cases in UP, including 141 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW A total of 496 fresh cases in Uttar Pradesh, including 141 in Lucknow, pushed the state’s infection tally to 6,07,050 on Sunday while one death in Kanpur Dehat took the fatality count to 8,759. In a single day, Lucknow and UP registered 22% and 12% growth respectively in fresh cases. On March 20, Lucknow logged 115 cases while 442 cases surfaced across the state, as per the health department.On March 21, 2020, Lucknow had reported eight fresh cases while UP saw 26 Covid cases (state’s tally was 143). According to the health department, Kanpur reported 16 fresh cases, Prayagraj 30, Ghaziabad 28, Gautam Buddh Nagar 11, Meerut 13, Varanasi 32, Jhansi 17 and Saharanpur 14. “Lucknow has till now reported 82,685 cases, of which 80,834 have recovered and the recovery rate is 97.76%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Fresh cases were reported from different areas including Indira Nagar 10, Gomti Nagar 12, Hazratganj 19, Aliganj 15, Rae Bareli road six and Vibhuti Khand nine. Experts said it was time to focus on two things -- screening of travellers and more testing. The state had tested 33580378 Covid samples till now, including 1,29,586 in the past one day, of which 7,823 in Lucknow. “Screening of passengers is crucial in the coming week, which will see maximum footfall in UP and Lucknow,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director. Healthcity hospital. BOX RISING TREND IN STATEMarch 21 -- 496 March 20 -- 442 March 19 -- 393 March 18 -- 321 March 17 -- 261 March 16 – 228 March 15 – 151 March 14 – 178 March 13 – 156 March 12 – 167 March 11 – 146 March 10 – 128 Cases in Lucknow March 21 -- 141 March 20 -- 115 March 19-- 90 March 18 -- 77 March 17 – 54 March 16 – 44 March 15 – 35 March 14 – 19 Caseload on Mar 20 Lucknow – 141 Prayagraj – 30 Ghaziabad – 28 Varanasi – 32||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upward-trend-496-fresh-cases-in-up-including-141-in-lucknow-101616341904872.html
21-03-2021||Other||Covishield no more reserved for second dose only; vaccines to be administered as per availability||PUNE After deciding to use the available Covishield vaccine doses as for the second dose, and use Covaxin as for all first doses for beneficiaries under phase two, the administration has now decided to start using whichever vaccine is available. Both vaccines will now be used for vaccination, for both first and second doses, as per availability and also to ensure that no vaccine is wasted or nears its expiry date. The PMC has been assured that enough doses will be available for a week, however beneficiaries will not be able to choose between the two approved vaccines. On Saturday the district saw 28,850 beneficiaries get the vaccine of which 6,115 were Covaxin and 22,735 were Covishield. These beneficiaries also included senior citizens and those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities, who got 5,040 doses of Covaxin and 11,679 doses of Covishield. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer, PMC, said “We have started using both the vaccines for first dose as per availability. However, the beneficiaries would not be able to make the choice of the vaccine. As per availability they will get the vaccine dose. Once the vaccination is done, the details of the vaccine given and the date for the second dose will be entered. The state has assured a continuous flow of vaccines from hereon and we have enough stock for the next one week as of now.” Rural Pune has also started using both the vaccines to avoid any wastage. A senior official from Zilla Parishad said, “We have instructed hospitals to not stock Covishield for the second dose and to ensure that there is no wastage of the vaccine. We have to finish the existing stock of Covishield before the expiry date and we have started using the vaccine as first dose too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covishield-no-more-reserved-for-second-dose-only-vaccines-to-be-administered-as-per-availability-101616340704906.html
21-03-2021||Dehradun||‘Take strict Covid-19 measures during Mahakumbh’: Centre tells Uttarakhand govt||The central government has written to the Uttarakhand government strongly highlighting the need for stringent measures to control the spread of Covid-19 during Mahakumbh, the world’s largest religious congregation. The development comes a day after chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that “nobody will be stopped in the name of Covid-19, as we are sure people’s faith will overcome the fear of the virus”. According to the statement issued by the Centre, Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, on Sunday wrote to chief secretary Uttarakhand Om Prakash and highlighted the concerns raised by the high-level central team in its visit to Haridwar on March 16 and 17 on the need of stringent measures to control the spread of Covid-19 during Kumbh Mela. A high-level central team, led by the director National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), visited Haridwar on March 16 and 17 to review the medical and public health preparedness measures undertaken by the state for the ongoing Kumbh mela in Haridwar. The Union health secretary also observed that currently, more than 12 states in India have shown a surge in Covid-19 cases during the past few weeks, and pilgrims expected to visit Haridwar during the Kumbh mela could also be from these states. It has been noted that there is a potential for an upsurge in cases in the local population after the auspicious Shahi Snan (royal bath) during the Kumbh mela. Also read: 10-20 Kumbh pilgrims testing Covid-19 positive daily - CentreThe secretary also noted that as per the report of the central team, 10-20 pilgrims and 10-20 locals are being reported positive for Covid-19 every day. This positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turning to an upsurge in cases, given the expected large footfall during Kumbh, the statement added. The state has been informed that the daily testing numbers reported in Haridwar (50,000 Rapid Antigen Tests and 5,000 RTPCR tests) are not enough to effectively offset the huge pilgrim footfall. It has been advised that the current share of RTPCR tests be significantly increased as per the ICMR guidelines to ensure that the pilgrims and local population are appropriately tested. JC Pandey, public relations officer, state health department, said they are yet to receive the letter but assured that the department will take all appropriate action recommended by the central government in the case of Mahakumbh. The Mahakumbh event has the potential to become a super-spreader this time not just for Uttarakhand but for the whole of India. Covid-19 cases are witnessing a surge in many states and many people are coming to Haridwar in substantial numbers from these states. In the first Shahi Snan on March 11, over 3.3 million people visited Haridwar. In January, the central government had issued an SOP for Mahakumbh with strict guidelines like mandatory negative Covid-19 test report, following which the state government also issues guidelines for the mega event. Newly-appointed Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat, who visited Haridwar thrice after taking charge, has been repeatedly saying there won’t be unnecessary restrictions on the pilgrims. On March 13, Rawat had announced that negative Covid-19 reports are not necessary to participate in the upcoming ‘shahi snans’ during the mega event. On Saturday, the chief minister stated in Haridwar that all “unnecessary” restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the pandemic will be removed. He said that “faith is stronger than fear”. Uttarakhand has reported 98,311 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 14,525 cases are from the Haridwar district. At present, Haridwar has the highest active cases of all 13 districts in the state with 266 active infections of the total 756. Millions of pilgrims flock to Mahakumbh, especially on days of shahi snans (royal holy baths). The first one was on March 11 and the remaining three will fall on April 12, April 14 and April 27. Images of the first shahi snan showed visitors gathered in large groups. About 3.3 million attended the event without pilgrims following any Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/centre-writes-to-uttarakhand-to-take-strict-covid-19-measures-during-mahakumbh-101616340585698.html
21-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa charts out bigger role for son Vijayendra in BJP||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday charted out a bigger role for his son and BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra to make a dent into the Congress and JD(S) citadel in old Mysuru region.Ruling out fielding Vijayendra from Basavakalyan where assembly bypoll is due on April 17 along with Maski assembly segment and Belagavi Lok Sabha segment, Yediyurappa said his son would camp in Mysuru to strengthen the party base."There is no element of truth in fielding Vijayendra from Basavakalyan. Seniors have the expectations that he should go to Mysuru and reside there to cover four to five districts," Yediyurappa told reporters at Sindhanur Taluk in Raichur district.The Chief Minister said Vijayendra would camp in Mysuru after the bypolls are over."If he works in five to six districts around Mysuru in a manner that we get at least 13 to 14 more seats, then we will get at least 135 to 140 seats (in the next assembly elections). This is our expectation," Yediyurappa added.Sources in the BJP said the area of focus this time is the Old Mysuru region including Ramanagara, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Kolar districts where BJP is weak.Ramanagara and Mandya districts are considered JD(S) citadel for being the Vokkaliga dominated area which the JD(S) first family of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda belongs to.The BJP, however, had managed to change the notion with the victory of Dr K C Narayana Gowda from the K R Pet Assembly constituency in Mandya during the December 2019 bypolls.Vijayendra had played a key role in turning the tables on the JD(S).On the other hand, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Kolar are considered to be Congress bastions."We are very specifically eyeing on Mandya, Ramanagara, Kanakapura, Channapatna and Varuna assembly segments," a BJP leader told P T I.While JD(S) has a stronghold in Mandya, Ramanagara and Channapatna, Kanakapura and Varuna are Congress bastions.While H D Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha are MLAs from Channapatna and Ramanagara respectively, Varuna and Kanakapura are represented by former chief minister Siddaramaiah's son Yathindra and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar.Varuna had been considered Siddaramaiah's fort as he had been contesting and winning from there.The BJP has plans to defeat the stalwart Congress and the JD(S) leaders, a party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-charts-out-bigger-role-for-son-vijayendra-in-bjp-101616339988998.html
21-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to double number of vaccinations to tackle Covid-19 surge||The surge of Covid- 19 cases in India’s IT capital continued as Bengaluru accounted for 1037 new cases on Saturday out of the total 1715 across Karnataka.The total number of active Covid- 19 cases in Bengaluru rose to 9300, inching towards the dangerous mark that had threatened to cripple the healthcare infrastructure of the city and state in August and September last year. There were 13,493 active cases across Karnataka then.“Citizens and the government should obey the advice of the Technical Advisory Committee. The virus equally harms all kinds of activities. The government is doing whatever it can. Strict restrictions are being avoided to ensure that there is no inconvenience for day to day activities of people and economy,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health & family welfare and medical education minister said on Sunday.Sudhakar said that he would request the chief minister to convene an all-party meeting on the issue.Several localities like Bellandur, Shanthala Nagar, HSR Layout among others have shown a sharp spike in Covid- 19 cases.There are 15 containment zones in Bengaluru, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body).Several parts of India have seen a surge in cases since March and states like Punjab have relapsed into reinstating restrictions to contain the spread of the disease. Karnataka has refused to bring back restrictions as the cash-starved state, like many others, is yet to recover from the impact of the lockdown last year.After witnessing a decline from November, Bengaluru and the rest of the state went about its daily activities with little concern about the virus that remained just as potent as it was when it struck the southern state in March last year.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa had blamed people coming from neighbouring states like Kerala and Maharashtra and cited that as the main reason for the spike as the border districts recorded a sharp surge. There were 20 cases in Belagavi, 61 in Bidar, 54 in Dakshina Kannada, 41 in Kalaburagi, 70 in Mysuru and 38 in Tumakuru.The coastal district of Udupi recorded 170 new cases. Udupi is home to several large universities and has taken a decision to suspend physical classes on account of the surge.Though the state government has made Covid-19 negative certificates mandatory for people coming from Kerala and Maharashtra, there are few checks being conducted, according to locals.CM Yediyurappa has proposed to double the number of vaccinations from around 1.5 lakh to 3 lakh to help contain the spread.The state has so far vaccinated over 24.67 lakh people since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-double-number-of-vaccinations-to-tackle-covid-19-surge-101616339745444.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab again reports over 2,000 new Covid-19 infections, active cases jump by over 1,200||Punjab on Sunday once again reported over 2,000 (2,669 to be exact) new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 44 deaths in a span of 24 hours, according to a bulletin from the state government. With this, the state’s tally reached 213,110 and the death toll climbed to 6,324.The state had reported 2,587 cases on Saturday, the highest in six months, preceded by 2,490 cases on Friday, 2,387 cases on Thursday and 2,039 cases on Wednesday.Active caseload also increased to 18,257 from the 16,988 cases reported on the previous day, a spike of 1,269 cases. As many as 1,331 patients were reported as recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 188,529 patients so far, data from the bulletin showed.Also read | Nagpur records 3,614 new cases of Covid-19 in yet another daily spikeAmong the badly hit districts, Jalandhar reported the highest number of new cases - 393 - on Sunday followed by Ludhiana with 330 cases, SAS Nagar with 327, Hoshiarpur with 259 and Patiala with 244. Also, Ludhiana remained the worst affected district in terms of the total number of confirmed positive cases so far - 30,725.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry, earlier in the day, identified Punjab as one of the eight states and union territories which have been contributing the highest to the daily new cases.The state government conducted 37,131 Covid-19 tests and has also collected 36,956 samples on Sunday, according to the bulletin. Currently, four containment zones and 72 micro containment zones are in effect in the state, data showed.Also read | ‘Take strict Covid-19 measures during Mahakumbh’: Centre tells Uttarakhand govtAs far as the vaccinations are concerned, 247,618 essential workers have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine so far and 85,067 have received the second. In the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination - which is being carried out for those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities - 213,541 beneficiaries have received their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-again-reports-over-2-000-new-covid-19-infections-active-cases-jump-by-over-1-200-101616338676130.html
21-03-2021||Other||SPPU’s Edutech sub-contracting software creation for 1st semester exams worries students||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct its first-semester examinations online from April 11, the contract for which has been given to the university’s own SPPU Edutech Foundation company. Edutech Foundation has sub-contracted the job of developing the software for the online exams, over which students are concerned about mismanagement. Edutech Foundation called for a tender to develop the software. The deadline given is till April 22 and students fear that due to this, the examinations will get delayed again. “SPPU has given the examination work to Eductech Foundation and now it is seen that another outside company will come in to the picture to make the software. We students have already faced lots of issues and difficulties last year. The careers of hundreds of students have gone for a toss due to technical issues and wrong results being declared. We do not want same thing to happen again. SPPU should be extra cautious while conducting the exams this time,” said Kamlakar Shete, student and Pune city vice-president of the Yuvak Kranti Dal.On February 9, a similar meeting was organised and it was decided to conduct exams from March 15 onwards. Later, there were conflicts between council members over appointing an agency to conduct the exams. The examination schedule has also not been declared. “The first semester examination is going to start from April 11 and for students, from first to last year, all courses will be of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) in online mode. SPPU Edutech Foundation will conduct this exam. There won’t be any problems while appearing for the exam and all precautions are going to be taken. Exams will be held in time with no more delay,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppus-edutech-sub-contracting-software-creation-for-1st-semester-exams-worries-students-101616338304726.html
21-03-2021||Other||‘I felt suffocated’: Another senior PDP leader resigns||Senior People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Khurshid Alam announced his decision to quit the party on Sunday saying “we are mainstream politicians, not separatists”.Alam, a former member of the legislative council (MLC) and party’s district president, Srinagar, has written to the party president announcing his resignation.“Yes I have resigned…I felt suffocated,” he told HT. “We are mainstream politicians, we are not separatists. Electoral politics is our politics,” he said.Alam said that there was no vision on major issues. “The party lacks a roadmap and direction on various issues as well as party affairs. My stand on party affairs and that of the party was totally different,” he said.Before his plunge into politics, Alam was a prominent employees union leader. There are rumours of him either joining the People’s Conference or the Congress.Also read: LJP boss Chirag Paswan backs restoration of statehood for Jammu and Kashmir“I have been into politics for decades now. I can’t be at the bay. I will be meeting my colleagues and friends to discuss my future plan,” he said.The development comes a few days after the party’s state general secretary Surinder Choudhary resigned from the posts of state general secretary and member political affairs committee (PAC).After Mehbooba Mufti was re-elected as the president of the party in February, the party had chosen its office bearers and constituted PAC last week during which Choudhary and Alam were chosen among others as its members.PDP’s founding member and former J-K deputy chief minister Muzaffar Baig also joined Sajad Lone’s Peoples’ Conference in Srinagar last week. Baig left along with his wife Safeena after the latter was denied the district development council ticket from north Kashmir last year.The PDP had suffered a major jolt last year after six of its senior leaders had quit the party.The party was formed by Mufti’s father and former J-K chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed in 1999 after leaving the Congress. The PDP went on to form the government along with the Congress in 2003 and later, in 2015, with the Bharatiya Janta Party.However, many of the founding members have left the PDP, some to join new political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-felt-suffocated-another-senior-pdp-leader-resigns-101616337705299.html
21-03-2021||Other||Lots of thunder, little rain: IMD forecasts cloudy weather to persist in Pune||PUNE Pune reported traces of rainfall, along with thunderstorms, on Sunday afternoon, bringing some relief to the heat from an otherwise scorching sun. On Sunday, Pune reported a maximum temperature of 35.8 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 17.7 degrees Celsius.As per forecasts made by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), this weather is likely to continue till March 23. Anupam Kashyapi, Head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune, said that an interaction between different winds, especially over north central central (Madhya) Maharashtra, including Pune city and Pune district, resulted in local instability and the thunder. “This is the reason for partly cloudy skies. It is very likely that there will be a short spell of rainfall along with the thunder. This kind of condition is likely to continue over Pune city for the next few days” said Kashyapi.IMD has forecast a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius till March 24, along with cloudy weather during the afternoons.“Thunder along with light rainfall is likely in Marathwada, central Maharashtra, Konkan, and and Vidarbha till March 24. The weather shall remain cloudy due to different weather systems active over the state,” said IMD officials.On Sunday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was, 38.3 degrees Celsius at Bramhapuri. The lowest minimum temperature reported was 17.3 degrees Celsius at Jalgaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lots-of-thunder-little-rain-imd-forecasts-cloudy-weather-to-persist-in-pune-101616337284527.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||The enchanting flavours of Holi||The ancient festival of Holi brings with it the enchanting colours of spring that symbolise love, hope and joy. Equally present in the Holi spread, that showcases painstakingly made traditional delicacies that evoke beautiful nostalgia is the longing to revive the vibrant past. One’s reminded of big family gatherings, grandmothers singing folk Horis (semi-classical singing popular in the villages of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar), the delicious scent of handmade sweets and snacks making children hungry, the vivid splashes of gulal sprinkling joy everywhere. “A unique Hori/Holi celebration was on Rang Paashi, traditionally supposed to be the first day of festivities, falling three days before Poornima, or Holi. This was a big evening in our home, when we hosted a Holi dinner for friends and family. Youngsters would put gulal ke tikke on the foreheads of their elders and hot gujiya and besan ke papdi were offered first as prasad and then to everyone,” says Anoothi Vishal, food historian and author. The papdis were different from dry, off the shelves papads. “They were made at home with great labour and care by kneading besan flour in mustard oil and then pounding it to aerate it, before rolling it out into thin discs and frying fresh. Besan ki papdi is a unique Mathur dish associated with Holi. The gujiya is also preferred hot, not cold, and made with just khoya, chironji and kishmish, no extra sugar or saffron coating,” says Vishal who has curated a week-long festival of traditional Holi specials from Old Delhi homes at Punjab Grill, Aerocity this year. She recalls how the dinner would always a big affair with a special meat kaliya and poori-kachori cooked to mark the festivities. “Chaat also featured in the traditional Holi spread because as per Ayurveda this cool spring time calls for pungent and fermented flavours to protect the body. We also had fermented kaanji-bada (moong pakori soaked in kaanji and left to ferment) that was drunk on Holi.” For historian-author Rana Safvi who grew up in Lucknow, gujias were the most exciting part of the celebrations. “The colours of Holi and the taste of gujias bring back many childhood memories for me. Regular UP gujias stuffed with lots of khoya, kishmish and nariyal were my favourite.” Osama Jalali, founder and culinary Head, The Mughal Plate by Jalalis is trying to revive the traditional flavours of Holi with recipes that are closely associated with his childhood memories. He says, “Holi means meethe chawal or Shahi Zarda, thanks to our neighbours who had come from Peshawar five decades ago. On every Holi, they would send meethe chawal for us. I decided to add these in my Holi menu.” Another Holi treat that Jalali has prepared is Khush Rang Murgh Pulao. “It has small balls of chicken coloured naturally with beetroot and spinach. It’s my mother’s recipe, who is from Rampur, UP. Her grandparent’s house was located in a non-Muslim area and they were the only Muslim family. Every Holi, they loved serving this colourful dish to people in the neighbourhood,” he says. Traditionally, the festival of Holi starts from Basant Panchmi and culminates on the full moon day, Fagun Purnima. And Brij Ki Holi stands out because it’s believed that’s the place where Holi as a festival has originated from. Samrat Banerjee, director operations, Rooh New Delhi, says, “Brij Ki Holi is unique. It’s played for 40 days in various parts of the region such as Vrindavan and Barsana. Apart from Phoolo ki Holi, Lathmar Holi and Rang Ekadashi, there is something called Laddu Holi where you throw laddu at each other.” Banerjee changes his menu during on the occasion of Holi. “The menu is called Fagun. Tesu ki barfi is one of the unique dishes, made with Tesu or palash flower. It’s a tinted milk cannelloni, stuffed with tesu coloured rabri, topped with palm sugar coated tesu flowers,” he says. Recipe of meethe chawal / shahi zardaIngredients1kg basmati rice250 ml ghee or oil5 green cardamom250 ml saffron soaked in warm water50 grams almonds50 gram cashews20 gram raisin100 gram tutti fruity made with watermelon peel250 grams sugarMethod1. Boil water in heavy bottom pan and add saffron water to it.2. Add soaked rice to the water and cook till it absorbs saffron colour3. Once rice is cooked ill 80 percent , strain it and keep aside4. Take another pan add sugar , cardamoms and a cup of water and cook till sugar dissolves5. Now in a big pan / deghchi put ghee/ oil and add the sugar mixture and layer with rice.6. Cover the lid and let it cook slowly on dum for 15 minutes7. Open the lid and add tutti fruity and nuts as garnish and serve.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-enchanting-flavours-of-holi-101616336927013.html
21-03-2021||Jaipur||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to address Kisan Mahapanchayat in Jaipur||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait will address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Jaipur on Tuesday.The mahapanchayat will be held at Vidhyadhar Nagar stadium, Raja Ram Meel, president of the Jat Mahasabha, said."It will be the first meeting of Tikait in Jaipur. Earlier, he has held a few meetings in other districts like Hanumangarh and Ganganagar," Meel told reporters."Farmers have understood that the Modi government has cheated them and is trying to weaken farmers. The government is planning to hand over the agriculture sector to industrialists and farmers have understood this thing. Therefore, there are countrywide protests against the farm laws," he said.Meel said the BJP will suffer huge losses in elections, including the bypolls on three assembly seats in Rajasthan next month, over the farmers' issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-jaipur-101616335166935.html
21-03-2021||Other||Online senate meet clears ₹540 crore SPPU budget for 2021-22||PUNE On Saturday, the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) annual budget of ₹540 crore was presented at the varsity senate meeting, held online. The meeting eventually got adjourned, as several senate members demanded offline discussions on the budgetary provisions. At the request of SPPU vice-chancellor, Prof Nitin Karmalkar, the budget estimate for 2021-22, of ₹593.53 crore, was passed. “As per the demand of the senate members the budget was passed on Saturday, but at the same time it was decided to hold an offline senate meeting next month to discuss issues raised in the meeting,” said Prof Karmalkar. There is a deficit of ₹52.71 crore as compared to last year’s budget.“There are several issues and flaws in this budget which are serious and need to be investigated; for example, funds allocations to individual SPPU officials. So it is our recommendation to form a committee and hold an offline discussion soon,” said Amit Patil, senate member. Senate member Santosh Dhore said, “This year’s senate meeting and announcement of the budget is very crucial, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Still, colleges have not yet started and it is going to be a tough year ahead. Budgetary provisions need to be discussed in detail and at an offline senate meeting.”Various other issues were discussed at the online senate meeting, including scholarships, and discontinuing the “earn and learn” scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-senate-meet-clears-rs-540-crore-sppu-budget-for-202122-101616336084596.html
21-03-2021||Jaipur||Amid Covid-19 surge, night curfew imposed in 8 cities in Rajasthan||In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, the state government on Sunday imposed night curfew in eight cities and ordered a mandatory RT-PCR test for people entering the state. Markets have been directed to close by 10 pm in urban bodies. The active number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan has reached 3,310 while the daily cases have also crossed the 400-mark in the last two days. As many as six people have died in the last week. Going by the official figures, the state on February 16 registered 60 cases, which on March 20 went up to 445 – an increase of 642 per cent. Apprehensive of a possible second wave of Covid-19 in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot decided to take necessary steps in the public interest to ensure the health and livelihood of people. He has directed for strict implementation of Covid-19 protocols and has directed to limit the number of people in various ceremonies and programs. Also read: Covid-19 - 6 states contribute nearly 78% of daily cases in last 24 hoursAfter a review meeting, Gehlot said the infection is increasing rapidly in many countries as well as in many states of the country. In Rajasthan also, the growth rate of positive cases has suddenly increased in the last few days. “In such a situation, it is necessary to take some steps to save the lives of people from the second wave of corona and to keep the livelihood smooth otherwise the situation can be catastrophic,” he said. The government has made RT-PCR negative report (not more than 72-hours old) mandatory for all passengers coming from outside in Rajasthan from March 25. Earlier, it was only mandatory for people coming from Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh. Passengers will also be examined at the airport, bus stand and railway station. The passengers, who come without a negative report will have to remain quarantined for 15 days. All district collectors will also re-start the institutional quarantine system in their districts. “Markets will remain closed in all the urban bodies of the state from March 22 after 10 pm. Night curfew will be held from 11 am to 5 am in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Sagwara and Kushalgarh,” an official release from the CMs office stated. The night curfew will not apply to those factories which have continuous production and have a system of night shifts. IT companies, restaurants, chemist shops, offices related to essential and emergency services, wedding ceremonies, medical institutes, bus stands, railway station and airport passengers, goods transport vehicles and loading and unloading planned will be free from the night curfew. Wearing of masks, social distancing, sanitizing will be ensured in all institutions. The system of mini containment zones will be implemented again. Wherever there are more than five positive cases, that cluster or apartment will be declared as a containment zone and will be under the supervision of the beat constable. Primary schools will remain closed until further orders. Classes in schools and colleges, educational activities will be conducted following proper Covid-19 protocol. Screening and random testing will be mandatory. Students will be allowed to attend educational institutions only after written consent from their parents. No more than 50 per cent of the students will be present in a class. In cities with more than one lakh population, a maximum of 200 people will be allowed in public events. The chief minister appreciated the caution and cooperation by the common people on various festivals in the last one year and said that they should avoid congestion on all the upcoming festivals including Holi-Dhulandi to stop the spread of infection. Gehlot urged people to celebrate the festival at home and follow Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/amid-covid-19-surge-night-curfew-imposed-in-8-cities-in-rajasthan-101616335845073.html
21-03-2021||Other||From today, extensive drive in Lucknow to make people wear masks||LUCKNOW The drive to make people wear masks and follow other Covid-19 protocols at crowded places will be carried out more extensively in the state capital from Monday, said Naveen Arora, joint commissioner of police, law and order, on Sunday.The step is being taken in wake of Covid surge in the city, the state and other parts of India. It is mandatory to ensure enforcement of pandemic protocols to curb spread of the virus again, he said. Arora said all police station in-charges and other field officers have been asked to ensure proper enforcement of the protocols in market areas and other crowded places like offices, restaurants, malls, railway stations and bus stations. The basic Covid protocols include wearing masks, proper scanning of visitors with thermal temperature scanner and proper usage of sanitisers as well. Besides, police would ensure that unnecessary crowd should not gather at one place, he added.Police personnel have also been directed to sensitise people about following protocols.Notably, nearly 1.5 lakh people have been fined in Lucknow since May, 2020 for not wearing masks or covering their faces as a mandatory norm during Covid the pandemic, said officials. As many as 16,567 people were fined this year between January 1 and March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-today-extensive-drive-in-lucknow-to-make-people-wear-masks-101616334584388.html
21-03-2021||Bhopal||Former Congress MP Suraj Solanki dies of cardiac arrest in Bhopal||Former Congress Lok Sabha MP from Madhya Pradesh Suraj Bhanu Singh Solanki died of cardiac arrest on Sunday during a morning walk in Bhopal, his kin said.Solanki, MP from Dhar in 1989 and 1991, was 60 and is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.He was the son of former deputy chief minister and ex-state Congress chief late Shiv Bhanu Singh Solanki.Solanki was a commercial pilot and was brought into politics by late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state Congress president Kamal Nath expressed grief at Solanki's death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/former-congress-mp-suraj-solanki-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-bhopal-101616332819082.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh confirms he sent letter to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Sunday confirmed that the letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was sent from his email id.The chief minister's office had on Saturday said that letter from Singh, in which he detailed how the state home minister Anil Deshmukh had asked arrested Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore for Deshmukh every month, was received from a different email address, not his official one and was without Singh's signature.The chief minister's office also said that the new email address needs to be checked for which home ministry was attempting to contact Singh.Deshmukh had on Saturday refuted all the allegations against him said that he is filing a defamation suit against the former Mumbai Police Commissioner.Deshmukh also said that the police officer made these false allegations to save himself from legal action.Taking to Twitter, Deshmukh said, "Sachin Waze's direct links in Antilia Case and Mansukh Hiren case are coming forward. Param Bir Singh is afraid that its connections will reach up to him. He has made these false allegations to save and protect himself from legal action,"The allegations were made a day after Deshmukh had said that Param Bir Singh was moved out as Mumbai Police Commissioner so that cases pertaining to Vaze were probed without obstruction.In the letter, Param Bir Singh, who has now been posted as Commandant General of Home Guards, said that he has been "made a scapegoat to divert attention from the actual wrongdoers".Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that NIA and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) are investigating Sachin Vaze case very professionally and Param Bir Singh has been transferred as Mumbai Police Commissioner so that investigation can be done without any hindrance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-confirms-he-sent-letter-to-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101616333471355.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||On Param Bir Singh’s claims, Congress says he may be under central agencies’ pressure||Accusing the BJP of trying to destabilise the Maharashtra government, the Congress on Sunday said former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, who levelled allegations of corruption against state home minister Anil Deshmukh, might be under pressure of Central agencies.Addressing a press conference, Maharashtra Congress spokesman Sachin Sawant said it was not for the first time in India that a serving officer raised allegations against those in power.Days after he was shunted as Mumbai police commissioner, Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray claiming Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, had asked Sachin Vaze and other police officers to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars and hotels in Mumbai.Deshmukh had denied allegations against him as baseless.Questioning Singh's claims, Sawant said, "Deshmukh was in hospital after he tested positive for coronavirus in February. I had had online interactions with Deshmukh on two occasions when he was indisposed. If Singh's allegations are believed to be true then why did he wait till March and till he was transferred, to raise them".He said Singh could be under pressure of Central agencies since his close aide (Vaze) is in the NIA custody."Singh's allegations raise several questions. All this is scripted. How leaders of BJP gave sound bytes to news channels minutes after Singh's letter became public," he alleged.Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in the midst of investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle which was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month.The NIA had arrested assistant inspector of Mumbai Police, Sachin Vaze, in the case. The federal agency is also probing the alleged murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran who was in possession of the SUV found outside Ambani's residence, 'Antilia'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-param-bir-singh-s-claims-congress-says-he-may-be-under-central-agencies-pressure-101616331526781.html
21-03-2021||Other||Priyanka to address 5 kisan rallies in east UP next month||Lucknow: Congress national general secretary and UP in charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would address kisan mahapanchayats (farmers’ rallies) in five eastern districts of the state early next month, said the party’s UP spokesperson Ashok Singh on Sunday. She was also likely to visit Ayodhya “for darshan” towards the end of her UP stay, said a senior party leader in the know of things. “The programme is final. The dates will be announced soon. The visit will be after Holi”, he said. Singh said that five kisan mahapanchayats, one each, were proposed in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Mirzapur, Sonebhadra and Prayagraj. “She will start the tour with darshan at Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi,” he said. The rallies are aimed at the forthcoming panchayat elections in the state. The Congress would be contesting the panchayat elections with zeal, put up a good show at the grassroots level and also enthuse the cadres for both the panchayat elections (likely to be announced at the end of this month) and the 2022 UP assembly polls, he said. Earlier, Priyanka had addressed kisan mahapanchayats in western UP --in Saharanpur on February 10 and in Mathura on February 23. At these rallies she took on the central government over the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year and the fuel prices. She had said at the rallies that if voted to power, Congress would scrap the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priyanka-to-address-5-kisan-rallies-in-east-up-next-month-101616332004302.html
21-03-2021||Other||Boy rapes 7-yr-old girlin Moradabad, sent to juvenile home||LUCKNOW A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 13-year-old boy in Mudapande area of Sakrani village in Moradabad on Saturday evening. Irate locals caught hold of the accused and manhandled him, said police.The boy was rescued by cops and sent to the juvenile home on Sunday after court’s order. “The accused is a Class 8 student. He lured the minor girl to a secluded place on Saturday and allegedly raped her. We have lodged a case regarding the matter on the basis of a complaint filed by the girl’s family,” said Amit Anand SP (city), Moradabad. The girl had reportedly gone to a marriage function from where the accused lured her to a secluded place, some 100 meters away from the venue. The boy allegedly raped her and fled from the spot. The victim’s family came to know about the incident when she returned home and told her mother about it. The minor girl sustained injuries and was admitted to a hospital, where her condition was stable, said police. After the victim identified the boy, locals tracked the accused and held him. According to police sources, people tied the accused to a cot and manhandled him. By then, the boy’s relatives also reached the spot, which led to tension in the village. Considering that both sides belonged to warring factions, a police team was rushed to the village.The team detained the minor and defused the tense situation with the help of village elders. “The relatives of the accused and the minor girl have a long standing dispute. Keeping this in mind, we have deployed a police picket in the village to avoid any untoward incident,” said the SP.District officials also visited the area on Sunday and assured the girl’s family of their support. The officials also urged locals to ensure peace in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boy-rapes-7-yr-old-girl-in-moradabad-sent-to-juvenile-home-101616331764311.html
21-03-2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Negative RT-PCR report mandatory for Rajasthan travellers; night curfew in 8 cities||The Rajasthan government on Sunday made it mandatory for people entering the state to carry negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report not more than 72 hours old. The new rule will come into effect from March 25 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, said a government order. The state has also imposed a night curfew in eight cities starting Monday.The night curfew from 11pm to 5am has been imposed in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Sagwara and Kushalgarh.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe government also ordered the closure of primary schools in the state until further notice. Markets in areas under all city municipal corporations have also been ordered to remain shut 10pm onwards from Monday.As of Saturday, the state recorded a daily spike of 445 cases, which took its infection tally to 324,948, according to the health department’s Covid-19 bulletin. On a positive note, Rajasthan is among the 17 states and union territories that have not reported any Covid-19 related deaths in a span of 24 hours.Following a sudden spike of cases this week, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot instructed all health and administrative officials to use appropriate measures, including enforcement of restrictions, intensified testing and crowd control, to contain the spread of the virus, which hints towards a possible second wave of the disease.“It is very worrying to see a three-time rise in the positivity rate of coronavirus infection within a week. On the basis of our shared experience of fighting Corona during the last one year, we have to save the people from the danger of the second wave,” Gehlot said during a virtual review meeting on Thursday.To prevent the virus from spreading, the chief minister said that discussions need to be held with various political parties, social organisations, activists and religious leaders, etc. “We have successfully fought the war against Corona so far by taking all sides together and coordinating with each other,” he asserted.Amid the spike, Gehlot has asked officials to review the functioning of oxygen plants, testing labs, quarantine areas, and management of containment zones. He has also called for strict action against those responsible for crowding in markets and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid19-negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-rajasthan-travellers-night-curfew-in-8-cities-101616328410368.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi prisons steps up efforts to tackle Covid-19 as inmates return||The threat of coronavirus infection looms large in Delhi Prisons as it readies for the returning inmates who were granted parole during the coronavirus outbreak last year.According to jail officials, it will be difficult to maintain social distancing with the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the prisons.They said the situation could be more difficult to manage when the inmates, who were granted parole during the pandemic outbreak last year, would return.There are a total of 18,900 inmates in the Delhi Prisons comprising Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. However, the intake capacity of Delhi Prisons Department is 10,026 inmates.The number of inmates will pass the 20,000-mark as more will come after their emergency parole lapse, a senior jail official said.Meanwhile, the jail authority asserted that all steps are being taken to keep the Covid-19 situation under control.“The last time an inmate was tested positive was on January 14. After that, three more persons were found positive, but their disease was detected before entering the jail.“No jail staff has been detected Covid-19 positive after January 9. Thus, the Covid situation inside the jails is very much under control. We will continue to take all the precautions, including wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and quarantining the new inmates,” Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.The jail authorities are alert and conducting tests as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, another official said.A total of 1,184 convicts and around 5,500 under-trials were released under the department's decongestion drive amid the pandemic outbreak.The process of vaccination in the jails has already been started. Almost all jail staff and security personnel have received their jabs.Around 20 prison inmates in Delhi received their first jab of Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccination drive for prison inmates started last week.Delhi reported 813 coronavirus cases on Saturday. The active cases rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago. The positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-prisons-steps-up-efforts-to-tackle-covid-19-as-inmates-return-101616329084814.html
21-03-2021||Other||Night curfew, wedding restrictions adversely impact livelihood of business operators in events industry||PUNE Amid the surge in Covid cases in the district the administration has imposed strict restrictions like night curfew and restrictions on attendees at weddings, social, political and cultural programmes, but this has adversely affected the events industry which is still recovering from the aftermath of lockdown.The number of attendees at social gatherings has been reduced to 50, as per the new restrictions.The business operators in the events industry such as sound-light operators, florists, caterers, decorators among others are finding it difficult to earn their bread and butter.“Such social events requires multiple services such as light-sound arrangements, decoration, caterers among others. So many depend on this industry for their livelihoods,” said Bablu Ramjani, president, Pune Sound Electric Generators Equipments Vendors Association.“The peak time for business is during January-May. Last year we lost this season due to lockdown. This year also many restrictions have been imposed on the events. It is taking away our business and also hit the livelihoods of the workers who are dependent on such work,” he said.After Diwali wedding season starts and business operators in the events industry are in demand. “Our business is less than ten per cent currently. Due to the restrictions and the Covid fear, expenditure priorities of people have changed. Many are now preferring to perform like engagements, weddings at homes. There is no business left for us,” said Subhash Sarpale, owner of Sarpale Flower Merchant and also provides flower decorations for events.These business operators are demanding to let wedding halls and lawns operate with 50 per cent capacity instead of putting the limit of 50 persons at an event. “Restaurants, banquets halls are allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity and marriage halls only with 50 persons. Many people are booking banquets because more people can attend an event. This rule is not only impacting our business, but also the livelihoods of the workers who depend on us. Marriage halls and lawns should be allowed with 50 per cent capacity,” said Anna Kudale, owner of LG Caterers and Events.“It’s not only about us who are running this business. Lakhs of workers are dependent on these businesses for their bread and butter. We employee local people. During the lockdown period, we helped our workers. Provided what they needed, but sadly we are too are facing difficulties now. We can hardly sustain ourselves. The government should think on these lines,” said Sarpale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/events-industry-takes-a-hit-livelihood-of-8-10-lakh-people-adversely-affected-101616328944037.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh letter on corruption claims against Anil Deshmukh: Who said what||A day after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray levelling corruption allegations against state home minister Anil Deshmukh, several political leaders have given their reactions. While the opposition has demanded Deshmukh’s resignation, his party members and alliance partners of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government have termed the matter as serious but have ruled out replacing him.In his letter, Singh, who was recently removed from office, claimed that Deshmukh asked arrested cop Sachin Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. The letter, which is being widely circulation on social media, states that Deshmukh told Vaze, who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with Mukesh Ambani threat case, that he had a target of collecting ₹100 crore a month from the city joints.Here’s who said what about the letterAnil Deshmukh: The Maharashtra home minister has refuted the allegations against him and asserted that Param Bir Singh made the claims to save himself as his involvement in the Ambani bomb scare case and Mansukh Hiran death case was getting clearer. Deshmukh has said that he is going to file a defamation case against the former Mumbai police commissioner.Chief minister’s office: CM Uddhav Thackeray himself has not commented on the issue yet, but his office late on Saturday said that the letter that was received was not signed by Singh and did not come from his official email address. They are still verifying the letter, the chief minister’s office said.Devendra Fadnavis: The BJP has stepped up pressure on the government and has asked the chief minister to sack Deshmukh if he doesn’t resign. Fadnavis has accused the home minister of being involved in corruption in the past as well. He has alleged that former Maharashtra director-general of Police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal had submitted a report to the government on corruption in the transfer of police officers but no action was taken.Sharad Pawar: The chief of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) - one of the constituents of the ruling MVA alliance - called the allegations against Deshmukh serious and said that it is the prerogative of CM Uddhav Thackeray to take appropriate action. “There has to be in depth inquiry by such an officer who enjoy full respect in police administration,” he said and suggested that former police commissioner of Mumbai Julio Ribeiro can carry out the investigation.Jayant Patil: NCP Maharashtra president Jayant Patil said there is no question of replacing home minister Anil Deshmukh and asserted, "The letter is a reaction after Maharashtra chief minister and home minister decided to take a tough stand," the state minister said. "If we ask Deshmukh to resign now, we would be doing what certain people want," he told HT.Raj Thackeray: After Param Bir Singh’s letter came to the fore, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief also demanded that Deshmukh quits from his post immediately. “The main issue is that of an explosive-laden vehicle being found near the residence of an industrialist. I request the central government to intervene. The state government cannot investigate this matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-letter-on-corruption-claims-against-anil-deshmukh-who-said-what-101616324586876.html
21-03-2021||Pune||City-based Raintree Foundation to train locals to stop wildfires in Velhe Taluka||In an attempt to stop incidents of wildfire in Velhe taluka, a biodiversity hotspot and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, city-based Raintree Foundation will start training locals from nine villages in Velhe taluka. Under various initiatives, the NGO is also mapping the biodiversity of the area with the help of the forest department. Western Ghats is home to over 5,000 species of flora, 139 species of fauna, and over 500 species of birds. Along with the workshop, the foundation has also been actively working on mapping the biodiversity of the area. In order to reduce the burning of wood, the foundation has worked on a biogas plant in the area making the villagers sustainable. Speaking on the occasion of World Forest Day (March 21), Leena Dandekar, founder, Raintree Foundation said that the foundation is working in one of the most critical forest landscapes of western ghats. “Under our sustainable landscape program various community-led projects are being implemented to protect forests in a cluster of nine villages of Velhe block. Creating a continuum of forests is a way to ensure sustainable development of the landscape. The interconnectedness of all the forest ecosystems on the earth only can ensure climatic stability of the planet,” said Dandekar. She further added that the forests provide numerous ecosystem services which are the backbone of survival for wild species. “Interdependencies within an ecosystem need to be understood, especially the role of forests for providing water, air, and other natural resources on which rural agrarian communities depend. The forests provide essential resources which directly and indirectly have flourished the life and livelihoods of rural communities,” said Dandekar. Asha Bhong, Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF), Bhor sub-division said that through the biodiversity initiative, ground forest workers are able to understand forests and components of the ecosystem. “It gave them scientific in-depth knowledge. This young forest staff will work in Velhe taluka for many coming years therefore this knowledge is important for them in the process of conserving forests,” said Bhong. Manisha Rasal, a villager from Ghawar in Velhe Taluka said that till now we were working on the wood-burning stove. “Everyone in the house was affected by the smoke. The children were at risk of fire while playing around but now the biogas has changed our lives. It starts quickly with the push of a button. There is no smoke. This is a big help for us,” said Rasal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citybased-raintree-foundation-to-train-locals-to-stop-wildfires-in-velhe-taluka-101616325584535.html
21-03-2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot reviews preparation to implement 2021-2022 budget announcements||Rajasthan chief minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot has directed state officials to prepare a plan for timely implementation of schemes announced in state Budget 2021-22, even before the new financial year begins. “Keeping in mind the problems of the people, the need for upliftment of every section and the all-round development of the state, the government has announced 27% more programmes in this budget than the last two years combined,” Gehlot said while presiding over a high-level meeting for implementation of the budget at the chief minister’s residence on Saturday. He asked the administrative department to create a timeline for stage wise implementation of every budget announcement and issue approvals at the designated times. The CM said that the budget announcements will be reviewed weekly at the level of the principal secretary finance, fortnightly at the level of the chief secretary and monthly at the level of the chief minister. Also, ministers and officials of the chief minister’s office will regularly review its progress. “After the approval of the detailed action plan at the level of the chief secretary, it should be locked on the CMIS portal, including all landmark dates from the preparation of DPR, financial, technical, and administrative approvals, issuance of tender and work order and the completion of work,” said Gehlot. He also advised online monitoring of this process. Principal secretary of finance Akhil Arora said 943 announcements have been made in the state budget 2021-22, while 363 announcements were made in the budget 2020-21 and 379 in 2019-20. The finance department is constantly monitoring for timely completion of all related goals. For this, an online file tracking system is also being implemented in the government secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ashok-gehlot-reviews-preparation-to-implement-2021-2022-budget-announcements-101616325464518.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Parents, students react sharply after offline board exams decision||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday confirmed that an offline examination will be conducted for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC). However, parents and students are unhappy with the decision due to the rising Covid cases in the city and State. Highlighting the problems students are facing, city-based class 10 student, Nisha Channe said that even if the syllabus has been reduced, there are many topics which are very hard to understand. “Even during online teaching, all year long, we have faced network issues due to which teaching was not efficient. All our exams were also online so far, so we are out of practice to write examinations, even if there is an extra half hour. Also, there is this problem of wearing masks compulsorily when we are attempting the exam. In this heat, how can we write while wearing a mask? The risk continues if the offline examination is conducted,” said Channe. Jayshree Deshpande, president of the Parents’ association of Pune said that the city is witnessing a new surge of Covid cases. “Every day the Covid threat is increasing, and lockdown seems inevitable. On the other hand, if any family member is positive how will the student appear for the paper? Also, there is no vaccine for children. The threat is increasing day by day. The whole year went by in online education, many students are reportedly saying that there are plenty of concepts that are not clear. There is a lot of mental and physical pressure on students today,” said Deshpande. She added that this offline examination seems only a formality. “Class 10 students at least should be given Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) and should be given the stream they wish in class 11. Anyways, there will be just online classes for class 11 also as the covid cases are on the rise,” said Deshpande. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district Mukhyadhyapak Sangh (Headmaster’s association) have supported the decision made by the government.“The list of instructions was made keeping in mind the need for every school from across the state. We are also hoping that teachers get the vaccination before the examinations so that everyone is safe while the offline exams are conducted. Moreover, more time between two papers has been given to the students. Also, the time to attempt the paper is also increased keeping the challenges of the students in mind,” added Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-students-react-sharply-after-offline-board-exams-decision-101616325404564.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||'What kind of Ram rajya is this': Sanjay Raut over attack on Muslim boy in UP||Expressing disappointment over the incident of a Muslim boy being beaten up mercilessly for drinking water at a temple in Uttar Pradesh, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday asked what kind of 'Ram rajya' is this.He said the incident showed that some people belittle India's image by indulging in communal polarisation."This incident happened in a land where a temple dedicated to Lord Ram is coming up. What kind of Ram rajya is this?" he asked in his weekly column "Rokhthok" in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'."What kind of Hindu religion are we representing?" he further asked.In West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee is called anti-Hindu because she refuses to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. But denial of water to a young boy and mercilessly thrashing him is also anti-Hindu, Raut said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi touches upon different issues in his 'Mann ki Baat' radio programme. "Hope he speaks on this issue too," he added."We are against Pakistan and not against Muslims. Communal polarisation is done to win elections in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and West Bengal," he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-kind-of-ram-rajya-is-this-sanjay-raut-over-attack-on-muslim-boy-in-up-101616323115730.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Two more arrests in bank account data theft case||Two more people were arrested by officials of the cyber police station of Pune police in the case of bank account data fraud in which 11 people were earlier arrested. While the first police custody remand of the earlier arrested 11 people ended on Saturday, their custody was extended till March 22 along with the two newly arrested men. The arrested were identified as Lakshminarayan Gattu alias Sonya (32), a resident of Baudhanagar in Varasigude in Hyderabad, and Vyankatesh Subramanium Uppala (40), a resident of Bhandalaguda in Nagol region of Hyderabad. Sudhir Shantilal Bhatevara alias Jain (54), a resident of Sun Empire Society in the Sinhagad road area of Pune was the one person who was not arrested by the police during the initial raid. Now, he has been declared as being at large after he failed to comply with the terms in the notice which was served to him. He was served a notice under Section 40(1)(a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and was advised to be available at home for investigation whenever required. The others arrested in the case include Anagha Modak (40), a resident of Vadgaon; Ravindra Mahadev Mashalkar (34), a resident of Ambejogai road in Latur; Mukesh Harishchandra More (37), a resident of Yerawada in Pune; Rajshekhar Yadaiha Mamidi (34), a resident of Hyderabad; Rohan Ravindra Mankani (37), a resident of Sahakarnagar in Pune; Vishal Dhananjay Bendre (45), a resident of Aurangabad; Atmaram Harishchandra Kadam (34), a resident of Mulund in Mumbai; Varun Shrikadam Verma (37), a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh; Vikaschand Mahendra Kumar Yadav (25), a resident of Surat in Gujarat; Rajesh Munnalal Sharma (42), a resident of Aurangabad and Paramjitsingh Sindhu (42), a resident of Aurangabad. Lakshminarayan is suspected to have been involved in providing data related to bank accounts with a high account balance to Mamidi who was earlier arrested in the case. From the WhatsApp chats recovered from them, the police found information about two bank accounts - one with ₹3 crore and another with ₹25.7 crore balance in it, according to the police. The woman, who is suspected to have brought the entire chain together, broke down while speaking to her lawyer Advocate S Wagh outside the court. “The woman has been co-operating for three days prior to her arrest. The FIR was registered after she was held, and everything has already been recovered from her. There is no need for further custody,” said Wagh. However, an officer close to the investigation had said that the woman was not aware that the hackers who were roaming with her were police decoys who had responded to her call for a hacker that had spread through word of mouth. “Several laptops were seized from her possession and the hard drive in one of them is missing. We need access to that hard drive and identify the role of any other accused. There is also clear evidence of her conversation with the other accused,” said public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More. The defence advocate for two news channel owner partners, Sharma and Sindhu, presented a different story in the court. He said, “Modak had approached their loss-ridden channel as a financial consultant and offered to arrange for KYC money. The day they were arrested, she had called them for a meeting with a company that was supposed to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for investment. They were to discuss how to make the investment. My clients were not aware what they were walking into,” said advocate Jitendralal Gorane who was representing the two. He also said, during his 30-minute-long argument, that the two major banks who run the accounts whose information was found by the police during the investigation have not complained to the police about data theft. However, the police are investigating whether an insider from the bank helped in leaking the information in the first place. A case under Sections 419, 420, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 43/66 and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station in the matter. Multiple defence advocates argued that the sections of cheating and impersonation were wrongly invoked as no transaction or cheating occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-more-arrests-in-bank-account-data-theft-case-101616325104493.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Army paper leak: Accused now in custody for a second case||In the first move which connected the two separate cases of Indian Army recruitment exam question paper leak registered in Pune city, one of the men earlier arrested in one case was remanded to police custody in another case on Friday. Meanwhile, the two major-rank officers arrested from Tamil Nadu and Delhi, respectively, were remanded to judicial custody by a special court in Pune on Saturday. Both the developments happened in the court of additional sessions judge SR Navander. The man was identified as Kishor Mahadev Giri (40), a resident of Lakdenagar in Malegaon area of Baramati who was first arrested in a case registered at Wanowrie and later in the one registered at Vishrantwadi police station. The police have found a link and financial trail between Giri and one of those arrested in the Vishrantwadi case. The two major-rank officers were identified as major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu and major Vasant Kilari. “There was no financial transaction in the Wanowrie case. In this case, there is a financial transaction of ₹1,00,000 that was found. This connects the two cases,” said public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal. The others arrested earlier in the case have been identified as Mahendra Chandrabhan Sonawane (37), a resident of Dighi in Pune; Ali Akhtar Abdulali Khan (47), a resident of Bopkhel in Pune; Azad Lalmohammad Khan (37), a resident of BEG in Bopkhel, Pune. The police have found evidence of financial transactions and a meeting between Sonawane and Giri along with one other person at a restaurant in Koregaon Park on February 19. The complainant in the Vishrantwadi case is a 21-year-old student and an aspirant from Tasgaon in Sangli. The complainant allegedly paid ₹1,00,000 to Giri and the others booked in the Vishrantwadi case. Of the ₹1,00,000, the police claim to have recovered ₹10,000 from Sonawane. The case in the matter is registered under Sections 406, 420, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-paper-leak-accused-now-in-custody-for-a-second-case-101616325103682.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Scrappage policy: 466 PMC vehicles to be discarded||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will face a hit with the Central government’s scrappage policy on old vehicles. The PMC will have to scrape 466 vehicles from the fleet and make provision of ₹60 crore to purchase new ones in the coming years. Now, the PMC has decided to frame a long-term policy on how to tackle the situation created by the scrappage policy of the Central government. The PMC will explore the option of outsourcing vehicles and electric vehicles. The civic body has a total of 1,245 vehicles in the fleet. Of that, the PMC will have to scrap 466 vehicles, many of which belong to the solid waste management department with 127 vehicles. The PMC has a vehicle depot located at Gultekdi (Market yard) and it spreads on more than three acres of prime land. The city generates more than 2,100 tonnes of solid waste and is collected and transported to solid waste processing plants which are located in the different part of the city. The solid waste department has got a major setback from the scrappage policy of the Central government. The PMC will have to remove or scrap solid waste department vehicles from their fleet step by step by March 31, 2022. The PMC motor vehicle department spends around ₹90 crore per year for the maintenance of vehicles which includes fuel, repair, maintenance, and staff salary. The share of outsourced vehicles is around 30 per cent and the PMC wants to increase it up to 40 per cent. Due to the increasing fuel prices, PMC is seriously conserving to increase the share of outsourced vehicles. Outsourced and e-vehicles Rajendra Shipekar, deputy commissioner of PMC Motor Vehicle department said, “The Central government will implement a policy from April 1, 2022. We have one year to take measures to follow the policy. As per our statistics, the solid waste management department vehicles are more in comparison to other departments. So, we have decided to call one meeting with solid waste management. We will discuss the plan, and how many new vehicles will be needed to purchase, and the possibility of outsourcing the vehicles and budget provision.” He said, “At present, the department has around ₹90 crore budget for the motor vehicle department. As per our calculation, we need around ₹60 crore to replace new vehicles which will scrap as per policy. It will take two years; we have to purchase BS-6 and it costs more.” “We are also thinking to increase the outsourced vehicles in our fleet and introduce e-vehicles (cars) in our fleet. It will reduce the capital cost and the liability of PMC,” he added. Policy not applicable to the fire department Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer of PMC said, “The fire department has a total of 26 vehicles. However, we will not be affected due to the new scrappage policy. As per the state transport policy, fire vehicles will have to use the vehicle for only ten years. After that, we will have to scrap them. We are strictly following the norms of government. So, the Central government policy is not applicable to the fire department as we are already scrapping vehicles that have crossed the 10-year mark.” ================================== Box Fleet of PMC vehicles Years Number of vehicles 25 to 30 years 26 20 to 25 124 15 to 20 120 10 to 15 206 5 to 10 391 01 to 5 years 378 Total number of Vehicles 1,245 Solid waste department statistics Years Number of vehicles 25 to 30 years 18 20 to 25 58 15 to 20 51 10 to 15 120 5 to 10 225 01 to 5 years 246 Total number of Vehicles 718||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scrappage-policy-466-pmc-vehicles-to-be-discarded-101616324985097.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Vaccination timings for unregistered beneficiaries increased by 4 hours: Jain||Unregistered but eligible people in Delhi will be able to take Covid-19 vaccine jabs between 3 pm and 9 pm, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday.Till now, unregistered beneficiaries were being inoculated between 3 pm and 5pm, he said.Beneficiaries need to register themselves on Co-WIN portal to get jabs. Those who do not have access to the Co-WIN portal can go to the centre and take Covid-19 vaccines.“Only registered beneficiaries will be given vaccine shots between 9 am and 3 pm. The unregistered ones can take the jabs from 3 pm to 9 pm… They just need to carry their Aadhaar card or any other valid identity proof,” Jain said.It has also been directed that all Delhi government hospitals increase the number of vaccination sites on their premises to at least six and depute two vaccinators at each, he said.On Friday, the Delhi government had issued an order allowing vaccination centres in the city to operate from 9 am to 9 pm, starting Monday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said the number of vaccination centres will be doubled to 1,000 from about 500 at present spanning both government and private facilities.On Sunday, the health minister said the Delhi government has been conducting aggressive testing and contact tracing and the recent spike in fresh Covid-19 cases will also be contained soon.Jain said district authorities and the Delhi Police have been asked to take strict action against violations at markets and public places in view of the increase in the number of cases.He appealed to people to take precautions during the Holi festival."The number of cases had increased during the festive season last year. So, I appeal to everyone to stay safe," he said.Delhi reported over 800 Covid-19 cases for the first time this year on Saturday as the positivity rate breached the 1 percent-mark after over two months.The city had recorded 425 cases on Tuesday. The cases have been steadily rising over the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-timings-for-unregistered-beneficiaries-increased-by-4-hours-jain-101616324176741.html
21-03-2021||Other||Dist admin, PCMC police seize sand worth ₹1.31 crore in raid on illegal mining operation||PUNE The district administration, in association with the crime branch, Pimpri-Chinchwad police, raided an illegal sand-mining operation underway on the Indrayani riverbed, and recovered sand worth ₹1.31 crore, on Saturday night. The crime branch has taken 14 persons into custody, and seized a hydraulic machine from Charholi. The mining was being carried out on the riverbed under the pretext of hyacinth being cleaned from the river, police said. PCMC police commissioner Krishna Prakash has ordered a crackdown on the illegal sand mafia operating in the area under the commissionerate. Similarly, the district administration’s revenue department, which has supervisory authority to raid illegal sand-mining spots, stated that the drive will be expanded further. It may be recalled that the district administration seized and destroyed 40 boats used for sand mining in the Bhima river basin over the past one month. The Bhima basin riverbed, according to police, is the hub of sand mining in the district and is known to have good quality sand, which is in very high demand for construction projects. In October and November 2020, the administration seized and destroyed 80 boats used for excavating sand illegally, and made 50 arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dist-admin-pcmc-police-seize-sand-worth-rs-1-31-crore-in-raid-on-illegal-mining-operation-101616324503663.html
21-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: BJP MLA says CM must be replaced for party to stay alive in state||Senior leader and MLA of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said that if BJP has to be kept alive in Karnataka, there was need to replace the chief minister."BJP cannot have this CM (BS Yediyurappa) in the next elections. The CM has to be changed to keep BJP alive in the State," said Yatnal on Saturday."The CM will surely be changed," he added.Earlier, the senior leader of BJP alleged that the Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was using the Panchamasali Lingayat for his own political gain.The BJP MLA Yatnal has been targeting the Karnataka Chief Minister for several months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-mla-says-cm-must-be-replaced-for-party-to-stay-alive-in-state-101616323578724.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Your Space: High-risk group should get the jab first||The spike in Covid cases in Pune has prompted the district authorities to seek approval from the Centre to vaccinate all residents above 18 years of age. Even as the government machinery is trying to meet the inoculate target of high-risk group beneficiaries, including senior citizens, with some centres booked till April 6, is covering all above 18 years a far-fetched plan? Vaccine is not a final solution We should be cautious as vaccines are not the final answer. It is just a protective shield for the most vulnerable. So, until we are strictly following social distancing and wear masks, we can’t fight the pandemic. Getting everyone above 18 years vaccinated seems to be a far-fetched move in India at this point.Sushant Mayekar Increase public awarenessWe are jumping a step. Considering the production rate of companies and country’s population above 45, we should aim for making vaccine applicable to citizens above age of 45 first. Secondly, implementation of this drive (vaccinating all above 45) rigorously (with little force if required) is important. Strong campaign of awareness to go for vaccination and importantly regarding after taking first dose risk doesn’t decrease and no one can be casual or careless at this stage, is required. A sense of trust regarding infrastructure and systems at vaccination centers is required. For this, major improvement in these facilities is required and local government be made strongly responsible for this. Ideal centres be given wide publicity. I think, we have created a wrong belief in residents’ minds that we have vaccine now which can take care of everything. There is a need to dilute this belief and rededicate ourselves to taking proper care of self and others on prescribed safety measures (mask, social distancing).Mahesh PathakSet up more vaccination campsIt’s a good move. Prevention is better than cure. However, priority should be given to those who are at high-risk. Setting up more vaccination camps should ease the pressure. As long as social distancing is followed and masks are worn properly covering nose as well as mouth, we should be able to keep the numbers down. Everything will work fine if people co-operate, not step out unless it’s necessary and take care of themselves as well as others.Parth SiddhayeGive priority to eldersIn my opinion, it does seem like a far-fetched plan, but the priority right now is getting the high-risk group vaccinated. The vulnerable group of citizens does not comprise the young population, except a few exceptional cases. After the high-risk group, including senior citizens, are vaccinated then it would definitely be a wise decision to immediately start with the drive for the younger age group as they are more exposed to the virus and hence at a higher risk of contracting it due to jobs, schools, colleges and other occupation. Foreseeing the numbers it would definitely help in controlling the situation.Varada PendseWith rising cases, vaccination drive should cover allSince the last few days, there is a huge increase in Covid-19 positive cases in Pune. It is consistently been reported of 2,000 plus cases since the last few days. Although the administration is trying its best, the cases are still increasing. Considering the seriousness of the present situation, it would be better to extend the vaccination cover to include even the age group 18-45 years as well. It will definitely help build confidence in the general public. Apart from vaccination, all the other precautions like wearing masks, keeping social distance, washing hands regularly, keeping hygiene must be followed strictly.KN PeethambaranVaccine for all is welcomeWith number of cases in Maharashtra and especially in Pune spiralling, the district administration’s call to request the Centre for vaccination above 18 years is a well-intentioned move. Even though the waiting list for citizens itself is long, rapid expansion of private hospital list, engaging private companies in this exercise to inoculate their staff should help fasten the process. We should also reduce exports too until we have enough for our citizens. Also, hospitals have limited slots of 100 per day. That should be increased too. Also, crackdown on restaurants and tea cafes floating norms should be severe. Many still don’t follow the 50% occupancy rule.Sai KrishnaElders may suffer if jabs are open for all Despite the spike in Covid cases, vaccination should not be open for all although it may seem logical. The reason is once it is open for all, there is a distinct mentality amongst some people to use influence/status and take vaccine ahead of others. This would put senior citizens on a back seat. Currently, the number of vaccination centers is also low and availability of vaccines is still a question. In such a case, it is our responsibility to see our parents and elders get the vaccine first. After all, with parks and religious places closed for the longest time last year and people above 65 being advised to stay at home, senior citizens were the ones who faced the toughest time during the pandemic! Sameer Ranade||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-high-risk-group-should-get-the-jab-first-101616323244580.html
21-03-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Siren to ring twice across Madhya Pradesh on March 23. Here's why||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday once again appealed to the state’s residents to wear a mask and maintain social distancing in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Announcing a campaign, Chouhan said that on March 23, a siren would ring across Madhya Pradesh for two minutes at 11 am and 7 pm respectively.“When the siren rings, everyone will have to take a pledge to wear a mask and follow norms of social distancing”, Chouhan’s tweet, translated from Hindi read. “I also appeal to all the shopkeepers to draw circles outside their stores to ensure social distancing. I will also do the same,” he added.Referring to the Sunday lockdown in three districts of the state - Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur - Chouhan while addressing a press conference pointed out that the infection is rapidly spreading across several other districts of Madhya Pradesh and it has to be stopped. “ I do not wish that economic activities should be disrupted but the increasing pace of Covid-19 is worrying,” the chief minister said.23 मार्च को सुबह 11 बजे मध्यप्रदेश के सभी शहरों में सायरन बजेगा। जो जहाँ है, वहीं दो मिनट खड़े रहकर मास्क लगाने और सोशल डिस्टेंसिंग बनाने का संकल्प लेगा। दुकानदारों से भी अपील करता हूँ कि वे अपनी दुकानों के सामने दूरी रखने के लिए गोले बनाएँ। गोले बनाने मैं भी निकलूंगा।Madhya Pradesh on Saturday logged 1,308 fresh Covid-19 disease cases and two more deaths- taking the caseload and death toll to 2,74,405 and 3,903 respectively. Saturday’s cases have been the highest in 2021 and the most in nearly three months. More than 2,63,000 people have recovered so far while active cases have now climbed to 7,344. Authorities conducted 24,695 tests for Covid-19 on Saturday while over 61.17 lakh tests have been done so far.Residents of Bhopal, Jabalpur and Indore - the worst-hit districts in the state - woke up to deserted streets and closed establishments on Sunday as the one-day lockdown returned after a gap of seven months. The MP government had earlier imposed lockdowns on every Sunday in August last year.23 मार्च को शाम को 7 बजे भी दो मिनट के लिए सायरन बजेगा और हम पुनः यह सुनिश्चित करेंगे कि हमने और हमारे आसपास के लोगों ने मास्क लगाया है या नहीं।मास्क लगाना बहुत ज़रूरी है, इसलिए यह संकल्प अभियान हम शुरू कर रहे हैं। स्थिति हाथों से बाहर निकले, इसके पहले ही हम संभल जाएँ।According to a report by Hindustan Times on Friday, the home department said that all educational institutions will remain closed in these three districts during the Sunday lockdown. While Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary home department said movement of people will be allowed to airports, railway stations and hospitals and students will be allowed to appear for competitive examinations, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-siren-to-ring-twice-across-madhya-pradesh-on-march-23-here-s-why-101616322376502.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||On corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh, Devendra Fadnavis says ‘not the first time'||Leader of opposition in Maharashtra assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, on Sunday questioned chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s “silence” on corruption allegations levelled against state home minister Anil Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.“Why are CM and DCM silent on the allegations levelled by Singh,” former Maharashtra chief minister said and demanded that Deshmukh be sacked so that an impartial probe is conducted into the matter.Fadnavis’ remark came a day after Param Bir Singh, the Mumbai Police commissioner who was recently removed from his post, wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging home minister Deshmukh was involved in extortion and had told Sachin Vaze, cop arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case, that he had a target of collecting ₹100 crore a month from the city’s bars and restaurants.Deshmukh, however, has denied the claims and accused Singh of trying to save himself as his role in the bomb scare case and Mansukh Hiran’s death was getting clearer. The home said he will file a defamation suit against Singh.Fadnavis had demanded Deshmukh’s resignation on Saturday as well. On Sunday, he sharpened his attack against the home minister and alleged that this was not the first time corruptions allegations were levelled against him.He alleged that former Maharashtra director-general of Police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal had submitted a report to the government on corruption in the transfer of police officers but no action was taken.Soon after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar suggested that the former police commissioner of Mumbai Julio Ribeiro investigate the extortion claims, Fadnavis expressed discontent with the idea saying, “how can a former DG (Rebeiro) probe a home minister Anil Deshmukh against whom the serious allegations are levelled?”Also, on Pawar’s “revelation” that reinstating Vaze was Singh’s decision and not the chief minister or home minister’s, Fadnavis asked why the government did not take action against the move.While chief minister Thackeray has not made any comments on the matter, his office late Saturday said that they were still verifying the email from Singh as there was no signature on it, and was sent from a different e-mail address than his official id.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-corruption-allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-devendra-fadnavis-says-not-the-first-time-101616320332607.html
21-03-2021||Dehradun||Dehradun hospital barred from conducting Covid vaccination for overcharging, probe ordered||The Dehardun Chief Medical Officer on Sunday barred a private hospital from continuing the Covid-19 vaccination drive after people complained of overcharging by the hospital authorities.The official said that the hospital was charging more than the amount fixed by the government for getting vaccinated.Speaking to ANI, Anup Dimri, Chief Medical Officer, Dehradun said, "Complaints were received from people that Krishna Medical Center located at Inder Road was charging more than ₹250 that has been fixed by the government as the fees for Covid-19 vaccination. The medical centre has been barred from continuing the vaccination drive and an investigation has been ordered in this case."Meanwhile, India scaled a significant peak in its battle against Covid-19 pandemic, with the total vaccination coverage surpassing 4 crores on Saturday, said the Union Health Ministry.According to the ministry,4,20,63,392 vaccine doses were administered through 6,86,469 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday.These include 77,06,839 healthcare workers (1st dose), 48,04,285 healthcare workers (2nd dose), 79,57,606 frontline workers (1st dose), 24,17,077 frontline workers (2nd Dose), 32,23,612 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,59,53,973 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, said the ministry on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/dehradun-hospital-barred-from-conducting-covid-vaccination-for-overcharging-probe-ordered-101616318452859.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Maha govt cannot probe the matter’: MNS chief Raj Thackeray demands Centre’s intervention into Ambani bomb scare case||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday requested the Centre to intervene in the Antilia bomb scare case and said the Maha Vikas Aghadi-led government in Maharashtra cannot investigate the matter, according to news agency ANI. On Friday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took suspended Mumbai police’s assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to the crime spot and recreated the entire scene, a police officer told PTI on Saturday.Vaze, who was initially leading the investigation, was arrested by the NIA on March 13. Four days later, the central agency announced that Vaze was behind the explosive-laden Scorpio car parked outside Ambani’s residence on February 25, which he orchestrated as part of a conspiracy to restore his reputation as a successful cop, according to a report by Hindustan Times on March 17. Vaze has also been facing allegations with regard to the death of Thane-based businessman Mansuhkh Hiran who was the owner of the Scorpio and was found dead at a creek on March 5.Anil Deshmukh should resign immediately. The main issue is that of an explosive-laden vehicle being found near the residence of an industrialist. I request the Central Government to intervene. The State government cannot investigate this matter: MNS chief Raj Thackeray pic.twitter.com/gNN0SegeqtAs the controversy around the bomb scare case turned bigger, the Maharashtra government on March 17 removed Param Bir Singh from the post of the Mumbai Police commissioner. Singh on Saturday allegedly wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray where he accused Maharashtra home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deskhmukh of ordering Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants every month, along with some revelations about the bomb scare case.Also Read| BJP steps up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray to act against Anil DeshmukhWith the news of Singh’s alleged letter to the CM coming out in public, opposition parties in Maharashtra demanded the immediate resignation of Deshmukh as home minister. MNS chief Thackeray said on Saturday that Deshmukh should be removed and a thorough probe should be done over the accusations levelled by the former Mumbai Police commissioner. Leader of opposition in Maharashtra and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded the Centre’s intervention into the allegations against Deshmukh adding that CM Uddhav Thackeray should sack him.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday staged protests across Maharashtra demanding Deshmukh’s removal and demanded that the chief minister should immediately order an enquiry against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/request-centre-to-intervene-into-ambani-bomb-scare-case-mns-chief-raj-thackeray-101616315490304.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ATS arrests 2 in Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s murder case||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which is probing the suspicious death of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has arrested two persons in the early hours of Sunday, said additional director general, ATS, Jaijeet Singh.55 year old Vinayak Shinde, a convicted constable on parole in Lakhan Bhaiya Encounter case, was arrested along with bookie Naresh Dhare, 31. The ATS has yet not disclosed their roles in Hiran murder case. The two accused will be produced in a court by Sunday afternoon and the ATS is likely to seek their custody. Ten days after his SUV was found laden with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia, Hiran was found dead under mysterious circumstances on March 4. His body washed up in a creek in Thane district. His mouth was stuffed with handkerchiefs and covered with a scarf, and all his personal belongings, including his ring, chain and wrist watch, were missing from his person.Three days later, Hiran’s wife, Vimla (43), gave a statement to the Maharashtra ATS team that she was certain Hiran was murdered, and that she suspected Mumbai crime branch assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze hand in it. Her statement revealed that Hiran knew Vaze well, and that he had lent him the Scorpio in question in November. Vaze returned the car on February 5. Vaze is already in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in placing the SUV near Antilia.For now, the ATS is probing the Hiran murder case, but as the case is linked with the Mukesh Ambani security scare case, the NIA is expected to take over its investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ats-arrests-2-in-thane-businessman-mansukh-hiran-s-murder-case-101616311423628.html
21-03-2021||Pune||Curtain call: The hybrid show of “White Rabbit Red Rabbit”||Last week, I had written about the play “White Rabbit Red Rabbit” written by the Iranian playwright Nassim Soleimanpour. We were getting ready to perform the Marathi version of the show on March 13. It was part of a global event, wherein the play was performed in nearly thirty languages all over the world at exactly 8 pm local time on March 13 as all theatres were shut down in Europe exactly a year back and most of them are yet to re-open. The event was a tribute to them. Considering this, the original producers of the play had suggested more than one way to perform the show. The first was, of course, in the original form, wherever it was possible. This included booking a theatre, selling tickets and performing in front of a live audience. The second way was to conduct a performance on Zoom. The writer had modified the script for such a performance and had sent it across. The third way was to have a hybrid performance – a mix of the first two methods wherein the play is performed in front of an audience and is streamed live. A comprehensive handbook was prepared by the producers covering all aspects of the performance in all three ways. An online workshop was also conducted nearly ten days before the show. They had a few snippets of how the performance will be conducted on Zoom. If possible, the performer was also asked to have a helper around her/ him with whom the stage manager could co-ordinate the show. After reading all of this and also after seeing the snippets of a show conducted on Zoom, I felt more inclined towards producing it in its original, traditional format. A performance on Zoom, while convenient to almost everyone involved, comes with its fair share of troubles including, but not limited to, poor internet connection leading to delays in give and take with the audience. But the most important thing I felt was that there was a disconnect with the audience, which would have hampered the impact of the play. I spoke to Pushkaraj Chirputkar, who is an excellent and reliable actor (and most importantly someone who hadn’t watched the play before!) and asked if he would like to perform it. He is actually very busy with a television series and is occupied for almost all day, every day. But he agreed almost immediately! It would have been easier for him to just sit at home after his daily shoot and perform on Zoom. But he understood what I was going for and drove down from Mumbai immediately after shooting and left for an early morning shift almost immediately after the performance! Now you must have realised why I describe him as ‘reliable’. The profits of the show were to be donated to a charity of our choice. So, we decided to perform the show at my house instead of booking a theatre, to save costs. We created a makeshift theatre. It worked out fine and even the place looked set for an intimate performance. The only drawback of this move is that I might be inclined to organise more and more shows here instead of going out to watch a performance! We invited around ten people to watch the show live and also to be a part of the interaction that the play required. Nearly thirty odd people joined the live stream from all parts of the world. After a few initial technical hiccups, the performance began as planned. I had watched it twice or thrice before and was aware that every performance is different. For the first few minutes I was consumed by the technical difficulties and continued to watch the play while shooting it. But even I didn’t realize when I became an audience member. The intimate setting worked beautifully for this text. Amongst other things, the play deals with suicide. So, after the show we had organised a Zoom call for any audience member who wanted to just talk or be with someone after watching the play. Many members of the audience joined the call, but fortunately none of them felt adversely and we discussed the play instead, like an audience would, outside the theatre, after watching a play. After everything was wrapped up, we poured ourselves a drink to celebrate a night of pure theatre, before people left hurriedly to reach home before curfew started. Photo caption: Pushkaraj Chirputkar getting ready for the play “White Rabbit Red Rabbit”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-the-hybrid-show-of-white-rabbit-red-rabbit-101616311362818.html
21-03-2021||Patna||Nitish directs officials to ramp up Covid testing, stay alert ahead of Holi||With the Covid-19 numbers gradually rising in Bihar amid apprehensions of a second wave of the pandemic, chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar Saturday directed health officials and district magistrates to be alert anticipating a surge in number of people returning home to celebrate Holi. The CM also reiterated that schools will remain open in the state.“People of Bihar live in all parts of the country. They will come to their native places during Holi. We need to keep a special eye on people coming by trains, flights, buses and ensure that they are tested once they reach here,” said Kumar, while holding a review meeting with health officials and district magistrates of all districts on Covid scenario.Kumar asked to track people’s travel history and alert all those who come in contact with them. The chief minister said that at least 70% of all Covid tests should be conducted through RT-PCR and reports should be made available within 24 hours. “Ensure that limited number of people participate in any festival or celebrations and Covid guidelines are strictly followed,” said Kumar.He said since the situation in Bihar was not as alarming, therefore the schools won’t be closed. “The schools will remain open, and studies will continue. The schools will take all necessary precautionary steps,” he said and asked the health department officials to speed up the vaccination process further.Earlier the state government cancelled the leaves of all doctors and health workers till April 5 with immediate effect. Those on leave have also been asked to report to duty as soon as possible. However, those on maternity and study leave have been excluded from the purview of the order.On March 17, following an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation across the country, Kumar said while the “situation in the state was under control, but we should be careful”.Earlier, the state government had made it mandatory for those travelling to Bihar from Kerala, Punjab and Maharashtra to show their RT-PCR test report.“Passengers without report will be required to undergo a rapid antigen test upon arrival and anyone testing positive for the disease will be sent to isolation centres,” said the government’s order.Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said micro containment zones and control rooms in all districts will see 100% Covid-19 tests. He said that total active cases in the state were 436 in number and the recovery rate was at 99.24% as against the national average of 96.26%. “As against the average national death rate of 1.36% of Covid patients, Bihar has an average of 0.59%,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-directs-officials-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-stay-alert-ahead-of-holi-101616293181899.html
21-03-2021||Bhopal||Amid Covid-19 surge, 1-day lockdown in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur today||Owing to the recent increase in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Madhya Pradesh government announced a one-day lockdown in the three biggest cities of the state - Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur - which will be in place on Sunday. The lockdown will be effective from 10pm Saturday to 6am on Monday. The government also announced that a one-day lockdown will be imposed on every Sunday in these three cities until further orders. The three cities have already been under a night curfew which was imposed on March 15.During the period of the lockdown, essential services will continue to remain operational. Additionally, there will be an exemption for the movement of sick persons, transportation to and from airport and for students appearing for competitive examinations. Railway stations shall also remain operational during the period of lockdown.The decision to impose the lockdown was taken at a review meeting of the coronavirus situation in the state which was chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday. After the meeting, it was also announced that educational institutions in the three cities will remain closed till March 31, although examinations will be conducted according to the predetermined schedule.Read more: 3 states face risk of being next Covid-19 hot spotsThe state government has also banned the movement of all passenger buses to and from Maharashtra and air travellers from Maharashtra also have to produce a negative RT-PCR test report upon their arrival in Madhya Pradesh. This has been done as Maharashtra has seen a massive spike in coronavirus cases and remains the worst affected state.The Union ministry of health and welfare said on Saturday that a rising trend of daily coronavirus cases was seen in eight states of the country which includes Madhya Pradesh.“A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana." the ministry said in a statement.Madhya Pradesh reported 1,380 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, as per the state health department, which took the tally to 2,74,405 cases, while two Covid-related deaths increased the death toll to 3,903. The active cases in the state stood at 7,344, while the total recoveries stood at 2,63,158.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/amid-covid-19-surge-1-day-lockdown-in-bhopal-indore-and-jabalpur-today-101616288590215.html
21-03-2021||Dehradun||Will lift Covid curbs for Kumbh: Rawat||The second wave of Covid-19 may be on in India, and infections are surging in several states , prompting their governments to introduce restrictions on movement and activities, but Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Saturday assured devotees planning to visit the Mahakumbh, considered the largest religious congregation in the world, that all “unnecessary” restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic will be removed, and asserted that “faith is stronger than fear”.“I invite all devotees across the world to come to Haridwar and take a holy dip in the Ganga during the Mahakumbh. Nobody will be stopped in the name of Covid-19, as we are sure the faith in God will overcome the fear of the virus,” said Rawat.Soon after taking over as the state’s chief minister, Rawat scrapped the requirement of a negative Covid-19 test report for visitors to the Kumbh, one that had been put in place by his predecessor.The statement comes at a time when experts and social activists have sounded an alert that the mega event, scheduled to be held from April 1 to April 30, could potentially turn into a “superspreader event” and trigger large clusters of Covid-19 cases in the state. The government is, however, yet to issue the notification officially declaring the start of Mahakumbh.“With the Covid-19 cases again increasing in the country, the government’s approach should be “health first”, but that doesn’t seem to be the case, which is worrisome,” said PS Chauhan, a Haridwar-based senior academician. “The easing of restrictions would be very dangerous for the health safety of our state.”A high-level central team has been deployed in Haridwar to review medical care and public health arrangements for the event.“Religious sentiments need to be given priority as faith is stronger than fear as was seen in the Shahi Snan on Mahashivratri on March 11, for which about 3.4 million people arrived in Haridwar,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/will-lift-covid-curbs-for-kumbh-rawat-101616287005866.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Ration scheme not for credit, will drop its name: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday his government will not use the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana” to refer to the scheme that will facilitate doorstep delivery of ration, and urged the central government to now allow its roll-out that is scheduled for launch on March 25.Kejriwal’s announcement at a digital press conference came a day after the central government red-flagged the project, saying the term “mukhyamantri” (chief minister) cannot be used in the name of a scheme to distribute foodgrains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA).In a letter to the Delhi food commissioner on Friday, the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said the Delhi government is free to launch the scheme “without mixing the elements of the NFSA foodgrains”.Kejriwal said the Delhi Cabinet will convene a meeting on Monday to pass the revised scheme, which will no longer bear any name or mention “mukhyamantri” in it. After approval by the Cabinet, which is chaired by Kejriwal, the revised modalities of the scheme will be sent to the Centre again for its clearance. In this case, the Centre’s approval is required as the scheme is linked to food grains provided to states by the Union government under NFSA.“We will agree to all the conditions of the central government. Our intention is only to send cheap and clean ration to the beneficiaries without any pilferage or corruption... This project will not have any name now. I hope now we will have full cooperation and support from the central government for the roll-out of this scheme,” Kejriwal said.DJ Narain, spokesperson for the Union ministry of food and public distribution, said on Saturday, “We have to wait for a formal proposal to know the details. Appropriate action will be taken accordingly.” Narain had earlier said that a state government cannot suo motu (on its own) change the basic elements of a scheme being implemented nationally.The issue is the latest in a series of flashpoints between the Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government. Six days before the scheme’s roll-out, the Centre raised objections to the use of the term “mukhyamantri” for the scheme and said any change in the delivery mechanism of the NFSA can only be done through a Parliament amendment. S Jagannathan, joint secretary in the Union ministry of food and public distribution, also said in Friday’s letter that any change in the nomenclature would give rise to confusion among the people.Kejriwal was scheduled to launch the scheme on March 25 from 100 households in Shahdara district’s Seemapuri area.“The project is not new. We have been working on it for three to four years now and I have been personally monitoring this scheme. But this letter was issued just five to six days before the scheme’s roll out... We are not introducing this [scheme] to take credit or glorify our name,” Kejriwal said on Saturday.“During peak Covid times also, we distributed free ration to people. Even at that time we said the credit is all for them (the Centre) to take. We will do all the work and take all the responsibilities. Today morning, I held a meeting and directed officials to remove the name of the scheme,” the CM added.Kejriwal said the scheme was planned with the intention to remove inefficiencies the system and address the difficulties faced by people in getting their monthly quota of ration. Delhi has around 7.2 million ration beneficiaries and distribution of ration is currently managed by a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops.“At present, people can get ration only by going to a fair price shop. They have to stand in long queues, or wait for shops to open as many open only for 2-3 days a month, which is illegal. Then there is the problem of pilferage, adulteration and corruption. So the doorstep delivery programme was aimed at addressing these systemic problems,” Kejriwal said on Saturday.The Delhi government initially tried to implement the scheme in 2018, but then lieutenant governor Anil Baijal advised the AAP administration to give full details of the proposed initiative to the Centre. But by then, the Delhi government’s own departments also started pointing out problems with the scheme. For example, the finance department said home delivery of ration will only replace one set of human intervention with another. So, in the past three years, the government had been working on removing all these anomalies even as the Centre had largely agreed to states launching their own schemes without interfering with the NFSA.The doorstep delivery scheme was one of the major poll promises by the AAP in the run up to the 2020 assembly polls. The Delhi government already offers nearly 100 such services across departments.Under the AAP government’s plan, millers empanelled with the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation (DSCSC) Ltd will take wheat and rice from the godowns of the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The wheat will be processed into flour, and the rice will be cleaned before distribution. The Delhi Consumers Cooperative Wholesale Store (DCCWS) Ltd will then engage Direct to Home Delivery Agencies to lift packed ration kits from fair price shops and deliver them to the doorstep of beneficiaries, a senior official involved in the project said.On Saturday, the Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said Kejriwal’s announcement was an admission that the scheme was not “legally correct”. He added: “Kejriwal’s act of removing the name ‘mukhyamantri’ shows he has admitted he was only politicising it.”The Delhi government has been at loggerheads with the Centre over a Bill introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday which gives overarching powers to the lieutenant governor in the day-to-day administration and also limits powers of the assembly to constitute enquiry committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ration-scheme-not-for-credit-will-drop-its-name-kejriwal-101616277736682.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Labourer found dead near same spot where Hiran's body was discovered||44-year-old labourer’s body was found near Mumbra creek on Saturday morning, the same spot where Thane-based car spare parts dealer Mansukh Hiran’s body was found on March 5.Mumbra police officers said that the deceased was standing at the small hillock at Retibunder from where he slipped off and fell into a creek.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/labourer-found-dead-near-same-spot-where-hiran-s-body-was-discovered-101616276739573.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut says Sharad Pawar should lead UPA||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said NCP chief Sharad Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson.The need of the hour is to strengthen the United Progressive Alliance so that it emerges as a strong alternative to the BJP, Raut told reporters in Nashik."Congress president Sonia Gandhi has handled the responsibility (as UPA chairperson) very well. She is unwell now and not politically active....Pawar should become UPA chief. If UPA emerges stronger, the Congress too will benefit," the Rajya Sabha member said.The Sena shares power with the Congress and the NCP in Maharashtra, but it is not part of the Congress-led UPA.The Sena mouthpiece `Saamana', of which Raut is executive editor, had recenlty created a flutter by stating in an editorial that if Pawar became UPA chief, it will benefit the alliance.Parties such as Shiv Sena and Akali Dal should also come under the UPA umbrella to take on the BJP, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-says-sharad-pawar-should-lead-upa-101616273311628.html
21-03-2021||Bangalore||RSS supports law against ‘love jihad’, says Hosabale||The newly elected Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) general secretary, Dattatreya Hosabale, on Saturday said the RSS would support the laws against ‘love jihad’.‘Love Jihad’ is a term used by right-wing activists to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, though the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise the term.“The use of fraudulent methods to lure girls for marriage, conversion, or taking them to other countries has to be condemned and opposed. Some states have even come forward to make laws against this and the RSS supports this,” he said.The 66-year-old also distanced the Sangh from the recent ‘ripped jeans’ remarks of Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat. “He (Rawat) is capable of answering…. There’s no reason to bring RSS into this,” he said.During the meeting of the Sangh’s highest decision-making body, V Baghiah and Suresh Soni, both in the 70s, were relieved of their duties as joint general secretaries and made part of the national executive. Former BJP general secretary Ram Madhav has been called back to the Sangh from the party and given a place in the RSS’s All-India Executive Wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rss-supports-law-against-love-jihad-says-hosabale-101616272333676.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Salubrious Sunday: I’m going home||It was 6 am. Backpack strapped, face masked, and a sling bag dangling on the side, I was ready to leave for Mumbai airport — one of the many physical structures whose face I had not seen in over a year. With excitement in my steps, I walked towards our society’s main gate. A cab waited on the other side. Just then, I saw one of my neighbours walking her dogs in that quiet morning hour.We exchanged smiles but the intrigue on her face was hard to miss.She said, “Hi Anusha! Where to?”I replied, “Hey Paromita! I’m going home.”I smiled and continued walking to my cab. Now, I didn’t exactly give out much, right? I didn’t say I’m off to the airport. I didn’t say I’m going to visit my parents in Ambala. I didn’t say I’m flying to Chandigarh for a couple of days.As I sat in the cab, I wondered why I stopped at those three words. If I were going to another city for work, I would have answered descriptively, “I’m going to the airport. I have a flight for Bangalore.” Or “I’m flying to Delhi for work. Will be back soon!” Or at least “I’m going for a work trip. First time in almost 12 months!”In contrast, when I was going to see my parents after a long pandemic-induced hiatus and was eagerly waiting to dip into the winter hues of mustard fields golden-yellow and green, all I said was ‘I’m going home.’ Was I in a tearing hurry? No. Was I keen to keep all details to myself? Not at all. I’d have happily shared where home was, who I was going to meet, and even what I was planning to do!The reason lay elsewhere.I realized ‘I’m going home’ felt complete. Those three words felt finite in their phonetic sound yet infinite in the depths of the emotional journey behind them. While our parents and grandparents nurtured that structure called home with much hard work and love over the years, isn’t home also the overhead skies and the peripheral neem trees? The sparrows and their nests, the parrots and the nibbled pomegranates. The marigolds and the roses, and the freshly plucked peas. Isn’t home also the chitter-chatter of neighbourhood children and the dusty lanes we cycled in, the gud ki roti slathered in ghee, and toffee that the local shopkeeper handed over for free? The crackling sound when switching from one radio channel to another and the signature tune of the 8 pm news, the call of the vegetable vendor, and the familiar golchakkar. The playground and the lazy afternoons, the Sunday movies, and the dinner with family. The sultry power cuts and the instant churn out of ghost stories, the ludo and the carrom, and the precious gullak of pocket money. Where does one start from where does one even end when a home is more than our thoughts can comprehend?Yes, ‘I’m going home’ is a complete statement. Home does not need further description. Home does not need qualifying adjectives. Home does not even need location specifics. The very thought of home sparks a million stories, a million conversations, a million moments, and a million memories as every brick, every patch of grass, every turn, and every crevice carries in its bosom a part of us, and more.Because home is not a thing. Home is not a place. Home is not a tangible structure. Home is a sentiment. A sentiment so characterful that each one of us paints it differently with our unique geographic and cultural experiences, family systems and formative interactions. A sentiment so vast that as much as we try to write volumes and volumes of literature to capture it, a full stop is but a mirage. How can we fit home into a mould? How can we enclose home in a boundary?Home to me feels like a yielding dollop of warm honey…To experience its soothing warmth, to enjoy its sweetness, all one has to do is take a pause, open the heart, and sip in a spoonful of the good old.Anusha Singh is a Mumbai-based corporate communications consultant and a columnist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/salubrious-sunday-i-m-going-home-101616270738142.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||‘43% unaided colleges choose not to hike fees’||Days after the state’s Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) said they have asked unaided professional colleges in the state to consider the coronavirus-induced economic slowdown and its effect on households before hiking annual fees, thy released a circular highlighting how at least 43% institutes this year have opted for “no upward revision” of fees: This means at least 43% institutes across technical, medical and agricultural courses will continue for the acadedmic year 2021-22 with the same fees as 2020-21.Figures shared by the FRA showed 1,024 of the registered 2,371 private unaided professional institutes in the state have already applied for no upward revision of fees. At least 87 engineering, 26 architecture, 199 polytechnic and 70 pharmacy colleges in the state chose not to hike their fees for the next academic year, and instead continue with the same fees approved by FRA in the previous year. Similarly, two medical, 10 dental as well as 11 institutes offering BSc in Agriculture have decided to not revise their fees.“A sizeable number of colleges have opted for no upward revision this year, and this could be due to various reasons. We all know that society is facing an extraordinarily challenging time this year. Due to the pandemic, many families are in financial distress due to high unemployment as well as lower salaries and therefore it is the need of the hour to consider the same,” said a circular released by FRA this week.Established in 2004, the FRA is a quasi-judicial body responsible for regulating the fees of all unaided private professional colleges in the state. Every year, institutes submit proposals for changing their fee structure to the authority, which considers a number of indicators such as nature of the course, number of students, teaching and non-teaching staff, infrastructure and other facilities at the college before fixing the fees.Colleges then have to display this approved fee structure on their website for students to check at the time of admission. Institutes are usually allowed a 10% fee hike, and also have the option of continuing two years or more with the same fee structure based on the approval of the FRA.According to figures shared by FRA, the 1,024 institutes choosing to continue with their previous year’s fee structure also includes 95 colleges who opted to not revise their fees for two academic years. “Some of these institutes had applied for a two-year no upward revision in 2019-20 itself, and will continue the same until 2021-22. We should encourage more institutes to take similar steps in order to ensure that no student ends up losing out on education due to lack of funds in such trying times,” said a senior FRA official, on condition of anonymity.He added that this year, the FRA is also taking into consideration the decrease in expenditure for institutes especially since their campuses were not in use all of last year. “The fact that they incurred less expenditure last year will reflect in their balance sheets that they have to submit along with their proposal. This, too, will help reduce the fees that will be approved for the upcoming academic year,” added the official.The director of a private medical college in Pune told HT that even though classes were not conducted physically, online classes were conducted regularly and the staff was paid in full. “No staff was sacked neither was their salary deducted because not only was our staff conducting classes but were also running the hospital for several hours at a stretch fighting Covid-19. We also need to take into consideration the considerable expenditure institutes will incur in sanitisation of classes and hostel, so the only way to meet expenditure is by charging fees,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/43-unaided-colleges-choose-not-to-hike-fees-101616270617430.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Deshmukh says will sue Singh, CMO says it is verifying the mail||Following allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh is in serious trouble and may have to resign from his post. Deshmukh refuted the allegations and also announced he would sue Singh for “making false accusations.”While the government officially did not respond to the allegations, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said it was verifying the authenticity of the mail. While the Opposition has asked for his resignation, coalition partners seem to have rallied around him.Deshmukh said Singh was doing so to save himself from further action as he was involved in the Antilia bomb-scare case and links were leading the probe to him. He also said the former Mumbai police commissioner was trying to mislead the ongoing investigation and he is ready for an impartial probe.In an eight-page letter, Singhhas alleged that Deshmukh had asked Sachin Vaze, controversial police officer arrested in Antilia bomb scare case to collect Rs100 crore a month, and several other allegations.The letter that was sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and copied to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, additional chief secretary home Manukumar Srivastava and Santosh Kumar, principal secretary to the Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has come at the time ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leadership was already mulling to replace Deshmukh and deliberating on probable candidates who is more capable of handling the crucial department.A state official said the chief minister’s office received Singh’s letter by mail at 4.37pm Saturday.“It is an unsigned letter so we are verifying the authenticity. CM Thackeray was immediately informed about the same. The home department is trying to get in touch with Singh. The email is received from an ID which is different than the one given by Singh in the directory of IPS officer,” said the CM’s office.Thackeray is unable to hold any meeting since he is under quarantine after his son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray was found Covid-19 positive on Saturday afternoon. A senior Sena minister said Thackeray has already got in touch with NCP chief Sharad Pawar over the issue. “It is clear that Deshmukh will have to step down. The decision will happen any time,” he said.As Deshmukh refutes all the allegations, the opposition — Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — has demanded his resignation. They have also demanded a probe either by a central investigation agency or a court-monitored probe. To maintain pressure they have also demanded to launch state-wide agitation from Sunday, demanding Deshmukh’s resignation.“The former Commissioner of Police, Parambir Singh has made false allegations in order to save himself as the involvement of Sachin Vaze in the Mukesh Ambani & Mansukh Hiren’s case is becoming clearer from the investigation carried out so far & threads are leading to Mr. Singh as well,” Deshmukh said in a tweet in response to the allegations.“The allegations made by Param Bir Singh are completely false and he has to prove them now as I am filing a defamation case,” Deshmukh in another clarification,” Deshmukh in another clarification.After the arrest of Sachin Vaze why was Param Bir Singh quiet for so many days? Why didn’t he say everything then?, he asked. “It is a conspiracy hatched to defame me and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to save himself,” the home minister said.“On 16th March, When he realised that he will be removed from the post of Police Commissioner the next day on 17th, he deliberately asked a few questions to ACP Mr. Patil and got conveniently got expected answers out of it. This was a part of Mr. Parambir Singh’s larger conspiracy. It seems as if he intended to get ‘specific’ answers from these chats so that he can term them as ‘evidence’ later. You can clearly see the desperation of Mr. Singh through these chats. In the chats it is clear that Mr. Singh was leading the conversation to repetitively get particular information from Mr. Patil, why was that?,” he stated.In an interview given to Lokmat, I mentioned that Mr. Parambir Singh was removed from the post as a consequence of some serious issues against him came to our notice, so Mr. Singh again tried to create some evidence in the form of WhatsApp conversation on March 19, he added.Singh has created this conspiracy to deflect attention from the explosives case and Mansukh Hiren’s death. I ask the Chief Minister to conduct an unbiased & fair enquiry of Mr. Singh’s allegations, he said. Also, Deshmukh claimed it was Singh who reinstated Vaze who was suspended for 16 years and everyone in the police department is very well aware that Sachin Vaze and ACP Patil are very close to Param Bir Singh.“The government started taking some action after the [suspended police officer Sachin] Vaze episode [pertaining to his connection in the Antilia security scare case and Hiran Mansukh case] came to light. Several decisions that had been taken by certain officers including the one to appoint Vaze as in charge of Antilia case were questioned. A new officer [Hemant Nagrale] was appointed as Commissioner in Mumbai. The allegations that have been made against the home minister are a reaction to various steps taken by the government to clean the mess. If we ask Deshmukh to resign now, we would be doing what certain people want. Opposition can demand what they want but we will have to see why these allegations were made and why after the officer in question was transferred,” Jayant Patil, state NCP chief and water resources minister said.“The allegations made are not only serious but shocking. For the first time in the history of Maharashtra, a director-general level officer has made such allegations and that too with chats in which demand for money was made. The chat is evidence to what Singh has said. We are of the view that the home minister should immediately resign from his position and if he is not ready then the chief minister should take his resignation,” said Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition and former chief minister.He said the incident has defamed Maharashtra and if Deshmukh continues to work as home minister then the probe may not remain impartial. “We also want either a central government should investigate the allegations or a court monitored probe can be conducted... The allegations have been made by a DG rank official and not by some ordinary person,” Fadnavis said in his response.Shiv Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that he has not seen the letter and will not be in position to respond to the allegation. “I have not seen the letter. I don’t know anything about it. If the matter is related to the government, the people from the government will respond. I will not speak about the issue that I don’t have complete knowledge about. I don’t know what allegations have been made,” Raut told reporters in Nashik.Late in the evening, CMO also issued a clarification saying that the letter received from a mail which is not registered as his personal mail address and also didn’t bear his signature. It is necessary to verify if Singh has sent the letter or not. The officials from the home department are trying to get in touch with him in this regard.“The chief minister’s secretariat received a letter at 4.37pm from a mail — paramirs3@gmail.com. It has mentioned the name Param Bir Singh and doesn’t have any signature. We are trying to verify the details of this mail id and also home officials are trying to contact Param Bir Singh. In fact, Singh has given parimbirs@hotmail.com as his personal mail id, hence it is necessary to check authenticity of the mail,” stated the clarification.State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant sought to defend the home minister. He said that letter clearly appears to be an afterthought. The conversation being shown as a proof today should have happened a year ago and no sane person would do that after the busting of Antilia case.“So called SMS proofs appear to be manufactured for self-defense. HM (Anil Deshmukh) had told a month ago that some officials were under pressure. BJP has conspired against the MVA govt by putting officials under pressure from agencies. This is evident from the fact that the BJP leaders get secret information so early and in a planned manner by which they reacted swiftly,” he said in a series of tweets.“The government started taking some action after the [suspended police officer Sachin] Vaze episode [pertaining to his connection in the Antilia security scare case and Hiran Mansukh case] came to light. Several decisions that had been taken by certain officers including the one to appoint Vaze as in charge of Antilia case were questioned. A new officer [Hemant Nagrale] was appointed as Commissioner in Mumbai. The allegations that have been made against the home minister are a reaction to various step taken by the government to clean the mess. If we ask Deshmukh to resign now, we would be doing what certain people want. Opposition can demand what they want but we will have to see why these allegations were made and why after the officer in question was transferred,” Jayant Patil, state NCP chief and water resources minister said.MNS chief Raj Thackeray also demanded Deshmukh’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-row-deshmukh-says-will-sue-singh-cmo-says-it-is-verifying-the-mail-101616270558319.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Ex-Mumbai police chief accuses minister of extortion, throws govt into crisis||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused state home minister Anil Deshmukh of running an extortion racket in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday, throwing the state’s ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government into a crisis.The letter, which is unsigned, comes days after Singh’s transfer, brought about by curious circumstances surrounding an explosives-laden vehicle found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February.The prime suspect in that case, currently in custody, is a Mumbai Police Assistance Inspector, Sachin Vaze, who was reinstated in the force — he was suspended on March 15 following a custodial death case — after the MVA, a coalition of the Shiv Sena, Congress, and Nationalist Congress Party, took over.In the letter, which the Chief Minister’s Office has confirmed receiving, Singh accused state home minister Anil Deshmukh of “corrupt malpractices” for instructing police officers to “carry out official assignments and collection schemes including financial transactions”, as well as setting targets for them “to collect money” from establishments such as hookahbars and restaurants.Deshmukh, who denied the allegations in the letter in a series of tweets, said late on Saturday that he would file a defamation case against the former Mumbai police commissioner, who was transferred on March 17. Singh did not respond to calls and messages for a comment.The “instructions” were brought to Singh’s attention by suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, the former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police as well as Sanjay Patil, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Social Service Branch, the letter stated.“The Hon’ble Home Minister expressed to Shri Vaze that he had a target to accumulate ₹100 crore a month. For achieving the aforesaid target, the Hon’ble Home Minster told Shri Vaze that there are about 1,750 bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai and if a sum of Rs. 2-3 lakhs each was collected from each of them a monthly collection of ₹40-50 crores was achievable. The Hon’ble Home Minister added that the rest of the collection could be made from other sources,” the letter stated, referring to a purported meeting that took place in the home minister’s official residence Dyaneshwar in mid-February.The allegations caused a political storm.“For the first time in the history of Maharashtra, a director general level officer has made such allegations and that too with chats in which demand for money was made. The chat is an evidence to what Singh has said. We are of the view that the home minister should immediately resign from his position and if he is not ready then the chief minister should take his resignation,” former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said.Officials from the chief minister’s office confirmed receiving the letter in the mail. “We have a received a letter on a mail today evening but it doesn’t bear Singh’s signature,” an official from the CMO said.“The chief minister’s secretariat received a letter at 4.37pm from a mail — paramirs3@gmail.com. It has mentioned the name Param Bir Singh and doesn’t have any signature. We are trying to verify the details of this mail id and also home officials are trying to contact Param Bir Singh. In fact, Singh has given parimbirs@hotmail.com as his personal mail id, hence it is necessary to check authenticity of the mail,” a clarification issued later on Saturday stated.“The allegations made by Param Bir Singh are completely false and he has to prove them now as I am filing a defamation case,” Deshmukh said.“After the arrest of Sachin Vaze why was Param Bir Singh quiet for so many days? Why didn’t he say everything then?” he asked. “It is a conspiracy hatched to defame me and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to save himself,” the home minister said.Singh was transferred out of the Police Commissioner’s office on March 17, and made Commandant General of Home Guards, Maharashtra.Fadnavis accused the MVA government of protecting Vaze, who was the lead investigator in the case before it was transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), after Vaze’s name was linked to the death of a Thane businessman, Mansukh Hiren, who was linked to the SUV found outside Antilia.“I have been made a scapegoat to divert attention from the actual wrongdoers,” Singh’s letter stated and explained that the transfer “was effected under section 22N(2) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 with the reason that my transfer was necessitated by administrative exigencies. I believe that the reason for the transfer noted by the Govt. in my file is to ensure a free and fair investigation in the Antilia incident.”Hiren’s body washed up ashore a creek in Thane district on March 5, following which his wife, Vimla, gave a statement to the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) that she suspected that Vaze was involved in her husband’s death.The NIA, which took over the probe into the explosives case arrested Vaze on March 13 for allegedly planting the explosives and parking the car on Carmichael Road, where the Ambanis reside, on the intervening night of February 24 and 25.On Saturday, the Centre handed over the probe into Hiren’s death to the NIA.The letter also quoted a message exchange purportedly between Singh and ACP Sanjay Patil regarding a meeting that allegedly took place at Deshmukh’s official residence, in which other officials, including the home minister’s personal secretary Sanjiv Palande, were also present. The home minister allegedly gave similar instructions to Patil and another officer, DCP Raju Bhujbal.The letter claimed that Deshmukh announced a Special Investigation Team (SIT) and registration of an FIR into the alleged case of abetment of suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli parliamentarian Mohan Delkar in the Assembly on March 9, even though Singh had expressed his concern that an abetment to suicide case cannot be probed by the Mumbai police, but should be investigated by the police of the Union Territory.“Due to my resistance, the Hon’ble Home Minister was unhappy with me as the political mileage desired to be derived from the registration of the abetment of suicide case in Mumbai in the death of Shri Mohan Delkar, Member of Parliament against senior officials of Dadra & Nagar Haveli was not being achieved,” the letter stated.The letter comes at a time when the NCP leadership was already considering replacing Deshmukh. If asked to resign, Deshmukh will be the second minister from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to do so in the past three weeks. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, who was handling the forest department, resigned on February 28 after his name was mentioned in a suicide case.However, the coalition government seemed to have rallied around Deshmukh on Saturday.“If we ask Deshmukh to resign now, we would be doing what certain people want. Opposition can demand what they want but we will have to see why these allegations were made and why after the officer in question was transferred,” Jayant Patil, state NCP chief and water resources minister, said.“So called SMS proofs appear to be manufactured for self-defense. HM (Anil Deshmukh) had told a month ago that some officials were under pressure. BJP has conspired against the MVA govt by putting officials under pressure from agencies. This is evident from the fact that the BJP leaders get secret information so early and in a planned manner by which they reacted swiftly,” State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exmumbai-police-chief-accuses-minister-of-extortion-throws-govt-into-crisis-101616269887295.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze row: MVA government’s troubles mount||Troubles for the Maharashtra Vikas Agadi (MVA) government mounted after the letter. The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government that is already embarrassed by the alleged involvement of an assistant police inspector in the Antilia bomb scare and death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, could have their image further dented and see ample fodder given to the opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in the state and the central government.While Deshmukh, who said that this is an attempt to defame him and MVA government, Shiv Sena insiders said this is a ploy by the BJP. They, however, acknowledged that this allegation will “damage the image” of the government if it is not handled quickly.Sena insiders said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has taken the matter “seriously” and is expected to discuss the resignation of Deshmukh with NCP chief Sharad Pawar. A Sena leader said that Thackeray and Pawar had discussed a change of guard in the home department earlier in the week during their meeting. The Sena leader, requesting anonymity, said, “Both the leaders had reached an agreement on his removal, but no immediate decision was taken then. Uddhavji will speak to Pawar saheb over his resignation.”The opposition is likely to use this alleged “misdeed and malpractices” – as per Singh’s letter—to regain power in the state. BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar, while speaking in State assembly, had threatened of President’s rule in Maharashtra in the next three months. However, constitutional expert Ulhas Bapat said that the letter by Singh could be a thin ground for imposition of President’s rule in the state. “They are looking for it but it is very difficult. Article 356 clearly states that if the government of the state is not carried on according to the provisions of the Constitution, then President’s rule can be imposed. These are minor things and one cannot impose for this reason. They (BJP) are looking for it for the simple reason that once it is President’s rule, it is BJP rule through governor, President and the Prime Minister, which is the chain of command,” said Bapat. He also added, “This is a common feature that police commissioners are asked to collect money for political parties, and no party is an exception to it. Such if such order [of collection] was for political party then it is an offence. Normally such orders are given orally.” Political analyst Pratap Asbe questioned Singh’s motive and said, “Why was he silent earlier? Why did he choose to write the letter after he was removed? If he had made these allegations public earlier it would have been credible. This seems to be an afterthought. There are several doubts can be raised over his allegation, whether he has come out open after he saw that he is going to be in the dock,” Asbe said.Another political analyst Surendra Jondhale said that this letter will seriously damage the State government’s image. “Besides damaging the government’s image, this incident has also dented NCP’s image. This is a serious allegation on their minister. This is a second such incident in this government after Dhananjay Munde [who was accused for crimes against woman, but the complainant withdrew her complaint],” Jondhale said. This is the second time when a home minister has faced allegations of corruption. Deputy chief minister Chhagan Bhujbal in the Congress-NCP government had faced charges of laundering Rs850 crore in the contract for construction of New Maharashtra Sadan in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-row-mva-government-s-troubles-mount-101616270438043.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Smears of spring||There are many species of warblers — tiny look-alikes that are very secretive in their habits. Differing calls and songs usually help distinguish different species. However, in the case of the Tytler’s leaf warbler, an International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) near-threatened species, an alternative is available to ornithologists. The warbler’s head and chin is often stained with pollen when the bird migrates back to the Western Himalayas in spring from its wintering grounds in the Western Ghats. Pollen smears were not found by ornithologists in months outside of spring. Much like light Holi smears, these stains distinguish the Tytler’s leaf warbler from other species.“Thus, the flower-probing habits of the Tytler’s (shared with the dissimilar-looking Buff-barred warbler) may provide a supplementary clue to identification in spring. The thin bill of Tytler’s warbler is apparently related to the species’ propensity of foraging by picking and probing in various substrates rather than fly-catching,” wrote American ornithologist and an authority on South Asian birds, Pamela C Rasmussen. Her research paper was based on an examination of Tytler’s specimens curated in museums across the globe.The first record for the Tytler’s from the inter-state capital region (encompassing an area within 40-km radius from Chandigarh) came last week from Chakki Modh, Solan, which is brimming with nectar resources. The specimen was merrily feeding on petals while in passage migration to its breeding grounds in higher altitudes. Tytler’s warbler is endemic to the sub-continent while the common name commemorates British infantry officer and naturalist Robert Christopher Tytler (1818-1872), who took part in the first Anglo-Sikh War.Palkon ki chhaya I have walked calmly through swarming honey bees in spring in Chandigarh and the surrounding countryside. Bees are hyperactive while swarming as they are finding spots for new hives. Some of these ‘bizzee, buzzin’ bees alighted on my bare forearms to check me out, and then flew away to more pressing tasks. Never has a bee stung me during such swarming interactions. I did not indulge in piteous cries and flailing limbs that would have readily invited stings. They sensed my good intentions.Bees don’t want to sting us because it is suicidal for these pollinators. When a worker bee releases the sting from her lower abdomen, it leads to a rupture, body fluids are lost and she dies as a result of ‘bleeding’. Similarly, coy butterflies rarely alight on a human wrist but when they do so, it is because they discern noble intent.A painting of great visual delight and reflecting nature’s immensity was on display recently at the 19th all-India annual exhibition hosted by the WE Group of Contemporary Women Artists at the Government Museum and Art Gallery. Employed as an art teacher at Delhi World Public School, Zirakpur, Sonam Goel invested her artwork, Exploring Nature’s World, with a woman’s intuitive understanding. Ensconced in Vibgyor colours, Goel depicts one eye resplendent with flowers and shrubs sprouting like eyelashes that tenderly shade vision and lure many butterflies.In creative contrast, Goel is austere with the eye’s soulmate. “The other eye has lesser flowers and shrubbery but a butterfly still comes and perches at the edge. I want to convey that the butterfly has sensed a beauty in the defoliated eye that is welcoming, radiates harmony and brims with benign feelings,” Goel told this writer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzzsmears-of-spring-101616270323257.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two-thirds of Covid patients in Punjab in 20-60 age group||Nearly two-thirds of Covid-19 patients in Punjab, which is witnessing a second virus wave, are aged between 20 and 60 (working-age population), reveals the state health department’s analysis of the first 11 weeks of 2021. The trend suggests that people in the age bracket have a high rate of mobility as they have to venture out of their homes for work or other purposes. The figures also show that those aged between 31 and 40 are the most vulnerable to contracting the virus, with 17.2% of the total cases falling in the category. Besides, the 41-50 age group has the second highest positivity ratio of 16.70%, followed by 16% among those aged between 51 and 60. Around 15% of the total patients are from the 21-30 age group. Also, 17% of those infected are senior citizens (those aged above 60). Within this category, 10.9% of the patients are aged between 61 and 70, while 6.2% are above 70. Those aged between 0 and 10 are the least vulnerable as only 2.20% of the infected people are from this age group. Nearly 15% of the patients are aged between 11 and 20. A senior health department official said the nature of the spread of the virus in different age groups was almost the same during the first Covid-19 wave. Around 64% of the total deaths, maximum for any age group, were witnessed among senior citizens in Punjab in 2021, shows the data. While 20% fatalities were in the 51-60 age group, 11% in the 41-50 bracket, 3% in the 31-40 category and 1% were in the 15-30 age group. “Our analysis also shows that 78% of those who lost their lives were brought to hospital only when their symptoms turned severe. Therefore, the biggest reason behind the deaths is delayed reporting of symptoms,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twothirds-of-covid-patients-in-punjab-in-20-60-age-group-101616270260900.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar BRTS: PMIDC mulls fare cut, Golden Temple-airport link||As the metro bus service under the much-hyped bus rapid transit system (BRTS) project has been struggling for success, Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) has proposed to reduce the bus fare and introduce a new route connecting the Golden Temple to the Amritsar international airport to attract interstate and international visitors.The ₹553-crore project had already been struggling to draw passengers before the pandemic too cast a shadow on the public transport.PMIDC, a wing of the local government department, that took over the project from Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) on October 1, 2020, has stated that remedial actions were being taken to ensure maximum passengers availed of the service.Akshay Sharma, transport manager at PMIDC, said, “Amid Covid-19 outbreak, we resumed the bus service in July last year. In six months, ridership has increased to 31,000 per day. Before the pandemic, it was 40,000. It is yet to achieve the previous daily count because the students who contribute to it considerably are not availing it due to suspension of offline classes in schools and colleges.”Though the officials concerned are claiming these figures to be good, in view of city’s population and footfall of visitors, this count is considered far behind the level of satisfaction and success, as noticed by the conscious residents of the city.“This is a project of the municipal corporation, which collects huge taxes from residents but doesn’t render up-to-the-mark services. The metro bus service has a few designated stations in the city. There are not parking arrangements for two-wheelers at these stations. These are among the many shortcomings of the bus operation that are turning out to be the hurdles in the way of its success,” said Kulwant Singh Ankhi, a patron of Amritsar Vikas Manch.Presently, 93 buses are plying in the city. The total monthly expenditure is nearly ₹2.5 crore, while the revenue is ₹70 Lakh (approx). “The difference between expenditure and revenue does not matter as the transport is to facilitate the public,” said Sharma.Delayed salaries Bus drivers also face the issue of timely payment of salaries. “We get the salaries every month, but late and only after demonstration and strikes. We got the last month’s pay using these methods,” said Onkar Singh, president of the drivers’ association.However, Sharma argued, “The bus operator is responsible for the delay in payment to the drivers. We release the salaries once the operator fulfills all the compliances.”Expansion on cardsTalking about the future plan to popularise the service, the PMIDC transport manager said, “While we have proposed reduction in the bus fare, a study has been conducted to ensure that maximum people avail this service. As per this study, expansion of this service is in the pipeline. We have sent the expansion plan to the higher authorities for approval.”As per this plan, Sharma said, “We have identified some potential routes in the city, on which the buses could be operated. The foremost route is the road leading to the airport. Keeping in view the religious tourism, we have proposed to connect Golden Temple to the airport to facilitate interstate and international visitors. With this service getting started, these visitors will get to have a smooth ride for nominal charges.”Riding cashless The PMIDC is also looking to provide a cashless riding experience to the passengers.“We have also planned to introduce other modes of like payment like Paytm and GooglePay for the passengers in case they are without cash,” said Sharma. “Apart from this, we have also started saving ₹15 lakh monthly by changing the parking system of the buses. At the end of the route, the buses will remain parked there and it starts its operation from that point the next day,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-brts-pmidc-mulls-fare-cut-golden-temple-airport-link-101616270138235.html
21-03-2021||Other||HSC, SSC students to take exams at own schools, junior colleges: Maharashtra min||State education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday said that though HSC (Class 12) and SSC (Class 10) exams would take place offline, students will get their own schools and junior colleges as centres. In case there is inadequate seating in their school or college, students will be allotted the nearest centre. While HSC exams will be held from April 23 to May 21, SSC exams will be conducted from April 29 to May 20. “Considering the geography and demography of the state, we have decided to go ahead with offline exams. Online exams do not seem to be an option as a large number of students might not have access to technology,” said Gaikwad. The education department had released a set of guidelines for conducting the exams in the state in light of the rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant restrictions. Similarly, a list of concessions in light of the pandemic was also announced on Saturday. Gaikwad said that students of Class 10 will have to submit assignments instead of their science practical exams. Class 12 students from the science stream will appear for practical exams at their respective colleges from May 22 to June 10, while those from the arts, commerce and vocational streams will have to submit assignments instead of practicals. The details with respect to assignments will be released soon. Students will be given an additional 30 and 15 minutes for the three-hour (80 marks) and two-hour (40/50 marks) papers, respectively. Students will have to reach the exam centre at least an hour before the exams and papers will be given to them 10 minutes before time. The staff at all the board offices and those working in the exam centres, including teachers, will be vaccinated on priority basis before the exams. The Maharashtra board will conduct a fresh round of exams in June for those students who might have missed their exams owing to infection, being quarantined or staying in containment zones. Supplementary exams for students will be held in July-August as usual. The government is also planning to write to authorities in the state to allow students to travel by public transport throughout the exam period after showing their hall tickets. Some of the other measures include having an isolation room in each centre in case a student has to write their paper in isolation, and granting an hour more to students with special needs for a three-hour exam. Students can check the state board’s official website – https://www.mahahsscboard.in – for more details and updates. Nearly 3.3 million students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from the state board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hsc-ssc-students-to-take-exams-at-own-schools-junior-colleges-maharashtra-min-101616269838083.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Cases, positivity rate creep up in Capital||Delhi recorded 813 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the most since December 24, and the test positivity rate rose beyond the 1% mark for the first time since December 27, suggesting that the Capital may be on the brink of yet another outbreak.The increase has been particularly sharp since Monday, March 15, when the city saw 368 cases. The trend is in tandem with similar rise in infections in several other states, particularly Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana. Overall, the weekly average of new cases a day across India has risen from around 23,500 on March 15 to over 31,600 on March 19.A Delhi government spokesperson said the situation in the Capital is under control. “Health minister Satyendar Jain is taking review meeting everyday and the administration is well prepared to take necessary actions when cases increase further. We still urge people to take all precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour, especially in the light of the festive season ahead,” said an official, while underscoring that other regions such as Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh “have much higher positivity rate”.The spokesperson reiterated the Delhi government’s appeal to open up the vaccination drive to include all people above the age of 18. “At present, vaccination is the most effective way to curb the spread of Covid-19. Hence, the government has requested the Centre to open vaccination to all adult citizens of the city. Vaccination centres are also being increased along with their timings being extended by 4 hours,” the spokesperson said.Union government officials have in recent days attributed the rise in infections to the recent wedding season. On Saturday, at least two district health officials in Delhi said several more factors could be to blame. “Out of the five states that have seen the number of cases shoot up recently, one is Delhi’s neighbour. And, the infection is coming in from there,” said one of the officials, asking not to be named. A second district official said that the rise in day temperatures could be forcing people to stay indoors, raising the likelihood of infections. “What we have seen so far is that the cases are among the middle class people, same as it was during the November surge of cases. This, I think, is mainly because of the change in weather prompting them to remain in air-conditioned environments where the spread can happen more easily,” this person said.The second official also added that people who were not exposed previously to the infection may have begun mixing among themselves more, giving the virus access to more vulnerable people. “The seroprevalence in Delhi is 56%, this means that there are still 44% of the people who are susceptible to the infection. It is now spreading among them quickly as interactions go up with everything going back to normal after the number of cases reduced,” this person said.The latest 813 cases came from 75,888 tests. The government spokesperson said the administration is focusing on increasing awareness, increased surveillance, and scaled up enforcement against violation of rules regarding wearing masks and social distancing.“We are doing the highest number of tests compared to other cities. Delhi’s test figures are nearly five times the national average. Vaccination is also being intensified in all districts. We are keenly monitoring areas that had not witnessed a surge during the last three waves in Delhi. Nearly 60% of the 3,409 active cases in the city are contained or inside containment zones and we are tracing at least 31 persons per Covid positive case,” the spokesperson said.Experts said it is crucial to increase vaccination coverage now. “The number of cases and positivity rate increasing is a cause for worry. I expect that by the end of the month, we would start reporting 1,000 cases a day. And, the main thing is that we need to speed up our vaccination drive and for that, we need to remove the current age bar in place. In Delhi, over 50% of the people already have been exposed to the infection, it is the remaining 50% who need to be vaccinated quickly,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and head of the first committee of the Delhi government on the control and management of Covid-19.Sarin added that the city must also look at what strains are circulating since “we know the efficacy of the Oxford vaccine is lower with the South African variant”. “Another thing we need to ensure is that people who have been vaccinated follow a Covid-19 appropriate behaviour till at least four weeks after receiving the second shot,” he added.According to the Union government’s Co-WIN dashboard, there have been a little over 990,000 doses delivered in the Capital as on Saturday. CM Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that the administration will attempt to accelerate the drive by allowing centres to open till 9pm (from 5pm previously) and by increasing the daily capacity to 125,000. The actual number of doses being given in the Capital has fluctuated between 30,000 and 40,000 over the past week, leading to calls for the Union government to relax the eligibility rules for people to seek doses.(This story has been updated to accurately reflect the version of the Delhi government spokesperson.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cases-positivity-rate-creep-up-in-capital-101616268206288.html
21-03-2021||Other||Fire breaks out at nut bolt factory in Ludhiana, none hurt||Factory workers had a narrow escape after a fire broke out a nut bolt manufacturing unit in Phase 4, Focal Point on Saturday afternoon. The blaze erupted on the first floor of Rajnish Industries, where large quantity of cardboard and packaging material was stored. Factory’s managing director and Punjab CII chairman Rahul Ahuja said, “A short-circuit appears to be behind the fire. The exact losses cannot be ascertained as of now. Apart from the packaging material, finished goods were also damaged. All workers came out of the factory in time and are safe.”Fire station officer Swaran Chand said five fire tenders were rushed to spot after they received information around 1pm. The firefighting operation continued for five hours till the firefighters ensured the area was completely cleared to avoid any more fires, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-breaks-out-at-nut-bolt-factory-in-ludhiana-none-hurt-101616269299263.html
21-03-2021||Other||HP won’t give incentives to 225 docs who got infected on Covid duty: Minister||A total of 728 doctors discharged their duties at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, after the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020 till March 18, 2021, Himachal health minister Rajiv Saizal informed the House on Saturday. Of these, 205 doctors were deployed at the Special Covid Centre created at IGMC, he said while replying to a question raised by Nachan legislator Vinod Kumar. He further revealed that a total of 225 doctors got infected with Covid-19 during this period and were sent into home or institutional quarantine as per protocol. However, there was no move to give incentives to the doctors, paramedics and medical staff who tested positive for virus while discharging duties, said Saizal while replying to a supplementary question raised by Naduan legislator Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu. Forest clearancesReplying to a question by Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumar, forest minister Rakesh Pathania said during the last two years, up to January 31, 2021, a total of 274 cases of forest clearances under Forest Conservation Act, 1980 have been received from Government of India for various projects. A sum of ₹7.32 crore is likely to be spent by general administration department and information and public relations department on various events to be organised to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of full statehood in the Financial Year 2020-21, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said in a written reply to a question asked by Congress members Jagat Singh Negi and Vinay Kumar. The state’s income in the last three financial years was ₹84,187.95 crore while the expenditure was ₹1,17,041 crore, Jai Ram Thakur informed in reply to a question asked by Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-won-t-give-incentives-to-225-docs-who-got-infected-on-covid-duty-minister-101616269178074.html
21-03-2021||Other||PCS (Mains) 2020 results out: 845 candidates declared successful for interview round||The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) declared the results of combined state/upper subordinate services examination (mains)-2020, commonly known as PCS (Mains)-2020, on Saturday. In all, 845 candidates have been declared successful against existing vacancies of 487 posts of different kinds for the interview round, UPPSC secretary Jagdish said. The secretary said that the results have been made available on the official website of UPPSC—http://uppsc.up.nic.in/ for the benefit of the candidates. The PCS (Mains)-2020 was conducted at centres set up in Lucknow, Prayagraj and Ghaziabad between January 21 and January 25, 2021 in which a total of 4589 candidates had appeared. The UPPSC secretary said that final details of marks obtained, and category-wise cut-offs would be released by the commission on its official website and published in newspapers after the declaration of the final results of the recruitment exams. As a result, no applications would be entrained by the commission in this regard under the RTI Act-2005, he said. He also made clear that the results of these recruitment exams are subject to the final decision of the Allahabad High Court in the Special Appeal (D) 475/2019 filed by the Uttar Pradesh government. The interviews of the eligible candidates are scheduled to kick-start from April 1 and the commission will issue detailed information regarding this separately soon, he added. The posts included in PCS-2020 include deputy collector, deputy superintendent of police, block development officer, assistant regional transport officer, assistant commissioner (commercial tax), district commandant home guards, treasury officer/accounts officer (treasury), cane inspector and assistant sugar commissioner, superintendent jail, manager credit (small industries), manager marketing and economic survey (small industries), executive officer grade-I/assistant nagar ayukta, district basic education officer/associate DIOS and other equivalent administrative posts like assistant director industries (marketing) and assistant labour commissioner, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcs-mains-2020-results-out-845-candidates-declared-successful-for-interview-round-101616268998478.html
21-03-2021||Other||Cong legislator calls out HP CM for flouting mask norms in House||Senior Congress leader Harshwardhan Chauhan on Saturday objected to Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur not wearing a mask inside the House during the proceedings and demanded that a fine be imposed on him.Soon after health minister Rajiv Saizal spoke, the five-time legislator Shillai legislator, Chauhan raised a point of order and objected to legislators, including the CM, not wearing masks inside the House.Stating that virtues and vices start from the top, Chauhan said that the CM should be made to pay a penalty of ₹5,000 for the mask violation. To a point of order raised by leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, in which he stated that the penalty of ₹5,000 being imposed by the Una administration against mask violators is too hefty, the CM said that the government will give relaxations in the fine in some areas. He admitted that the fine of ₹5,000 was indeed hefty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-legislator-calls-out-hp-cm-for-flouting-mask-norms-in-house-101616268997956.html
21-03-2021||Other||On-the-spot antigen tests for people found without masks in Srinagar||As summer capital Srinagar is witnessing a steep increase in Covid-19 cases, now those not wearing masks at public places will not only be fined but also tested for the virus on the spot, officials said on Saturday.The Srinagar district administration has decided not to be lenient against the violators of Covid protocol.The new deputy commissioner of Srinagar, Aijaz Asad said that they have convened a meeting regarding Covid protocol as it is “not being followed strictly in public”.“The district administration has taken this decision for which we will be giving a notice of three days that at public places if anybody is found without a mask, the person will not only be fined but will also have to undergo RAT on the spot,” said Asad.He requested people to follow the Covid protocols strictly to prevent the patterns emerging in states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.J&K is witnessing an increase in Covid cases for the past few weeks a major portion of which have been reported in Srinagar. Of the total 1,152 active cases in the whole of J&K till 19th March, 564 have been contributed by Srinagar district.“In Srinagar, we used to see 30 daily cases in February which have now increased to 70 plus. And the trend is rising. We will have to strictly follow the Covid protocol to prevent situations like in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu,” Asad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/onthespot-antigen-tests-for-people-found-without-masks-in-srinagar-101616268878008.html
21-03-2021||Lucknow||Centre circulates draft guidelines for power sector; states to comment by Mar 24||Prior to the launch of a new reform-based power sector scheme aimed to provide 24x7 reliable electricity to all the consumers across the country, the Centre has circulated draft guidelines to the states including Uttar Pradesh, asking them to send their comments/suggestions, if any, by March 24. “We plan to announce the new scheme as proposed in this year’s budget by the month-end after states send their comments on the draft guidelines,” secretary (Power), Alok Kumar told the HT over the phone. “Under the new scheme the Centre will also give grants to discoms to address their viability concerns provided they improve their financial and operational performance,” he added. Named as ‘revamped reforms-linked results-based distribution sector scheme’, it entails undertaking several reform measures as well as the creation of infrastructure to address ‘the most pertinent’ issues prevailing in the sector, that is, high aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and the average cost of supply and average revenue realization revenue gap. “Instead of adopting a one-size-fits-all approach the new scheme seeks to provide flexibility to states/discoms to undertake the works to meet their specific needs and problem,” says rural electrification corporation (REC) executive director R Lakshman in his covering letter annexed with guidelines circulated to states. REC has been appointed the nodal body for the implementation of the new scheme in 16 states including UP while Power Finance Corporation will be the nodal body for the same work in 19 other states. The draft guidelines were received by the chief secretary, UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chairman, among others, here two days ago. The draft guidelines say that India is surplus in power generation today and sufficient transmission capacity has been created to carry inter-state and intra-state power, while the government has been assisting states/discoms through various schemes since 2014 to improve their distribution network as well as financial health. It further notes that the implementation of various schemes has resulted in improved access to electricity. An independent, survey according to it shows that an average Indian household gets almost 20.6 hours of power supply every day with urban areas getting 22 hours and rural areas getting 20 hours. “Despite all these measures consumers do not get reliable 24x7 electricity in many parts of the country. Average technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and consequently an average cost of supply and average revenue realized gap continues to be high. This sub-optimal performance of the distribution sector is due to structural deficiencies and weak infrastructures,” the draft points out. The discoms, it stresses, need to focus on improving their operational efficiencies and financial sustainability and improving consumer services to be able to meet the desired consumer service standards. “It is with the aim and the Government of India’s commitment for providing 24x7 uninterrupted, quality, reliable and affordable power supply that the revamped reforms-based and results-linked distribution sector scheme has been formulated by the ministry of power to support discoms to undertake reforms and improve performance in a time-bound manner,” it says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centre-circulates-draft-guidelines-for-power-sector-states-to-comment-by-mar-24-101616268637218.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Income tax dept raids Mumbai builder, mobile accessories traders||The income tax (I-T) department has carried out searches at 29 premises linked to a Mumbai-based builder, few real estate groups and some mobile accessories dealers and detected undisclosed income worth ₹270 crore. I-T officials on Saturday said simultaneous searches were carried out on March 17 at the premises of the builder and a developer group based in Mumbai. Searches were also conducted at the places of mobiles accessories trade. Beside this, surveys were conducted at 14 premises under the operation.Questioned about the real estate group, I-T officials said it is developing a commercial mall with 950 units exclusively for mobile accessories business. Of these, about 905 have been sold since 2017. “Evidence stored in a pendrive seized during the operation revealed that the builder group has taken an amount of ₹150 crore as on-money receipts over and above the agreement value, which is not accounted for in the books of accounts on sale of such units. Further, similar evidence amounting to ₹70 crore has been found in the pendrive pertaining to a residential-cum-commercial project. Cash amounting to ₹5.50 crore was found and seized from various premises of this group. The receipts of on-money for sale of shops/flats by the builder in various projects recorded in digital form have been seized,” stated Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of I-T department and official spokesperson for Central Board of Direct Tax (CBDT). Raids at mobile accessories dealers led to seizure of incriminating evidence pertaining to out-of-books sales. “The group imports goods from China and sells these goods to various parties all over India. The imports are under invoiced and payments are made through hawala channels. Thirteen secret godowns containing unaccounted stock have been discovered. We are taking an inventory and valuation is under progress,” a senior I-T official said.The investigation by I-T officials led to recovery of evidence of unaccounted investments in properties by suspect dealers amounting to ₹40.5 crore, of which ₹21 crore is against the units at the said mall. Four undisclosed bank accounts in the names of employees have also been detected, which are used to collect sale proceeds from retail vendors of the group. The deposits in the bank accounts amount to ₹80 crore.The tax agency said the operation revealed the entire sector of trading in mobile accessories is largely unaccounted for. The main components are imported from China through Mumbai and Chennai ports. Search has revealed that dealers are undervaluing sales and purchases in a major way, the agency stated.The transactions with Chinese counterparts take place through We-Chat app, I-T investigators have found using forensics. Probe to extract information regarding the quantum and cost of Chinese imports is underway. So far, unaccounted cash worth ₹5.89 crore has been seized. The searches have resulted in the detection of undisclosed income of around ₹270 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/income-tax-dept-raids-mumbai-builder-mobile-accessories-traders-101616268577844.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||How Param Bir Singh-Deshmukh faceoff puts NCP chief Sharad Pawar in a tough spot||he allegations against home minister Anil Deshmukh have put Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in a tight spot.Pawar is considered as the architect of the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. He brought the three parties from different sides of the political spectrum together to form a government and keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) away from power in a crucial state like Maharashtra. Over the past 15 months, Pawar has not just been monitoring the functioning of the government but also stepping in to resolve the crisis or advise chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on handling the same.Even in case of Antilia bomb scare-Sachin Vaze issue, Pawar held meeting with Thackeray last week following which Param Bir Singh was removed as Mumbai police commissioner.It was portrayed by MVA that Hemant Nagrale was brought in as the new police chief to clean up the mess in Mumbai Police.Till then, the Shiv Sena was at the receiving end of the flak over its links with Vaze. Following Singh’s letter, things have changed. Now Pawar’s party is facing a crisis of credibility and Pawar has to take a call on removal of Deshmukh.According to NCP insiders, Pawar was already planning to shift Deshmukh out of the home department. HT has reported how Pawar was mulling different options as Deshmukh’s successor in home department. According to party leaders, he planned to shift Deshmukh out of the home department after some time so as to avoid the impression that Deshmukh’s removal had something to do with Vaze case.However, in the changed circumstances, he may have to take action immediately though the party top brass was deliberating whether Deshmukh should be asked to resign immediately. State NCP chief Jayant Patil rejected the Opposition’s demand for Deshmukh’s removal.Significantly, Deshmukh was not Pawar’s first choice for the post of home minister when MVA was formed in 2019. Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar was keen on the home portfolio but several senior NCP leaders were not in favour of the same since Ajit had an anti-corruption bureau probe pending against him in connection with alleged irregularities in irrigation projects during his tenure as irrigation minister in Congress-NCP government. Pawar would have preferred Patil, but Ajit was opposed to it.As such Deshmukh was selected as a candidate acceptable to everybody.However, the way Deshmukh handled Antilia bomb scare-Vaze case inside and outside the state legislature did not impress the NCP top brass.According to NCP chief’s close aides, Pawar was considering Ajit, Patil and health minister Rajesh Tope for the portfolio.The problem, however, may not end here for Pawar.This episode has put a question mark over the credibility of his party and not just MVA. Besides, it is not yet known what would be the fallout of the Antilia-Vaze case.“NIA is still conducting the probe. We don’t know what Vaze has told the agency. Singh’s allegations of Vaze’s links with Deshmukh have made things difficult for MVA. The BJP may push for dismissal of the government in the state citing collapse of law and order,” said a senior NCP minister.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has been insisting that the Antilia case has links to higher-ups in the MVA government. He had alleged that Vaze was a “recovery agent” for some people in the government.“Despite the indications by Fadnavis, MVA, as well as NCP leadership, could not anticipate what could happen next. The government which looked pretty comfortable a few months ago now looks vulnerable. It is facing its worst crisis. People believed that Pawar could run a government efficiently. That belief may not last long with this kind of crises. There could also be doubts among legislators if Pawar can bail the MVA out of trouble. And this could affect the stability of the coalition government,” said political analyst Hemant Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antiliasachin-vaze-row-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-in-a-tough-spot-101616268517857.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Mumbai: After Antilia case, NIA takes over probe in Hiran’s death||The Centre on Saturday suo motu handed over the probe into Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been probing the SUV laden with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month. The NIA will take over the case from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which has been investigating the possible murder of Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane-based auto spare parts dealer, who is linked to the Scorpio that was found with 20 loose gelatin sticks, and a threatening letter addressed to the Ambanis, outside their Antilia residence on February 25. NIA officials will take over case files including the post mortem report of Hiran after re-registering the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the ATS on March 7 against unknown persons for the charge of murder. The NIA arrested suspended police officer Sachin Vaze on March 13 for purportedly planting the explosives in the Scorpio. The ATS has also questioned Vaze over his role in Hiran’s death after it came to light through the statement of Hiran’s wife, Vimla, that the two knew each other. The ATS on Saturday sought Vaze’s custody in the murder investigation, but the NIA special court scheduled the hearing to March 25, when his custody with the NIA ends. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) used its power under Section 8 of the NIA Act, which says that any connected offence related to a scheduled offence already under investigation, in which the suspect is same, can also be taken over by the central anti-terror agency. The ATS approached the special NIA court on Saturday seeking Vaze’s custody, but the court scheduled the hearing to March 25, when Vaze’s NIA custody ends. After Hiran’s body washed up ashore at a creek in Thane district on March 5, Hiran’s wife, Vimla (43) gave a statement to the ATS, which led them to file a murder case against unknown persons. Vimla told the ATS that she suspected that Vaze, who knew Hiran well, had a hand in his death. Vaze was also lead investigator in the explosives case, before it was briefly handed over to the ATS. The NIA took charge of the case on March 9. “NIA has information Vaze had even called Hiran for questioning when he was the Investigating Officer (IO) of the SUV case. We are trying to establish the chain of events after that,” an NIA official said on condition of anonymity. Vaze had borrowed the SUV that was found parked outside Antilia, in November 2020 and returned it to Hiran on February 5. Hiran had later reported the car stolen on February 18, a day after he had met Vaze outside the police headquarters near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). Vaze, who was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch, was suspended after Vimla’s allegations became the centre of a political storm between the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeking his arrest while the House was in session. On March 13, a Thane district and sessions court denied Vaze’s anticipatory bail plea and said that his custodial interrogation in Hiran’s murder investigation was “necessary”. The NIA has identified Vaze’s co-conspirators in bomb conspiracy case and some arrests are likely to happen after all the evidence is gathered, officials said. The NIA team on Friday reconstructed the crime scene at Carmichael Road, where the Ambanis live and the Scorpio was found parked. The probe agency is also examining several suspects and witnesses that include Mumbai police officers and some private persons, said an officer, who did not want to be named. HT had reported that NIA’s investigations revealed that Vaze had planned the explosive conspiracy with some other players. Political reactions Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya on Saturday said in a press conference that the party is happy that the NIA is looking at both the cases now and that the Chief Minister cannot save Vaze any longer. The BJP, including leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, has been alleging that Shiv Sena – a party that Vaze had joined when he had retired from the force in 2007 till he was reinstated in 2020 – had been protecting Vaze’s involvement in the case. The claim has been repeatedly refuted by the party, including CM Uddhav Thackeray who had said that the investigation will be conducted in a free and fair manner, and anyone found guilty would be punished. However, editorials in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana had criticized the NIA taking over the explosives investigation. He said, “I recently spoke with the family of Mansukh Hiren and they are satisfied with the investigation. Antilia and Mansukh Hiren murder is one case which will now be investigated by a single agency. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray tried to save Vaze by separating both the investigation,” Somaiya said. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said that the NIA taking over the probe into Hiran’s death was not a setback to the Mumbai police or the Maharashtra government. “There was no need for the NIA to take up the probe into the explosives-laden SUV and Mansukh Hiran case. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Mumbai police were capable of investigating them,” Raut said in Nashik.“However, the Centre is looking for opportunities to see how theMaha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government can be put in a spot. You can bring the CIA or KGB...It makes no difference. It is not a setback to the Mumbai police of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government,” he said. Investigations continue Earlier this week, NIA had recovered the original number plate of the Scorpio from a Mercedes Benz purportedly being used by Vaze, 6-7 other number plates; a set of clothes which Vaze had apparently changed after the SUV was dropped at Carmichael Road around 2.20 am on February 25; ₹5.75 lakh cash and a currency counting machine apart from kerosene oil suspected to have been used to burn the oversized Kurta worn by the suspect. Forensic officials on Friday said that the NIA team made Vaze walk on paths marked with start and end points, while two forensic teams took pictures and made a video for gait analysis. The images will be fed in a computerised system along with parameters like height, weight and width of the person which will be compared to the video from a CCTV grab that emerged last week, showing a man in what seemed to be a PPE kit or a long kurta, with his face covered, walking on Carmichael Road, when the SUV was parked. A NIA team visited the house of Sachin Vaze on Saturday afternoon for over two hours. Also, the deputy commissioner of police, of ATS, Rajkumar Shinde visited the Thane ATS office in Wagle estate for investigation purpose. A team comprising three NIA officials accompanied by local police also visited Vaze’s Saket Complex residence in Thane. “The team reached the house at 12:30pm on Saturday and was there till almost till 2:30pm. This was their second visit to Vaze’s house, the team had earlier visited for over six hours on Wednesday,” a police officer said. With inputs from Manish K Pathak and Faisal Tandel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mumbai-after-antilia-case-nia-takes-over-probe-in-hiran-s-death-101616268458192.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cyber police arrest UP man in fake passport website case||City cyber police on Tuesday arrested a 28-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh for his alleged role in a fake government website racket. The accused was involved in allegedly creating a fake website of the passport department and duping a city businesswoman. Police suspect the racket has duped many people.The arrested accused has been identified as Alok Shukla, 29, a resident of Oraiiyya, UP. The racket came to light following a complaint lodged by a 54-year-old CEO of a tours and travels company. The complainant stated that she came across the website on January 9 while looking for the official passport website to renew her passport. She saw a logo of the government of India on the website, hence she thought it was the official site. When she opted for the renewal process on this website, she had to furnish her personal details as well as bank details to pay the fee. However, later she found that ₹2,999 was transferred from her account. When she again looked for the website, she came across the official website, which warns people of fake websites duping people. She then realised that she was duped and approached the cyber police. Cyber police officers started their probe and technical investigation led them to Uttar Pradesh. Officers learnt about whereabouts of Alok Shukla, a suspect involved in the racket, in Mujaffarnagar, UP, and nabbed him there on March 16. The team brought him to Mumbai on transit remand on Thursday. Shukla has been charged under sections 420, 468, 471 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66c and 66d of Information Technology Act. A police officer said Shukla, who is in police custody till March 22, is not cooperating in the probe, and refused to share details as investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cyber-police-arrest-up-man-in-fake-passport-website-case-101616268337870.html
21-03-2021||Kolkata||Incident leading to Bengal CM’s injury being probed by state CID||The criminal investigation department (CID) of the West Bengal police on Saturday started a probe into the March 10 incident at Nandigram in East Midnapore district wherein chief minister Mamata Banerjee sustained an injury in her left ankle and has been wheelchair-bound ever since.Whether the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo was injured in an accident at Nandigram, where she is contesting Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari, or it was a planned attack as she had alleged, has fanned debates since her release from hospital 48 hours after the incident.Also read: Mamata hits back at Modi, alleges misuse of PM Cares fundA CID team on Saturday visited the spot and questioned some eyewitnesses, an official of the department said on condition of anonymity. The probe is being headed by a deputy inspector general (DIG).The Election Commission of India (ECI) earlier sought a report on Banerjee’s security from the state police. Last week it removed several officers, including the director of security, Vivek Sahay.“Vivek Sahay IPS, director security, shall be removed from the post of the director security and be placed under suspension immediately. The charges must be framed against him within a week for grossly failing in the discharge of his primary duty as director security to protect the Z+ protectee,” said the ECI order.The ECI also replaced the district magistrate and superintendent of police (SP) of East Midnapore. SP, Pravin Prakash, was also suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/incident-leading-to-bengal-cm-s-injury-being-probed-by-state-cid-101616268219104.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran case: Maharashtra ATS moves NIA court, seeks Sachin Vaze’s custody||While the central government on Saturday handed over the case involving the mysterious death of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran to National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Maharashtra anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) approached the special NIA court for suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze’s custody.ATS on Saturday sought Vaze’s custody to arrest him in connection with Hiran’s murder case. The court has, however, scheduled the hearing on March 25, when Vaze’s NIA custody ends.The body of Hiran, a 48-year-old auto spare parts businessman, had washed ashore at a creek in Thane on March 5, a day after he went missing. The probe is being conducted by ATS as the same is being linked to the case of explosives found in an SUV parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home last month. The SUV, that Hiran had been driving for three years and was reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Antilia on February 25. It had 20 sticks of gelatin. Two identical sets of three different registration number plates were kept beneath the rear seat of the vehicle, and its own engine number and body number were removed. Even the chassis number embossed on the car near right front wheel was wiped out.Vaze is currently in NIA’s custody in connection with the explosives case. On Friday, while opposing Vaze’s anticipatory bail, ATS had claimed that it wished to interrogate the former cop over his whereabouts on the night of March 4, when Hiran went missing.ATS claimed that they wanted to probe where was the Scorpio parked between February 17 and February 25, who changed its number plate, why and how was the bogus number plate made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiran-case-maharashtra-ats-moves-nia-court-seeks-sachin-vaze-s-custody-101616268217880.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Trade talk: Keen on biz with Punjab, Bulgaria comes calling||Bulgarian ambassador Eleonora Dimitrova, who was here on her first visit to explore trade ties with Punjab, could not have asked for more. The two sides have agreed to pursue business opportunities in auto, pharmaceutical, education, engineering goods and tourism sectors after a slew of meetings with the state’s top officers, entrepreneurs, business associations and, last but not the least, Punjabi film producers. Dimitrova, who held a detailed talk with chief secretary Vini Mahajan among others during her visit to the state, said a virtual meet will be organised to bring together businesses of Bulgaria and Punjab to create possibilities and identify areas for cooperation. “A government delegation with some entrepreneurs from Punjab may also visit Bulgaria later in the year. We share a lot of similarities in agriculture, components and auto components. At present, eight out of 10 cars manufactured in Europe have auto parts from Bulgaria,” the Bulgarian ambassador said before winding up her three-day visit to the region during which she made a strong pitch for her country as the gateway to Europe. The talks between the two sides also cantered on the education sector. “Bulgaria offers excellent opportunities in tertiary education, particularly courses in mathematics, linguistics, medicine and information technology, in both public and private institutions. These courses are acceptable across Europe,” she said. The ambassador also met representatives of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), PHDCCI. Invest Punjab chief executive officer Rajat Agarwal said there was no significant business investment from Bulgaria till now, but lot of potential exists for cooperation in auto, animal feed and pharma sectors. “IT and education sectors also have opportunities. We will also coordinate with Bulgarian companies already having presence in India for the virtual event being planned in mid-May and promote Punjab for their expansion projects,” he said. Pollywood invited Dimitrova also met Punjabi filmmakers led by Punjabi Film Producers Association Charanjit Singh Walia to woo them to Bulgaria’s exotic locations - its snow-capped mountains, beaches, rivers and forests – with low cost, availability of trained crews and quick permissions being other advantages. “Film shooting in Bulgaria is about 30% cheaper than in other countries. Bollywood has already shot some movies there,” she said, rattling off the names of films like Brahmastra, Shivaay, Dilwale and Bahubali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trade-talk-keen-on-biz-with-punjab-bulgaria-comes-calling-101616267857743.html
21-03-2021||Lucknow||Nearly 1.5L people fined in Lko for not wearing masks||Nearly 1.5 lakh people have been fined in Lucknow city since May 2020 for not wearing masks or covering their faces, as a mandatory guideline during the Covid-19 outbreak, said Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP), law and order, Naveen Arora here on Saturday.He said that the largest numbers of 29371 people were fined in July 2020, followed by 26625 in October, 19699 in September and 15253 in June last year.Sharing further details, the JCP said as many as 16567 people were fined this year between January 1 and March 19 while the remaining 133179 people were fined between May and December 2020.He emphasised that the city police are further carrying out drives at crowded and marketplaces to enforce pandemic protocols strictly. He appealed to people to wear masks while visiting public places and crowded market areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nearly-1-5l-people-fined-in-lko-for-not-wearing-masks-101616267796983.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding Mercedes leaves 3 men dead, 3 injured in Mohali||Three people were killed while three others were injured, two of them critically, after a Mercedes car hit a taxi before running over two cyclists near Radha Soami Satsang Chowk on Airport Road in Mohali on Saturday early morning. The deceased have been identified as Ram Prasad of Mataur, Ankush Narula of Zirakpur and Dharampreet of Gholumajra village, all in Mohali district, while those injured are Pradeep Kumar, Shripal and Harish Kumar.While Ankush, Dharampreet and Pradeep worked at an industrial unit and were returning from the night shift in the taxi being driven by Harish, Ram Prasad and Shripal worked at the Godrej factory and were returning home on their cycles after work. According to the eyewitnesses, there were three people in the Mercedes, bearing a Chandigarh registration number, and they fled in another vehicle after the accident. The injured taxi occupants were shifted to a private hospital, where Ankush and Dharampreet were declared brought dead. The taxi driver, said to be in a critical condition, was referred to the PGIMER while Pradeep is undergoing treatment at the private hospital. The cyclists were taken to the Phase 6 civil hospital, where doctors declared Ram Prasad dead while Shripal is said to be in a critical condition. Police have impounded the damaged Mercedes and registered a case under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Accused driver, two other occupants flee in another vehicleIt was around 6am when the speeding Mercedes coming from Lakhnaur side hit the taxi — a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga — that was coming from the Balongi side and moving towards Zirakpur. The high-end car then ran over two cyclists before ramming into the grilles on the median. According to the witnesses, the three occupants were saved as the Mercedes air bags opened after the impact. The person driving the vehicle then reportedly called a family member and left the spot with the other occupants in another vehicle. At the time of filing this report, it’s been more than 15 hours since the accident, but police have failed to the trace the vehicle owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-mercedes-leaves-3-men-dead-3-injured-in-mohali-101616267617703.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Health minister raises concern over Covid surge in Chandigarh tricity||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Saturday expressed concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the Chandigarh tricity area, as Mohali reported record 385 cases. This is the highest number of cases reported in the district, even crossing the peak of 337 recorded on September 18 during the first wave last year.Meanwhile, a day after recording highest number of cases in six months, both Chandigarh and Panchkula saw a dip from 214 to 203 and from 166 to 85, respectively. However, with 673 cases, the cumulative infection numbers in the tricity continued to rise, from 638 on Friday. During the first wave, the peak was recorded on September 13 with 865 cases.“Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula are witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. The daily infection number had dropped below 50 earlier this year, which has now seen resurgence and about 500-600 cases are being reported now. This is worrisome even though maximum number of new cases are concentrated in a few states,” said the health minister on the sidelines of a function at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Active cases go past 2,000The number of active cases in Mohali district crossed the 2,000 mark on Saturday. A death was also reported, which took the toll to 409. Of 23,297 tested positive since the outbreak, 20,774 have been cured while 2,114 are still undergoing treatment. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases with 292 on Saturday. Amid a surge, the district has recorded 2,982 cases and 24 deaths in March so far, up from 840 and 20, respectively, in February. Continuing with their drive against violators, the district authorities 49 people for not wearing masks while 75 were made to undergo RT-PCR tests during checking in busy markets till 4pm.Chandigarh logs 200+ cases for 4th dayChandigarh for the fourth consecutive day reported 200+ cases, taking the total to 24,220 and active cases to 1,717. Meanwhile, a 45-year-old women from Sector 25 died, taking the number of fatalities to 361.In just 20 days this month, around 2,500 cases have been reported in the city with weekly positivity rate touching a worrisome level of 10%, second only to Maharashtra’s 17.9%. Also, against the seven-day growth rate of 0.28% at the national level, Chandigarh has the third highest growth rate of 0.73% among states and UTs after Punjab (0.94%) and Maharashtra (0.85%). To ensure compliance, Chandigarh Police have directed all station house officers to intensify the drive against those not wear masks and not following social distancing in public places. All deputy superintendents of police are to submit daily report on challans to the police headquarters at 10am. “We have issued more than 500 challans to people for not wearing masks. We have also started a door-to-door awareness campaign to encourage people to follow all safety norms,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. P’kula DC for strict enforcementThe infection tally has climbed to 11,825 in Panchkula district, with 642 cases active, up from 124 on March 1. While 11,034 patients have been cured and discharged, 149 have died. Amid the surge, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has directed organisers of all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural and religious programmes to take prior permission from his office before holding congregations or functions. All subdivisional magistrates and station house officers have been told to ensure that no gathering takes place without permission. Any violation will invite penal action under Section 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/health-minister-raises-concern-over-covid-surge-in-chandigarh-tricity-101616267377526.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Minerva Punjab FC kicks off search for talent at grassroots||Chandigarh’s Ranjit Bajaj is focused on his goal. His passion for football and the knack of scouting for talent made him start Minerva Punjab FC in 2014 that went on to win the All-India Football Federation (AIFF) backed I-League in the 2017-18 season. Now, he has kicked off efforts to groom players for the Indian team that can qualify for the 2034 FIFA World Cup. “I want to provide the best to the Under-8 and Under-10 age-group footballers. My academy should be a feeder for the Indian team, which should be able to qualify for the FIFA World Cup in 2034,” says Ranjit, who is holding trials and will be travelling across India to look for budding footballers in the coming months. The 42-year-old has played for India U-19 football team in the Asian School games and also featured in the Santosh Trophy and Durand Cup. The son of retired bureaucrats BR Bajaj and Rupan Deol Bajaj, he is credited with bringing football back to the region after Punjab-based Jagatjit Cotton & Textile Football Club (JCT) was disbanded in 2011. Bio-secure bubble at academy Ranjit’s academy has coached more than 49 individual players and 172 selections for various age group India teams in the last six years. At present, there are 200 young footballers as trainees. “We have created a bio-secure bubble at the academy to keep the Covid-19 infection at bay. The present lot is subjected to professional training. Nation-wide trials are on the cards for identifying such U-8 and U-10 players,” he says. “Our residential academy is making its presence felt,” says Ranjit, a faculty and chief operating officer at his grandfather Lt Col Deol’s Minerva Academy in Mohali, which trains students for defence services. In 2018, Minerva created history when it held all national titles across all age groups at the same time. On his inspiration, Ranjit says, “I wanted to be part of my grandfather’s legacy and his vision. We have provided budding footballers with the best facilities at Minerva Academy Football Club.” Serving football at the grassroots Bajaj surprised everyone by selling off his I-League victorious team to lifestyle and well-being firm RoundGlass in 2020. “When we won the I-League, it was like tasting redemption. I proved a point to myself through the title win. I did not see any profit in investing in a team for I-League as AIFF has given more prominence to the Indian Super League (ISL),” he says but doesn’t rule out a comeback in the I-League in the coming years. For now, he is focused on conducting more India-wide trials to scout for talent for his academy and organise international tours for them. He says he will continue to serve Indian football at the grassroots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minerva-punjab-fc-kicks-off-search-for-talent-at-grassroots-101616267137506.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Even semester to start from March 24 at Panjab University||As per the revised academic calendar for 2020-21, online classes for even semester students of ongoing batches, will start from March 24. For the new batches, classes will start from April 10.The even semester for the first year postgraduate students will start from April 1. The revised academic calendar was issued to teaching departments, regional centres and affiliated colleges on Friday.According to the revised calendar, the even semester exams will be held from June 28 to July 31 and summer vacations have been tentatively scheduled from August 1 to 8. However, exams for PG first-year students will be held from July 12 to 31. The next academic session will start from August 9 in PU and its affiliated colleges.A PU panel had suggested shortening the gap between the current and upcoming academic session to minimise the impact of delay due to pandemic.The calendar was revised amid the delay in the start of academic term and odd-semester examinations which was scheduled to be held in December, but was postponed to February, due to the Covid outbreak.Meanwhile, PU’s dean university instruction (DUI), VR Sinha, on Saturday said that the ongoing online exams of the varsity will continue as per schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/even-semester-to-start-from-march-24-at-panjab-university-101616267017492.html
21-03-2021||Other||Access to lower courts in Jammu restricted in view of surging infections||As a precautionary measure in view of the surge in Covid 19 cases, access to lower courts in Jammu have been restricted to accused and witnesses only. A lawyer said that an order was issued by the principal district and sessions judge on Saturday. “Only litigants and witnesses will be allowed access to lower courts because of a surge in Covid 19 cases. We appreciate the order issued by the principal district and session court,” he added. There are 800 to 1, 000 lawyers who work in the lower court. “Under this order only litigants like accused and witnesses will be allowed,” he added. Another advocate said that given the existing circumstances, the traffic police should be allowed to impose and charge penalties from the violators on the spot and avoid sending the violators to the courts. “Courts also impose and charge penalties on the violators and hence this practice should be done away with till the situation normalised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/access-to-lower-courts-in-jammu-restricted-in-view-of-surging-infections-101616266897381.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mother and two sons go under knife together for dual organ transplant||At the end of a 14-hour procedure that required doctors at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital to carry out simultaneous surgeries on three people, Mumbra resident Tabish Mulla, 25, has received a new lease of life thanks to organs donations from his brother and mother.In 2014, Mulla was diagnosed with primary hyperoxaluria, a rare condition characterised by recurring kidney stones. His liver failed to produce the enzyme alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGA), which led to kidney stones. In 2019, after his kidney failed, Mulla was put on dialysis. Every alternate day, he would receive dialysis for six hours. After some time, his liver also started showing signs of damage. The only way to save Mulla was with dual kidney and liver transplantation. “This condition couldn’t be treated by a kidney transplant alone. A simultaneous liver transplant was also needed to ensure the enzyme defect in metabolizing oxalate was also cured and the newly-transplanted kidney didn’t get destroyed with oxalate deposition,” said Dr AS Soin, director of liver transplant at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital. However, since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been an over-100% drop in cadaveric donations (which allow organs to be taken from a brain-dead person). However, Mulla’s mother Shabana, 53, and elder brother Danish, 28, said they would donate their organs. “The patient could be saved because of his mother and brother,” said Dr Percy Chibber, Mulla’s doctor and chief kidney transplant surgeon at the hospital. Dr Chibber it could have taken Mulla one or two years to get cadaveric donors. On February 8, Mulla, Danish and Shabab went into surgery at the same time. It took 14 hours and a group of 35 doctors to complete the simultaneous surgeries. “Once the liver team had completed the liver transplant, we transplanted the kidney from his mother,” said Dr Chibber. “In a liver donation, a part of the liver is divided and removed from the donor and implanted into the recipient,” he explained. Mulla’s father, Gani, 58, remembers seeing doctors rushing from one operating room to another. “My wife and both my sons were undergoing surgeries at the same time in different rooms. They had to retrieve the organs and transplant it into Tabish’s body. It was a vulnerable moment for me,” said Gani. A little more than a month later, the donors and the recipient are doing well. For the last eight months, the Mulla family have been living in a rented home in the Dockyard area so that none of the patients have to undergo the 13-kilometre journey from Mumbra to the hospital. Mulla has to be extra careful as he is on immunosuppressants, which makes him more vulnerable to contracting Covid-19. “The doctors have counselled us about the precautionary measures to be taken as my immunity is low. But so far, I am better and haven’t developed any form infections,” said Mulla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mother-and-two-sons-go-under-knife-together-for-dual-organ-transplant-101616266598517.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||In Haryana, over 3.85 lakh people inoculated in six days||The Haryana health department has administered over 3.85 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses to beneficiaries in the last six days.Additional chief secretary (ACS) health, Rajeev Arora said that the unique concept of initiating mega vaccination day, two days a week, has been rewarding.The state has already administered Covid-19 vaccine doses to about 9.07 lakh beneficiaries so far.Arora said the health department successfully administered vaccine doses to 14,581 beneficiaries on Saturday. He said that the department plans to intensify the vaccination drive and administer the vaccine doses to everyone in state in the near future.The concept of mega vaccination day was introduced on March 15 when 1.5 lakh beneficiaries were administered the vaccine.Thereafter, vaccine doses were administered to 67,650 beneficiaries on Tuesday, 14,199 on March 17, 68,858 on March 18, 60,944 on March 19, and 14,581 on March 20.On administration of vaccine doses to healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), the ACS said 1,75,736 HCWs were administered the first dose, which cover around 80% HCWs, and around 1,05,210 HCWs were administered the second dose, which covers around 60 % HCWs.He added that 93,371 FLWs were administered the first dose of vaccine, which covers 69% FLWs, and 28,426 FLWs were the second dose, which is 30%.Among people above 60 years, those within the age group of 45 to 60 years with co-morbidities, and general citizens, first dose of the vaccine was given to 5,04,735 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-haryana-over-3-85-lakh-people-inoculated-in-six-days-101616266597297.html
21-03-2021||Other||Haryana to make direct payments of MSP to farmers from April 1||From the coming rabi harvesting season beginning from April 1, the Haryana government is going to implement 100% direct payment to farmers for all crops procured on the minimum support price (MSP) replacing the age-old method of paying farmers via ahrtiyas.Amid pressure from Centre, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday made it clear that the state government has decided to ensure 100% online transfer of payments directly into the accounts of farmers.Centre is trying to implement direct payment since 2012 and even direct directions in this regard were issued in 2016, but the state government had failed to implement the plan following protests by ahrtiyas.Ready for 100% direct paymentOfficials from the Haryana foods and civil supplies department said that they are ready for 100% direct payment to farmers as they have completed all formalities, and registration on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal are on.“In the last Kharif harvesting season, around 50% payments were paid directly in accounts of farmers and from this year the payment will be disbursed with 48-hours of the procurement and submitting of the J-Form,” said Anurag Rastogi, additional chief secretary, Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department.Biggest reform for mandi systemAs per agriculture experts, if implemented successfully, the move will be the biggest ever reform in the mandi system of Haryana as it will not only give more financial powers to farmers but will also help put check on bogus procurements for which government had to pay crores every harvesting season.“This decision will shift the financial powers from ahrtiyas to farmers. Currently, ahrtiyas get payment of produce of their farmers and they pay farmers as per their convenience. But once direct payment is implemented, they will depend on farmers to clear their dues,” said commission agent Parveen Kumar, of Nilokheri grain market.As per the mandi officials, e-trading and direct payment will put a check on illegal trade in the mandis as farmers will have to give all their details and a copy of their land ownership to get a gate pass to sell their produce.To create rift between farmers, ahrtiasThe decision also assumes significance amid ongoing protests by farmers against Centre’s three farm laws as the decision will help government ‘create a division between farmers and ahrtiyas’.Since most farmers unions in state are in favour of direct payment and ahrtiyas are opposing it, the move will curtail the latter’s financial powers and will have to depend on farmers to clear their dues.Even officials in the Haryana Agriculture Marketing Board said that over 90% registered farmers have adopted option of direct payment.“Getting direct payment of their produce is right of every farmer. Why are commission agents demanding payment of farmers’ produce into their account? Ahrtiyas do not have any right on payment of our produce and they have already taken cheques from farmers for their dues,” said Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Ratan Mann, adding that this move will also bring transparency as the commission agents will not be able to provide fake J-Forms to tax evaders.Ahrtiyas to oppose moveWithin Haryana, ahrtiyas have threatened to boycott upcoming wheat harvest season if the state government implements the shift.“We have already held a state-level meeting in Kurukshetra in this regard. Most commission agents are against direct payment to famers. We have decided to take up the issue with the government,” said Ashok Gupta, president of Haryana Ahrtiyas Association.“But if the government fails to consider our demands, we will decide further course of action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-make-direct-payments-of-msp-to-farmers-from-april-1-101616266418942.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 96K seats vacant, education dept to have another round for FYJC admissions||With over 96,000 first-year junior colleges (FYJC) seats in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) remaining vacant this year, the education department has decided to give the last chance to students who still wish to confirm their admissions. Admissions will also reopen in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nagpur Municipal Corporation areas.As per a notification released by the office of the deputy director on Friday, yet another first come first served round will be conducted between March 19 and 26 for students, who are yet to confirm seats in any college. Students who wish to apply for the round can log into the admission portal and claim seats against vacancies in colleges as indicated there. They can then confirm their admissions by paying fees online by March 26.“Since some students had asked for more time to confirm their admissions, we have decided to give them one last chance. The portal will close for admissions on March 26,” said an official from the state education department.While students are not allowed to cancel their seats during this period, junior colleges can do so and get the cancellation approved by the office of the deputy director. Once admission is cancelled, students cannot get another allotment in this round.This year the department conducted seven admission rounds including regular rounds and first come first served rounds. However, even after that, over 36,000 students in MMR were still yet to be admitted. Officials are hoping that those yet to be admitted complete their process in the last round for the academic year 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-96k-seats-vacant-education-dept-to-have-another-round-for-fyjc-admissions-101616266177241.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM directs Haffkine to start talks with firms that have developed Covid-19 vaccine||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday directed the state-run Haffkine Institute to speed up the process for manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines. He has also directed the institute to start talks with firms that have developed Covid-19 vaccines and seek the Centre’s help in developing its own biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) facility, which refers to biocontainment precautions required in establishments where personnel work with agents that may cause serious or potentially-lethal disease through inhalation. Thackeray’s directives came during his visit to Haffkine Institute where he reviewed the institute’s preparations to set up a new plant at an estimated cost of ₹154 crore, for the manufacture of the Covid vaccine in collaboration with Bharat Biotech. “The institute should focus on developing the Covid-19 vaccine and make all attempts to get desired permission and technology. It should also initiate talks with other firms that have developed Covid-19 vaccine,” Thackeray told officials during the review meeting on Saturday. The institute, during the first week of this month, had sought permission from the Centre to start fill and finish operations, which if approved would allow Haffkine Institute to bottle vaccines and pack them as a product after receiving the vaccines in bulk from Bharat Biotech, said Sandip Rathod, managing director of Haffkine Institute. Earlier, in January, Haffkine Institute had sought permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech, which has developed the first indigenous Covid vaccine Covaxin. To participate in the process of making the vaccine, the institute needs a BSL-3 facility. ICMR is the country’s apex body for formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research. Haffkine Institute is a public sector undertaking, owned by Maharashtra’s state government. In the past, it has developed a number of vaccines, including the anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum and polio vaccine. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said Haffkine Institute has enough land to set up manufacturing facility. “Considering the state’s population of 12 crore, it would require vaccines in bulk as each person is required to get two doses. They may also have to get inoculated every year. Hence, chief minister wants the institute to prepare accordingly as there are many firms that have developed vaccines which are also effective,” Kunte said, adding that the BSL-3 facility could be used to develop vaccines for other diseases in the future. Last week, during a video conference meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the CM, Modi had said industries and institutions interested in manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine would be encouraged to do so by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-directs-haffkine-to-start-talks-with-firms-that-have-developed-covid-19-vaccine-101616265877755.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||PGI must create a model to achieve health for all: Dr Harsh Vardhan||Union minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan inaugurated multiple facilities at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh on Saturday. The minister inaugurated the National Resource Centre for oral healthcare of children and the elderly (OHSC), advanced positron emission tomography (PET) scan and computed tomography (CT) facility, advanced vascular interventional lab, 384 slice dual source CT scan and refractive surgery suite (SMILE) facilities in different departments. Speaking on the occasion, Vardhan said PGIMER is one of the premier medical Institutes of India, providing specialised medical services to all five northern states of the country. He congratulated medical professionals and the scientific community for rising to the challenge and diligently fighting against the coronavirus and also bringing out a vaccine in such a short time. “PGI should create a successful model to enable the world to move towards health for all. It should also mentor other institutions. PGI should develop a new journey, new vision for the scientific community,” he said. On the OHSC, he said the sole purpose of this resource centre was to provide a model of oral health care delivery to children and the elderly in Chandigarh and thereafter support the National Oral Health Programme (NOHP) in replicating this model across the nation. The OHSC at PGIMER will be instrumental in substantially reducing the oral disease burden of the country.On World Oral Health Day, the minister said the government of India had envisaged the NOHP under the umbrella of the National Health Mission to provide affordable, accessible and equitable oral healthcare delivery in a well-coordinated manner to provide ‘optimal oral health’ for all. “The national oral health policy has been drafted under NOHP and is expected to roll out soon,” he said. Vardhan said the newly installed state-of-the-art robotic arm-assisted PET/CT guided intervention device at the advanced PET-CT facility provides real-time 3D visualisation of lesions for biopsies; less needle manipulations, repeat punctures and repeat scans during complex procedures. On the advanced vascular intervention lab, the minister said the cath lab in PGIMER was the first of its kind with hi-tech artificial intelligence software, transforming the management of stroke patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgi-must-create-a-model-to-achieve-health-for-all-dr-harsh-vardhan-101616265577078.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 booked for stealing from donation boxes in Mohali temple||Two people were booked for stealing cash from six donation boxes in Pracheen Shiv Mandir, popularly known as Baba Bal Bharti Mandir, in Mataur on Saturday.The theft came to light in the morning when the sewadar, Hukum Chand, opened the doors of the temple. The locks of three donation boxes were found broken while three donation boxes were missing. The empty boxes were found at some distance from the temple.Chand told the police that he had locked the temple at around 9.15pm on Friday and found the lock of the main gate broken and the cash stolen around 4.45am.The closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage shows two people entering the temple around 1.29am. Chand said there was approximately ₹40,000 in the donation boxes as they had not been opened after Shivratri. A case was registered, and a search has been launched for the accused.Police suspect that the culprits have also targeted a few religious institutions in the past. Earlier, this week, the police had released photographs of the accused involved in theft at religious institutions.2 minors arrested for stealing from temple in ChandigarhMeanwhile, police apprehended two teenagers for stealing ₹16,000 from a donation box in a temple in Milk Colony, Dhanas, Chandigarh, on Saturday.Police were able to identify and arrest the accused, who are aged 15 and 17, with the help of CCTV grabs and an eyewitness. The accused are school dropouts. The teenagers were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board.The theft had come to light on March 17 when Shankar, the sewadar of the Sanatan Dharam Mandir, found the donation box in the Shani Temple missing and alerted the police.In his complaint, the priest, Tilamani, said the temple was closed around 9pm on March 16 but when Shankar went to open the temple around 5.30am the next day, he found its locks broken. On conducting a search of the premises, police recovered an empty cash donation box.A case under Sections 380 ( theft in dwelling house) and 457 ( house-breaking) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-booked-for-stealing-from-donation-boxes-in-mataur-temple-101616265457136.html
21-03-2021||Other||MC truck runs over 21-year-old Ludhiana woman||A 21-year-old woman riding a scooter was crushed to death by a speeding municipal corporation (MC) truck near Chand Cinema on Saturday.The victim has been identified as Ekta, a resident of Basant Nagar, Noorwala Road.Her father, Davinder Verma, told the police that Ekta had completed graduation from Master Tara Singh Memorial College for Women and was pursuing IELTS coaching to pursue further education in Canada.On Saturday afternoon, she was returning home from her classes. As she reached near Chand Cinema, a speeding MC truck hit her scooter from behind, throwing her on the road.Before she could recover, the truck ran over her, killing her on the spot.Onlookers tried to nab the truck driver, but he managed to flee the spot after abandoning the vehicle.“A case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified truck driver. He will be nabbed soon,” said Davinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Division Number 4 police station.The victim is survived by her parents and a 17-year-old brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mc-truck-runs-over-21-year-old-ludhiana-woman-101616265398810.html
21-03-2021||Other||TRS candidate vani devi wins one MLC seat in Telangana||Hyderabad: Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister of India PV Narasimha Rao, was on Saturday elected to Telangana state legislative council from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar graduates’ constituency, after the counting of second preferential votes. The election took place on March 14 and the counting of votes began on March 17. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is likely to win the second MLC seat from Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency as well. TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who is fighting the elections for the second consecutive time, was leading the table during the counting of second preferential votes, till filing of this report. Vani Devi, who contested the election on TRS ticket, defeated her nearest rival N Ramachander Rao of BJP, who is the sitting MLC from the constituency. She secured 1,87,339 votes in the final round after counting of second preferential votes, as against 1,68,520 votes required for winning the seat, accounting for 50% of the total votes polled. Apart from the BJP candidate, two others – G Chinna Reddy of the Congress and K Nageshwar, who contested as an independent – stood among the top contenders. Several TRS leaders including K T Rama Rao, Harish Rao and their cabinet colleagues congratulated Vani Devi for winning the MLC seat. “It is an endorsement of KCR’s policies by the educated voters,” Harish Rao said. BJP official spokesman K Krishnasagar Rao said the BJP would respect the mandate given by the graduate voters and humbly accept the electoral outcome. He, however, alleged that KCR had crowded the contest by ensuring multiple social influencers in the fray, which was an unethical attempt to confuse the electorate and split BJP vote. Congress candidate Chinna Reddy said the TRS had won the MLC elections purely because of its money power and it was unfortunate that the unemployed graduates were sold out to the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trs-candidate-vani-devi-wins-one-mlc-seat-in-telangana-101616265396483.html
21-03-2021||Other||Decision to delist from national scheme: Centre’s coffee plantation call leaves farmers in lurch||Hyderabad: A recent decision of the Central government to delist coffee plantation work from permissible activities under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme (MGNREGP) scheme has left more than one lakh tribal farmers in forest areas of Visakhapatnam in the lurch. The Union ministry of rural development conveyed to the Andhra Pradesh government in September, stating that the MGNREGP would no more be applicable to works taken up in the coffee plantations in the tribal areas of Viskakhapatnam, where the famed ’Araku coffee’ is produced. “The decision was taken following a recommendation made by the Coffee Board of India in April 2020 itself. Their contention is that coffee plantation is not a perennial crop. Secondly, coffee is also a commercial crop. Hence, it cannot come under MGNREGP,” Andhra Pradesh commissioner of panchayat raj and rural development M Girija Shankar said. He said the state government had already written twice to the Union ministry to reconsider its decision. “Our chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, too, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and our MPs, too, represented the matter with the Centre, but we fail to understand why the Centre is refusing to concede to our request,” Shankar said. The Andhra Pradesh government has been promoting coffee plantation under MGNREGP since 2009-10, as an area specific work in the Scheduled V areas (tribal pockets) of the Eastern Ghats in Visakhapatnam. “Only wage component tasks such as pitting, planting and intercultural operations, are taken up under MGNREGP and the material component is being met by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) and the Coffee Board. Funds are directly paid to the bank accounts of the beneficiary ,” the commissioner said, adding that the total wage component under the project was around ₹32,000 per acre. According to Dr Salijamala Venkateswar, project officer of ITDA, Paderu, the Centre had permitted coffee plantation works in Visakhapatnam as a special project. Normally, MGNREGP doesn’t cover agriculture labour, but covers manual labour under horticulture, sericulture, plantation and farm forestry. “It was basically aimed at preventing the tribal people from undertaking shifting cultivation that results in destruction of forest areas and providing them a sustained livelihood. Since they have very small landholding – from half acre to a maximum of two acres, payment of wages under the MGNREGP would go a long way to improve their living standards,” Venkateshwar said. He said under this programme, each tribal farmer was getting on an average of ₹245 per day and on an average, there were 81 person days during a year. “On an average, each tribal used to get ₹20-25,000 per year towards wages under the project. Now, they are deprived of the same,” he said. According to the ITDA official, the Coffee Board took the decision to delist the Araku coffee plantation works from MGNREGP, as it was under pressure from other coffee-growing states like Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to include their coffee plantations, too, under the project. “However, there is a fundamental difference between Andhra Pradesh coffee growers and other states. In our state, it is grown exclusively by tribals for their livelihood, whereas in other states, they are grown in coffee estates in lakhs of acres,” Venkateshwar said. The state government represented to the Centre that as coffee plantations in Paderu and Araku areas provide sustainable income resources to primitive tribal households, their activity may be permitted under MGNREGP. “We pointed out that when the project is applicable for rubber plantations in Kerala, it could be applied to coffee plantations in Araku as well,” Shankar said. As per the MGNREGP guidelines, any plant that is perennial in nature and suitable to the agro-climatic conditions can be brought under the scheme. “Coffee plantation too was taken up as an area specific work in the tribal areas of Visakhapatnam district where the altitude and climatic conditions favours it,” he said. Stating that the coffee plantation was a game changer in the tribal areas, the commissioner said delisting it from MGNREGP would adversely impact the livelihood of vulnerable tribals. “Since, as per Land Transfer Regulation Act 1 of 1970, the transfer of tribal land to non-tribals is banned, there is no scope for coffee cultivation by non-tribals in this area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-to-delist-from-national-scheme-centre-s-coffee-plantation-call-leaves-farmers-in-lurch-101616265336479.html
21-03-2021||Other||B’luru start-up opens up new market for veggie, fruit farmers||Bengaluru: Shyam Benegal’s ‘Manthan’ (1976), based on Verghese Kurien’s milk cooperative movement, inspired TN Manjunath to set up ‘Humus’ - a Bengaluru-based start-up that sources fruits and vegetables from the farmers in and around Karnataka. Humus procures over 100 commodities from nearly 1,000 farmers from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, which is sold at three retail outlets in Bengaluru’s Yelahanka, JP Nagar and Vidyaranyapura. On Friday evening, wooden pushcarts painted sky blue were lined up inside a simple big box store in Vidyaranyapura. Customers took their time to pick the best from a fresh lot of vegetables offered at a 20% discount on market rates. “One of the learnings we picked from the ‘Amul model’ was setting up collection points,” said Manjunath, who started the Humus with his business partner and wife Shilpa Gopalaiah in 2019. “The collection points present farmers with an option of not paying the 10% commission to an agent APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) and saving another 5% on transportation,” he added. Manjunath, who was a teaching faculty in an engineering college in Bengaluru, said coming from a family of farmers, he always wanted to do something in the agriculture field. “We are trying to create an agri value chain. That is to connect four major verticals — production, processing, procurement and marketing. We are now working on procurement and sales and marketing to build trust with consumers and farmers. To master all verticals, we will need at least a decade,” he said. Manjunath said that one of the changes needed was to move from a production-driven agriculture model to a sales-driven model. “We believe it has to be sales-driven agri model. Our farmers produce the yield and struggle to sell it. So, if we have a clear idea about the demand, the production is streamlined. The stores we run provides us data to share with the farmers who are associated with us,” he said. Humus has six collection centres in Dibburahalli, Attibele, Pandavapura, Ooty, CK Palli and Malur. Taking even small quantities from farmers is what make them stand out, says Manjunath. “To send their produce to an APMC a farmer has to opt for a single crop system. For a farmer producing 100-500kg of a vegetable, taking it to the APMC would not be convenient, considering the transportation charges. At the same time, we accept smaller quantities and we are located close to the farming hubs. Farmers who work with us bring their produce on even motorcycles,” he said. Talking about expanding the model further, he said that like Amul, Humus wants to have collection points in every Hobli (collection of 50 villages) in the state. The company plans to expand to tier 2 cities of Karnataka as well. Srinivasa Prasad, a retired government employee and customer said that apart from the lower cost compared to the market, knowing that a farmer is getting his right dues attracted him to the store. “I walked in seeing the carts parked together and later I realised produces were coming straight from the farmer. There should be more such models. But we hope there is more organic produce,” he said. Manjunath said that their business model would allow the farmers to return to organic methods of farming, but would take time. “There is an assumption that the yield will be less in the organic method but it is not true. Over the years, the fertiliser industry has misled farmers and made them use chemicals even though the soil was rich. It did boost yield, but only by a small margin. The long-term result was that only 5% of the farming is now organic and our groundwater levels are depleting,” he said. He said a quick change to organic farming will not be practical. “If we are able to procure from these farmers over a long period of time and when the trust is built, a shift from chemical-based farming to organic farming, in a phased manner is desirable. To ask them to immediately change their way is not practical,” he added. While talking about ongoing protests against the new farm laws, which farmers’ union claim would lead to the corporatisation of the agriculture sector, Manjunath said that farmers continue to have the option of choosing between private markets or APMCs. “Agri sector is huge. No, individual entity can’t take control over the sector. Such a monopoly has happened in the telecom industry because they are tech-enabled. But agriculture requires a fraternity of people to run the show,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-start-up-opens-up-new-market-for-veggie-fruit-farmers-101616265277089.html
21-03-2021||Other||Sexual exploitation case:SIT questions Jarkiholi for four hours||Bengaluru: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday questioned former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarikohi over the alleged sexual exploitation case. Officers’ familiar with the development said that the minister was questioned for four hours at the Bengaluru police’s technical cell in Adugodi. A senior officer in the SIT said that in the on-camera questioning, more than 50 questions were asked to the former minister. Jariholi told SIT officials that he was aware of the tape for four months but didn’t pay attention to it. “When the video was shown to him, he said that it was fake. He claimed that he doesn’t know the woman in the video. When the call records between him and woman were presented, he repeated that he doesn’t know the woman,” said an SIT officer. Jarkiholi went on to add that the tape was released as a part of a political conspiracy and asked the SIT to probe into it. He said that a call for ransom came through a legislator. However, SIT didn’t reveal the name of the legislator. Jarkiholi resigned from the state cabinet a day after allegations of sexual exploitation surfaced against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Gokak in Belagavi district on March 3. Subsequently, he had filed a complaint alleging extortion. Meanwhile, the SIT on Friday served notices to three people — the woman who accused the former state minister Ramesh Jarkiholi of sexual exploitation and two absconding journalists Naresh Gowda and Shravan, who are wanted for involvement in the case. On Thursday, Naresh Gowda released a video message claiming innocence. On March 12, the SIT questioned Gowda for his alleged involvement in leaking the video. Gowda has since been absconding. In the video, he claimed that he did not appear before the investigating officers because he believed he will be fixed in the case. “My name has been dragged into the alleged sexual exploitation case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. There is a systematic effort to fix my involvement in the case,” said Gowda.Meanwhile, social activist Dinesh Kallahalli, who filed a complaint against Jarkiholi, had submitted a three-page written statement to SIT on Friday, responding to the notice issued to him. In his response, he said that a journalist he knew for many years approached him with the video allegedly of the minister. He added that hat the woman in the CD is a friend of the journalist who approached him. On Wednesday, a Bengaluru-based non-government organisation (NGO) had filed a petition before the Karnataka High Court, claiming the investigation in the alleged sexual exploitation case involving the former state minister violated the provisions of the Nirbhaya Act, 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sexual-exploitation-case-sit-questions-jarkiholi-for-four-hours-101616265276524.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to address farmer rally in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Punjab on Sunday in support of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.The AAP, in a statement, said the Kisan Mahapanchayat will be held at Anaj Mandi, Bagha Purana and Moga.Kejriwal will also address a Kisan Mahapanchayat at Huda Maidan in Jind, Haryana on April 4.The chief minister earlier held a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’’s Meerut.“The Aam Aadmi Party has been with the farmers since the beginning. AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will lend his voice to this pertinent issue at tomorrow’’s Kisan Mahapanchayat,” the AAP said.The AAP has extended full support to the farmers protesting against the three farm laws that seek to deregulate farm trade. Kejriwal visited Singhu border, where farmers are protesting, and have reiterated his support to them on a number of occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-punjab-s-moga-101616264496402.html
21-03-2021||Delhi||Three gang rape 25-yr-old in car after tiff with her brother in Aya Nagar||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted by three men in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar early on Friday morning after she allegedly intervened in a fight that her brother was having with the men over giving passage to their vehicle.Barely half an hour later, and less than a kilometre ahead, the same trio fought with a truck driver and four labourers over the same issue and robbed the trucker of his purse containing ₹30,000, his driving licence, Aadhaar card and ATM card, the police said.Late in the evening on Friday, the three suspects were finally arrested from a forested area in Aya Nagar, where they were hiding, police said. The SUV used in abducting the woman was also recovered, along with the truck driver’s purse and ₹5,200 of the looted money, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur.The arrested men were identified as residents of Aya Nagar and live nearly 300 metres away from the woman’s house. The woman and her brother had identified the suspects and had noted down the SUV’s registration number, which helped the investigating team locate and nab the suspects, the police said.Around 3am on Friday, DCP Thakur said, the woman’s brother was walking in a lane near his house when three men arrived in a white Scorpio car and entered into an altercation with him over giving passage to their vehicle.“As the woman intervened and tried to save her brother, the three men forcefully bundled her in their car and started sexually assaulting her, even as her brother raised the alarm and alerted the neighbours,” said DCP Thakur.The police said that later, the suspects let go of the woman and fled as the brother had raised the alarm and sought help from neighbours. At 3.36 am, the police control room was informed about the crime. A police team arrived and took the woman to a hospital for medical examination.While the police were carrying out an enquiry at the spot, at 4.06 am, the police control room received another call regarding a robbery committed by three men travelling in a white Scorpio car. Another police team reached the crime scene — that was less than a kilometre from the place where the woman was sexually assaulted.The caller Shahzad, a truck driver, told the police that he along with four labourers were unloading bricks from his truck when three men arrived in an SUV and started abusing and assaulting them over giving passage to their vehicle. Shahzad alleged that the trio robbed his purse containing ₹30,000 and other documents, the DCP said.“On the basis of the woman’s complaint and her medical examination, we registered a case of gang-rape, abduction, and criminal intimidation under Indian Penal Code Sections 376D, 365 and 506. The second case of robbery and common intention was registered on Shahzad’s complaint,” said DCP Thakur.During the investigation of the cases, the DCP said, it was revealed that both the crimes were committed by the same three men travelling in a white Scorpio car. Multiple teams were formed and a manhunt was launched to nab the suspects and recover the vehicle. They scanned CCTV cameras to identify the routes the vehicle had taken. Since the woman and her brothers had identified the suspects, the police had to ensure that the three were caught before they could leave the city, said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Through human intelligence network, the police located the vehicle that was parked at a dwelling house in Aya Nagar. The suspects were arrested from a forested area late in the evening. None of them had previous criminal records. All three are into the business of building construction materials supply, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-gang-rape-25-yr-old-in-car-after-tiff-with-her-brother-in-aya-nagar-101616263616362.html
21-03-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh’s letter was unsigned, still verifying email: Thackeray’s office||The Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office (CMO) on Saturday said that the letter from sacked Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleging corruption by state home minister Anil Deshmukh was received from a different e-mail address and was without his signature."A letter in the name of Commandant General of Home Guard Param Bir Singh was received by the official email of chief minister office at 4:37pm. The email address, paramirs3@gmail.com from which the unsigned letter bearing the name of Param Bir Singh, is being verified. At the same time, efforts are being made to get in touch with Param Bir Singh through the home department," Maharashtra CMO said in a statement."The personal email address given by Param Bir Singh in the official list of IPS officers is parimbirs@hotmail.com. Therefore, it is necessary to verify the email received today," it added.Some reports claimed that Singh wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleging that Deshmukh asked Sachin Vaze - a suspended policeman who has been arrested in connection with the case - to collect ₹100 crore from various establishments in Mumbai.Singh, who was transferred to the Home Guards on March 17 following the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in the case related to the bomb scare near Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia, said he was made a scapegoat.Responding to the letter, Deshmukh said Singh was hurling false accusations "to save his skin" in the Vaze case, adding he will file a defamation case against him.Earlier in the day, Deshmukh had rubbished the allegations saying Singh was trying to save himself as his role in the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case and Mansukh Hiran's death was getting clearer. “There are possibilities of him getting exposed,” Deshmukh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-signature-param-bir-singh-s-letter-not-sent-from-official-email-id-maha-cmo-101616259951444.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster shot at: Sonepat police search rival criminal’s house, recover weapons||The Sonepat police on Saturday searched the locked house of dreaded criminal Ram Karan at Bayanpur village in district after accused cop, Mahesh Kumar confessed before the police that the criminal had provided him an illegal weapon and ₹50,000 in exchange for killing his rival gangster Ajay Barona.Police have recovered one broken revolver, three magazine weapons (fire arms), one rifle, and over 600 live cartridges from Ram Karan’s home during a search operation, which was underway till filing of this report.Besides, they also recovered ₹3 lakh in cash, Audi and Endeavour SUVs and some gold ornaments.Sonepat city SHO Devender Kumar said that the accused cop has confessed that he attacked gangster Ajay while escorting him outside the Sonepat court complex on behest of Ram Karan.“The accused cop said that the criminal had given him an illegal weapon (which was used in the crime) and ₹50,000 to kill Ajay Barona. We have taken search warrants from the court of chief judicial magistrate Saurabh Gupta. We recovered weapons and over 600 cartridges from Ram Karan’s house. He was planning to execute a major crime after coming out of jail on parole. We have registered a case under the Arms Act against Ram Karan, who is at large,” the SHO added.Cop placed under suspensionThe Haryana Police have placed constable Mahesh Kumar under suspension for shooting at gangster Ajay Barona while escorting him from the Rohtak jail to a Sonepat court on Thursday.A departmental inquiry has been initiated against eight other police personnel who comprised the escort team. Constable Mahesh fired three bullets at Ajay outside the Sonepat court, injuring him critically. He is battling for life at a private hospital in Rohtak. Rohtak deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sajjan Kumar said: “There was negligence on the part of the other policemen, too. We are ascertaining Mahesh’s track record.”Mahesh is in three-day police remand since Friday.Fallout of gang rivalryAjay is booked in 12 cases, including eight for murder. The rival Ram Karan gang that killed his gang’s leader Sandeep Badwasni is being blamed for the attack on him. On Thursday, Ajay’s father Krishan Kumar was shot dead by 8-10 assailants, who barged into his house in Sonepat’s Barona village.Sonepat superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Randhawa said the attacks on Ajay and his father were due to gang war. “We have come to know details after questioning the constable, but everything will be revealed once the probe is completed. Security has been tightened outside the gangster’s house,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonepat-policeman-who-shot-at-gangster-suspended-101616216612576.html
21-03-2021||World||Donald Trump plans social media return with his own platform, adviser tells Fox News||Former US President Donald Trump, suspended from Twitter, Facebook and other social media sites after the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol, plans to launch his own platform in two to three months, one of his senior advisers told Fox News on Sunday.Jason Miller, a spokesman for Trump's 2020 campaign, told the network that Trump would re-enter the social media space with a new platform of his own that would "completely redefine the game."Miller provided no further details, and no comment was immediately available from officials with the Trump Organization.Twitter last week said it would seek public input on when and how it should ban world leaders, saying it was reviewing policy and considering whether the leaders should be held to the same rules as other users.Twitter, Facebook and others have been under scrutiny for the way they handle accounts of politicians and government officials after their ban of Trump for inciting violence.Facebook, which indefinitely suspended Trump in January, has asked its independent oversight board to decide whether the ban should stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-plans-social-media-return-with-his-own-platform-adviser-tells-fox-news-101616348094124.html
21-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Over 122 million cases recorded globally, at least 2.71 million deaths so far||Over 122 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and at least 2.71 million related deaths have been recorded globally so far, according to the data collated by theJohns Hopkins University School of Medicine. The United States continues to be the worst-hit nation in terms of cumulative caseloads, while Brazil and India have the second- and third-highest number of infections in the world respectively. The US has also the most number of fatalities related to Covid-19, followed by Brazil and Mexico.The United States has recorded nearly 29.8 million Covid-19 cases and more than 541,980 related deaths so far. The country, however, is also leading the vaccination drive in absolute terms as more than 121 million doses of vaccine to provide immunity against the infection have been administered. The US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has given the emergency use authorisation to vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson.India has reported nearly 11.6 million Covid-19 cases amid a renewed surge in infection in several states, led by Maharashtra. The daily cases in Maharashtra have been on a rise since February 10 after a majority of economic activities re-opened. India’s richest state on Sunday registered its highest ever single-day spike of 30,535 new Covid-19 cases and 99 related deaths, taking the total caseload tally to 2,479,682 and related deaths to 53,399.Meanwhile, India has administered more than 44.60 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, only behind the US and China, as per the scientific publication Our World in Data. The drug controller general of India (DCGI) has given emergency use authorisation to Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech.Here’s the list of 10 countries with the most number of Covid-19 cases:US - 29.78 millionBrazil - 11.95 millionIndia - 11.59 millionRussia - 4.40 millionUK - 4.30 millionFrance - 4.27 millionItaly - 3.35 millionSpain - 3.21 millionTurkey - 2.99 millionGermany - 2.66 million||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-over-122-million-cases-recorded-globally-at-least-2-71-million-deaths-101616346964646.html
21-03-2021||World||Nepal government alerts public to avoid gatherings, take Covid-19 precautions||Following a surge in Covid-19 cases due to a possible second wave, the Nepal Ministry of Health on Sunday has alerted the public not to hold public meetings and continue to take precautions.Alerted by an increasing number of coronavirus infection cases in other countries, the Health Ministry of the Himalayan Nation asked people not to hold any public events such as assemblies, gatherings, meetings, and seminars to prevent further spread of the virus."In recent weeks the number of Covid-19 infections worldwide has increased especially in our neighboring countries. Owing to the possible increase in the number of cases in Nepal, it is requested not to hold any kind of meetings, processions, rally, gatherings, seminar and any kind of businesses inviting a large number of people and follow social distancing, continue use of masks, wash hands frequently and follow the protocols issued by Ministry," Spokesperson for the Ministry, Dr Jageshwor Gautam stated in a release.Nepal in recent days also has seen a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases though the mortality rate due to the virus has skidded downwards. With the second phase vaccination campaign on hold due to the unavailability of a sufficient number of jabs and delays in delivery from manufacturers, the Himalayan Nation now faces uncertainty.Though more than one million population of about 30 million residents of Nepal have already been administered the first shot of the anti-Covid vaccine, it is yet to be ascertained by when they will get their second dose.India, with which Nepal shares its open border in the south, east, and west, reported 43,846 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, with its richest state Maharashtra again accounting for about 60 per cent of the total infections across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-government-alerts-public-to-avoid-gatherings-take-covid-19-precautions-101616346450226.html
21-03-2021||World||South Africa sells AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines to other African Union member nations||South Africa has concluded the sale of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines it had acquired but did not use to other African Union (AU) member states, the health ministry said on Sunday.The country had paused AstraZeneca vaccinations last month because of a small trial showing the shot offered minimal protection against mild to moderate illness caused by the dominant local coronavirus variant.At the time, South Africa had received 1 million AstraZeneca doses from the Serum Institute of India and the delivery of another 500,000 was pending.The ministry said it had in the past weeks worked to ensure that all member states identified by the AU vaccines acquisition teams as recipients of the vaccines were compliant and had obtained all regulatory approvals, permits and licences to roll out the vaccines in their respective countries."The minister can confirm that the full purchase amount was received by the department on Monday last week," it said in a statement."The first batch of vaccines that is being delivered will benefit 9 member states and the balance will be collected this week to be delivered to 5 other member states."The statement made no mention of prices and did not name the countries that had purchased the vaccines.After pausing the roll-out of the AstraZeneca vaccine, South Africa started inoculating healthcare workers with Johnson & Johnson shots in a research study.The government plans to vaccinate 40 million people, or two-thirds of the population, to achieve some level of herd immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-sells-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccines-to-other-african-union-member-nations-101616344980255.html
21-03-2021||World||UK reports 33 new Covid-19 deaths, lowest daily number since October||The daily number of Covid-19 deaths in the United Kingdom fell to 33 on Sunday, the lowest figure since Oct. 5 and down from peaks of well over 1,000 daily cases in January and February, official data showed.The number of new confirmed cases was 5,312, while the seven-day total number of cases was 38,145, down 4.4% on the previous seven-day period.The number of people who have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine rose to 27.6 million, well over half the adult population. A total of 2.3 million have had both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-reports-33-new-covid-19-deaths-lowest-daily-number-since-october-101616343435869.html
21-03-2021||World||Germany mulls extending curbs into April as Covid-19 worsens||Germany is considering an extension of lockdown restrictions into April and the introduction of new rules for those returning from abroad after Covid-19 infections rose beyond a key level that may prompt action by authorities to prevent the health system becoming overrun.Draft plans, seen by Bloomberg, include mandatory quarantine and coronavirus tests for all people returning from a trip to another country, independently of infection rates at their travel destination. They will be discussed by Chancellor Angela Merkel and regional leaders when they meet on Monday.The national seven-day rate of cases per 100,000 people has risen to 103.9, German health agency Robert Koch Institute said on its website Sunday, taking the rate to the highest since Jan. 26. Separate data from Johns Hopkins University showed cases in the country increased by 24,034 in the 24 hours to Sunday, compared with 10,568 recorded a week earlier.Cases in Germany are rising again after authorities began to relax restrictions in late February and set out a plan to gradually unwind curbs. That plan depends on the infection trend, heightening the stakes for Monday’s talks.Germany uses the incidence rate as a gauge of Covid-19’s spread. If it exceeds 100 for three days in a row, an “emergency brake” provision allows authorities to tighten lockdown measures again. That threshold had been crossed in 9 out of 16 federal states as of Sunday, prompting some state leaders to call for uniform nationwide measures for virus hotspots.“We have an instrument that works: the emergency brake. It must be applied consistently everywhere in Germany,” Bavarian Prime Minister Markus Soeder told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung in an interview. “Otherwise it will become a toothless tiger.”Regional leaders expressed diverging views on what to do ahead of the upcoming Easter holiday when asked by the Welt am Sonntag newspaper. Reiner Haseloff, prime minister of Saxony-Anhalt (incidence rate: 115.1), said people should be able to vacation within the confines of their own region. But Bodo Ramelow, president of Thuringia (incidence rate: 207.7), pleaded with the population not to go on vacation at all.“Whoever believes that you can open up entire holidaying regions without testing in the current phase of the pandemic doesn’t know what’s going on,“ Ramelow told the newspaper.Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union suffered a rout in two regional elections this month. The stuttering pace of the vaccine rollout, irritation with lockdown restrictions in place since late last year and a widening scandal over claims that some conservative lawmakers profited from the pandemic have all taken a toll on her popularity.Still, Merkel was clear last Friday about the threat to the system posed by the virus resurgence. “We are seeing exponential growth” in cases, Merkel said Friday. “We will unfortunately have to make use of the emergency brake.”On Sunday, Merkel’s chief of staff Helge Braun tweeted that the draft paper circulating today didn’t stem from the chancellery, as first reported by Bild newspaper.The resolution calls for companies in Germany to offer their employees two rapid Covid-19 tests per week and states that the federal government will “enact the relevant regulations by the end of March.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-mulls-extending-curbs-into-april-as-covid-19-worsens-101616343138549.html
21-03-2021||World||France rescues 72 migrants in Channel on way to UK||French maritime authorities said they had rescued 72 migrants in the English Channel on Sunday whose vessels ran into difficulties as they tried to reach the UK.Early Sunday, the coastguard was alerted that several boats were in trouble off the coast of Calais.One was picked up by a French patrol boat and the 38 people on board taken to Calais.Meanwhile, 34 more migrants were rescued by a tugboat operated by the French navy and taken to Boulogne-sur-Mer, also on France's Channel coast.All the rescued migrants were in good health and were handed over to rescue services and the border police.Since late 2018, the number of illegal Channel crossings has risen sharply as migrants try to reach Britain despite dangers linked to busy shipping traffic, strong currents and low water temperatures.In 2020 alone, there were some 9,500 crossings or attempted crossings, according to the coastguard, more than four times the previous year's number.Six people died and three went missing trying to cross last year, compared to four dead in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-rescues-72-migrants-in-channel-on-way-to-uk-101616342821890.html
21-03-2021||World||Georgia spa shootings: Gun waiting periods rare in US states but more may be coming||Not long before the deadly Atlanta-area shootings spread fear and anger through Asian American communities nationwide, police say the attacker made a legal purchase: a 9 mm handgun.Within hours, they say, he had killed eight people, seven of them women and six of Asian descent, in a rampage targeting massage businesses.If Georgia had required him to wait before getting a gun, lawmakers and advocates say, he might not have acted on his impulse.“It’s really quick. You walk in, fill out the paperwork, get your background check and walk out with a gun,” said Robyn Thomas, executive director of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “If you’re in a state of crisis, personal crisis, you can do a lot of harm fairly quickly.”The purchase was a normal transaction at Big Woods Goods, a shop north of Atlanta that complies with federal background check laws and is cooperating with police, said Matt Kilgo, a lawyer for the store.“There's no indication there's anything improper," he said.The vast majority of states are like Georgia, allowing buyers to walk out of a store with a firearm after a background check that sometimes can take minutes. Waiting periods are required in just 10 states and the District of Columbia, although several states are considering legislation this year to impose them.Gun control advocates say mandating a window of even a couple of days between the purchase of a gun and taking possession can give more time for background checks and create a “cooling off” period for people considering harming themselves or someone else. Studies suggest that waiting periods may help bring down firearm suicide rates by up to 11% and gun homicides by about 17%, according to the Giffords Center.Georgia Democrats plan to introduce legislation that would require people to wait five days between buying a gun and getting it, said Rep. David Wilkerson, who is minority whip in the state House.“I think a waiting period just makes sense,” he said.A 2020 analysis by the Rand Corp., a nonprofit think tank, also found that research links waiting periods to decreased suicide and homicide rates but determined that the effect on mass shootings was inconclusive because the sample size was too small.California has one of the country’s longest waiting periods — 10 days. That did not stop more than 1.1 million people from buying guns last year, which was just shy of the record number sold in 2016. Gun sales nationwide, meanwhile, surged to record levels last year amid pandemic-related uncertainty.Against that backdrop, lawmakers in at least four states — Arizona, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont — have proposed creating or expanding waiting periods.New gun laws will not fix deep-seated problems such as racism, misogyny and violence, said Seo Yoon “Yoonie” Yang, a leader with Students Demand Action, a gun violence prevention group. But they can help keep guns out of the hands of people who would do harm in the meantime, she said.“Legislation is practical. Research shows that it works," she said. "It is change that can happen efficiently and quickly.”In Colorado, Democratic state Rep. Tom Sullivan ran for office after his son, Alex, died along with 11 others when a gunman opened fire in an Aurora movie theater eight years ago. Sullivan said he hopes a waiting period in legislation he's planning to sponsor could help curb domestic violence and suicide.“In Atlanta, imagine if this guy’s parents or somebody else were notified that he was trying to get a firearm. Maybe they could have helped," he said. “It wouldn’t have hurt anybody to wait ... let it breathe a while. If there’s a problem, let it surface, we’ll sort it out.”Gun rights groups, including the National Rifle Association, oppose waiting periods. The group points to 2018 federal firearm-tracing data that shows the average time between first retail sale of a gun and involvement in a crime was nearly nine years. They also argue that waiting periods create a delay for people buying legally, while leaving illegal weapons transfers unaffected.“A right delayed is a right denied,” Second Amendment Foundation founder Alan Gottlieb said.Gun control legislation also is making its way through Congress. The Senate is expected to consider a bill to expand background checks, but it faces a difficult road — Democrats would need at least 10 Republican votes to pass it. While the House approved two bills to strengthen the checks this month, Congress has not passed any major gun control laws since the mid-1990s.In Georgia, the Republican-controlled Legislature may resist new firearms laws before it concludes business at the end of the month. But Wilkerson pointed to recent long-sought victories that once seemed improbable, including passage of a hate crimes law and the likely repeal of a citizen’s arrest law a year after the death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man pursued by armed white men while jogging."You're going to run into resistance. It doesn't mean you don't try," Wilkerson said. “In tragedy, sometimes we can move forward. This may be the opportunity to look at another tragedy and do something about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-shootings-gun-waiting-periods-rare-in-us-states-but-more-may-be-coming-101616341022890.html
21-03-2021||World||Indian Americans lead in marriage stability, Pakistan immigrants at 3rd. List of top 20 groups||Immigrant families tend to be more stable than native-born Americans, and Indian American families lead the communities in terms of marriage stability, according to a report published in early March by a US-based think tank. After analysing the census data, the Institute of Family Studies (IFS), which advocates for strengthening marriage and family life, said that 72% of immigrants with children are still in their first marriage, while the share among native-born Americans is just 60%.Wendy Wang, director of research at the IFS, highlighted the relatively higher marriage rates and lower divorce rates of immigrants in general. She wrote that for every 1,000 unmarried immigrants aged 18 to 64 in 2019, 59 got married, adding that the corresponding number for native-born Americans stood at 39. On the other hand, the divorce rate among native-born Americans remained relatively higher than among immigrants.“Only 13 out of 1000 married immigrants ages 18-64 got a divorce in 2019, compared with 20 out of 1000 among native-born Americans of same age,” the report said.Wang noted that not all immigrant families are equal when it comes to the family structure as Indian Americans rank at the top in family stability. According to their analysis of the 2019 American community survey, around 94% of first-generation Indian immigrants with children are stably married. The share of Indian Americans who got remarried is around 4%, while only 2% of Indian immigrants with children remains unmarried.Immigrant families from other parts of Asia, such as Bangladesh, Pakistan, Taiwan, Korea, China, and Japan, also have greater family stability than native-born Americans. Immigrants from the Middle East and South America also enjoy a relatively higher level of family stability, the report said.Here’s the list of top 20 immigrant groups in the US leading in marriage stability:1. India - 94%2. Bangladesh - 90%3. Pakistan - 87%4. Taiwan - 86%5. Korea - 85%6. China - 84%7. Japan - 83%8. Poland - 80%9. Iran - 78%10. Canada - 78%11. Ukraine - 77%12. Vietnam - 77%13. Philippines - 76%14. United Kingdom - 74%15. Brazil - 73%16. Germany - 72%17. Venezuela - 72%18. Nigeria - 71%19. Russia - 68%20. Mexico - 68%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-americans-lead-in-marriage-stability-pakistan-immigrants-at-3rd-report-101616339825270.html
21-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Pak PM Imran, First Lady 'comfortable with mild symptoms'||Prime Minister Imran Khan and First Lady Bushra Bibi are feeling "comfortable with mild symptoms", his top communication aide said on Sunday, a day after they tested positive for the Covid-19.Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Political Communication Dr Shahbaz Gill, in a tweet in Urdu, said that the prime minister and the first lady are thankful to their well-wishers for their good wishes.Khan, 68 will continue to perform his official duties via video conferencing, he said.“Prime Minister Imran Khan and First Lady Bashari Imran are comfortable with mild symptoms,” he said in the tweet.According to Geo News, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Health Dr Faisal Sultan said that Khan was "fit and doing well"."The best advice that we could give him was to stay at home, isolate, and rest."We are monitoring his clinical parameters, and medical treatment will be given to him if required. Right now, there is no need for any treatment, as such," Sultan said.He said that the government is in touch with the people the premier met over the last few days."We will be contact tracing everyone and request all the individuals that met him to isolate themselves," Sultan added.Earlier, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister for Overseas Pakistanis, Syed Zulfi Bukhari, had said that Khan had just a mild cough and fever.Khan contracted the coronavirus on Saturday, a day when the country registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases since July last year.He was vaccinated on Thursday as part of the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination campaign which is underway in its first phase.Khan is reported to have received the first shot of the Chinese-produced Sinopharm vaccine, the only anti-Covid jab available in Pakistan.Pakistan started its Covid-19 vaccination drive in February after the first arrival of China-gifted vaccine doses, with frontline health workers given the priority for inoculation, while on March 10, the country started vaccination for the general public, starting with people aged 60 and above, Geo News reported.Issuing a clarification on Khan’s vaccination, the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination said that antibodies develop two to three weeks after the 2nd dose of the 2-dose Covid-19 vaccines.According to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker, Pakistan has so far reported 626,802 cases and 13,843 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pak-pm-imran-first-lady-comfortable-with-mild-symptoms-101616340247795.html
21-03-2021||World||220 Chinese boats have encroached in South China Sea: Philippines||The Philippines urged China on Sunday to recall more than 200 Chinese boats it said had been spotted at a reef in the South China Sea, saying the presence of the vessels violated its maritime rights as it claims ownership of the area.Authorities said the Philippines coast guard had reported that about 220 vessels, believed to be manned by Chinese maritime militia personnel, were seen moored at the Whitsun Reef, which Manila calls the Julian Felipe Reef, on March 7."We call on the Chinese to stop this incursion and immediately recall these boats violating our maritime rights and encroaching into our sovereign territory," Defence Minister Delfin Lorenzana said.The Philippine military had conducted air and maritime patrols in the South China Sea to further validate the report, spokesman Marine Major General Edgard Arevalo said, but did not say when.The military had submitted its findings to other government agencies, and they would be used as basis for taking "appropriate actions not limited to filing diplomatic protests", he said in a statement, without elaborating."The (Armed Forces of the Philippines) will not renege from our commitment to protect and defend our maritime interest within the bounds of the law," Arevalo said.Foreign minister Teodoro Locsin, asked whether he would file a diplomatic protest over the boats, told a journalist on Twitter: "Only if the generals tell me. In my watch, foreign policy is the fist in the iron glove of the armed forces."The vessels are fishing boats believed to be manned by Chinese military-trained personnel, according to Philippines security officials.The vessels' presence in the area raises concern about overfishing and the destruction of the marine environment, as well as risks to safe navigation, a Philippine cross-government task force said late on Saturday.China's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday, and calls to the Chinese embassy in Manila seeking comment went unanswered.An international tribunal invalidated China's claim to 90% of the South China Sea in 2016, but Beijing does not recognise the ruling. China has built islands in the disputed waters in recent years, putting air strips on some of them.Taiwan, Malaysia, Vietnam, the Philippines and Brunei all claim parts of the sea.In January, the Philippines protested at a new Chinese law allowing its coast guard to fire on foreign vessels, describing it as a "threat of war".The United States has repeatedly denounced what it called China's attempts to bully neighbours with competing interests, while Beijing has criticised Washington for what it calls interference in its internal affairs.The Whitsun Reef is within Manila's exclusive economic zone, the task force said, describing the site as "a large boomerang-shaped shallow coral reef at the northeast of Pagkakaisa Banks and Reefs".The task force vowed to continue "to peacefully and proactively pursue its initiatives on environmental protection, food security and freedom of navigation" in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/220-chinese-boats-have-encroached-in-south-china-sea-philippines-101616337076094.html
21-03-2021||World||A rapid Covid-19 vaccine rollout backfired in some US states||Despite the clamor to speed up the US vaccination drive against Covid-19 and get the country back to normal, the first three months of the rollout suggest faster is not necessarily better.A surprising new analysis found that states such as South Carolina, Florida and Missouri that raced ahead of others to offer the vaccine to ever-larger groups of people have vaccinated smaller shares of their population than those that moved more slowly and methodically, such as Hawaii and Connecticut.The explanation, as experts see it, is that the rapid expansion of eligibility caused a surge in demand too big for some states to handle and led to serious disarray. Vaccine supplies proved insufficient or unpredictable, websites crashed and phone lines became jammed, spreading confusion, frustration and resignation among many people.“The infrastructure just wasn’t ready. It kind of backfired,” said Dr. Rebecca Wurtz, an infectious disease physician and health data specialist at the University of Minnesota’s School of Public Health. She added: “In the rush to satisfy everyone, governors satisfied few and frustrated many.”The findings could contain an important go-slow lesson for the nation's governors, many of whom have announced dramatic expansions in their rollouts over the past few days after being challenged by President Joe Biden to make all adults eligible for vaccination by May 1.“If you’re more targeted and more focused, you can do a better job,” said Sema Sgaier, executive director of Surgo Ventures, a nonprofit health-data organization that conducted the analysis in collaboration with The Associated Press. “You can open it up — if you have set up the infrastructure to vaccinate all those people fast.”Numerous factors stymied state vaccination performance. Conspiracy theories, poor communication and undependable shipments slowed efforts after the first vials of precious vaccine arrived Dec. 14.But the size of the eligible population was always within the control of state officials, who made widely varying decisions about how many people they invited to get in line when there wasn’t enough vaccine to go around.When the drive began, most states put health care workers and nursing home residents at the front of the line. In doing so, states were abiding by national recommendations from experts who also suggested doing everything possible to reach everyone in those two groups before moving on to the next categories.But faced with political pressure and a clamor from the public, governors rushed ahead. Both the outgoing Trump administration and the incoming Biden team urged opening vaccinations to older Americans.By late January, more than half the states had opened up to older adults — some 75 and above, others 65 and up. That’s when the real problems started.South Carolina expanded eligibility to people in Steven Kite’s age group Jan. 13. Kite, 71, immediately booked a vaccination at a hospital. But the next day, his appointment was canceled along with thousands of others because of a shortage of vaccine.“It was frustrating at first,” Kite said. After a week of uncertainty, he rescheduled. He and his wife are now vaccinated. “It ended up working out fine. I know they’ve had other problems. The delivery of the doses has been very unreliable.”In Missouri, big-city shortages sent vaccine seekers driving hundreds of miles to rural towns. Dr. Elizabeth Bergamini, a pediatrician in suburban St. Louis, drove about 30 people to often out-of-the way vaccination events after the state opened eligibility to those 65 and older Jan. 18 and then expanded further.“We went from needing to vaccinate several hundred thousand people in the St. Louis area to an additional half-million people, but we still hadn’t vaccinated that first group, so it has been this mad dash,” Bergamini said. “It has just been a whole hot mess.”“It got a little chaotic,” said Dr. Marcus Plescia, chief medical officer of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials. “We created far more demand than there was supply. That stressed the system and that may have left the system less efficient.”Plescia said the analysis suggests that “a more methodical, measured, judicious, priority-based approach — despite people’s perception — actually can be as efficient, or more efficient, than opening things up and making it available to more people.”In retrospect, health workers and nursing home residents were the easy groups to vaccinate. Doses could be delivered to them where they lived and worked.“We knew where they were and we knew who they were,” Wurtz said. As soon as states went beyond those populations, it got harder to find the right people. Nursing home residents live in nursing homes. People 65 and older live everywhere.West Virginia bucked the trend with both high numbers of eligible residents and high vaccination rates in early March, but the state started slow and built its capacity before expanding eligibility.Similarly, Alaska maintained a high vaccination rate with a smaller eligible population, then threw shots open to everyone 16 and older March 9. This big increase in eligible adults near the end of the period studied led the AP and Surgo Ventures to omit Alaska from the analysis.The analysis found that as of March 10, Hawaii had the lowest percentage of its adult population eligible for vaccination, at about 26%. Yet Hawaii had administered 42,614 doses per 100,000 adults, the eighth-highest rate in the country.Thirty percent of Connecticut’s adult population was eligible as of the same date, and it had administered doses at the fourth-highest rate in the country.In contrast, Missouri had the largest percentage of its adult population eligible at about 92%. Yet Missouri had dispensed 35,341 doses per 100,000 adults, ranking 41st among the states.Seven states in the bottom 10 for overall vaccination performance — Georgia, Tennessee, Texas, Florida, Mississippi, South Carolina and Missouri — had larger-than-average shares of their residents eligible for shots.Among high-performing states, five in the top 10 for high vaccination rates — New Mexico, North Dakota, Connecticut, Wyoming and Hawaii — stuck with more restrictive eligibility. Another two high-performing states from the top 10 — South Dakota and Massachusetts — were about average in how many residents were eligible for vaccine.“This is a thorough analysis showing a clear association between breadth of eligibility and vaccination rates across states,” said Dr. Mark McClellan, a former head of the Food and Drug Administration who was not involved in the new analysis but reviewed it for AP.The better-performing states could be getting results by paying closer attention to vaccine supply, thoroughly vaccinating high-risk groups and then opening to additional categories more slowly as they wait for supplies to build, McClellan said.What happens next will depend on how much states can improve their vaccine delivery systems and whether Americans remain eager for vaccination, even as the threat eases with more people protected and case numbers dropping.“Have states used this time wisely and fruitfully to lay down the infrastructure needed to open it up to more people?" Sgaier asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-rapid-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-backfired-in-some-us-states-101616334947814.html
21-03-2021||World||Chinese warplane enters Taiwan's air defence zone: Report||A Chinese warplane intruded into Taiwan's Air Defence Identification Zone (ADIZ) on Sunday, the Taiwanese Defence Ministry said.This was the first incursion since March 17. Over the past few months, Taiwan has reported incursion by Chinese warplanes into ADIZ almost daily.Air defence identification zones are early warning systems that help countries to detect incursions into their airspace.Any aircraft entering such an area is supposed to report its route and purpose to the "host" nation, though the zones are classified as international airspace and pilots are not legally bound to make such a notification.According to Taiwan News, the Air Force scrambled jets, issued radio warnings to the Chinese plane and deployed its air defence missile systems to monitor the aircraft's activity.The plane, a Y-8 anti-submarine aircraft, emerged from the area on the border between the Chinese provinces of Fujian and Guangdong Saturday morning before flying across the Taiwan Strait in a southeasterly direction.The new incursions come amidst escalated tensions in the region as Beijing ramped up pressure on Taipei.China has threatened that "Taiwan's independence" means war.Wu Qian, spokesperson of China's Ministry of National Defence, on January 28 "warned" the people wanting "Taiwan independence" and said that "those who play with fire will set themselves on fire, and seeking 'Taiwan independence' means nothing but war".According to an article by The Global Times, a Chinese state media, Taiwan's "mainland affairs council" has warned that any of the mainland's words and deeds that deliberately provoke Taiwan's bottom line may cause far-reaching effects that the mainland cannot bear.Beijing claims full sovereignty over Taiwan, a democracy of almost 24 million people located off the southeastern coast of mainland China, despite the fact that the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.Taipei, on the other hand, has countered the Chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the US, which has been repeatedly opposed by Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-warplane-enters-taiwan-s-air-defence-zone-report-101616333488388.html
21-03-2021||World||Explained: How UK is conducting digital-first census with focus on gender identity||Much of Britain is conducting its census on Sunday, which is for the first time being completed primarily online. England, Wales, and Northern Ireland are holding the once-in-a-decade survey to gather information on the country’s population, while Scotland has postponed it until next year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The government has made it compulsory for people to complete the survey and those refusing could face a fine of up to £1,000 (approximately ₹100,000).Around 90 per cent of households have been provided with a 16-character access code to complete the survey online, while paper forms are also available for those who need them. The change in the mode of the survey was spurred by Covid-19 as the government is trying to minimise person-to-person contact amid a major health crisis.The census helps governments in devising policies as well as provides vital information to decision-makers in community groups and businesses. The questionnaire generally includes information on education, religion, ethnicity, working life and health of individuals. This year, however, the Office for National Statistics (ONS), the agency which is carrying out the digital-first census, has also included questions about gender identity to help “further equality”.While the census has previously asked people for their sex, among other things, the 2021 survey carries a question about whether "the gender you identify with (is) the same as your sex registered at birth". But the question has been labelled as voluntary and wouldn’t be considered an offence if someone chooses not to answer it.After UK’s Census Day, field officers from the ONS will visit households, at the end of March and into April, from which they have not received a completed census form. “They will encourage people to complete the census and help you to access further help if you need it. Our field officers will never need to enter your house,” the ONS says on its website.Residents can visit census.gov.uk to complete the Census 2021 online using the access code sent at their address. They can also request a new access code, which will be sent by text message or post.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-how-uk-is-carrying-out-online-census-with-focus-on-gender-identity-101616331779149.html
21-03-2021||World||UK warns EU Covid vaccine export ban would be 'counter-productive'||Britain on Sunday warned the European Union against halting exports of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccines if the bloc did not receive promised deliveries first, saying the move would be "counter-productive".Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said "the world is watching" how the EU responds to a shortfall in deliveries of the inoculation from the Anglo-Swedish pharma giant, and that Brussels' reputation was at stake.His comments follow EU chief Ursula von der Leyen again threatening Saturday to impose an export ban on the AstraZeneca vaccine unless the company delivers more of the 90 million doses it agreed to supply in the first quarter of 2021.Appearing on several political talk shows, Wallace said trying to "balkanise or build walls" around vaccine production would damage both British and European citizens."If contracts get broken, and undertakings, that is a very damaging thing to happen for a trading block that prides itself on the rule of law," he told Sky News."It is counterproductive because the one thing we know about vaccine production and manufacture is that it is collaborative."They would undermine not only their own citizens' chances of having a proper vaccine programme, but also many other countries around the world with the reputational damage for the EU which they would find very hard to change over the short-term."Shortfall from IndiaThe ongoing cross-Channel row over the AstraZeneca vaccine comes as Britain's inoculation campaign hits new heights, while the EU struggles with its own rollout and a third virus wave prompts renewed curbs on public life.The British government this weekend hailed its jabs programme as "a huge success" after announcing half of the adult population -- nearly 27 million people -- had now received a first dose.The country administered a record 711,156 vaccinations in a single day on Friday.However, a supply shortfall from the Serum Institute of India -- the world's biggest vaccine maker -- means the rollout's next phase covering people in their 40s will be delayed from April until May.In contrast Europe has struggled with its jabs campaign. Von der Leyen said AstraZeneca had delivered only 30 percent of the 90 million vaccine doses pledged.Brussels is furious the firm has been able to deliver on its UK contract while falling short on the continent.The company has blamed production delays at its EU plants, while Britain has noted its jabs come from a number of sources outside the continent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-warns-eu-covid-vaccine-export-ban-would-be-counterproductive-101616329615175.html
21-03-2021||World||Biden urged to defend voting rights as Republicans pursue new limits||President Joe Biden faces growing pressure from his party’s left to wage an all-out defense of voting rights, as Republican-held statehouses pursue restrictions that would fall heaviest on Black voters who helped Democrats win the White House and both chambers of Congress.Some activists say Biden should reshuffle his priorities and set aside work on a multi-trillion-dollar infrastructure and economic recovery plan to focus on combating efforts to making voting more difficult.Across the U.S., Republican state lawmakers are considering bills that would restrict access to the ballot, including by curtailing or eliminating mail-in and early voting, and imposing new ID requirements.The campaign is being energized by false claims of widespread fraud in the 2020 election that former President Donald Trump lost, as well as strong turnout by Democrats -- and particularly people of color -- in early and mail voting.If they’re successful, the efforts could help Republicans regain control of Congress in 2022, effectively halting Biden’s agenda, and even flip the White House two years after that. Biden has been outspoken in support for expanding voting rights and ending state policies regarded as discriminatory by Democrats, but he’s not elevated the issue to the top of his agenda -- a move that could touch off a distracting battle with congressional Republicans over Senate procedure.Black political leaders and activists, particularly, are raising alarms about the Republican efforts, and want Biden to throw the weight of the White House behind legislation the House passed this month that would make it significantly easier for Americans to vote.“It is unprecedented in modern times, the attack we’re seeing on minority voting rights,” Representative G.K. Butterfield, a Democrat from North Carolina and chair of the House elections subcommittee, said in an interview. “Everyone knows if racial minorities fully participate in the electoral process, Democrats win -- that is a political fact and Republicans know that.”Cliff Albright, co-founder of the Georgia group Black Voters Matter, said Biden should “put voting rights above everything else.” The group’s get-out-the-vote efforts helped deliver the state for Biden and for Democrats Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff in January Senate run-off elections.“At the end of the day, if they don’t pass the voting rights bill and stop the suppression that’s taking place now, then guess what, every other policy becomes irrelevant because you won’t be able to get anything done,” Albright said in an interview.Multiple PrioritiesA White House official said Biden’s trying to address multiple priorities, including the coronavirus vaccination campaign, economic recovery, and social inequities. The official also pointed out that many of the president’s top Justice Department appointees, who’ll be key to enforcing voting protections, have yet to be confirmed by the Senate.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, last week said the Senate will debate a voting rights bill, saying “failure is not an option.”The Senate Rules Committee will hold a hearing on the bill this week and schedule a markup to advance it to the floor soon after, Chairwoman Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said in a statement on Wednesday.Yet Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell is working to unite Republicans against the legislation, which he says would gives Democrats permanent advantages in federal elections. GOP senators are expected to filibuster an attempt to vote on the bill.That’s led liberal groups to press Schumer, Senate Democrats and Biden to change Senate rules so that 60 votes are no longer required to end a filibuster. Some Democrats have begun to call the procedure a relic of the Jim Crow era, intrinsically racist itself.Changing the rules would only require a simple majority -- all 50 Democrats plus the tie-breaking vote of Vice President Kamala Harris. But two Democrats, Senators Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, haven’t committed to change the 60-vote threshold.House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, considered to have saved Biden’s Democratic primary campaign by endorsing him ahead of the South Carolina primary, has characterized new voting rights legislation as crucial to the future of the country.“I didn’t march in the streets and spend nights in jail as a young man to find myself fighting the same battles generations later,” Clyburn said in a series of tweets on Friday.Biden, a former senator who for decades supported retaining the power of the minority to filibuster legislation, said in an interview with ABC News last week that he now wants changes.“I don’t think that you have to eliminate the filibuster, you have to do it what it used to be when I first got to the Senate,” Biden said. “You had to stand up and command the floor, you had to keep talking.”Meanwhile, Republicans in state legislatures are moving rapidly. They’ve filed more than 250 bills in 43 states to make it harder to vote, according to New York University’s Brennan Center for Justice, a nonprofit that advocates for greater U.S. voter participation.GOP lawmakers describe the efforts as needed to combat the threat of voter fraud and address the concerns of Republican voters, many of whom echo Trump’s false claims that Biden was unlawfully elected.Statehouse MajoritiesRepublican majorities in statehouses nationwide makes it likely that at least some of the new restrictions will become law. The GOP controls legislatures in 23 states, while Democrats hold power in just 15. Eleven are divided.Georgia, where Biden traveled on Friday, is a flashpoint. Bills under consideration in the GOP-led legislature could help ensure Senator Raphael Warnock isn’t re-elected and a Republican remains in the governor’s mansion in 2022, and that the state returns to the GOP column in the 2024 presidential election.Albright’s group is waging a campaign with other groups to pressure the state’s large corporations -- including Coca-Cola Co., Home Depot Inc., Delta Air Lines Inc., Aflac Inc. and Southern Co. -- to publicly oppose the bills.On Friday, Biden met with Georgia voting rights activist Stacey Abrams, who along with Albright’s group has been credited with flipping the state to Democrats. She’s called for an exception to the Senate filibuster rule for voting-rights legislation.Biden, Harris, Abrams, Ossoff, Warnock and Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms discussed the Republican efforts to make it harder to vote, White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said in a statement Friday.They discussed possible solutions and Biden “re-affirmed his commitment to re-authorizing the John Lewis Voting Rights Act,” Jean-Pierre said.Biden on Friday also recounted Trump’s unsubstantiated post-election claims of widespread fraud in Georgia, and how that translates into the current fight over ballot access.‘Going to Fight’“As this state -- home to Martin Luther King Jr and John Lewis -- knows better than most, the battle for the right to vote is never, ever over. And it’s not over, here in this state of Georgia. So we’re going to fight again. It’s a fight we need to win because if anyone ever doubted that voting matters, Georgia just proved it did,” Biden said.The White House is looking for ways for the president to push back against statehouse Republicans with his executive authority. Earlier this month, Biden issued an executive order requiring federal departments and agencies to help Americans register to vote.Butterfield said he thinks Biden may first try to find compromise with Senate Republicans on voting-rights legislation before backing an end to the filibuster rule.“But if all of that fails,” he said, “then I think President Biden is willing to do whatever’s necessary to fulfill the promise that he made to the American people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-urged-to-defend-voting-rights-as-republicans-pursue-new-limits-101616326617087.html
21-03-2021||World||Romania sets record for virus patients in ICUs||Romania on Sunday recorded its highest number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units since the pandemic began.The increasing pressure on ICU wards — where today 1,334 people are currently receiving care — comes amid a surge of Covid-19 cases in the Eastern European country.Over the past week, Romania has been recording its highest number of infections in three months — on some days more than 6,000 new daily cases.On Saturday, health officials convened in the capital as they looked for ways to increase ICU bed capacity in order to avoid a looming shortage.But despite the pressure on Romania’s health care system, Prime Minister Florin Citu insisted that a strict national lockdown won't be enforced.“A lot of people are asking if we will end up in lockdown again. My very clear answer is: NO,” Citu wrote online Saturday.Since the coronavirus pandemic began, Romania, which has a population of more than 19 million, has recorded more than 897,000 infections, 22,208 deaths, and it has administered more than 2.4 million vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/romania-sets-record-for-virus-patients-in-icus-101616329553120.html
21-03-2021||World||German Covid case rate hits 2 month high with leaders set to meet||Germany’s rate of Covid-19 infections climbed to the highest in almost two months, a day before Chancellor Angela Merkel and state leaders discuss whether to halt an easing of lockdown restrictions.The national seven-day rate of cases per 100,000 people rose to 103.9 on Sunday, German health agency the Robert Koch Institute said on its website, the most since Jan. 26. Separate data from Johns Hopkins University showed cases in the country increased by 24,034 in the 24 hours to Sunday, compared with 10,568 recorded a week earlier.Cases in Germany are rising again after authorities began to relax restrictions in late February and set out a plan to gradually unwind curbs. That plan depends on the infection trend, heightening the stakes for Monday’s talks.Germany uses the incidence rate as a gauge of Covid-19’s spread. If it exceeds 100 for three days in a row, an “emergency brake” provision allows authorities to tighten lockdown measures again. That threshold had been crossed in 9 out of 16 federal states as of Sunday, prompting some state leaders to call for uniform nationwide measures for virus hotspots.“We have an instrument that works: the emergency brake. It must be applied consistently everywhere in Germany,” Bavarian Prime Minister Markus Soeder told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung in an interview. “Otherwise it will become a toothless tiger.”Soeder, whose state has an incidence rate exceeding the national average, is among the state leaders meeting Merkel to discuss whether restrictions in Europe’s largest economy should be extended into April or even tightened, rather than eased as suggested by the government at the start of the month.Regional leaders expressed diverging views on what to do ahead of the upcoming Easter holiday when asked by the Welt am Sonntag newspaper. Reiner Haseloff, prime minister of Saxony-Anhalt (incidence rate: 115.1), said people should be able to vacation within the confines of their own region. But Bodo Ramelow, president of Thuringia (incidence rate: 207.7), pleaded with the population not to go on vacation at all.“Whoever believes that you can open up entire holidaying regions without testing in the current phase of the pandemic doesn’t know what’s going on,“ Ramelow told the newspaper.Merkel pledged to ramp up Covid vaccinations after the European Union’s regulator gave the all-clear for AstraZeneca Plc’s vaccine following a scare over reports of blood clots.“Starting in April, we want to get faster and more flexible, and we will be able to do that,” Merkel said in Berlin on Friday.Health Minister Jens Spahn, who is facing opposition calls to resign, said earlier Friday that Germany is in a “third wave” of Covid-19 with a large number of variant-virus cases.“There are some fairly challenging weeks ahead of us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-covid-case-rate-hits-2-month-high-with-leaders-set-to-meet-101616328659118.html
21-03-2021||World||Chinese health officials urge unhurried public to get vaccinated against Covid||In China, the problem doesn't seem to be a shortage of vaccine. Rather, with the Covid-19 outbreak largely under control at home, not enough people want to get the shot.Chinese health officials appealed to the public Sunday to get inoculated. They also said that with vaccination not a guarantee against infection they would still require anyone arriving in China to quarantine for 14 days, even if they have received a vaccine.“China will continue the current prevention control measures to prevent imported cases and rebound of domestic cases,” Feng Zijian, the deputy director general of China's Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said at a news conference.Through Saturday, nearly 75 million vaccine doses have been given, the country's National Health Commission said. The number of people inoculated would be less, as some people have taken two shots.China, with 1.4 billion people, has a much lower rate of vaccination than many other countries.“Many people mistakenly think there is no practical meaning to be vaccinated because the epidemic situation is under effective control and the virus is far away from us," He Qinghua, a National Health Commission official, said at the same news conference.He warned that no one is immune to the disease, and that with the pandemic still ravaging other parts of the world, imported cases could trigger fresh outbreaks in China.Chinese officials want to get enough people vaccinated to achieve herd immunity. Because the outbreak was not widespread in China, a relatively small proportion of the population acquired immunity through past infection, He said. Mainland China has reported 90,099 cases during the pandemic."Now that we have vaccines, we must let more people get immunity and protection through inoculation," He said. “I once again suggest that people get vaccinated as soon as possible so as to acquire immunity.”The relatively low rate of vaccination in China was one reason Feng cited for maintaining the current measures for overseas arrivals. He also noted concerns about how effective vaccines are against new variants of the virus.China itself has had a vaccinated person get infected, its only recent case of domestic spread of the coronavirus.The person works in a hospital virus testing lab in the city of Xi'an and had received the second vaccine shot in early February, according to Chinese media reports. They did not say which vaccine the person took.China had gone 31 days without a local case until this one was reported Thursday. It sparked concern in China about domestic vaccines.Wang Huaqing, an immunization expert at China's CDC, said that vaccines have failed to prevent infection in a small number of cases. He said the recent case is being studied to try to determine why the vaccine failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-health-officials-urge-unhurried-public-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-101616327545666.html
21-03-2021||World||Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin arrives in Kabul on 1st trip to Afghanistan||State media reports that US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin arrived Sunday in Kabul on his first trip to Afghanistan as Pentagon chief, amid swirling questions about how long American troops will remain in the country.State-owned Radio and Television Afghanistan and popular TOLO Television reported Austin's arrival in Kabul from India. He was expected to meet with senior Afghan government officials, including President Ashraf Ghani.President Joe Biden said last week in an ABC News interview that it will be “tough” for the U.S. to meet a May 1 deadline to withdraw troops from Afghanistan. But he said that if the deadline, which is laid out in an agreement between former President Donald Trump’s administration and the Taliban, is extended, it wouldn’t be by a “lot longer.”In response, the Taliban on Friday warned of consequences if the U.S. doesn’t meet the deadline. Suhail Shaheen, a member of the Taliban negotiation team, told reporters that if U.S. troops stay beyond May 1, “it will be a kind of violation of the agreement. That violation would not be from our side. . . Their violation will have a reaction.”Austin was expected to meet with Ghani as well as the newly appointed defense chief Army Chief of Staff Gen. Yasin Zia, who was appointed acting defense minister this week. Washington is reviewing the agreement the Trump administration signed with the Taliban last year .In a sharply worded letter to Ghani earlier this month U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said its urgent to make peace in Afghanistan saying all options remain on the table. He also warned that it is likely the Taliban would make swift territorial gains if U.S. and NATO troops withdrew. The United States spends $4 billion a year to sustain Afghanistan’s National Security Forces .The Taliban warned America against defying the May 1 deadline at a press conference in Moscow, the day after meeting with senior Afghan government negotiators and international observers to try to jumpstart a stalled peace process to end Afghanistan’s decades of war.Washington has also given both the Taliban and the Afghan government an eight-page peace proposal which both sides are reviewing. It calls for an interim so-called “peace government” which would shepherd Afghanistan toward constitutional reform and elections.Ghani has resisted an interim administration causing his critics to accuse him of clinging to power. He says elections alone would be acceptable to bring a change of government.Both the U.S. and Kabul have called for a reduction in violence leading to a cease fire. Taliban say a cease fire would be part of the peace negotiations however the insurgent movement have not attacked U.S. or NATO troops, since signing the agreement..However U.S. military commanders and NATO leaders have argued that the Taliban has not lived up to its part of the peace agreement, which includes a reduction in violence and a separation from al-Qaida and other terror groups.NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said last month that the alliance “will only leave when the time is right” and when conditions have been met.“The main issue is that Taliban has to reduce violence, Taliban has to negotiate in good faith and Taliban has to stop supporting international terrorist groups like Al Qaeda,” Stoltenberg said.Austin has said little on the record about the ongoing stalemate. After a virtual meeting of NATO defense ministers, Austin told reporters that “our presence in Afghanistan is conditions based, and Taliban has to meet their commitments.”Austin’s stop in Afghanistan marks his first return to a U.S. warzone in the Middle East since taking the Pentagon post. But he spent a great deal of time in the region during his service as an Army commander. Austin, a retired four-star general, served in Afghanistan as commander of the 10th Mountain Division. And from 2013-2016 he was the head of U.S. Central Command, which oversees the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.The Afghanistan visit comes at the end of Austin’s his first overseas trip as secretary. After a stop in Hawaii, he went to Japan and South Korea, where he and Secretary of State Blinkin met with their defense and foreign ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pentagon-chief-lloyd-austin-arrives-in-kabul-on-1st-trip-to-afghanistan-101616326610176.html
21-03-2021||World||Israeli govt abolishes travel quotas, issues new rules for airport amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Israeli government on Saturday has cancelled the daily limit of 3,000 passengers entering the country while approving the new regulations on arrivals and departures from Ben-Gurion Airport starting Saturday during the Covid-19 pandemic.Starting Saturday at midnight there are no longer restrictions on the number of people allowed to enter the country while discontinuing the entry quotas system, the Jerusalem Post reported.As per the new norms flights will be determined on the basis of the airport's capacity to receive them while holding Covid-19 tests for incoming passengers and maintaining social distancing while ending the regular checking of passengers temperature while entering the terminal and before boarding.The major significant aspect of the new forms underscores that Israelis departing the country do not have to submit a request to a special committee to be approved.The new guidelines will be followed till March 28, as per the reports, states Jerusalem PostThe Taba Border Crossing between Israel and Egypt also reopened at midnight and Israelis wishing to go on vacation in the Sinai should be able to do soHowever, Defense Minister Benny Gantz and Tourism Minister Orit Farkash-Hacohen agreed that a few days are needed to ensure the crossing will function in a safe manner in accordance with the same Covid-19 health guidelines used at the airport, the Jerusalem Post reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-govt-abolishes-travel-quotas-issues-new-rules-for-airport-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101616325135647.html
21-03-2021||World||After Saturday's earthquake, Japanese govt warns of tsunami in coastal areas||Following a strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.9 that shook eastern and northeastern Japan on Saturday, the Japanese government warned that a tsunami of up to 1 metre could hit coastal areas of Miyagi Prefecture.According to Kyodo News, the earthquake occurred at 6:09 p.m. about 59 kilometers below the surface off the coast of Miyagi, and the agency called off the tsunami warning at 7:30 p.m, the Japan Meteorological agency stated.Two injuries have been reported in Miyagi Prefecture with no structural damage yet, according to a local fire department.The strength and the depth of the temblor were revised downward from the initially reported magnitude 7.2 and 60 km, respectively.The agency official said at a press conference that no significant change in the sea level caused by the quake was observed but warned that quakes of a similar size could occur over the next week or so.Its focus, about 20 km off the Ojika Peninsula in Miyagi, was relatively close to that of the magnitude of 7.3 temblors in mid-February which rocked Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures and injured over 150 people, he added.The earthquake struck just over a week after northeastern Japan marked the 10th anniversary of the devastating quake and tsunami which triggered the Fukushima nuclear disaster.No abnormalities were found at nuclear plants in eastern and northeastern Japan, according to their operators, while JR East said it temporarily suspended the operation of Shinkansen bullet train services in the region, Kyodo News reported.There have also been evacuation orders issued to some 11,000 residents in coastal areas in Miyagi which were lifted later, according to the prefectural government.Shinji Toda, professor of geophysics at Tohoku University, said the latest earthquake could have caused a large tsunami if its focus had been shallow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-saturday-s-earthquake-japanese-govt-warns-of-tsunami-in-coastal-areas-101616325854589.html
21-03-2021||World||Pakistan may extend closure of educational institutions due to surge in cases||Following a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Pakistan government may extend the closure of schools and other educational institutions in the country.As the country is currently witnessing the third wave of coronavirus, which the government sees as deadlier than the first two waves, the federal education officials warn if the situation gets out of control, schools will be closed for in-person learning for more time. They don't see the educational institutions reopen in near future, The News International reported.The government has closed educational institutions in seven Punjab cities, Peshawar and Islamabad from March 15 to March 28 in light of a spike in Covid-19 cases.Some officials claim that as the fasting month is to begin before the middle of next month (April), there is a high likelihood of the government announcing the resumption of in-person learning after the post-Ramazan Eid festival.The educational institutions were closed across the country twice last year due to the growing coronavirus cases. First, the in-person classes were suspended in late February 2020. They resumed in phases from September 15, 2020. Later, the second wave of coronavirus caused the closure of educational institutions from November 26, 2020, to January 18, 2021, The News International further reported.A decision about the resumption of in-person classes will be taken by the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC), the country's nerve centre on tackling the virus, after consulting federal and provincial educational authorities.Pakistan's coronavirus positivity ratio has been on the rise and jumped from 8 per cent a day earlier to nearly 10 per cent.The national death toll in the country increased to an overall 13,843, and 44 more deaths with 3,677 fresh infections recorded in the past 24 hours on Sunday.This comes after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and his wife Bushra Bibi tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-may-extend-closure-of-educational-institutions-due-to-surge-in-cases-101616324768749.html
21-03-2021||World||France passes security law allowing off-duty police officers to carry weapons||Amid opposition from across the political spectrum, the French Senate on Thursday passed Article 25 of a security law that allows off-duty police officers to carry their firearms into public establishments such as theatres and shopping centers, and forbids the management of such places from preventing it, reported FRANCE24.Article 25 provides that local officers and gendarmes (national police) who carry their weapons while off-duty can no longer be refused access to places like museums, cinemas, shopping centers and schools, which France classifies as ERP - establishments open to the public.French senators passed Article 25 by a vote of 214 to 121 without any changes to the version already approved by the lower-house National Assembly; the article raised questions and provoked an outcry from senators of all political persuasions.A series of amendments aimed at eliminating Article 25 was defended by lawmakers from the Socialist and Green parties, as well as senators from the communist-majority CRCE and European Democratic and Social Rally groups. Furthermore, more than 20 senators among the chamber's centrists, right-of-center Les Republicains and Independents also backed the amendments, reported FRANCE24.Meanwhile, Denis Jacob, the Secretary-General of Alternative Police, a union associated with the CFDT labour federation, told FRANCE 24 that concerns about Article 25 constitute a "false debate"."Since 2016, police officers have been going to public places with a hidden firearm in a holster or a bag in the summertime and it's never been a problem," Jacob said. "On the contrary, it is an additional security guarantee to know that police officers and gendarmes can intervene in case of an attack.Frederic Ploquin, a police specialist and the author of the book Les Narcos francais brisent l'omerta also has a positive view of Article 25."Firstly, there is no obligation for officers to carry a weapon off duty," Ploquin said to FRANCE 24. "And it's only a question of intervention in a terrorist context like the Bataclan," he said, referring to the Paris concert hall where armed Islamist militants killed 90 people on November 13, 2015.Whether reassuring or alarming, the French Senate has spoken on Article 25. Since it was adopted by both chambers of parliament on the first reading, the article cannot be amended in the National Assembly, reported FRANCE24.Earlier, France had passed Article 24, which aimed to criminalise the dissemination of images of police officers that could harm their "physical or mental integrity".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-passes-security-law-allowing-off-duty-police-officers-to-carry-weapons-101616322962363.html
21-03-2021||World||Largest ‘potentially hazardous asteroid’ of 2021 to pass by Earth today at 124,000 kmph. All you need to know||The largest asteroid to pass by Earth in 2021 will be at its closest on Sunday, presenting astronomers a valuable opportunity to have a good look at a space rock that, according to Nasa, was formed at the “dawn of our solar system.” The near-Earth asteroid, called 2001 FO32, was discovered in March 2001 by the Lincoln Near-Earth Asteroid Research (LINEAR) program in Socorro, New Mexico. The asteroid completes one orbit around the Sun every 810 days.“We know the orbital path of 2001 FO32 around the Sun very accurately, since it was discovered 20 years ago and has been tracked ever since,” Paul Chodas, director of the Center for Near-Earth Object Studies (CNEOS), said in a statement.Here’s all you need to know about the asteroid:1. It will make its closest approach at a distance of about 2 million kilometres, equivalent to 5.25 times the distance from Earth to the Moon.2. The 2001 FO32 asteroid has been designated a “potentially hazardous asteroid” due to its closeness to the planet in astronomical terms.3. During this approach, the asteroid will pass by at about 124,000 kilometres per hour, which is faster than the speed at which most asteroids encounter Earth.4. The reason for the unusually speedy close approach has been attributed to the asteroid’s highly inclined and elongated orbit around the Sun.5. The orbit is tilted 39 degrees to Earth’s orbital plane, taking the asteroid closer to the Sun than Mercury and twice as far from the Sun as Mars.6. At the time of discovery, the size of the asteroid had been estimated to be roughly 1 kilometre wide but recent observations suggest the object is likely between 440 to 680 metres wide.7. The 2001 FO32 is somewhat smaller than the last notably large asteroid close approach -- the 1998 OR2 asteroid passed by Earth on April 29, 2020 -- but it will be three times nearer to Earth.8. According to the Paris Observatory, the asteroid will be at its closest to Earth at around 4.00pm GMT (9.30pm IST) on March 21, 2021.9. There is no threat of a collision with Earth currently or for centuries to come, according to Nasa.10. Chodas said that the asteroid will be the brightest when it moves through southern skies. “Amateur astronomers in the southern hemisphere and at low northern latitudes should be able to see this asteroid using moderate size telescopes with apertures of at least 8 inches in the nights leading up to closest approach, but they will probably need star charts to find it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/largest-asteroid-to-pass-by-earth-today-at-124-000-kmph-all-you-need-to-know-101616320697137.html
21-03-2021||World||'No choice': Fleeing coup, Myanmar police refugees in India seek asylum||Myanmar police officers who fled to India after they said they defied orders to shoot people protesting their country's military coup are urging India's government not to send them back and to grant them asylum on humanitarian grounds.One of the officers who has sought refuge in a village in the northeastern Indian state of Mizoram along the border with Myanmar said they didn't want to return to their country until the problems there are solved.That officer and others who spoke to The Associated Press did so on condition of anonymity out of concern for the safety of family members still in Myanmar.Another officer who fled told AP that soldiers ordered them to “arrest, beat, torture the protesters” and said police were always sent to the front whenever there was protest. She said the officers had “no choice” but to leave Myanmar.The security crackdown following Myanmar's Feb. 1 coup has forced scores of refugees over the border into India. India’s state and federal authorities haven’t given any figures, but some state ministers have said the number could be in the hundreds. One Indian village has given shelter to 34 police personnel and one firefighter who crossed into India over the last two weeks.The AP has not been able to independently verify their claims that they were ordered to shoot protesters, though images and accounts of the security forces’ crackdown inside Myanmar have shown intensifying violence against civilians. More than 200 people have been killed by security forces since the coup.India's federal government and the state of Mizoram are at odds over the influx of refugees. Earlier, the Mizoram government had allowed refugees to enter and provided them with food and shelter.But last week, India’s Home Ministry told four Indian states bordering Myanmar, including Mizoram, to take measures to prevent refugees from entering India except on humanitarian grounds.The ministry said the states were not authorized to accord refugee status to anyone entering from Myanmar, as India is not a signatory to the U.N. Refugee Convention of 1951 or its 1967 Protocol.On Thursday, Mizoram’s top elected official Zoramthanga wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said “India cannot turn a blind eye” to the humanitarian crisis unfolding in his state.Zoramthanga, who uses one name, wrote in the letter that the people of his state, who share ethnic ties with the refugees from Chin communities in Myanmar, “can’t remain indifferent to their plight." He urged the federal government to review its order and allow refugees into India.Earlier this month, Myanmar asked India to return the police officers who crossed the border. India shares a 1,643-kilometer (1,020-mile) border with Myanmar, and is home to thousands of refugees from Myanmar in different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fleeing-coup-myanmar-police-refugees-in-india-seek-asylum-101616322226985.html
21-03-2021||World||Russian envoy says UK nuclear arms plan is illegal||Russia's ambassador to Britain has accused the UK government of breaking its international treaty commitments with a plan to increase the country's nuclear arsenal and said the political relationship between Moscow and London is "nearly dead".In a foreign and defence policy review published on Tuesday and endorsed by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Britain said it needed to increase its nuclear arsenal in the face of evolving global security threats.Britain said it would raise the upper limit on its nuclear warhead stock to 260 from 180. The same report also classified Russia as "the most acute threat to our security" in the Euro-Atlantic region.The Kremlin said at the time that it regretted the British nuclear decision, which it suggested would harm international stability, while the Russian foreign ministry described the move as a serious blow to international arms control.Andrei Kelin, Russia's ambassador to Britain, went further in an interview due to be broadcast on the London-based LBC radio station on Sunday, saying the plan looked illegal."You are increasing the number of warheads by 40%. This is a violation of the treaty of non-proliferation and many, many other agreements that are saying only a decline or a reduction in the number of nukes," Kelin told LBC, according to a partial transcript on the radio station's website.The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which Britain has ratified, came into force in 1970. The UK government has said its plans do not violate the pact.Russian news agencies cited Kelin as saying that political relations between London and Moscow, which have become strained from events from Russia's jailing of opposition politician Alexei Navalny to the poisoning in 2018 of a Russian double agent and his daughter, were "nearly dead".They cited Kelin as saying that only cultural and economic ties remained, while LBC cited him as saying that the last time he had spoken to British foreign minister Dominic Raab was in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-envoy-says-uk-nuclear-arms-plan-is-illegal-101616321284992.html
21-03-2021||World||Joe Biden steps up family expulsions as US-Mexico border arrivals keep climbing||The United States is expelling migrants to Mexico far from where they are caught crossing the border, according to Reuters witnesses, in a move that circumvents the refusal of authorities in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas who stopped accepting the return of migrant families with younger children.The practice is a sign that President Joe Biden is toughening his approach to the growing humanitarian crisis on the US-Mexican border after his administration's entreaties for Central American migrants to stay home have failed to stop thousands from heading north.Some families caught at the border in Texas' Rio Grande Valley said in interviews they were flown to El Paso, Texas, after being held in custody just a few days. From there, they were escorted by US officials to the international bridge to Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, around 800-miles (1,300 km) away from where they were first picked up by US border patrol agents.A Reuters photographer saw planes landing in El Paso this week that were loaded with dozens of migrant families with young children, including babies in diapers, and then saw the same families crossing the international bridge.Some passengers interviewed by Reuters once they crossed into Mexico said they had been awakened in their holding cells at night by border agents and not told where they were going as they were loaded on buses and taken to the airport.Landon Hutchens, a US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) spokesman, said that due to a lack of capacity in the Rio Grande Valley, migrants have been sent to El Paso for processing, as well as Laredo, Texas, and San Diego, California.Gloria Chavez, the US Border Patrol chief for the El Paso Sector, said that El Paso had been receiving families from the Rio Grande Valley since March 8. Chavez said the priority was to expel them to Mexico, but that Mexico could only receive a limited amount of families from the region per day. She said some families were still being released to shelters in the United States.The shuttling of migrants to El Paso was first reported by the Dallas Morning News.While the United States has been expelling thousands of people crossing the border illegally, Tamaulipas, which sits across the border from Texas, has not been accepting families returning with younger children, presenting a conundrum for the Biden administration.U.S. authorities have been releasing hundreds of families to shelters and giving them notices to appear in immigration court to reduce overcrowding at border facilities.Dylan Corbett, the director of the Hope Border Institute, an advocacy organization, said the majority of families expelled to Ciudad Juarez after crossing in south Texas have children under 7 years of age."They have been returned to Juarez to a situation of extreme vulnerability," facing dangers from human traffickers and organized criminal groups, Corbett said in an interview, adding that shelters in Mexico are full due to the pandemic.Edna Sorto, who came from Honduras with her two young sons, sat on the floor in a state government immigration office in Ciudad Juarez shortly after walking over the bridge from El Paso. Dozens of families milled around the office with some toddlers and babies sleeping on blankets on the floor."They didn't ask us anything about why we came or where we were going or who could receive us in the United States," Sorto said through tears and over the cries of children in the background who said they were hungry. "We are just going to wait here and see what they tell us, see if we can find a place to stay."UNDER PRESSUREThe new practice of expelling families to a different part of Mexico comes as the Biden administration faces pressure by both critics and some supporters for its handling of the crisis on the border.Opposition Republicans blame the increase in illegal border crossings on Biden's immigration policies and what they say is his mixed messaging to would-be migrants.Biden administration officials' warnings to migrants not to make the journey north appear to be ignored, as people smugglers point to some families being allowed in to persuade would-be migrants that the border is open."We have been clear from all levels of government that the border is closed and the majority of individuals will be turned away or expelled under Title 42," a White House spokesman said, referring to a public health order instituted under former President Donald Trump amid the pandemic. The order allows migrants, including families, to be "expelled" to Mexico or their home countries.Gil Kerlikowske, who was CBP commissioner for three years under former President Barack Obama, said the Biden administration's heavy reliance on messaging was "a huge mistake.""We have 25 plus years of messaging in Mexico and Central America, from placards on buses and bus shelters to radio spots and more, saying, 'Don't come, it's dangerous,' and for 25 years that message has been completely unheard."Democrats and activists meanwhile say children are being kept in border patrol custody for too long and should be released more quickly to family members or other sponsors.More than 500 of the roughly 4,500 unaccompanied children being held in sparse border patrol facilities as of Thursday have been there for more than 10 days, above the legal three-day limit, according to US government data shared with Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-steps-up-family-expulsions-as-us-mexico-border-arrivals-keep-climbing-101616320252601.html
21-03-2021||World||UK must avoid importing vaccine-resistant Covid-19 variants at all costs, says minister||Britain must preserve the gains of its Covid-19 vaccination campaign at all costs and avoid a situation where people would return from foreign holidays bringing vaccine-resistant variants with them, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said on Sunday.Under its four-stage roadmap to easing restrictions, the government has said that foreign travel would be allowed to resume from May 17 at the earliest, although it could be later than that. A taskforce is due to report to the government in April on the issue of what to do about foreign travel."We can't be deaf and blind to what's going on outside the United Kingdom. If you look in Europe, increases in infections," Wallace said on Sky News when asked about whether foreign holidays would be possible for Britons this summer."If we were to be reckless in any way, and import new variants that put out risks, what would people say about that? We've got good direction of travel, we're getting there, and I think we need to make sure we preserve that at all costs," he said, referring to the vaccination campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-must-avoid-importing-vaccine-resistant-covid-19-variants-at-all-costs-says-minister-101616319405323.html
21-03-2021||World||Macron’s popularity drops post handling of Covid-19 crisis: Report||Emmanuel Macron’s popularity rate fell 4 percentage points from a month earlier, with 37% people saying they are satisfied with the president, according to an IFOP poll for French newspaper Journal du Dimanche.Macron has faced criticism for a comparatively slow rollout of the coronavirus vaccine and his overall handling of the pandemic. Paris and other areas in France entered a new lockdown Saturday, which some say should have been implemented earlier to put the brake on the epidemic. The French president has vowed to postpone new restrictions for as long as possible and called a lockdown a last resort.The government is also feeling the heat after requiring that French people must fill out a form to exit their home. The document was amended Saturday, after criticisms that it was too complex.The next presidential elections are scheduled for April 2022, and current polls show far-right candidate Marine Le Pen as Macron’s chief rival. France also has regional elections coming up in June, although the government has warned they will only happen if the health context allows it.In an interview with JDD, government spokesman Gabriel Attal sought to dispel criticism that Macron made a “bet” on the health of French people by not adding restrictive measures earlier.“Some people want a permanent lockdown. We want to get there with as few restrictions as possible,” Attal said, adding that restrictions could be lifted as soon as mid-April thanks to vaccines.In France, around 9% of the population has received at least one shot of vaccine, and 3.6% got both injections. That’s a fraction of the pace in the UK where more than half of all adults have received a first shot.Still, the popularity of Macron, who a year ago said France was “at war” with the virus, is still higher than his predecessors, Socialist Francois Hollande and right-wing Nicolas Sarkozy, at the same point in their mandates, according to the pollster.Ifop polled 1,911 people online and by phone in mid-March, and based the poll results on quotas that ensure the sample is a representation of the voting population in terms of age, gender, socio-professional situation and location. Given the size of the sample, the margin of error is close to 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/macrons-popularity-drops-post-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-report-101616319645020.html
21-03-2021||World||Israeli PM Netanyahu’s vaccine obsession hasn’t swung election in his favor||Vaccine “world champions.” Israel’s “the first” to return to normal life. Other leaders in awe of Benjamin Netanyahu’s achievements in taming the pandemic.In the weeks before Tuesday’s election, Israel’s prime minister flooded social media with flattering portrayals of the country’s world-leading vaccination program to obscure memories of painful and mismanaged lockdowns and edge out a crowded field of challengers. The latest polls suggest it hasn’t given him the dramatic boost he sought.Netanyahu’s Likud party is likely to get between 30 to 32 of parliament’s 120 seats, according to a batch of final polls released Friday, a slight increase over the past few weeks, but lower than the 36 it won last year.Likud is still on course to be the biggest party, and together with old allies and other nationalist factions is close to a 61-seat majority. But with 13 parties in contention to win representation, and a prospective kingmaker refusing to say who he’d join with, post-election jockeying will be intense.“People have made up their minds on Netanyahu, for better or worse,” said Simon Davies, a Tel Aviv-based pollster at Number 10 Strategies. “There is only so much the vaccines can do to sway the relatively few undecided voters between blocs.”Yair Lapid, the head of the Yesh Atid party who has hammered the premier over his alliance with right-wing ideologues and ongoing corruption trial, leads a camp running neck-and-neck in the race.Israel’s economy has largely reopened, almost half the population has been fully inoculated, and Covid-19 cases continue to drop. So it’s little surprise Netanyahu chose to focus on his leadership of the vaccine drive in more than half of 608 Facebook posts in the three months since elections were called. Less welcome news like an unemployment rate of 18% and Iran’s accelerating nuclear program hasn’t got much of a mention.The social-media blitz has included clips of Pfizer Inc. Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla citing Netanyahu’s “obsession” with vaccines for his decision to flood Israel with shots, and a South Park episode in which an Israeli jet delivered boxes of jabs to grateful inhabitants of a fictional Colorado town.The stakes are high for Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving prime minister, as his graft trial proceeds. Staying in office offers his only chance of passing laws shielding a sitting premier from prosecution.In light of the forecast deadlock, he’s urging right-wing voters to fend off a government headed by Lapid, whom he portrays as a clueless left-winger unable to solve economic woes or fight for Israel diplomatically.“Lapid’s name carries strong associations for self-defining right wing voters,” said Davies. “It’s like at the Trump rallies when he said ‘Hillary’ and everyone then says, ‘Lock her up.’ Netanyahu is betting that putting Lapid at the forefront will get him to 61.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-pm-netanyahu-s-vaccine-obsession-hasn-t-swung-election-in-his-favor-101616319023413.html
21-03-2021||World||Not made final decision on pullout of US troops from Afghanistan yet: US Secretary of Defense||US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, during his visit to India stated that US President Joe Biden has not made a final decision on the pullout of US troops from Afghanistan yet."I'm aware that there is speculation that the President has made a decision on keeping troops there until November. President Joe Biden has not made a decision or made any announcements on when he'll decide to remove the troops," Austin told reporters in New Delhi on Saturday.During the stay, Austin held talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar.US media reported earlier this week that the Joe Biden administration was considering extending the US troop deployment in Afghanistan by six months instead of pulling out all personnel by the May 1 scheduled deadline.On February 29, 2020, the United States and the Taliban movement signed a peace deal in Doha, Qatar, stipulating a gradual withdrawal of US troops as well as the beginning of intra-Afghan negotiations and prisoner exchanges. The talks were delayed multiple times until the Afghan government and the Taliban managed to agree on the prisoner exchange process as reported by Sputnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-made-final-decision-on-pullout-of-us-troops-from-afghanistan-yet-us-secretary-of-defense-101616317215560.html
21-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca counters Indonesian Muslim concerns over Covid-19 vaccine||AstraZeneca said on Sunday its Covid-19 vaccine contains no pork-derived ingredients, countering an assertion in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, that the drug violates Islamic law.Indonesia’s highest Muslim clerical council, the Indonesia Ulema Council, said on its website Friday that the vaccine is "haram" because the manufacturing process uses "trypsin from the pork pancreas."Still, the council approved the AstraZeneca vaccine for use given the pandemic emergency.But AstraZeneca Indonesia director Rizman Abudaeri said in a statement: "At all stages of the production process, this virus vector vaccine does not use nor come in contact with pork-derived products or other animal products."The council and the country's food and drug agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Indonesian authorities on Friday approved the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine after reviewing reports that it had caused blood clots among some recipients in Europe.Indonesia is grappling with one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in Asia – with 1,455,788 cases and 39,447 deaths as of Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-counters-indonesian-muslim-concerns-over-covid-19-vaccine-101616317643923.html
21-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Japan PM vows no virus rebound as emergency measures end||Japan's Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga pledged Sunday to do his utmost to prevent a resurgence of the coronavirus ahead of the Olympic torch relay and his upcoming visit to Washington.Suga was addressing his ruling Liberal Democratic Party’s annual convention, just hours ahead of the planned lifting of a virus state of emergency in the the Tokyo region. Suga said after the state of emergency is lifted is "an extremely important time” for virus prevention.“We must not put our guards down ... to prevent the infections from rebounding," he said.Suga on Thursday announced that the months long emergency measures for Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba and Saitama would end at midnight Sunday, a move underscoring his government's eagerness to minimize burdens on businesses and keep the economy going, despite concerns raised by experts about the potential for an upsurge.The lifting of the measure comes just days before the Olympic torch relay starts from Fukushima, northeast of Tokyo and the site of the 2011 nuclear crisis, as a symbol of reconstruction.Suga renewed his pledge to achieve the Olympics in July as “a proof of the victory against the coronavirus,” after its one-year postponement due to the pandemic. Olympic officials decided Saturday to bar spectators from abroad.Suga also wants to keep the infections low ahead of his planned Washington visit in early April for his first in-person summit with President Joe Biden. He will be the first foreign leader to meet in person, underscoring the importance of the Japan-U.S. alliance.Suga, who received the first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine last week, said he looks forward to discussing pandemic measures, as well as cooperation in dealing with China’s growing influence in the region.“We would still face ups and downs, but we will surely find a light ahead of us,” Suga said.Suga vowed to do the utmost to protect the people’s lives and health and sought their cooperation in doing what they can to get infections under control.The measures have been in place for the Tokyo region since Jan. 7 after daily infections surged to new highs in the area. The non-binding measure relied on requests for restaurants and bars to close at 8 p.m. and take preventive measures.The government will step up virus tests, monitoring for more contagious new variants and pay subsidies for restaurants and bars who cooperate to close at 9 p.m.Experts have said they worry about a the potential for a resurgence of infections now that the decrease in infections in the Tokyo area has leveled off and people grow fatigued with taking virus prevention measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-japan-pm-vows-no-virus-rebound-as-emergency-measures-end-101616316453219.html
21-03-2021||World||Sex addiction may have driven suspect in Georgia spa shootings: Authorities||The Georgia man arrested in connection with shootings at Atlanta-area day spas that left eight people dead, including six Asian women, indicated he had issues with sexual addiction, law enforcement officials said on Wednesday.The 21-year-old suspect, Robert Aaron Long, of Woodstock, Georgia, near Atlanta indicated he frequented spas in the area, they said.Arrested on Tuesday night, Long was being held in a Cherokee County detention center. His mugshot released by authorities showed him with a chin beard, short hair on the sides of his head, and longer hair on the top, some reaching his eyes.Long graduated from Sequoyah High School in Canton, Georgia in 2017, a Cherokee County School District spokeswoman said.The Daily Beast reported that an Instagram account appearing to belong to Long, but which was no longer active, contained a tagline that read: "Pizza, guns, drums, music, family, and God. This pretty much sums up my life. It's a pretty good life."Authorities said they did not have any initial indication that Tuesday's shootings were racially motivated. Six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent. A white woman and white man were also among those killed. Long is white.Officials said Long may have been struggling with a sex addiction that he presented as his motive for violence that primarily targeted minority women.Elders at the Crabapple First Baptist Church, which Long attended in nearby Milton, Georgia, issued a statement expressing grief over the shootings."We are heartbroken for all involved. We grieve for the victims and their families, and we continue to pray for them," the statement said. "Moreover, we are distraught for the Long family and continue to pray for them as well."The church appeared to have disabled its Facebook page, which had contained a 2018 video clip in which Long talked about his baptism and youth group in the seventh grade when a speaker discussed the biblical parable of the prodigal son, according to the Daily Beast."The son goes off and squanders all that he has and lives completely for himself and then, when he finds he's wanting to eat pig food, he realized there's something wrong and he goes back to his father and his father runs back to him and embraces him," Long said in the clip. "And by the grace of God I was able to draw the connection there and realize this is a story between what happened with me and God."Long's family did not respond to a request for comment. The family facilitated the arrest, according to the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department.Reuters visited the address listed in public records for the suspect and two other people with his surname. It was a modest, well-kept house in an upper middle-class neighborhood in Woodstock, a predominantly white Cherokee County community of about 33,000 people. Wednesday, the shades were drawn and an American flag hung from an awning at the front of the ranch-style home.Summer Barber, a 21-year-old dog groomer who lives up the road, said she had seen some of the residents ride four-wheelers on the weekends and had a few casual conversations with them, including to offer to groom their golden doodle.Barber said she believed she had spoken with the suspect and a woman who might be his mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sex-addiction-may-have-driven-suspect-in-georgia-spa-shootings-authorities-101616316357749.html
21-03-2021||World||Indoseria: Boeing 737 skids off runway as it returns shortly after takeoff||An Indonesia cargo plane that returned to base shortly after takeoff because of a technical issue skidded off the runway when it landed at a Jakarta airport, the air-navigation operator said.Trigana Air’s Boeing 737-400 returned to Halim Perdanakusuma Airport about two minutes after takeoff on Saturday, AirNav spokesman Yohanes Harry Douglas Sirait said.Several flights were diverted from the facility to Soekarno Hatta Airport in Banten, West Java, because the plane was blocking runways.The aircraft was scheduled to fly to Makassar, South Sulawesi, he said. The National Transportation Safety Committee has started an investigation into the incident, according to Sirait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indoseria-boeing-737-skids-off-runway-as-it-returns-shortly-after-takeoff-101616315011246.html
21-03-2021||World||Russia's US envoy returns to Moscow after 'killer' row||Russia's ambassador to the United States landed in Moscow on Sunday after being recalled for emergency consultations over the worst crisis in relations with the United States in years.US President Joe Biden on television earlier this week called the Russian leader a "killer" spurring a terse quip from Vladimir Putin who responded that, "it takes one to know one".The exchange pushed diplomatic relations to a new low even after Moscow's ties with Washington were already at rock bottom over election meddling allegations and the Kremlin's decision to jail opposition figure Alexei Navalny.Russia's envoy to the United States Anatoly Antonov landed at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport Sunday morning, Russian news agencies reported, after he was recalled last week over the spat.Before takeoff in New York he told agencies he would stay in Moscow "as along as necessary" and that several meetings were scheduled."The Russian side has always stressed that we are interested in the development of Russian-American relations to the same extent as our American colleagues are," he was quoted as saying by TASS.Moscow, which rarely returns ambassadors, last summoned its envoy in the US in 1998 over a Western bombing campaign in Iraq.In 2014, after the US said Russia would face reprecussions for annexation of Crimea from Ukraine, Putin held back on recalling Moscow's envoy, describing the measure as a "last resort".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russias-us-envoy-returns-to-moscow-after-killer-row-101616314620311.html
21-03-2021||World||North Korean diplomats leave Malaysia after severed ties||North Korean diplomats vacated their embassy in Malaysia and prepared to leave the country Sunday, after the two nations cut diplomatic relations in a spat over the extradition of a North Korean criminal suspect to the United States.The North Korean flag and embassy signage have been removed from the premise in a Kuala Lumpur suburb. Two buses ferried the diplomats and their families to the airport, where they were seen checking in for a flight to Shanghai.Ties between North Korea and Malaysia have been virtually frozen since the 2017 assassination of the estranged half brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at Kuala Lumpur International Airport.Two days after Kuala Lumpur extradited a North Korean man to the U.S. to face money laundering charges, a furious North Korea on Friday announced it was terminating ties with Malaysia. Malaysia denounced the decision and in a tit-for-tat response, gave North Korean diplomats 48 hours to leave.Kim Yu Song, the chargé d’affaires and councilor in Kuala Lumpur, said Malaysia had “committed an unpardonable crime." Echoing Pyongyang's earlier statement, he accused Malaysia of being subservient to the U.S. and being part of a U.S. conspiracy aimed at “isolating and suffocating" his country.“The Malaysian authority delivered our citizen to the U.S. in the end, thus destroying the foundations of the bilateral relations based on respect of sovereignty," he said in a short statement outside the embassy, before heading to the airport.North Korea has called the money laundering charges an “absurd fabrication and (a) sheer plot” orchestrated by the U.S. and warned Washington will “pay a due price."Some experts say cutting ties with Malaysia was North Korea's way of showing anger with President Joe Biden's administration, without jeopardizing an eventual return to nuclear negotiations with Washington.North Korea has insisted it won’t engage in talks with Washington unless it abandons what Pyongyang’s perceives as a “hostile” policy. But experts say North Korea will eventually seek to return to diplomacy to find ways to get sanctions relief and revive its moribund economy.Malaysia has defended its move to extradite Mun Chol Myong, saying it was carried out only after all legal processes have been exhausted. A top court ruled Mun can be extradited after rejecting his appeal on grounds that the U.S. charges were politically motivated.Mun, who lived in Malaysia for a decade and arrested in May 2019, has denied U.S. accusations that he was involved in supplying luxury goods from Singapore to North Korea in violation of U.N. sanctions while working in the city-state. He denied laundering funds through front companies and issuing fraudulent documents to support illicit shipments to his country.North Korea has long used Malaysia as a crucial economic hub where it handled trade, labor exports and some illicit businesses in Southeast Asia, but their relations suffered major setbacks over the 2017 killing of Kim Jong Nam.Two women — one Indonesian and the other Vietnamese — were charged with colluding with four North Koreans to murder Kim Jong Nam by smearing his face with VX nerve agent. The four North Koreans fled Malaysia the day Kim died. The two women were later released.Malaysian officials never officially accused North Korea of involvement in Kim’s death, but prosecutors made it clear throughout the trial that they suspected a North Korean connection.North Korea denied the victim was Kim Jong Nam and disputed it had any role in the man’s death. Longtime North Korea watchers believe Kim Jong Un ordered his brother’s killing as part of efforts to remove potential rivals and cement his grip on power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-diplomats-leave-malaysia-after-severed-ties-101616305947261.html
21-03-2021||World||Hospitalised Covid-19 patients with obesity significantly more likely to need ICU care: Study||People with obesity who are hospitalised with Covid-19 have a significantly higher rate of ICU admissions and longer duration of ICU stay compared to people with a normal body mass index (BMI), suggest the findings of a recent study.The study was presented virtually at ENDO 2021, the Endocrine Society's annual meeting."The association between obesity and a more severe clinical course of Covid-19 highlights the vulnerability of this population during the current pandemic and the need for public health efforts to prevent and treat obesity, in the current pandemic and beyond," said lead researcher Yu Mi Kang, M.D., PhD, of Yale-New Haven Health in New Haven, Conn.More than 40% of Americans live with obesity, one of the significant risk factors for Covid-19. Kang and colleagues wanted to determine and describe the impact of obesity on the clinical course of Covid-19, compared with individuals who do not have obesity.The researchers analyzed data from 3,268 adult patients hospitalized with Covid-19 at five hospitals within the Yale-New Haven Health System between March and November 2020.Among hospitalized patients, 43 per cent had obesity, 15.8 per cent died, and 24.2 per cent required ICU-level care. Patients with obesity were 26 per cent more likely to need ICU care overall than patients who did not have obesity. Covid-19 patients with higher body-mass index (BMI) measurements were even more likely to require ICU care. Individuals with severe obesity, or a BMI of 40 or higher, were twice as likely to need ICU care compared with patients with a normal BMI. The study did not find a higher risk of death in people with obesity compared to those with normal BMI."Our work underscores the impact of obesity on the course of Covid-19 and emphasizes the need to ensure that obesity is given appropriate consideration for risk stratification, vaccination protocols and in-hospital Covid-19 management," Kang said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hospitalised-covid-19-patients-with-obesity-significantly-more-likely-to-need-icu-care-study-101616313408621.html
21-03-2021||World||UAE expands Covid-19 vaccine drive to include residents aged 16 and above||The United Arab Emirates is expanding its Covid-19 vaccination program after having inoculated the majority of those at risk.“Those eligible for vaccination, including citizens and residents aged 16 and above, can now get inoculated for free in any of the 205 vaccination locations,” state-run WAM reported late on Saturday, citing the Ministry of Health. So far, the country had prioritised those most at risk of infection, including the elderly and people with chronic diseases.The oil-rich nation has one of the fastest coronavirus vaccine rollouts in the world, having administered more than 7 million doses to its population of about 10 million. It has approved shots from Sinopharm, Pfizer Inc., AstraZeneca Plc and Russia’s Sputnik V for emergency use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-expands-covid-19-vaccine-drive-to-include-residents-aged-16-and-above-101616308172956.html
21-03-2021||World||Bulgaria Covid-19 hospitalisations jump to record high||The number of coronavirus patients in Bulgarian hospitals has risen to 8,545, the highest level since the start of the pandemic last March, official health data showed on Sunday.A surge in infections in the third Covid wave has prompted the Bulgarian government to close schools, nurseries, restaurants, big shops and gyms from Monday for 10 days ahead of the April 4 parliamentary election.With 2,541 new cases in the past 24 hours, the country of 7 million people has reported 302,480 cases and 11,966 deaths in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bulgaria-covid-19-hospitalisations-jump-to-record-high-101616312961055.html
21-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Pakistan bans travel from 12 countries, including Brazil||Pakistan imposed a complete ban on travel from 12 countries, including South Africa, Rwanda and Tanzania, in a bid to curb the spike of coronavirus cases as the country on Sunday recorded 3,667 new cases, taking the national tally to 626,802.The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) notified a fresh list of countries categorised into A, B and C after emergence of South African and Brazilian strain of the virus and imposed a complete ban on travel from 12 countries, categorised as C.The travel restrictions and a ban on inbound passengers from 12 countries will remain effective from March 23 to April 5.Botswana, Brazil, Columbia, Comoros, Ghana, Kenya, Mozambique, Peru, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania and Zambia have been placed in category C.The CAA in its notification said there will be a complete travel ban on inbound travel to Pakistan from category C countries, including withdrawal of exemptions earlier provided to certain categories of travellers like Pakistani passport holders.The temporary measure is being introduced in continuation to the steps being taken to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Pakistan, it said.The CAA also updated its category C, for inbound travellers and shifted the United Kingdom from category C to category B.The CAA said the international travellers from category A countries do not require COVID-19 PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test before entry into Pakistan.Australia, Bhutan, China, Fiji, Japan, Kazakhstan, Laos, Mongolia, Mauritania, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Trinidad and Tobago and Vietnam have been placed in category A.The international travellers from countries not specified in category A require COVID-19 test before commencement of travel to Pakistan.The notification said all countries which are not specified in A and C fall in category B.Meanwhile, the ministry of National Health Services reported that another 8.74 positivity rate was recorded in the last 24 hours, which is lower than 9.47 of the previous day but still high.It said that 44 more patients died in the last one day, pushing the death toll to 13,843 in the country. Also, 581,852 people recovered so far while 2,900 were in critical conditions.Prime Minister Imran Khan and his wife Bushra Bibi were tested positive on Saturday for the Covid-19, two days after the Pakistani premier got the first shot of a vaccine.Khan, 68, contracted the coronavirus on a day when the country saw the highest number of positive cases since July with 3,876 people getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pakistan-bans-travel-from-12-countries-including-brazil-101616309494899.html
21-03-2021||World||China reaches 74.96 million Covid-19 vaccinations says state media||China had administered 74.96 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine as of Saturday, state Xinhua news agency reported on Sunday, citing national health commission spokesman Mi Feng.China's full-year vaccine production can supply the full needs of the population, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology official Mao Junfeng told a news conference.China last reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, all of which were imported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reaches-74-96-million-covid-19-vaccinations-says-state-media-101616313041145.html
21-03-2021||World||67% Taiwanese say no to Covid-19 vaccines produced by China, says report||As per a survey published on Saturday sixty-seven per cent of Taiwanese refused a Covid-19 vaccine produced by a Chinese manufacturer, while 24.3 per cent would accept it.The results of the survey, conducted by Focus Survey Research, were announced at a news conference at the Howard Plaza Hotel in Taipei, reported Taiwan Times.Of the 67 per cent who did not approve, 27.1 per cent said they "mostly disapproved," while 39.9 per cent said they "very much disapproved," it showed."This might be because China did not provide scientific data on its vaccines," said Wang Kun-Yi, an associate professor at Tamkang University, who heads the Strategic Study Society.It showed that only 5.4 per cent of respondents "very much approved" if Taiwan were to import vaccines from China, while 18.9 per cent "approved."The poll, designed by the Taiwan International Strategic Study Society and the Taiwan International Studies Association, asked people about Taiwan-China relations and Taiwan-US relations under the administration of US President Joe Biden.Asked whether they hoped Taiwan and China could resume meaningful dialogue, 77.9 per cent said they did, while 13.7 per cent said they did not, the survey showed."There is a contradiction in the results. The majority does not want Chinese vaccines, but a majority wants dialogue with China," added Wang Kun-Yi.Asked whether they believe that Biden could "rely on his political experience to help the US maintain its position as a major world power," 60.9 per cent said that they believed he could, while 17.8 per cent said he could not, the study showed, reported Taiwan Times.This shows that Taiwanese look favourably upon Biden's ability to lead," said Lo Ching-sheng, Society Executive Director.This showed that Taiwanese still have a high degree of confidence in the US government, Chinese Culture University College of Social Sciences dean Chao Chien-min said."In the past, the US observed a bottom line in its relationship with Taiwan, but now there are concerns that it has instrumentalized Taiwan, which is the core of the current US-China conflict," he said.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken along with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin had recently visited South Korea and Japan to emphasise US unity with its Asian allies, along with taking a tough stance on China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/67-taiwanese-say-no-to-covid-19-vaccines-produced-by-china-says-report-101616309560119.html
21-03-2021||World||Bangkok: Police use tear gas, rubber bullets to break up pro-democracy protest||Scores of people were injured and arrested in the Thai capital after police used water cannons, tear gas and rubber bullets Saturday night to break up a rally by pro-democracy protesters calling for the release of detained activists, constitutional changes and reform of the nation's monarchy.The rally outside Bangkok's Grand Palace was a continuation of student-led protests that began last year and have rattled Thailand's traditional establishment, which is fiercely opposed to change, especially with regard to the monarchy.The rally organizers had said they planned to have demonstrators throw paper planes with messages over the palace walls.The demonstrators, who numbered close to 1,000, managed to break through a barrier made of shipping containers outside the ceremonial palace stacked two high. Police behind the containers responded first with warnings and then by shooting water cannons and rubber bullets. Police drove the crowd back and while skirmishes continued, the crowds appeared to have dissipated by 10 p.m.The city's emergency medical service Erawan reported 33 people, including 13 police, were injured by rubber bullets, rocks and tear gas. At least two reporters were hit by rubber bullets. Thai Lawyers for Human Rights, a watchdog, reported 32 detained.During the skirmishes, protesters tossed smoke bombs and giant firecrackers at police, and also splashed a royal portrait with paint, but failed in an attempt to set it on fire, though they did burn tires and trash at several locations.Police Deputy Spokesman Col. Kissana Phathanacharoen said police had warned in advance that the rally was illegal. He said in addition to throwing various objects, protesters used slingshots to fire nuts and bolts at police and hit them with metal rods. He said police had used water cannons, tear gas and rubber bullets according to proper procedures.The rally was called by REDEM, a faction of a broader protest movement last year that started with three core demands: the resignation of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha and his government, for the constitution to be amended to make it more democratic and the monarchy to be reformed to make it more accountable.REDEM, which stands for Restart Democracy, claims to have no leaders and holds online voting to decide on rally dates and activities.The movement sharpened its campaign to focus on the monarchy, and Thailand's lese majeste law, which makes criticizing, insulting or defaming the king and some other senior royals punishable by up to 15 years in prison.The monarchy has long been treated as sacred institution in Thailand and public criticism is not only illegal, but has long been considered socially unacceptable. Many people still revere the monarchy and the military, a major power in Thai society, considers defense of the monarchy as a key priority.As protesters last year stepped up criticism of the monarchy, the government responded by charging outspoken protesters under the lese majeste law, and over the last month, eight of them were jailed pending trial.The movement was able to attract crowds of as many as 20,000-30,000 people in Bangkok in 2020 and had followings in major cities and universities. However, a new coronavirus outbreak late last year caused it to temporarily suspend activities, and it lost momentum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangkok-police-use-tear-gas-rubber-bullets-to-break-up-pro-democracy-protest-101616308855425.html
21-03-2021||World||Health workers protest in central Myanmar after deadly crackdown||Doctors and nurses in central Myanmar rallied in the streets at first light on Sunday, avoiding a confrontation with security forces after another deadly weekend crackdown on anti-coup protesters.The country has been in turmoil since soldiers ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi last month, triggering nationwide protests demanding a return to democracy.Security forces have responded with lethal force, using live rounds along with tear gas and rubber bullets in an effort to bring the demonstrations to heel.The violence failed to deter hundreds of doctors and nurses donning hard hats and brandishing posters of Suu Kyi as they marched through Mandalay, Myanmar's second-largest city and cultural capital.Mandalay has been the scene of some of the worst violence from police and troops since the coup and local media said the rally was staged at dawn to evade security forces.The march came a day after a local monitoring group confirmed the killing of four protesters at the hands of security forces around the country.Two of the deaths were in commercial capital Yangon, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP).Protesters staged a candlelight protest in the northern town of Kale overnight and left signs on the street calling for United Nations intervention to stop the violence in Myanmar.Nearly 250 deaths have been confirmed in the weeks since the coup, according to AAPP, although the true toll could be higher.More than 2,300 others have been arrested, the group said.International condemnation by Washington, Brussels and the United Nations has so far failed to halt the bloodshed.European Union foreign ministers are expected to approve sanctions against 11 junta officials at a meeting on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/health-workers-protest-in-central-myanmar-after-deadly-crackdown-101616308472128.html
21-03-2021||World||Iconic Canadian site pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi with ice statue||In what could literally be called the coolest launch of festivities leading up to the 75th anniversary of India’s independence, a spectacular, life-size ice sculpture of Mahatma Gandhi has been installed at a popular site in Canada.The sculpture, almost seven feet tall, was created and set up on Friday at Hotel de Glace, North America’s only ice hotel. It was sculpted by Canadian ice artist Marc Lepire.The hotel is located near Quebec City, the capital of the province of Quebec. The Indian consulate in Toronto officially announced the inauguration on Saturday with a tweet, saying, “Launching #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav, to mark 75 years of India’s Independence, with an ice sculpture of Mahatma Gandhi in the iconic ice hotel.”Indian Prime Minister had launched the build-up to the 75th anniversary celebrations on March 12, 75 weeks before the 75th Independence Day. That date was also chosen to mark the 91st anniversary of the Dandi March, led by Gandhi.India’s consul general in Toronto, Apoorva Srivastava, said, “We wanted to launch India@75 celebrations at an iconic location with an invocation of Gandhiji.” She reached out to the hotel for the ice sculpture, which decided to go ahead with the plan. “I am glad that they not only deputed their best sculptor to make the statue, but also gave us a prominent spot to display it,” she added. Srivastava was at the site on Friday when the ice statue was created.The sculptor Lepire told HT, “To make Gandhi was very exciting for me.”Lepire, who is based in Quebec City, used nine blocks of ice and completed the sculpture at the location in five hours’ time. Hotel de Glace is a Canadian landmark and has been a popular tourist destination since it opened in 2001. It’s a seasonal hotel, as the entire structure is constructed out of ice in the winter and it only remains open between late December and late March, after which it is taken down. Making the hotel afresh each year consumes about 500 tonnes to ice and 30,000 tonnes of snow. It attracts nearly 100,000 visitors each year, and features, according to its website “majestic snow arches, crystal clear ice sculptures” other than 21 rooms and theme suites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-canadian-hotel-pays-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-with-ice-statue-101616306143052.html
21-03-2021||World||Louisiana to choose new US House members in special election||Louisiana officials began tallying votes Saturday night after polls closed in special elections for two vacant U.S. House seats that aren't expected to shake up the parties' balance of power but that could add a woman to the state's all-male congressional delegation.Women were among the top contenders in both competitions, including Julia Letlow, a Republican who is vying for the northeast Louisiana-based seat that her husband, Luke Letlow, won in December but couldn't fill because of his death from Covid-19 complications.Julia Letlow is among 12 candidates in the race for the 5th District seat. She's running in the deep red district with the backing of former President Donald Trump, the endorsement of the state GOP and more money raised than all her competitors combined — raising speculation about whether she might be able to win outright Saturday without a runoff election.Farther south, the seat representing the New Orleans-based 2nd District is open because Democrat Cedric Richmond took a job as a special adviser to President Joe Biden. Fifteen candidates are competing for the congressional position. The race is expected to head to an April 24 runoff between the top two vote-getters.Only three women have ever been elected to Louisiana’s congressional delegation. The off-year elections for the 2nd District and 5th District seats could boost that number to four or five.Julia Letlow, a higher education administrator who lives in the small town of Start in Richland Parish, is making her first bid for elected office. She's run on issues similar to those that her husband discussed during his campaign. She talks of supporting agriculture in the largely rural district, expanding broadband internet access and supporting conservative values.“I’ve had time to refine a vision for our district, one where we can work together to uplift our communities out of poverty through jobs and opportunity, where the best natural resources and the best people attract businesses to create more jobs right here at home, where our children aren’t forced out of state for opportunity,” she said.Julia Letlow has raised more than $680,000 for the race since announcing her candidacy in January, according to data filed with the Federal Election Commission.Her closest fundraising competitor, Democrat Sandra “Candy” Christophe, brought in $75,000. Christophe is a social worker from Alexandria who ran unsuccessfully for the seat in the fall, when Luke Letlow won the race.The 5th District covers all or part of 24 parishes, including the cities of Alexandria and Monroe.In the 2nd District, several high-profile candidates are seeking the seat in a majority minority district that extends along the Mississippi River into Baton Rouge.Among the Democrats are state Sens. Troy Carter and Karen Carter Peterson, both from New Orleans; and Gary Chambers Jr., a Baton Rouge community activist and local publisher who gained prominence during protests of the 2016 shooting death of Alton Sterling by local police.The Republican Party-backed candidate is Claston Bernard, a Jamaican-born decathlete who competed in the Olympics, runs a home inspection business and lives in the Baton Rouge suburbs.The major Democratic contenders have had few differences on policy, backing progressive causes such as increasing the federal minimum wage, expanding access to federally financed health care and supporting “environmental justice” for poor communities facing greater health risks from pollution.With Carter and Peterson atop the polls and the highest fundraisers, they have largely battled each other. Carter has accused Peterson of crafting education legislation to benefit her husband’s career, an allegation the Peterson campaign called offensive and deceptive. They traded criticism about missed votes in the Legislature. Each has previously run for the congressional seat. Carter had Richmond's backing in the race.With less money for advertising, Chambers has focused more heavily on social media outreach. He's criticized Carter and Peterson as career politicians who have done nothing to change the state's trajectory.Bernard highlighted his Christian faith, said the GOP should do more to reach out to Black voters who are Christians and criticized government programs as unable to lift people out of poverty. But he faces a high hurdle to victory in a district that traditionally chooses Democrats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/louisiana-to-choose-new-us-house-members-in-special-election-101616295942861.html
21-03-2021||World||Myanmar protesters voice defiance under cover of the night||Opponents of Myanmar's military rule, many in small towns across the country, staged candle-lit protests on Saturday night and into Sunday in defiance of crackdowns by the security forces and the killing of nearly 250 people since the Feb. 1 coup.The violent suppression has drawn the condemnation of Western governments and increasingly the unprecedented criticism of some of Myanmar's Asian neighbours.The violence has also forced people determined to resist a return to military rule after a decade of tentative steps towards democracy to think up new ways to make their point.Nearly 20 protests were held overnight across the country, from the main city of Yangon to small communities in Kachin State in the north and the southernmost town of Kawthaung, according to a tally of social media posts.Hundreds of protesters in the second city of Mandalay, including many medical staff in white coats, marched before sunrise in a "Dawn protest".Protesters in some places were joined by Buddhist monks holding candles. Some people used candles to make the shape of the three-fingered protest salute.In Yangon, which has seen the worst of the violence since the coup, security forces moved quickly to break up a gathering."Now they're cracking down on our night protest. Stun grenades being fired constantly," one Facebook user wrote. Eight people were detained, a resident of the neighbourhood said.The spokesman for the junta was not available for comment but has previously said security forces have used force only when necessary.At least four people were killed in separate incidents earlier on Saturday, taking the death toll since the coup to 247, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners activist group.ASIAN ANGERWestern countries have repeatedly condemned the coup and the violence. Asian neighbours, who have for years avoided criticising each other, have also begun speaking out.Indonesian President Joko Widodo, in some of the strongest comments yet by a regional leader, said on Friday the violence should stop immediately. He called for an urgent meeting of Southeast Asia's regional grouping, of which Myanmar is a member.Malaysian Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin backed the call saying he was appalled by the persistent use of lethal violence against civilians. Singapore has also expressed disapproval.But the military has shown no sign of being swayed and has defended its takeover, which derailed a slow transition to democracy in a country that was under strict military rule from a 1962 coup until the generals initiated reforms a decade ago.The junta says a Nov. 8 election won by Suu Kyi's party was fraudulent, an accusation rejected by the electoral commission. The military leaders have promised a new election but have not set a date.Coup leader General Min Aung Hlaing on Saturday visited the Coco islands, about 400 km (250 miles) south of Yangon, and explained to military officers and nurses why he had seized power, the state broadcaster reported.The islands are near some of the world's most important shipping routes, in waters where China and India seek to project their power. Neither of the Asian giants has spoken out strongly against the coup and the violence.Suu Kyi, 75, faces accusations of bribery and other crimes that could see her banned from politics and jailed if convicted. Her lawyer says the charges are trumped up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-voice-defiance-under-cover-of-the-night-101616293013701.html
21-03-2021||World||Philippines says 200 Chinese vessels spotted at disputed reef||The Philippine government expressed concern after spotting more than 200 Chinese fishing vessels it believed were crewed by militias at a reef claimed by both countries in the South China Sea, but it did not immediately lodge a protest.A government body overseeing the disputed region said late Saturday that about 220 Chinese vessels were seen moored at Whitsun Reef on March 7. It released pictures of the vessels lying side by side in one of the most hotly contested areas of the strategic waterway.The reef, which Manila calls Julian Felipe, is a boomerang-shaped and shallow coral region about 175 nautical miles (324 kilometers) west of Bataraza town in the western Philippine province of Palawan. It's well within the country’s exclusive economic zone, over which the Philippines “enjoys the exclusive right to exploit or conserve any resources,” the agency said in a statement.The large numbers of Chinese boats are “a concern due to the possible overfishing and destruction of the marine environment, as well as risks to safety of navigation,” it said, although it added that the vessels were not fishing when sighted.When asked if the Philippines would file a protest, Foreign Secretary Teodoro Locsin Jr. tweeted, “only if the generals tell me.”Chinese Embassy officials did not immediately issue any comment. China, the Philippines and four other governments have been locked in a tense territorial standoff over the resource-rich and busy waterway for decades.Critics have repeatedly called out President Rodrigo Duterte, who has nurtured friendly ties with Beijing since taking office in 2016, for not standing up to China’s aggressive behavior and deciding not to immediately seek Chinese compliance with an international arbitration ruling that invalidated Beijing’s historic claims to virtually the entire sea. China has refused to recognize the 2016 ruling and continues to defy it.The arbitration body also ruled that China had breached its duty to respect the traditional fishing rights of Filipinos when Chinese forces blocked them from Scarborough Shoal off the northwestern Philippines in 2012. The Philippines, however, could also not deny Chinese fishermen access to Scarborough, according to the ruling. The decision did not specify any other traditional fishing areas within the Philippines’ exclusive zone where fishermen from China and other countries could be allowed to fish.“When Xi says ‘I will fish,’ who can prevent him?” Duterte said two years ago as he defended his nonconfrontational approach, referring to Chinese President Xi Jinping.“If I send my marines to drive away the Chinese fishermen, I guarantee you not one of them will come home alive,” Duterte said then, adding that diplomatic talks with Beijing allowed the return of Filipinos to disputed fishing grounds where Chinese forces had previously shooed them away.Duterte has sought infrastructure funds, trade and investments from China, which has also donated and pledged to deliver more Covid-19 vaccines as the Philippines faces an alarming spike in coronavirus infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-says-200-chinese-vessels-spotted-at-disputed-reef-101616295962821.html
21-03-2021||World||Covid-19: Violent confrontation ensues between police, anti-lockdown protesters in Germany||As over 20,000 people took to the streets to oppose the anti-pandemic lockdown, protesters attacked several members of Germany's security forces in Kassel, according to authorities.Violent clashes between various groups of protesters were also reported, according to DW."We will not tolerate such attacks... This is not what peaceful protests look like," local police said on Twitter.Many protesters were chanting "Wir sind das Volk" ("We are the people"), a slogan taken from the peaceful protests that led to the end of communist East Germany in 1989.Some protesters even tried to break through a police barrier, prompting the police to use a water cannon to disperse the demonstrators outside the area authorised for the rally, DW reported.Police said they had used mace and batons in scuffles with protesters.The protest has been co-organised by the Querdenken (Lateral Thinking) movement, a group that has been behind many such demonstrations during the pandemic. These protests are considered by experts as having considerable potential as superspreader events.Germany is officially in the grip of a third wave of the pandemic, with more than 16,000 new infections reported on Saturday, reported DW.The country has so far reported 2,658,851 infections and 74,657 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-violent-confrontation-ensues-between-police-anti-lockdown-protesters-in-germany-101616301230871.html
21-03-2021||World||In Photos: Australia's worst floods in 50 years lead to mass evacuations||Unprecedented rainfall and a tornado wreaked havoc in the New South Wales state of Australia as there was widespread flooding after the Warragamba Dam overflowed on Saturday. The country’s bureau of meteorology has issued more warnings of “life threatening” floods in western Sydney and thousands of residents of the area have already been evacuated."It is one of the biggest floods we are likely to see for a very long time," bureau of meteorology’s flood operations manager Justin Robinson said, according to news agency AFP.According to a report in Reuters, officials have said that another 4,000 people could be told to leave their homes in the coming days. New South Wales’s premier, Gladys Berejiklian said that the “deep-seated, extreme weather event” which the state is witnessing could go on for many more days. "I hate to say this again to all our citizens of the state, but it's not going to be an easy week for us," she said in a televised briefing.Experts have predicted that the rains might continue unabated in the coming days and the area could see as much as a 1,000mm more rainfall. The bureau of meteorology has also said that the rains and flooding will re-intensify in north Sydney on Monday but could ease a little later in the week.According to Reuters, people have already begun flocking to evacuation centres in towns which are to the north of Sydney and emergency services have received more than 7,000 calls for help. The emergency services have been carrying out about 650 flood rescues since Thursday and have called for reinforcements from other states.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-photos-flash-floods-lead-to-mass-evacuations-in-australia-s-sydney-101616297811336.html
21-03-2021||World||US vice president Harris congratulates Tanzania's first woman president Hassan||US Vice President Kamala Harris on Saturday congratulated Tanzania's new president Samia Suluhu Hassan, the first woman to hold that office, and said the United States was ready to strengthen ties between the two countries.Harris, the first woman and first person of color to serve as US vice president, made the comment in a posting on Twitter."Sending best wishes to @SuluhuSamia following her swearing in as Tanzania's new President - the first woman to hold the office. The United States stands ready to work with you to strengthen relations between our countries," she wrote.Hassan, who had been vice president since 2015, on Friday urged the country to unite and avoid pointing fingers after the death of John Magufuli, her Covid-19 sceptic predecessor.The US Trade Representative's office is leading US efforts to forge a new trade and investment partnership with the East African Community, a regional organization that includes Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda.Total trade between the two countries was $462 million in 2019. US foreign direct investment (FDI) in Tanzania was $1.5 billion in 2019, a 5.2% increase from 2018, according to US government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vice-president-harris-congratulates-tanzania-s-first-woman-president-hassan-101616283747293.html
21-03-2021||World||France condemns Turkey's move to quit domestic violence convention||France's foreign affairs ministry said on Saturday it deeply regretted Turkey's decision to quit an international accord on violence against women and that the move marked a new regression in terms of respect for human rights.Turkey's President Tayyip Erdogan on Saturday pulled Turkey out of the Council of Europe accord, known the Istanbul Convention, which pledged to prevent, prosecute and eliminate domestic violence and promote equality."This decision will primarily affect Turkish women, to whom France expresses all its solidarity," the French ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-condemns-turkey-s-move-to-quit-domestic-violence-convention-101616283784269.html
21-03-2021||World||China, US to work on climate, Beijing says after rancorous meeting||China and the United States will set up a joint working group on climate change, China's official Xinhua news agency said, in a potentially positive takeaway from what was an unusually rancorous high-level meeting.The top Chinese and US diplomats, in their first meeting of Joe Biden's presidency on Thursday and Friday, publicly rebuked each other's policies at the start of what Washington called "tough and direct" talks in Alaska.But the Chinese delegation said after the meeting the two sides were "committed to enhancing communication and cooperation in the field of climate change," Xinhua said on Saturday.They would also hold talks to facilitate the activities of diplomats and consular missions, "as well as on issues related to media reporters in the spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit," the report said.The US Embassy in Beijing did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment on Sunday.Last year, as tensions between Beijing and Washington worsened dramatically, the two countries expelled journalists and the United States shut China's consulate in Houston, prompting China to shut the US consulate in Chengdu.The talks in Anchorage, headed by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and China's top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, had a fiery kickoff, in front of TV cameras, and had appeared to yield no diplomatic breakthroughs.But the Chinese delegation said "both sides share the hope of continuing such type of high-level strategic communication," Xinhua reported."The two sides also agreed that they ... will maintain dialogue and communication, conduct mutually beneficial cooperation, avoid misunderstanding and misjudgment, as well as conflict and confrontation, so as to promote sound and steady development of China-US relations."China and the United States also discussed adjusting travel and visa policies according to the coronavirus pandemic situation, "and gradually promoting the normalization of personnel exchanges between China and the United States," the report said.After the meetings, Yang told China's CGTN television that the discussions had been constructive and beneficial, "but of course, there are still differences."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-us-to-work-on-climate-beijing-says-after-rancorous-meeting-101616291942756.html
21-03-2021||World||Can get most Germans vaccinated by the end of summer: BioNTech founder||The founder of BioNTech, partner with Pfizer in making one of the first coronavirus vaccines to be approved for use, is optimistic that the virus will be under control in most European countries by the end of the summer despite a faltering vaccine roll-out.In Germany, owners of shuttered shops and would-be holidaymakers are increasingly restive over Covid-19 restrictions. Some 20,000 people protested against lockdown in the central city of Kassel on Saturday.European Union governments are facing criticism over the slow start to their vaccination campaigns, with supply hiccups leaving the bloc lagging far behind countries such as Israel, Britain and the United States.But BioNTech founder Ugur Sahin said he was optimistic the problems would prove temporary, adding it was possible to ensure 70% of Germans were vaccinated by the end of September, at which point he said the virus would pose few problems."In many European countries and the U.S. we will probably not need lockdowns by summer's end," he told Welt am Sonntag newspaper. "There'll be outbreaks, but they'll be background noise. There'll be mutations, but they won't frighten us."Almost 9% of the German population had received at least one vaccine shot on Saturday. Meanwhile Britain passed the half-way point with 50% of adults having received at least one dose.In Germany, the sluggish vaccine deployment and continuing restrictions are weighing heavily on the fortunes of Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives, who are slipping in the polls in an election year even as rising Covid-19 case numbers look set to force authorities to put the brakes on attempts to gradually reopen the economy.Incidence is above 100 cases per 100,000 population over a week - the threshold above which authorities say they must impose stricter distancing rules to stop the healthcare system being overburdened."Many are simply disappointed," Bavaria's conservative Premier Markus Soeder, a likely candidate to succeed Merkel in the national election, told the Frankfurter Allgemeine newspaper."A false move now risks turning this third wave (of the virus) into a permanent wave," he said ahead of a meeting on Monday of national and regional leaders at which they are expected to discuss the next stage of coronavirus measures."We have a tool: the emergency brake. It must be applied strictly everywhere in Germany," Soeder said, referring to the possibility of halting the easing of restrictions.\||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-get-most-germans-vaccinated-by-the-end-of-summer-biontech-founder-101616289155520.html
21-03-2021||World||In Boris Johnson’s April 26 visit to unlock opportunities, a trade pact on table||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to launch a new trade pact on his visit to India on April 26, his first major international visit after the United Kingdom left the European Union. Johnson’s visit to New Delhi - the United Kingdom has indicated he would like to travel to Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru and Chennai as well -- is seen to underline the importance of the Indo-Pacific region which the UK says, is “critical to our economy and security”.“The British Prime Minister’s itinerary in India is yet to be finalised,” a senior government official said, pointing that Boris Johnson was keen to travel to the four cities after wrapping up the formal engagements in New Delhi on April 26.Johnson, who had spoken warmly about PM Modi at an international conference this week and hailed his “fantastic leadership”, was scheduled to be in the national capital as the chief guest at the Republic Day parade in January. But he had to cancel the trip at the last minute after a new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus led to a surge of coronavirus cases in his country.PM Johnson, who was down with Covid-19 last year, was given the first dose of the vaccine on Friday. The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer headquartered in Pune, one of the four cities on his itinerary.Indo-Pacific PivotThe official confirmation this week about Boris Johnson’s India visit coincides with his country recalibrating its foreign and defence policy to tilt toward the Indo-Pacific region. India, along with other Asian powers such as Japan and South Korea, is key players in Britain’s new foreign policy calculus.“The region is already critical to our economy and security; is a focal point for the negotiation of international laws, rules and norms; and will become more important to UK prosperity over the next decade,” Britain’s integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, ṭhe most comprehensive since the end of the Cold War, said.Boris Johnson had been working on this approach months in advance. Like when his government sounded out India, before Johnson’s November 27 phone call with PM Modi, that he was open to travelling to Delhi to be the chief guest at the Republic Day parade.Or when his government announced in December that it was going to send its biggest warship, the 65,000-tonne HMS Queen Elizabeth, to the Indo-Pacific region on her maiden deployment in 2021. The review, which referred to China’s increasing assertiveness, noted that much of the UK’s trade with Asia depends on shipping that goes through a range of Indo-Pacific choke points.Local media reports indicate that the £3 billion ( ₹27,177 crore) Royal Navy aircraft carrier, which can carry up to 40 fighter jets, spent much of this week at an ammunition jetty in western Scotland for loading operational stores to prepare for this deployment to the Mediterranean, Indian Ocean and East Asia.Trade PactApart from cementing the Indo-Pacific pivot, officials said trade is likely to remain a key focus point of Boris Johnson’s discussions in view of Brexit.Britain is keen to deepen economic ties with India, the second-largest investor in the British economy, and has been trying to persuade New Delhi for a two-step free-trade deal. India is the UK’s sixth-largest trading partner outside the European Union. In 2019-20, UK-India bilateral trade increased by over 11 per cent to nearly 24 billion pounds. The UK was the largest European market for India’s goods exports in the 2019-20 financial year.Officials said an Enhanced Trade Partnership between the two countries, reviewed in February at a ministerial level, would be launched during Johnson’s trip to India. "We have been undertaking steps to remove barriers to trade and the hope is that an Enhanced Trade Partnership will lead to a positive free trade agreement (FTA) with India in future,” Lord Tariq Ahmad, minister for the commonwealth in the foreign, commonwealth and development office, said in January. "The ultimate goal is an FTA”.The two sides are also expected to try to finalise trade pacts in areas such as pharmaceuticals, fintech, chemicals, petroleum and food products, described by officials as early harvest deals, to give bilateral trade a hard push.PM Modi and PM Johnson are also expected to talk about cooperation in science and technology, health, and the G7 Summit to be held in June in Cornwall’s Carbis Bay. PM Modi, along with the leaders of Australia and South Korea, has been invited to this year’s summit as “guests”. The UK, US, Germany, France, Canada, Italy and Japan make up the G7.The Serum Institute of India is one of the key suppliers of the coronavirusA delayed shipment of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine from India is behind a cut in the UK’s supply starting later this month, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.Change in approach but...Indian officials underline that there has been a discernible change in London’s attitude towards New Delhi under the Boris Johnson administration, particularly in the context of India’s concerns over terrorism, security and interference in its internal affairs. This change in approach came through, an Indian official said, when foreign secretary Harsh Shringla briefed his UK counterpart in November last on Indian concerns around terror emanating from Pakistan. Or when UK Homeland Secretary Priti Patel conveyed to New Delhi that London would not allow a repeat of the anti-CAA protests.But New Delhi was upset when lawmakers participated in a debate on farm laws and criticised the Indian government on account of pressure from a large number of the Indian diaspora, many of them from Punjab. New Delhi summoned the British envoy Alex Ellis to lodge a protest against what it said was an “unwarranted and tendentious” debate in the UK Parliament.New Delhi is also concerned at the pace at which the extradition proceedings are moving in the case of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya and diamantaire Nirav Modi. Officials said India and Britain signed an extradition treaty in 1992. But so far, only one extradition has taken place from the UK to India under the arrangement - Samirbhai Vinubhai Patel, who was sent back to India in October 2016 to face trial in connection with his alleged involvement in the post-Godhra riots of 2002. Officials said Mallya and Nirav Modi, on the other hand, were using all legal and political tools to ensure that they are not extradited.The Indian govt is also concerned over a continuing effort by MPs with a large proportion of their electorate from Mirpur in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, to further Islamabad's agenda by claiming human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir issue to target New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-boris-johnson-s-april-26-visit-to-unlock-opportunities-a-trade-pact-on-table-101616287317780.html
21-03-2021||World||Australia may review Covid-19 quarantine measures as more people get vaccinated||Australia may consider reducing its quarantine requirements and allowing returned travelers to isolate at home as more people receive the Covid-19 vaccine, according to Brendan Murphy, secretary of the Department of Health.As vaccines are rolled out in Australia and around the world, the government will start to progressively review its border and quarantine measures, Murphy said.“We might think about, for example, reducing the length of quarantine, a lot more home quarantine, particularly for vaccinated people,” Murphy said on Sky News’ Sunday Agenda program. “Our risk tolerance will change over the second half of this year.”The first step is to reduce domestic restrictions, make sure state borders aren’t be closed and that officials are more confident responding to small outbreaks, he said.Murphy said he is hopeful that “pretty good international travel will happen next year” but it’s difficult to predict what will happen with international borders because of unknowns surrounding the vaccines. There are still questions on how long protection will last with inoculations, and how effective they are at preventing asymptomatic transmission and against various strains of the virus, he said.Murphy said he was confident the vaccines were safe despite some European countries halting use of the AstraZeneca Plc treatment because of concerns about some side effects.Australia is on target to inoculate all residents with a first dose by the end of October and the government is trying to bring that forward as much as possible, Murphy said.The Australian government has come under criticism for being slow in acting to help control the outbreak in Papua New Guinea that has overwhelmed its closest northern neighbor’s health system. Australia’s response was “insufficient and too late,” Médecins Sans Frontières Australia/Doctors Without Borders, said in a statement.Murphy said the outbreak in Papua New Guinea was “a real concern” with challenges such as low testing rates and problems accessing data. Australia was sending vaccine doses, protective equipment, a medical support team and ventilators, and will continue to review the support it provides, Murphy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-may-review-covid-19-quarantine-measures-as-more-people-get-vaccinated-101616290361528.html
21-03-2021||World||Elon Musk tells China data gathered by Teslas remain secret: Report||Tesla boss Elon Musk strongly denied Saturday that his cars, which gather large amounts of data, could ever be used to spy on China despite fears raised by Beijing, the Wall Street Journal reported.The assertion from the head of the electric car maker followed a decision by the Chinese government to bar members of its military or employees of some state-owned companies from using Teslas.Musk made the comments via video link to a Beijing conference of the government-backed China Development Forum.Also Read: Elon Musk says Tesla would be shut down if its cars spied in China, elsewhereChinese authorities are concerned that data gathered by Tesla vehicles, such as images taken by the cars' cameras, could be transmitted to the US, the Journal said.Tesla did not immediately respond to an AFP request for comment.China is a crucially important market for Tesla, which has a factory in Shanghai and is already selling one-fourth of its production in that country. The group hopes to sell 200,000 vehicles in China this year.In his remarks, Musk insisted that no American or Chinese company would take the risk of collecting private data and sharing it with their government."Whether it's Chinese or US, the negative effects if a commercial company did engage in spying -- the negative effects for that company would be extremely bad," Musk said.If Tesla used its automobiles to spy in any country, he said, it would be shut down everywhere, providing "a very strong incentive for us to be very confidential."Chinese fears that data gathered by groups like Tesla could pose a threat to national security come amid an ongoing US-Chinese confrontation over technology and commerce.Last week, American authorities classified the Huawei group and four other Chinese telecommunications equipment makers as threats to US national security, undercutting any hopes that the US, under President Joe Biden, might ease tense bilateral relations.Huawei had been blacklisted in 2019 by the Trump administration, which accused it without providing evidence of potentially spying for Beijing by using its equipment to monitor communications and data traffic in other countries.The Trump administration also accused TikTok -- the platform for short videos that is a subsidiary of China's ByteDance group -- of gathering confidential data to share with Beijing.Musk, in his comments Saturday, dismissed the American fears about TikTok as "irrational."That platform, particularly popular among the young, mostly just shows people "doing silly dances," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elon-musk-tells-china-data-gathered-by-teslas-remain-secret-report-101616287384508.html
21-03-2021||World||Heavy rain forces parts of Australia's Sydney to evacuate, downpour to continue||People in parts of Sydney's northwest were ordered to flee their houses in the middle of the night as heavy rains continued to batter Australia’s east coast on Sunday with fast-moving waters causing widespread destruction throughout the region.Flooding risk and evacuation warnings were in place for about 12 areas in New South Wales (NSW), Australia's most populous state with 8 million people, with rivers swelling and rain accumulation posing danger."It's not just the rain which is causing the devastation," Jonathan How, senior meteorologist with the Bureau of Meteorology, told the ABC News state broadcaster. "It's strong winds as well."How added that the heavy downpour is set to continue for the rest of Sunday in Sydney and throughout the state, with some areas expected to get up to 200 millimetres (7.9 inches) of rain.Emergency services said they had received about 600 calls overnight asking for help; more than 60 of those were pleas for rescue from floods.Television and social media footage showed fast-moving water unmooring houses, engulfing roads, breaking trees and damaging road infrastructure.The extreme weather was affecting Australia's Covid-19 vaccine delivery to Sydney and throughout the state and disrupting the country's plans to deliver the first vaccine doses to almost 6 million people over the next few weeks. [NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian, who is expected to hold a briefing later on Sunday, said the weather system moving through the state could be a one-in-25-year rain event."This will be a deep-seated, extreme weather event," she said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heavy-rain-forces-parts-of-australia-s-sydney-to-evacuate-downpour-to-continue-101616286711324.html
21-03-2021||World||Thousands of Israelis protest against Netanyahu ahead of election||Thousands of Israelis demonstrated outside the residence of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem on Saturday, calling for an end to his leadership just three days before the country's fourth election in two years.Protesters filed through streets closed to traffic by police, waving flags, banging drums, blowing horns and shouting chants to replace the 71-year-old conservative.The crowd was larger than many previous anti-Netanyahu protests over the past year, with Israeli media reporting it numbered about 20,000.Though his right-wing Likud is expected to emerge as the biggest party in the March 23 ballot, opinion polls predict no clear winner with a majority in parliament or able to form a government - similar to the three previous elections.Pressure has mounted in the election run-up on Netanyahu, who is on trial for corruption and accused by critics of mismanaging the coronavirus pandemic.Netanyahu is hoping the success of his government’s rapid Covid-19 vaccination programme, which has allowed much of the economy to open after three lockdowns, along with a series of normalization agreements with Arab countries, will give him the boost needed to secure a majority in parliament.Netanyahu faces charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust, all of which he denies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-israelis-protest-against-netanyahu-ahead-of-election-101616283818312.html
21-03-2021||World||India defence ties a priority for US: Austin||India and the US on Saturday discussed ways to elevate their security ties against the backdrop of China’s growing assertiveness, with US defence secretary Lloyd Austin saying the partnership with India is a “central pillar” of the Biden-Harris administration’s approach to the Indo-Pacific region.The two sides also agreed to enhance cooperation between the Indian military and the US Indo-Pacific, Central and Africa commands, defence minister Rajnath Singh told a joint media interaction after his meeting with Austin, the first top leader of the Biden administration to visit the country.Austin, who met PM Narendra Modi and national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval shortly after arriving in New Delhi on Friday, characterised the India-US relationship as a “stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific” and said New Delhi is an “increasingly important partner in rapidly shifting international dynamics”.Though both Singh and Austin made no reference to China in their statements to the media, thetwo sides are understood to have discussed the India-China standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), China’s actions across the region, and the situation in Afghanistan.Austin flew into India on the last leg of a three-nation visit that included Japan and South Korea, and China’s coercion and aggression figured in the US defence secretary’s discussions in the earlier stops of his tour. He arrived in India hours after the foreign ministers and NSAs of the US and China clashed publicly at a meeting in Alaska.Pointing to the shared values and converging strategic interests of the US and India, Austin said: “We discussed opportunities to elevate the US-India major defence partnership, which is a priority of the Biden-Harris administration, and we’ll do that through regional security cooperation and military-to-military interactions and defence trade.”Describing the talks as “comprehensive and fruitful”, Singh said: “The recent leaders’ summit of India, US, Japan and Australia under the Quad framework emphasised our resolve to maintain a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region.”He added: “We reviewed the wide gamut of bilateral and multilateral exercises and agreed to pursue enhanced cooperation with the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and African Command.”On the US side, defence ties with India are currently the responsibility of the Hawaii-based Indo-Pacific Command. The decision to enhance cooperation with the Florida-based Central Command and the Germany-based Africa Command is being seen as a significant outcome of Saturday’s meeting. The US Central Command’s area of responsibility includes Pakistan and Afghanistan.The US designated India a “major defence partner” in 2016, allowing the country to have wider access to a range of military and dual-use technologies. The two sides have also signed what are known as “foundational” defence and security agreements, such as the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA), Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) and Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA).Singh said he and Austin had discussed steps to realise the “full potential” of the foundational agreements, and expanding military-to-military engagement across services, information-sharing, cooperation in emerging sectors of defence, and mutual logistics support.Later in the day, Austin said at a separate press briefing he had raised the human rights of the country’s minorities with members of the Indian cabinet as “partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions”. He also said he had discussed with Singh the thorny issue of India’s acquisition of the S-400 missile defence system from Russia, but added that US sanctions were not “on the table” as India was yet to acquire the weapon system.During bilateral talks, the two sides also discussed the need to enhance capacity to address non-traditional challenges such as oil spills, environmental disasters, drug trafficking and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, Austin said in the joint statement.Singh invited the US industry to take advantage of India’s liberalised foreign direct investment (FDI) policies in defence. “We both agreed that there are opportunities for collaboration in defence industry,” he said.Austin said the Biden administration’s message of “our strong commitment to our allies and partners” was at the top of his agenda. “India, in particular, is an increasingly important partner amid today’s rapidly shifting international dynamics. And I reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar of our approach to the region,” he said.The US-India relationship is “a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region” against the backdrop of a global pandemic and growing challenges to an open and stable international system, Austin said.Noting that Modi had stated India stands for freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce and adherence to international law, Austin said, “This is a resounding affirmation of our shared vision for regional security in the Indo-Pacific, and it’s clear that the importance of this partnership and its impact to the international rules-based order will only grow in the years ahead.” Austin said he and Singh also discussed engagement with like-minded partners through multilateral groupings such as Quad and Asean, as this is imperative to address transnational issues such as climate change and challenges to a free and open regional order in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-defence-ties-a-priority-for-us-austin-101616284809384.html
21-03-2021||World||After meet in Alaska, US and China must decide what's next||US and Chinese officials traded acrimony and accusations over two days of talks in Anchorage, Alaska, that both sides hope will clear the air.Now the real work begins.While the Americans portrayed the talks as a good chance to exchange views, they left Alaska without any clear path forward on issues from tariffs and human rights in Xinjiang and Hong Kong to cyber attacks and the long roster of Chinese companies at risk of being delisted from US exchanges.That will be a disappointment to officials and businesses on both sides that had hoped for some solid indication that the world’s two largest economies were ready to ease off their confrontation, such as by planning a virtual summit on climate change between Presidents Joe Biden and Xi Jinping. In the end, they didn’t even come away with that.“We were clear-eyed coming in, we’re clear-eyed coming out and we will go back to Washington to take stock of where we are,” National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said after emerging with Secretary of State Antony Blinken from the meetings in an Anchorage hotel. They refused to take questions from reporters.Yang Jiechi, a member of the Communist Party’s Politburo, told Chinese reporters that the talks were “candid, constructive and helpful” but added that “there are still some important differences between the two sides.”“China is going to safeguard our national sovereignty, security and our interests,” Yang said. If there was any hope to be had, it was that his remarks were far less hostile than his blistering 20-minute monologue at the start of the talks.The lack of any visible progress underscored just how bad relations have become between the US and China in the time since former President Donald Trump shifted from intermittent praise of Xi to a far more confrontational approach to the country, and how little appetite -- or ability -- there appears to be on either side to improve relations.China’s Xinhua news agency reported Saturday that the two sides would establish a joint working group on climate change, and would hold talks on facilitating activities of each other’s diplomats as well as issues relating to journalists. By contrast, the US made no public mention of agreements after the talks.Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle in the US have pressed Biden to maintain Trump’s tough tone on China, and his team has largely done so.In China, the government has executed a hard turn toward greater authoritarianism, eroding democratic freedoms in Hong Kong and cracking down on ethnic Muslims in Xinjiang in a campaign that the US has labeled genocide.That designation especially rankles the Chinese. Calling it “the biggest lie of the century,” the Chinese delegation to the talks protested “the presumption of guilt by those who are biased and condescending,” Xinhua reported after the talks broke up.The meetings in Anchorage may have been “useful to see if there’s anything else people want to say behind closed doors that they’re not going to say publicly,” Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser on Asia at the Center for Strategic & International Studies in Washington. She warned, though, that relations may only get worse.“We’re going to have more bills come out of Congress, not fewer, we’ll have more people screaming about how the US has to stand up to China,” Glaser said.Unfinished WorkIn the meantime, the Biden administration’s China policy is work in progress. Officials are still reviewing how hard to push back against Chinese technology firms such as Huawei Technologies Co. and how much can be done to stall China’s ability to develop and export the latest-generation microchips.They haven’t said what they’ll do about the many Chinese companies that could be delisted from US exchanges, or whether they’ll lift tariffs on billions of dollars in Chinese goods. And China has shown no sign of backing down from its far bolder approach.“An optimistic read is that Yang’s public performance was entirely for a domestic audience, and behind closed doors it will still be possible to make progress,” Tom Orlik, the chief economist for Bloomberg Economics, wrote in a note. “A more straightforward interpretation is that China is now so confident in its ascendancy that it sees no benefit to working cooperatively except on its own terms.”The US had sought the talks and arranged to hold them in Alaska, where Blinken stopped to refuel after visits to key US allies Japan and South Korea. That was intended to send a signal: The Biden administration would talk to China only on its terms and after checking in with key partners.But whatever position of strength the US had seemed to dissolve within minutes, as Yang delivered the monologue in what were supposed to be perfunctory open remarks. Responding to a shorter presentation of complaints from Blinken, Yang accused the US of hypocrisy, called its democracy flawed and tainted by racism and said it was the “champion” of cyber attacks.Within the administration, there was debate about whether the opening session -- and even the decision to have talks -- was a miscalculation. According to some officials, relations are so sour that Blinken and Sullivan should have expected, and sought to avoid, the show of vitriol.But others argued that China often amplifies its rhetoric before making concessions, and it was important to allow that before getting down to business. Two people familiar with the matter said the idea of the meeting originated with Kurt Campbell, Biden’s Asia coordinator, and voices in the State Department had pushed back, arguing a meeting had little utility.Skeptics said that the hope for a free-wheeling conversation was naive because Chinese officials rarely diverge from talking points even in private. That appears to have been the case, as one official who briefed reporters said that while the meeting was frank, they didn’t get the back-and-forth they had hoped for.Although the talks were merely the first move in the Biden administration’s approach to China, it left very little indication of what’s to come. Some Republicans are already demanding that the US boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics that will be held in China, a decision that would infuriate Beijing.And although former Secretary of State John Kerry is looking for an opening on climate cooperation, his portfolio, the tone in Anchorage seems to have left little opportunity or trust to make a deal anytime soon.“If anyone in the Biden administration believes that being testy with the Chinese in this meeting will create domestic space for cooperation,” Derek Scissors, a China analyst at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, said as the talks were underway, “they are out of their minds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-meet-in-alaska-us-and-china-must-decide-what-s-next-101616283856475.html
21-03-2021||World||China's thriving wildlife trade could've led to Covid-19 pandemic||Scientists tracing the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic believe they’ve identified a possible transmission source: China’s thriving wildlife trade.The highly anticipated findings from experts convened by the World Health Organization and the Chinese government are expected to show parallels to the spawning in 2002 of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, a bat-borne coronavirus spread by civets that killed 800 people. The path trod by SARS-CoV-2 -- as the new coronavirus is known -- before it emerged in central China in December 2019 remains a mystery, though it’s one researchers say can be solved.In Wuhan, where the first cluster of cases occurred, scientists involved in the hunt identified four hypotheses to explain the virus’s genesis, including two that stoked controversy even as they were deemed unlikely. The idea that the virus was introduced via contaminated food or packaging is one embraced in Beijing, while the Trump administration said it may have been the result of a laboratory accident. But the most plausible theory, say experts involved in the mission, concerns China’s wildlife trade for food, furs and traditional medicine, a business worth about 520 billion yuan ($80 billion) in 2016.Live animals susceptible to coronavirus infection were present at the Huanan food market in downtown Wuhan, the city where the first major Covid-19 outbreak was detected. It’s possible they acted as conduits for the virus, carrying it from bats -- likely the primary source -- to humans, says Peter Daszak, a zoologist who was part of the joint research effort, which saw international experts visit Wuhan earlier this year after months of stonewalling by the Chinese government.“The main conclusion from this stage of the work -- and it’s not over yet of course -- is that the exact same pathway by which SARS emerged was alive and well for the emergence of Covid,” said Daszak, who is also president of EcoHealth Alliance, a New York-based nonprofit that works to prevent viral outbreaks around the world.The scientists’ report, slated for release this week after delays due to political wrangling, is likely to be far from conclusive. More studies are planned, including outside China, with deciphering Covid-19’s creation story vital to understanding how best to thwart its resurgence, and to help avert similar catastrophes in the future.While the hunt for the virus’s origin has become political football for the world’s superpowers, Daszak says he thinks the scientific process will prevail. Significant data on where SARS-CoV-2 came from and how it emerged will be uncovered over the next few years, he said during a March 10 webinar organized by Chatham House.SARS SpreadFarmed and wild-caught civets, a small, nocturnal mammal consumed in China, were blamed for spreading the SARS virus in a market in the southern province of Guangdong in 2003. Scientists later found the infection originated in horseshoe bats, a natural reservoir of coronaviruses.The two species likely collided in markets where live animals are caged in crowded conditions, potentially allowing the bat-borne virus to adapt and amplify before it spilled over to humans, initially among workers and those handling the animals.Scientists working on the origin hunt say a similar scenario may have played out with Covid-19. A study of the first 99 patients treated at an infectious diseases hospital in Wuhan found half were linked to the Huanan seafood market, which also reportedly sold live animals, some illegally captured in the wild and slaughtered in front of customers.It’s possible the virus was introduced through an infected animal that was sold at the Huanan market or somewhere else in Wuhan, said Dominic Dwyer, a microbiologist in Sydney who was part of the WHO-convened team that traveled to the Chinese city in February.Still, questions remain about the market’s ultimate role.Testing after it was shut down in December 2019 failed to turn up any infected animals. Contaminated surfaces were widespread, compatible with the virus being introduced via infected people or tainted animal products. Compounding the confusion, the first known Covid-19 patient developed symptoms four days before the earliest cases tied to the market.An analysis of SARS-CoV-2 samples collected in mid-December found subtle genetic differences between them. The variation indicates the virus may have circulated surreptitiously for weeks in the community before doctors were alerted to it via a handful of severely ill patients with a mysterious viral pneumonia.The original spill over of the coronavirus to a human was probably followed by rapid adaptation of the virus, said Joel O. Wertheim, an associate professor of medicine at the University of California, San Diego. It’s possible the virus was transmitted multiple times and went extinct when infected individuals didn’t transmit the virus to anyone, Wertheim and colleagues said in a paper published March 18 in the journal Science. Eventually, the virus infected someone who passed it to several people, who also passed it on to others, possibly in a super-spreading event.The Huanan market may have been where that occurred, Wertheim said in an interview. “The market may have been key to the virus ensconcing itself in humans.”Current evidence suggests the market is where SARS-CoV-2 was amplified, and not necessarily its birthplace, Dwyer said.‘Perfect Place’“When you visit the market, you realize that it’s a perfect place for an outbreak to occur because it’s crowded, lots of stalls, lots of animal products, and ventilation and drainage are a bit suboptimal,” he said in an interview. “It’s not surprising we had an explosion through there.”The WHO research team found evidence that wildlife farms in southern China were supplying vendors at the Huanan market, Daszak told the US’ National Public Radio. It also found a route from southern provinces such as Yunnan -- where the closest known coronavirus to SARS-CoV-2 was found in horseshoe bats in 2013 -- to Wuhan, he said on the Chatham House webinar.“It provides a link and a pathway by which a virus could convincingly spill over from wildlife into either people or animals farmed in the region, and then shipped into a market by some means,” Daszak said. “That’s a really important clue. Those beginnings of an understanding of a pathway need to be followed up pretty rapidly.”For decades, the government of China promoted the farming of wildlife to bolster rural incomes. The practice provided an especially valuable alternative source of meat after African swine fever emerged in 2018. The deadly outbreak resulted in an unprecedented shortage of pork, researchers at the South China Agricultural University and University of Glasgow said in a study that was released in February without a formal peer-review. China typically consumes half the world’s pigmeat.Squirrels, PorcupinesWhile the pork shortage bolstered wildlife consumption, eating birds, snakes, bamboo rats, squirrels, porcupines and other non-domesticated animals was already popular, especially in southern provinces, the researchers said.They cited a 2004 survey by the China Wildlife Conservation Association that found 46% of urban residents had consumed wildlife and 2.7% were regular consumers. A January 2017 survey found 52% of markets they investigated were trading wildlife, while 40% of restaurants were providing wild animal dishes.Much of the trade supposedly ended just over a year ago. After President Xi Jinping warned that the consumption of wildlife posed an immense risk to public health, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress decided on Feb. 24, 2020, to expand the scope of China’s Wildlife Protection Law to ban the consumption of almost all wild animals.Amid international criticism of its handling of the early days of the pandemic, China’s official rhetoric is focused on creating doubt that the pathogen originated within its borders. But China targeted the wildlife trade a year ago for a reason, Daszak told NPR.“The reason was, back in February 2020, they believed this was the most likely pathway” for the coronavirus to reach Wuhan, he said. “And when the WHO report comes out...we believe it’s the most likely pathway too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-thriving-wildlife-trade-could-ve-led-to-covid-19-pandemic-101616283344876.html
21-03-2021||World||Hundreds gather in Atlanta to protest hate crimes against Asian Americans||Hundreds of demonstrators gathered outside the Georgia State Capitol in Atlanta on Saturday in support of the Asian American community after a shooting at three local day spas this week left eight people dead, six of them Asian women.The killings followed a year of mounting anti-Asian violence in the United States, which community leaders say is due to Asian Americans being blamed for the coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, China, in late 2019.Crowds of people wearing masks, waving American flags and carrying posters that read "We are not the virus" and "Stop Asian Hate" stood in front of the golden-domed Georgia State Capitol building on Saturday."I want to make sure the world and the people know that I am here and I am visible," said rally-goer Sunghee Han from Georgia."The women who perished, ... I see my family in them," Timothy Phan from Port St. Lucie, Florida, who drove eight hours to attend, told CNN. "I feel like far too often, we're just erased."Georgia Senators Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, both Democrats elected in January, led the demonstrators in a moment of silence for the victims, video on Twitter showed."Let us build a state and a nation where no one lives in fear because of who they are or where they or their family come from," Senator Ossoff said.Georgia authorities have yet to determine what drove the suspect, a 21-year-old white man, who was charged with the killings at spas in and around Atlanta on Tuesday. Robert Aaron Long told investigators sex addiction led him to violence, but lawmakers and anti-racism advocates have said anti-Asian bias could have been at least part of the motivation."I'm not interested in whether or not he had a bad day," said Warnock, blasting a comment by an Atlanta-area sheriff's department spokesman about Long's state of mind."No matter how you want to spin it, the facts remain the same," Georgia State Representative Bee Nguyen told the crowd. "This was an attack on the Asian community."Some of the women killed were immigrants and mothers, described by family and friends as hard-working, loving and beloved.Hyun Jung Grant was among those killed at Gold Spa in Atlanta. Her son, Randy Park, set up a GoFundMe page to raise money for himself and his brother, who are alone now in the United States while the rest of their family is in South Korea."She was a single mother who dedicated her whole life to providing for my brother and I," Park wrote.The shootings prompted an outpouring of grief, from the local community in Georgia to the halls of US Congress. Since Tuesday, mourners have piled flower bouquets and signs, lit candles and said prayers outside the spas where the victims were killed.US lawmakers decried the spike in anti-Asian violence in a congressional hearing on Thursday, where Democratic Representative Grace Meng, who is of Taiwanese descent, testified that the "community is bleeding."On Friday, President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris met with Asian American community leaders in Georgia to express condolences and implore Americans to stand together against hate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hundreds-gather-in-atlanta-to-protest-hate-crimes-against-asian-americans-101616282994955.html
21-03-2021||World||Gunfire kills 1, injures 5 at illegal gathering in Philadelphia||Gunfire at an illegal large gathering in Philadelphia killed one person, wounded five others and sent scores of people fleeing, authorities said.The gunfire erupted around 3:45 a.m. Saturday inside and outside a rental hall adjacent to Hot Pot Cuisine in north Philadelphia's Nicetown neighborhood, police officials said.A 29-year-old man was shot 14 times and was pronounced dead minutes later at Temple University Hospital, police said. Three men ages 33, 38, and 41 and a 30-year-old woman were also shot; all were stable at hospitals, police said.Police Commissioner Danielle Outlaw told reporters that at least 150 people fled for their lives. She said that such large gatherings are illegal under COVID-19 orders and that police would increase foot, bicycle and foot patrols where large gatherings might occur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunfire-kills-1-injures-5-at-illegal-gathering-in-philadelphia-101616278079140.html
21-03-2021||World||'Running across bed at night': Plague of mice hits Australia's New South Wales||Some rural communities in the Australian state of New South Wales are suffering their worst plague of mice in decades after a bumper grain harvest, local people said.Eyewitness video obtained by Reuters showed thousands of the tiny rodents swarming around a farm in the town of Gilgandra.Eyewitness video obtained by @Reuters shows thousands of the mice swarming around a local farm in Gilgandra, New South Wales https://t.co/GAq58XJCqr pic.twitter.com/sq9uy8zjmX"At night... the ground is just moving with thousands and thousands of mice just running around" farmer Ron Mckay told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.Supermarkets are storing food in sealed containers and at least three patients in the local hospital have been bitten by the mice, the broadcaster said."You can imagine that every time you open a cupboard, every time you go to your pantry, there are mice present," said Steve Henry, a rodent expert."And they're eating into your food containers, they're fouling your clean linen in your linen cupboard, they're running across your bed at night."Farmers who made hay bales for the winter expect to lose many to the fast-reproducing rodents. Local media reported that just one pair of mice can produce on average up to 500 offspring in a season.Intensive baiting programmes have so far had little success against the infestation, and locals are hoping for heavy rain to drown the mice in their burrows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/running-across-bed-at-night-plague-of-mice-hits-australia-s-new-south-wales-101616271652006.html
21-03-2021||India||5 kids die after getting trapped inside grain storage container in Rajasthan||In a tragic incident, five children suffocated to death after they jumped into a grain storage container while playing at Himmatasar village in Rajasthan’s Bikaner on Sunday, police said.According to police, the container was almost empty and the children jumped into it one after another while playing. The container got closed accidentally, trapping the kids inside.Sevaram (4), Ravina (7), Radha (5), Poonam (8) and Mali were rushed to a government hospital where doctors declared them brought dead, SP (Bikaner) Priti Chandra said.“When the mother of the children came home, she did not find them. During the search for them, she opened the container and found them inside it,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-kids-die-after-getting-trapped-inside-grain-storage-container-in-rajasthan-101616349254084.html
21-03-2021||India||Indian, Chinese army commanders likely to meet this week: Report||After having successfully disengaged with China in the Pangong lake area, Armies of India and China are likely to hold talks again this week to discuss further disengagement from Gogra heights and Depsang plains, said sources.The two sides are likely to hold talks at Corps Commander level this week after the diplomatic talks held last week. The two sides are expected to discuss the issue of disengagement from Gogra heights, Depsang Plains and CNC junction area near Demchok during the discussions, government sources told ANI.The talks are likely to be held soon after the two countries have held diplomatic level talks in which they discussed these issues in detail, they said.The two countries have been engaged in a military standoff for almost a year but disengaged from the most contentious Pangong lake area last month after extensive talks at both military and political level.The credit for the disengagement was given to all stakeholders by Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane who also talked about the country benefitting from the inputs given by the National Security Advisor Ajit Doval during the crisis.India and China held 10 round of talks at the Corps Commander level to reach the arrangement to disengage from the Pangong lake area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-army-commanders-likely-to-meet-this-week-report-101616346591369.html
21-03-2021||India||PM Modi to launch 'Catch the Rain' campaign on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the "Jal Shakti Abhiyan:Catch the Rain" campaign on the World Water Day on Monday.The historic MoU to implement the Ken Betwa Link Project, the first project of the national perspective plan for interlinking of rivers, will also be signed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh chief ministers at the event.The PMO said in a statement that the campaign will be undertaken across the country in both rural and urban areas with the theme "catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls". It will be implemented from March 22 to November 30 - the pre-monsoon and monsoon period in the country. It will be launched as a 'Jan Andolan' (public movement) to take water conservation at the grassroot level through people's participation. It is intended to nudge all stakeholders to create rainwater harvesting structures suitable to climatic conditions and subsoil strata, to ensure proper storage of rainwater, the PMO said. After the event, gram sabhas will be held in all gram panchayats of each district (except in poll-bound states) to discuss issues related to water and water conservation. Gram sabhas will also take 'Jal Shapath' (oath) for water conservation, it added. The Ken Betwa link project agreement heralds the beginning of inter-state cooperation to implement the vision of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to carry water from areas that have surplus water to drought prone and water deficit areas through the interlinking of rivers, the PMO said. This project involves transfer of water from Ken to Betwa River through the construction of Daudhan Dam and a canal linking the two rivers, the lower Orr project, Kotha barrage and Bina complex multipurpose project. It will provide annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hectare, drinking water supply to about 62 lakh people and also generate 103 MW of hydropower.The PMO said the project will be of immense benefit to the water starved region of Bundelkhand, especially to the districts of Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen of Madhya Pradesh and Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur of Uttar Pradesh. It will pave the way for more interlinking of river projects to ensure that scarcity of water does not become an inhibitor for development in the country, the PMO said. PTI KR DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-catch-the-rain-campaign-on-monday-101616347163742.html
21-03-2021||India||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla tests Covid-19 positive, admitted at AIIMS||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has tested positive for Covid-19, according to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, (AIIMS) Delhi. Birla has never missed a single day of proceedings of the House ever since he was elected unopposed to the highest seat in the Lok Sabha in June 2019. But last Friday, he didn’t come to the House. He tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19 and was admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre a day later. “Om Birla, honourable Speaker of Lok Sabha tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19. He was admitted to AIIMS Covid Center for observation on March 20. He is stable and all his parameters are normal,” said Aarti Vij, chairperson, media and protocol division, AIIMS Delhi, in a statement. The Lok Sabha speaker will not be available for the remaining few days of the ongoing Budget Session that is expected to end on Thursday. Officials indicated that members of the pool of chairpersons would preside over the remaining part. The House has not elected any deputy speaker-- a rare exception in the Lok Sabha. Birla took the maximum workload and unlike any of his predecessors, he would sit through the session even late at night.This is the first reported case of Covid-19 among lawmakers in the second half of the Budget Session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-tests-covid-19-positive-admitted-at-aiims-101616345445895.html
21-03-2021||India||'Resorting to extortion is like...': Amruta Fadnavis lashes out at MVA govt||At a time when the Maharastra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is busy trying to resolve the Anil Deshmukh crisis triggered by extortion allegations, Amruta Fadnavis, the wife of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, expressed her strong views on Twitter. Comparing the act of extortion to rape, Amruta Fadnavis said that "it injures the spirit and well-being of the innocent and the weak".Resorting to Extortion to get funds ,is like Committing Rape to get sex !Both injure the spirit & well-being of the innocent & the weak ! #MahaVasooliAghadi #MaharashtraGovernment #wakeup#Target100Cr #100Crore #100CroreKiVasuliShe used ₹100 crore as a hashtag in reference to the allegations made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who said in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh - the Maharashtra home minister - gave arrested cop Sachin Vaze a target to extort ₹100 crore from various city joints.Since it surfaced on Saturday, the letter has shaken the political arena in Maharashtra. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) quickly launched an attack on the ruling dispensation, demanding resignation of Deshmukh. Devendra Fadnavis even said that the chief minister should sack him.Also Watch: BJP cites old report after Mumbai 'letter bomb' surfacesThe BJP also organised a series of protests in a few Maharashtra cities demanding action against Deshmukh.Sharad Pawar, the chief of MVA constituent Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), held a press conference in Delhi on Sunday where he said that there is no threat to the government due to the crisis. He also said that the allegations against Deshmukh are serious and it is the prerogative of CM Uddhav Thackeray to take appropriate action.The NCP leaders also held a meeting at Pawar's residence in Delhi after which party leader Jayant Patil ruled out Deshmukh's resignation. All the three constituents of the MVA - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - will hold meetings on Monday where a decision is expected on Deshmukh.On Saturday, Amruta Fadnavis, a banker by profession, said that things will go a long way now. "How many will have to be sacrificed to save the king?" Amruta tweeted.Deshmukh, meanwhile, has denied the allegations against him, saying Param Bir Singh wrote the letter to save himself from legal action in the Mukesh Ambani security threat case, in which Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Deshmukh said that Singh was removed after some "serious lapses" were found in the case.He has threatened to file a defamation case against Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resorting-to-extortion-is-like-amruta-fadnavis-lashes-out-at-mva-govt-101616344450200.html
21-03-2021||India||Calls for CM Yediyurappa’s removal grow louder in Karnataka and beyond||Pressure on Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa continued to pile up from the opposition as well as within his party--- the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as voices asking for his resignation got louder in the state. Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala took to Twitter on Sunday, demanding that the Union government remove Yediyurappa as chief minister over charges of corruption.“As “Corruption Charges” against CM Yediyurappa unfold through judicial verdicts, why is BJP “mum”? Why is PM Modi ji “silent”? Where is Naddaji? Why is CM Yediyurappa not sacked? Why is media scared of even touching the story?” Surjewala posted on Twitter. He posted the link of the news which referred to the Karnataka High Court, on March 17, allowing the reinstatement of an eight-year old corruption case against the 78-year-old chief minister. Yediyurappa has been under pressure ever since he returned to power by engineering the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in Karnataka in 2019. Kumaraswamy also took to Twitter to get PM Modi’s attention on the existing corruption in Karnataka. Taking on the Prime Minister’s comments against the “single-window” system in Bengal, Kumaraswamy posted a five-part tweet which accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state of practicing corruption. “But what kind of single window system is prevailing in Karnataka, ruled by the BJP? Will Modi reply to this? The senior BJP MLAs themselves are lamenting everywhere in Karnataka about the BJP govt’s ‘single window system’ which is hiding behind the chair of CM BS Yediyurappa,” he posted. “Modi’s act of criticizing @MamataOfficial when there is a single window system in Karnataka government itself which is intentionally being nurtured, is like cheating the conscience,” he added. He said that Modi should first end the corruption prevalent in Karnataka. Yediyurappa has often found himself fighting people within his own party demanding that he be replaced. Basangouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), one of Yediyurappa’s staunchest critics, continued his tirade against the chief minister, stating that the leader be replaced if the BJP wants a chance to return to power in 2023. “It is confirmed that the CM will be replaced,” Yatnal said on Saturday.“If we take this CM and go in for the next elections....,” he paused, implying defeat. He said that the general secretary of the party may well be aware of this fact. “If BJP must survive, then the CM must be changed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-for-cm-yediyurappa-s-removal-grow-louder-in-karnataka-and-beyond-101616344546877.html
21-03-2021||India||Mizoram CM, Myanmar foreign minister in exile hold talks on refugee influx||Amid the influx of refugees from the neighbouring country to the state following a military coup, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga on Sunday held an online meeting with Myanmar foreign minister in exile Zin Mar Aung. “Had a fruitful meeting (online) this morning with Zin Mar Aung, hon’ble foreign minister, Myanmar. Our thoughts and prayers are with Myanmar in these trying times,” Zoramthanga tweeted on Sunday. Zin Mar Aung was named the acting foreign affairs minister three weeks ago by a committee comprising elected lawmakers of Myanmar from the overthrown National League for Democracy (NLD). She is not the foreign affairs minister in the present military regime.Although no official statement was issued by the CM’s office on details of the meeting, it is learnt that the two leaders discussed the fallout of the military coup in Myanmar last month and the influx of refugees to Mizoram through the border. As per reports, since the military coup last month, over 500 people from Myanmar, including policemen and families, fled fearing persecution and entered Mizoram through the state’s 510-kilometre-long boundary with the neighbouring country. These refugees are staying in villages along the border. Also read: ‘No choice’ - Fleeing coup, Myanmar police refugees in India seek asylumEarlier this month, the Centre had directed Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur - four states that share a border with Myanmar - to stop illegal infiltration and deport Myanmarese nationals who enter India. On March 18, Zoramthanga had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the Centre’s directives were “not acceptable” to Mizoram. “I understand that there are certain foreign policy issues where India needs to proceed cautiously. However, we can’t ignore this humanitarian crisis,” the CM wrote. He added that the areas in Myanmar bordering Mizoram are inhabited by the Chin community with whom Mizo people have ethnic ties and have close contacts from even before India became independent. “Mizoram cannot just remain indifferent to their sufferings. India cannot turn a blind eye to this humanitarian crisis unfolding right in front of us in our own backyard,” Zoramthanga mentioned in his letter. He added that as the largest democracy and Myanmar’s immediate neighbour, India needs to do more in the matter. “I therefore strongly urge you to intervene so that the political refugees from Myanmar are given asylum and provided food and shelter here in the country,” the CM said. On Friday, a high-level team from Mizoram, including two MPs from the state, called on the Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai in Delhi and discussed issues concerning relief measures for Myanmar refugees in the state. According to a state government release, the team pressed on the minister to extend help and support to the Myanmar refugees “who are victims of violence and brutality under military rule in Myanmar” while ruling out the possibility of deporting the refugees back till the situation in the neighbouring country returns to normal. “Members of the team requested the central government’s intervention for providing necessary relief measures to refugees staying in Mizoram and expressed hope that India will take a more proactive role and raise a stronger voice in support of people fighting for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-influx-of-refugees-mizoram-cm-holds-talks-with-myanmar-foreign-minister-101616344545771.html
21-03-2021||India||Won't be fair to comment as NCP chief has spoken: Congress on graft charges against Maha home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Congress on Sunday said it would not be fair on its part to comment on the controversy that erupted after ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh accused Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of graft as the NCP and the chief minister are looking into it.Steering clear of making a direct comment on the matter, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the issue concerns Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the NCP as the minister in question is from that party.Attempting to deflect questions concerning Maharashtra, Singhvi raised the issue of graft charges against Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to accuse the BJP of hypocrisy and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's silence on the mater.He asked why the prime minister and Home Minister Amit Shah have not uttered a word about the corruption allegation against Yediyurappa, even when there have been three judgments from the high court in this regard."We want Yediyurappa to resign immediately," the Congress spokesperson said.On the developments in Maharashtra, he said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is one and NCP leader Sharad Pawar is addressing charges against Deshmukh, who belongs to that party."Sharad Pawar has commented on what is essentially concerning a minister from that part of the coalition. I think it would not be fair for me to say anything, much of what has been said by Pawar in consultation with the CM."But whatever has been left out, you would have to approach Maharashtra's Congress in-charge H K Patil," he told reporters when asked to clear his party's stand on the issue.Singhvi said Patil has been requested to deal with this and he can be approached in this regard."Primarily, this issue concerns the NCP and the chief minister. The Aghadi government is one. Pawar has spoken, Patil will speak tomorrow. Wait for some more time, as you have received silence on the issue of Yediyurappa," he said.Asked about BJP accusing the Congress of hypocrisy for not speaking on the Maharashtra issue, Singhvi said, "Has Modi made a comment on Yediyurappa, even after three briefings by me. There has been no briefing or comments from him. Has the Home Minister (Amit Shah) even bothered to talk about Yediyurappa."The Congress spokesperson said the leader of the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition Sharad Pawar has already spoken and he will be giving a more detailed statement by tomorrow and the chief minister is already looking into it."Which of these has happened with Mr Modi qua Mr Yediyurappa? He has become a 'mauni baba' on this issue?" Singhvi posed.On the BJP's charge that Udhav Thackeray has lost the moral authority to rule, the Congress leader said, "I will agree with him after the facts come out. But till then, substitute the word Uddhav Thackeray with Yeddyurappa and just kindly put the poster back in his drawing-room. I request him to use the same sentence and put the name of Yediyurappa as there are three orders of the High Court."Singhvi alleged that Yediyurappa has the guts to go to the Supreme Court to get an interim order for not being arrested and continues to "stick" to his seat."We have not even heard a whisper from anybody in the BJP which gives us lectures on morality every day. The contrast is clear," he said."The hypocrisies and double-face is underlined in fact by the totally different conduct of the two parties," he said pointing out inaction on the part of the BJP leadership on the alleged corruption charges against Yediyurappa.Singhvi accused the Karnataka chief minister of having crossed limits of shame and alleged that he has no morality left in holding on to the post when there are three High Court orders for trying him under the Prevention of Corruption Act."We cannot allow political thick-skinnedness to take us for granted. People's indifference becomes a breeding ground for corruption and it is to shock you out of your indifference that we speak to you through the media," he said.The Congress leader claimed the fear of losing power is corrupting and alleged that Yediyurappa is hanging on to the chief minister's seat without regard to morality and political decency."Is this the moral plane on which the chief minister can sit on his seat? Is this the morality of the prime minister who never asks him to leave? Is this the principal stand of the home minister who does not remove him?"Is this the Nelsonian blind eye of the party to which he belongs which will not touch him? Is this the naked, shameless lust for power that makes people stick on and parties ignore everything? This is the worst form of breeding down of corruption. It clearly exposes the unethical, unscrupulous and untrustworthy nature of the BJP," Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-be-fair-to-comment-as-ncp-chief-has-spoken-congress-on-graft-charges-against-maha-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101616342580089.html
21-03-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM reviews Covid-19 situation, orders closure of all schools, colleges||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel Sunday held a meeting with state ministers to review the Covid-19 situation in the state following which all educational institutions and anganwadis were ordered to remain closed till further notice.“Only exams of Class 10, 12, final year of colleges, and medical college batches will be held physically with appropriate physical distancing and other precautions,” a senior official said, and clarified that the rule applies to all government as well as private institutions.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereAgriculture minister Ravindra Choubey told news agency PTI, "In view of the present situation, immediate directives have been issued to restrict children from visiting anganwadi centres and students from coming to schools and colleges, which have been asked to continue academic activities online."The high level meeting came a day after Chhattisgarh recorded 1,273 cases, the highest single-day spike in this year, on Saturday. The state's caseload stood at 3,23,153, as of Saturday, including 3,11,520 recoveries, and 3,940 deaths.Amid rising Covid-19 cases across the country, the chief minister has directed officials to ensure strict adherence to all preventive measures and guidelines to prevent the spread of the infection. He has told people to strictly adhere to norms like wearing masks and practising social distancing.With Holi celebrations scheduled for later this month, and functions like marriage and funerals involving large gatherings, Baghel has instructed officials to issue necessary guidelines.During the meeting, the chief minister called for increasing the number of daily Covid-19 tests. In order to remain prepared for Covid-19 upsurge, he has asked hospitals to keep beds ready in all Covid-19 hospitals and isolation centre with oxygen facilitiesBaghel also asked officials to expedite the vaccination of health workers, frontline workers, citizens above 60 years of age, and people with co-morbidities aged between 45 years to 59 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-reviews-covid-19-situation-orders-closure-of-all-schools-colleges-101616341544075.html
21-03-2021||India||1,875 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala, 13 additional deaths||Kerala recorded 1,875 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total infections to 11.04 lakh, the state government said.As many as 2,251 people have been cured of the infection and total recoveries have gone up to 10,74,805.The total infection caseload mounted to 11,04,577, health minister, K K Shailaja said.In the last 24 hours ending 2 pm, 44,675 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate was 4.2 per cent. Kozhikode accounted for 241 cases, Kannur 182, Thrissur 173 , Kollam 158 and Thiruvananthapuram 155.So far, 1.26 crore samples have been sent for testing.The toll has climbed to 4,495 with 13 recent deaths being added, the minister said.Of the total cases, five are health workers, 58 had come from outside the state and 1,671 had been infected through contact.At least 1,28,237 are presently under observation, including 3,728 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1875-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-13-additional-deaths-101616336739663.html
21-03-2021||India||Transport ministry asks departments to tighten IT security after alert about 'targeted intrusion activities'||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Sunday received an alert from the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) regarding "targeted intrusion activities" directed towards the Indian transport sector with "possible malicious intentions," a senior official informed HT."The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways received an alert from CERT-In regarding targeted intrusion activities directed towards the Indian transport sector with possible malicious intentions. The ministry has advised departments and organisations under the transport sector to strengthen the security posture of their infrastructure," the ministry stated."The ministry is issuing an advisory to all departments and organisations under the transport sector to strengthen cybersecurity. Accordingly, NIC, NHAI, NHIDCL, IRC, IAHE, state PWDs, testing agencies and automobile manufacturers have been requested to conduct the security audit of the entire IT system by CERT-In certified agencies immediately and regularly. The audit report and the ATR will be regularly submitted to the government," the officials said.This comes in the backdrop of a slew of cybersecurity attacks on the Indian government domains over the past few months. HT had previously reported about new phishing emails that used compromised government accounts and targeted groups of officials, attempting to lure them into sharing their passwords on a page that mirrored the government’s official mail server sign-on website - an attack that could have let the attackers gain access to sensitive credentials and files.The attack prompted the government’s IT departments to send out an alert the following day to large groups of officials, according to emails seen by HT. The incident was the latest in a series of such cyberattacks that leverage compromised @gov.in or @nic.in email addresses issued by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), which may be more successful in luring the targets into sharing sensitive information.On February 21, HT also reported that the devices of multiple former defence personnel may have been compromised in a phishing attack launched through similar attacks carried out by government-domain email addresses.Altogether, HT is aware of five NIC domain addresses – four with @gov.in suffixes and the fifth an @nic.in one – that have been used to launch cyberattacks.Earlier this month, an American cyber intelligence company called Recorded Future also said it had uncovered a suspected China-linked cyber operation that was focussed on India’s electricity grid and other critical infrastructure. While the company did not link the Mumbai incident to the operation (which it titled RedEcho) it discovered, it did not rule out a link. According to Recorded Future, RedEcho deployed malware known as ShadowPad which has been previously linked to Chinese cyber soldiers. ShadowPad has the ability to hand over systems controls to malicious hackers who can then make potentially catastrophic changes to sensitive industrial systems.Chinese-government linked attackers possibly gained access to computer networks part of India’s power infrastructure, a US-based cybersecurity firm has said, citing technical clues that federal power ministry officials separately said they had been on their radar, fuelling speculation that a blackout in Mumbai last year may have been the result of sabotage.Hours after the disclosure, the Union power ministry said it had received inputs from Indian agencies — first in November and then again in February this year — about the threat of infection from ShadowPad, prompting remedial measures to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transport-ministry-receives-alert-about-cyberattack-all-departments-told-to-strengthen-security-infrastructure-101616341256885.html
21-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Number of vaccinations to be doubled in Karnataka to tackle Covid-19 spike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka to double number of vaccinations to tackle Covid-19 surgeThe surge of Covid- 19 cases in India’s IT capital continued as Bengaluru accounted for 1037 new cases on Saturday out of the total 1715 across Karnataka. Read moreSpecial focus on women’s safety, education in BJP manifesto for West Bengal pollsUnion home minister Amit Shah released the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto on Sunday for the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal. The party’s ‘Sankalp Patra’ lays special emphasis on the welfare of the women in the eastern state. Read moreLean Fardeen Khan refuses to pose for the paparazzi, asks 'What picture will you take with a mask?'Fardeen Khan was spotted on Sunday leaving a hair salon in Mumbai. The Heyy Baby actor was seen wearing a blue denim shirt, white pants and a mask, sporting sunglasses. The video, sharing by a paparazzo account, revealed Fardeen's massive transformation. Read more'Nothing short of remarkable': Michael Vaughan's high praise for 'magnificent' India bowlerIndia produced a run-fest, scoring 224/2 batting first against England in the fifth T20I on Saturday. Half-centuries to Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma along with sizeable contributions from Suryakumar Yadav and Hardik Pandya formed the crux of India's batting and eventually their 36-run win in the decider. Read more‘She’s my world now’: Jasprit Bumrah, Sanjana Ganesan’s video wows peopleIn the past few days you have seen the amazing pictures of newlyweds Jasprit Bumrah and Sanjana Ganesan from their wedding. If you thought those photos were magical, then wait till you see this clip of their wedding ceremony shared on the official Instagram profile of Vishal Punjabi's The Wedding Filmer. Read moreMumbai 'letter bomb': Sharad Pawar reacts amid pressure, BJP cites old reportNationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar reacted to former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh's letter accusing Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of encouraging extortion. Pawar, whose party Deshmukh is a part of, called the allegations serious. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-number-of-vaccinations-to-be-doubled-in-karnataka-to-tackle-covid-19-spike-and-all-the-latest-news-101616338049118.html
21-03-2021||India||Nagpur records 3,614 new cases of Covid-19 in yet another daily spike||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to wreak havoc in Maharashtra's Nagpur district. On Sunday, the district recorded 3,614 new Covid-19 cases and 32 related fatalities.According to civil surgeon data shared by news agency ANI, the total number of cases reached 1,93,080 on Sunday. At least 1,859 people recovered in the last 24 hours, which took the total recoveries to 1,59,108.In wake of increasing Covid-19 cases, Nagpur district authorities on Saturday decided to extend the lockdown till March 31.Only essential services such as vegetable and fruit shops and milk booths will stay open, according to the order issued by the district administration.Earlier, the state government decided to impose a lockdown in Nagpur district from March 15 to 21.The number of coronavirus patients in the district is increasing considerably since March 15 from around 2,000 new cases daily to more than 3,500 this week, Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut said.Vaccination would be ramped up to 40,000 persons every day from the curent 20,000 by opening 150 new vaccination centres in rural area and another 150 in the city, he added.In a fresh circular, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation said malls, cinema halls, gardens, gyms, swimmingpools, lawns/marriage halls, schools, colleges, coaching classes will continue to remain closed till March 31.Restaurants, hotels and eateries will be allowed to operate till 7pm in theevening with 50 per cent capacity, while online home delivery of food will be allowed till 11pm.India has scaled a significant peak as it administered over four crore vaccination, a government statement said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagpur-records-3-614-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-yet-another-daily-spike-101616337240371.html
21-03-2021||India||10-20 Kumbh pilgrims testing Covid-19 positive daily: Centre||Noting that there is a potential of an upsurge in Covid-19 cases during the Kumbh Mela, the Centre has written to Uttarakhand strongly highlighting the concerns raised by a high-level central team about the need for stringent measures to control the spread of the disease.The central team led by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director visited Uttarakhand on March 16-17 to review the medical and public health measures undertaken by the state for the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, the Health Ministry said in a statement.In his letter to the Uttarakhand Chief Secretary, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has observed that more than 12 states in India have shown a surge in Covid-19 cases during the past few weeks, and pilgrims expected to visit Haridwar during the Kumbh Mela could also be from these states."It has been noted that there is a potential of an upsurge in cases in the local population after the auspicious Shahi Snan days during the Kumbh Mela," the ministry said."The secretary also noted that as per the report of the central team, 10-20 pilgrims and 10-20 locals are being reported positive every day."This positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turning to an upsurge in cases, given the expected large footfall during Kumbh," the ministry said in its statement.The state has been informed that the daily testing numbers reported in Haridwar -- 50,000 Rapid Antigen tests and 5,000 RTPCR tests -- are not enough to effectively offset a huge number of expected pilgrim footfall.It has been advised that the share of RTPCR tests being conducted at present needs to be significantly increased as per the ICMR guidelines to ensure that the pilgrims and local population is appropriately tested.The state government has been advised to follow scrupulously the SOPs issued by the ministry and display signage to disseminate the main points of these SOPs; increase awareness of self-reporting, especially among local population, in case of symptoms suggestive of Covid-19; and set up system for generating early warning signals in areas with susceptible population by monitoring trend of ARI/ ILI cases through Emergency Operational Centres.It has also been urged to target significantly enhanced testing in potential high transmission areas, continue periodic testing of frontline workers before and after auspicious bathing days of the Kumbh and ensure operationalisation of adequate critical care treatment facilities.It has also been asked to ensure effective risk communication, by using all forms of media platforms, for strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour."In case of surge in cases/super spreader events, promptly send samples for genome sequencing in consultation with NCDC," the ministry said.The Union Health Secretary has urged the Uttarakhand government to take a stock of the public health measures being undertaken by the state in consonance with the aforesaid recommendations of the Health Ministry, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1020-kumbh-pilgrims-testing-covid-19-positive-daily-centre-101616336282049.html
21-03-2021||India||Assam assembly election: Congress desperate, might resort to politics to divide society, says Jitendra Singh||The Congress, which faces an imminent defeat in the Assam polls, has become desperate and might resort to politics to divide the society in the state but the BJP will never allow this, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Sunday.Referring to the grand alliance of opposition parties, including Congress, Left parties and AIUDF, formed for the three-phase state elections, he said the Congress' leadership has thoroughly exposed itself by turning away from its ideological position by seeking the "support offered by an overtly communal outfit headed by Badruddin Ajmal".The Ajmal headed All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) is considered to have a large base among Assam's about 35 per cent Muslim population."The BJP is a party with a consistent ideology of justice to all sections of society without appeasement. The Congress may have become desperate enough to resort to politics of dividing the society in Assam, but we shall never allow this to happen," Singh, the minister of state in the Prime Minister's Office, told PTI.In the last seven years, because of the constant outreach of Prime Minister Narendra Narendra Modi and diligent efforts of Home Minister Amit Shah, "we have succeeded in restoring peace and harmony, and we shall not allow the Congress to undo this just for vote bank politics", said Singh, who is also the BJP's co-incharge for Assam.Polling will be held in 47 seats in Assam on March 27 in the first phase, while 39 and 40 constituencies will go to polls on April 1 and April 6 respectively.Addressing a poll rally at the Mangaldoi area late on Saturday night, Singh had accused the Congress of seeking alliances out of desperation as it faces imminent defeat in the elections."Suddenly the Congress has decided to seek the support offered by an overtly communal outfit headed by Badruddin Ajmal," the minister said.He claimed that it was the same Badruddin, whom till 2016, Congress' senior leader and the then Assam chief minister late Tarun Gogoi had vehemently opposed being associated with in spite of suggestions from certain quarters."So much so, when a media person once asked Gogoi about any possibility of an alliance with Badruddin Ajmal, Gogoi had retorted back angrily saying 'Who is Badruddin?', but unfortunately, today the same Badruddin has become the face and identity of the Congress in Assam,” Singh said.The grand alliance comprising Congress, AIUDF, Bodoland People's Front (BPF), CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) and the RJD has been formed in Assam to contest the election to the 126-member assembly against the BJP-led NDA.BJP national general secretary and MP from Mangaldoi, Dilip Saikia, while addressing the rally, said it is remarkable how Jitendra Singh, who belonged to Jammu and Kashmir, had made the North East his second home and earned the respect and love of the local people.Singh, a Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur, is also the minister of state for the Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER).He said, BJP will never allow Badruddin to play the politics of hatred and separatism as was done by some leaders in Kashmir and elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-assembly-election-congress-desperate-might-resort-to-politics-to-divide-society-says-jitendra-singh-101616335654245.html
21-03-2021||India||Mansukh Hiran case solved, says senior Maharashtra cop||A senior police official in Maharashta said on Sunday that the death case of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was found dead on March 5 in Mumbai, has been solved. Hiran was the owner of a vehicle that was found containing explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia.Shivdeep Lande, Deputy inspector General (DIG) of Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), told news agency ANI that the case has been solved after the arrest of two people in connection with Hiran's death.The two people who have been arrested are Naresh Dhare - a bookie - and suspended Mumbai police constable Vinayak Shinde.Shinde was sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with the Lakhanbhaiya encounter case. After being released on parole in 2020, he has been in touch with Sachin Vaze - who has been arrested in the Ambani security threat cases - and helped him in his work.The two accused were presented in the court on Sunday and have been directed to stay in ATS custody till March 30.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is investigating the bomb scare case and recovery of explosives from a car parked near Ambani's house on February 25. He has been sent to NIA custody till March 25 in connection with his alleged role and involvement in placing an explosives-laden vehicle.Vaze is also facing a probe in Hiran death case, also being probed by the NIA.Hiran's wife Vimla told investigators that she was certain her husband had been murdered, and that she suspected Vaze had a hand in it. The body of 48-year-old washed up on the Reti Bunder creek in Mumbra, Thane district.Till he went missing on the night of March 4, Hiran cooperated with the police who questioned him repeatedly after an SUV that he had been driving for three years and reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Antilia. The car had 20 sticks of gelatin (no detonator or timer) and a threatening letter addressed to Ambani.On Friday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took suspended police officer Sachin Waze to the place near businessman Ambani's residence where explosives were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-hiran-case-solved-says-senior-maharashtra-cop-101616335785614.html
21-03-2021||India||Media in Kerala becoming 'mouthpiece' of CPI(M), says Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala||Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday claimed that the media was becoming the mouthpiece of CPI(M) and 'whitewashing' the corruption scandals of the ruling Left front as a gratitude for advertisements worth crores received from the state government.Targetting the media houses over their surveys predicting another term for Pinarayi Vijayan-led government, Chennithala alleged that there was a planned move to attack him."This time, there is a planned move through the surveys to attack the Leader of the Opposition who has been targetting the Vijayan government.All my allegations were with evidence and all were proved right. The media should at least extend one percent of the support to the opposition that it has been giving to the ruling front," Chennithala said at a press meet here.He also said, "the media has forgotten the journalistic ethics by rejecting space for the Opposition.""Certain anchors are already congratulating and claiming that Vijayan will win another term.... the state government has given ₹200 crore-worth advertisements to whitewash the government drowning in corruption," he added.The Congress tweeted thatit was 'deplorable' to see the extravaganza of advertisement spend by LDF, even in other regional newspapers."The source of funds & the spending is concerning for the people of Kerala," the party said in the tweet.Noting that the media was the fourth pillar of democracy, the leader of opposition in the state assembly said, "Media in Kerala are failing in its duty by turning into mouth pieces of CPI(M)."Taking on the Left dispensation on the Sabarimala issue, he said neither the government nor the ruling party have changed their stance on the matter."The stance of the government and the CPI(M) on Sabarimala has not been changed. It's very dangerous.The CM is hoodwinking the people by saying that the matter will be discussed after the final verdict of the Supreme Court," Chennithala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-in-kerala-becoming-mouthpiece-of-cpi-m-says-congress-leader-ramesh-chennithala-101616330714900.html
21-03-2021||India||To encourage reading, Odisha sets up its first public library in a park||In a novel initiative to inculcate the reading habit in students, youngsters and the community at large, the Bhubaneswar Development Authority on Sunday opened a public library in one of the parks of Bhubaneswar where children can come and read books for 6 hours every day.The library, a collaboration between the BDA and city-based Bakul Foundation, started functioning at the Biju Patnaik Park, popularly known as ‘Forest Park’, and will have around 2000 books, including fiction, non-fiction, biographies, classics and textbooks. Though this library caters to people of all age groups, it would focus on children and students. It would have among others all-time favourite series-- Wimpy Kids, Geronimo Stilton books, Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew books, Enid Blyton books and the Harry Potter series.Former IAS officer and chief advisor to CM Naveen Patnaik, R. Balakrishnan who inaugurated the library on Sunday morning, said it is a great step by the BDA to promote the park library culture at a time when the reading habit is declining among youngsters.“In the age of Internet and social media, there is a steady decline in the reading habit. Therefore, initiatives like a park library will surely help in encouraging and promoting reading habits among all. This library will definitely attract children, students, book lovers and people visiting the park who can spend some time in reading amid a cool and peaceful environment,” said Balakrishnan, adding that more such libraries will come up in other big parks in the city.The BDA has provided the space and the physical infrastructure required for setting up the library. As the library is located within the park, it would be open between 7 am and 10 am then between 4 pm and 7 pm daily except on Mondays.Founder-secretary of Bakul Foundation, Sujit Mahapatra said the library has a collection of Odia and English books and has shelves with books for children too, with chairs and tables meant for them. “The books have been graded into difficulty levels and genres to get a child interested in reading without intimidating him or her. The library has books in English and Odia, but there is a shelf each for children’s books in Hindi and French as well.The foundation will engage its volunteers – comprising students, retired people, homemakers and professionals – who will conduct storytelling sessions, creative workshops and live performances to attract students and youngsters to the library,” Mahapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-encourage-reading-odisha-sets-up-its-first-public-library-in-a-park-101616333385061.html
21-03-2021||India||Covid-19: BJP workers not infected as they work hard, says Gujarat MLA||A Gujarat BJP MLA on Sunday said workers of his party do not get infected with novel coronavirus since they work hard.Rajkot (South) legislator Govind Patel's take on coronavirus came after reporters asked him if the flouting of guidelines by political leaders and workers during poll campaigning was resulting in a spike in cases."Those who work hard do not get coronavirus infection. BJP workers work hard, and therefore, not a single worker has been infected with the virus," Patel claimed.Incidentally, during the campaigning for the local bodies polls last month, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was detected with the infection, and among others in the ruling party who have tested positive at different points of time include state unit chief CR Paatil and several MLAs.On Saturday, Vadodara BJP MP Ranjanben Bhatt had announced that she was admitted in hospital for Covid-19.Meanwhile, state Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel refuted talk that local polls as well as the Test and T20I cricket matches in Ahmedabad were prime factors behind the Covid-19 spike."Elections are held as per the requirement under the Constitution. Cricket matches were limited to only Ahmedabad. There was no cricket match or election in Maharashtra, but it accounts for the highest number of cases, nearly 50 percent of the country's daily cases," he said.He said one could come to any conclusion on the recent surge but the reality remained that it was the people's collective responsibility to adhere to outbreak norms and control the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-bjp-workers-not-infected-as-they-work-hard-says-gujarat-mla-101616332240041.html
21-03-2021||India||2 suspects in Mansukh Hiran’s suspicious death sent to 10 days of police custody||Two men arrested on Sunday in connection with the suspicious death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran whose SUV laden with explosives was found near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on February 25, were sent to police custody till March 30. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) probing Hiran’s death had arrested the two men in the early hours of Sunday. One of them is 55-year-old Vinayak Shinde, a convicted constable on parole in Lakhan Bhaiya encounter case and the other is a bookie Naresh Dhare (31). They were called for questioning on Saturday before they were arrested on Sunday.The ATS had sought the custody of Shinde and Dhare for 14 days to join the dots in the case but the court allowed them 10 days. Also read: Allegations against Anil Deshmukh serious, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar“The ATS have seized three mobile phones and eight SIM cards. These SIM cards were provided by Naresh Dhare. The car which they have used during crime is yet to be recovered. Other mobile phones which are used during crime are yet to be recovered. The ATS said they needed their custody to establish a crime scene and recover the jewellery, credit card, debit card of the deceased which the accused have already disposed of. The ATS also said their custodial interrogation is necessary to establish connection between the SUV found at Antilla and murder of Mansukh Hiran, and also the involvement of others with the accused,” said Ashok Mane, lawyer for the two suspects.On Saturday, the Centre suo motu handed over the probe into the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is already probing the case of the explosives-laden SUV.Hiran was found dead under mysterious circumstances on March 4. His body washed up in a creek in Thane district. His mouth was stuffed with handkerchiefs and covered with a scarf, and all his personal belongings, including his ring, chain and wrist watch, were missing from his person.In her statement to the Maharashtra ATS team, Hiran’s wife Vimla (43) that she was certain that her husband was murdered and that she suspected Mumbai crime branch assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze’s involvement in it. Vaze is already in custody of the NIA for his alleged role in placing the SUV near Antilia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-suspects-in-mansukh-hiran-s-suspicious-death-sent-to-10-days-of-police-custody-101616332184973.html
21-03-2021||India||Punjab govt deceived people, failed to keep promises: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday hit out at the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, accusing it of not keeping its poll promises and deceiving people.Addressing a Kisan Maha Sammelan organised by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at Punjab's Moga, he told people that his party will always stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws.He also took on the Modi-led Union government over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, alleging that the Centre wants to “snatch power” from the Chief Minister of Delhi.Kejriwal said four years ago, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had made “big promises”.“Captain Sahib had said smartphones will be given. Who got smartphones just raise your hands? Captain Sahib had said farmers' loan will be waived. Whose loan has been waived just raise your hands,” said Kejriwal.The Delhi CM said the Congress had also promised jobs to the youth ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls.“Not even a single promise has been fulfilled,” he alleged, adding that Amamrinder Singh have “deceived” people.“Neither anyone was given job nor anyone's loan was waived,” he claimed. “I want to ask you if somebody deceives you, then what do you do? Usse se badla lete hain (Revenge is taken from him). Captain Sahib has deceived you. Whether revenge will be taken after one year or not,” he asked the gathering, apparently referring to the assembly polls next year.He told people that his party honoured every promise made to residents of the national capital.He talked about free power, improvement in the condition of government hospitals and schools in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-govt-deceived-people-failed-to-keep-promises-arvind-kejriwal-101616331677765.html
21-03-2021||India||No lockdown in Gujarat; people need to follow Covid-19 guidelines: CM Rupani||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday that no lockdown will be imposed in the state, adding that people will have to adhere to all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related guidelines such as wearing masks, sanitising hand and maintaining social distancing in order to curb the spread of the outbreak.Addressing the state through video conferencing, Rupani said, “We must ensure that no businesses and other forms of employment get affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak. I further urge people to not pay attention to any rumours related to the disease.” The chief minister himself had tested positive for the disease on February 15, a day after he fainted on stage while addressing a rally in Vadodara. His results came negative a week later on February 21.Gujarat has so far logged 2,85,429 Covid disease cases of which 4,443 people have died and 2,74,249 recovered. On Saturday, the state saw 1,565 fresh cases - the highest single day spike of 2021 - along with six more deaths. The last time these many cases were seen was four months back in late November, 2020. While on Friday 1,415 cases were recorded - the highest in nearly three months. According to the Union health ministry, Gujarat along with Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka accounted for over 83 per cent of the fresh cases across India on Sunday.Night curfew has already been imposed in Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Ahmedabad till March 31. These four districts are the worst hit and are adding the most number of cases towards Gujarat's daily case count. Schools in all these districts have also been closed till April 10 and students will be required to attend online classes.There won't be any lockdown. People need to follow COVID-19 guidelines. Masks, sanitizer and social distancing are must to stop the spread of Coronavirus: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani (File photo) pic.twitter.com/Broj4mpc4TWith the festival of Holi just one week away, the Gujarat government said on Sunday that no permission would be given for celebrations but ‘Holika Dahan’ can take place with crowd restrictions. State’s deputy chief minister and health minister Nitin Patel told news agency PTI that people will not be permitted to gather and throw colours at each and action will be taken against violators. “However, I believe the people of Gujarat will follow rules and will not play Holi,” Patel added.Meanwhile, a total of 39 students of a hostel in the state’s Sabarkantha district were detected infected with Covid-19 on Sunday, a senior health official told PTI adding that the majority of them are asymptomatic and have been taken home by their parents while some are hospitalised. The cases came into light after tests were conducted on 292 students of a hostel operated by the Sahyog Kushtha Yagna Trust, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-in-gujarat-people-need-to-follow-covid-19-guidelinescmrupani-101616331409461.html
21-03-2021||India||Maharashtra alliance to hold series of meetings on Monday, expected to take a call on Anil Deshmukh||The constituents of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition will hold a series of meetings on Monday and are expected to take a decision on Anil Deshmukh, the state home minister who has been accused of extortion by former Mumbai cop Param Bir Singh. The MVA is made up of three parties - Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress.Also Read: Ex-Mumbai police chief accuses minister of extortion, throws govt into crisisNCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Sunday that allegations against Deshmukh are serious and that it is the prerogative of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to remove him. Pawar also said that he will hold meetings with his party leaders on Monday and speak to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the issue.Pawar also said that Singh made the allegations after his transfer on March 17 to the Home Guards. He added that the development will have no impact on the MVA government.The Shiv Sena, on its part, said that Singh's allegations have maligned the image of MVA government.Speaking to reporters in Nashik on Sunday, Sena leader Sajay Raut said that such allegations on the minister of a state cabinet are shocking for someone like him who is the well-wisher of the government."The government does not make decisions based on what the opposition says or demands. But I have to accept that in the last few hours, whatever allegations have come to light through a letter has maligned the image of the government.""Now we all have to sit and think about how we can clean the image of the government. But as I said earlier, all the constituents of the alliance in the state have to see if their feet are on the ground," Raut said.The Congress too has warned that the issue will cast a shadow on the MVA government. Party leader Sanjay Nirupam said the party must take a stand on the issue.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) have demanded Deshmukh's resignation. In fact, the BJ{ has been pressurising the state government by holding demonstrations at multiple locations.Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Saturday wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended cop Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from city's joints.Singh said in the eight-page letter that he has been "made a scapegoat to divert attention from the actual wrongdoers".Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in the midst of investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle which was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month. The NIA also arrested Vaze in the same case.Deshmukh denied these allegations and said he is will file a defamation suit against Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-expected-to-take-a-call-on-anil-deshmukh-tomorrow-101616331329382.html
21-03-2021||India||PM sad for tweet by 22-yr-old woman, but not for flood-hit people in Assam: Priyanka Gandhi||Launching a frontal attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday alleged he is sad about a tweet by a "22-year-old woman" but not for the flood-ravaged people of Assam.A day after Modi raised the toolkit issue and alleged Congress conspiracy in it at a poll rally in Chabua in Assam, the daughter of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, lamented that Modi was silent about people's suffering in perennial flood and "attack on culture" by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Last year's flooding of the Brahmaputra and its tributaries during the pandemic affected some 2.8 million people in Assam."I was listening to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. He very seriously said that he was very sad about a development. I thought he would speak about Assam's development or how BJP worked in Assam."But I was shocked to hear that the PM was talking about a tweet by a 22-year-old woman. He said the Congress conspired to finish the tea industry of Assam. He was also sad about the Congress mistakenly putting two wrong pictures on social media," Vadra said.By "a 22-year-old woman", she apparently referred to climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested for allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Ravi is now out on bail.The Congress general secretary questioned Modi why he was not sad for the people affected by the flood and the anti-CAA movement, in which five youths were killed."Why didn't you come to Assam when people were drowning? Why were you not sad when all the big promises by BJP were not fulfilled? Did you go to tea gardens and talk to workers about their problems?" she asked of Modi.Vadra on March 2 visited a tea garden in Biswanath of Assam to interact with the workers and also tried her hands in plucking tea leaves, which was termed as "theatrics and drama" by the BJP leadership.Talking about her visit to a tea garden during her last trip to Assam, Gandhi said she came to know about their lifestyle and realised that "the tea garden sisters are the protectors of culture and identity".On the prime minister's frequently uttered statement of "double-engined" government in Assam, Vadra made fun of it saying the state currently has "two chief ministers", in an apparent reference to rumours of powerful minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal acting as rival power centres."The PM said you have a double-engine government but Assam has two CMs. I don't know which fuel runs which engine. The Assam government is not run in Assam. Even the Asom Gana Parishad (an ally of the ruling BJP) is now Delhi Gana Parishad as it can't work without Delhi's permission... God save you!"The Assam government is currently run by remote control. If you elect them again, you will be hurt. So, elect a Congress government and have your own chief minister," she added.The Congress leader also alleged that all segments of the society, including youths, farmers and tea garden workers, have been cheated by the BJP government as it did not fulfil any of its promises made five years ago."Today, I think I will not speak about big issues, but the small problems of my sisters. You carry the biggest responsibility of the society. You run the home, bring up the children and also earn for the household."It is your life's problems and realities. I don't know them. My leaders don't know them. You are my sister. So, please take a decision carefully for your future," she appealed to the crowd, consisting mostly of women.Vadra pointed out the BJP's promises of 2016 such as 25 lakh jobs, protection of culture, implementation of Assam Accord and minimum wages to tea gardens, and alleged that none of these have been fulfilled.Continuing her tirade against Modi, she said, "The PM also said Congress insulted Assamese culture and people won't forgive us. Now, is it not an insult to former CM Tarun Gogoi, who is no more today? Gogoi lived for Assam and worked for people till his last breath."She also slammed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for allegedly insulting 15th-16th century Vaishnavite scholar Srimanta Sankardeva by stating that he fought against infiltrators.Vadra alleged the BJP's sole aim is to "hand over" prime properties of Assam to Modi's 2-3 close businessmen friends."The BJP wanted to hand over farmers' land in Nagaon to a corporate body. When protests took place, a pregnant woman was attacked and farmers were jailed. They also brought an ordinance to sell land to anyone from outside without any permission," she said.Assam has huge unemployment problem, while several big scams have surfaced in the last five years, she alleged."How can you trust the BJP? You have seen what you have got in five years. Tarun Gogoi might have committed some mistakes, but he never cheated you. He did not bring the CAA and attacked your culture and identity," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-sad-for-tweet-by-22-yr-old-woman-but-not-for-flood-hit-people-in-assam-priyanka-gandhi-101616328838156.html
21-03-2021||India||Date to claim LTC cash voucher scheme nears. All you need to know||The Centre in October last year announced the leave travel concession (LTC) cash voucher scheme to boost consumption which was affected due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The scheme allows government employees to claim tax benefits through the purchase of goods and services in lieu of LTC for travel.Under the scheme, the central government employees can claim cash equivalent of the LTC amount, comprising leave encashment and fare, through reimbursement if they opt for it. The month end or March 31 is the last date to avail the benefits of the scheme.Here's all you need to know about how to avail the LTC cash voucher scheme:> The cash equivalent benefit can be claimed if the employee spends a sum three times the value of deemed LTC fare.> Cash equivalent of full leave encashment benefit can be claimed if the employee spends an equal sum. This will be counted towards the number of leave encashment on LTC available to employees.> Invoices of goods and services availed with GST rate not less than 12 per cent can also be claimed under the scheme. The payment of the goods or services from the registered GST vendor is required to be done through digital mode.> To avail for the package, an employee should opt for both leave encashment and LTC fare.> TDS will also not be deducted on the reimbursement of the deemed LTC fare. The TDS which is deducted in case of leave encashments will be exempted in this scheme since the cash reimbursement of the deemed fare is in place of the actual travel.Also Read | On corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh, Fadnavis says ‘not first time'> Employees who have opted for the new tax regime can not avail the scheme, where the rate of taxes are lower but most deductions and exemptions are not applicable.> The deemed LTC fare per person, amounting for a round trip, against which the claims be made are ₹36,000 for employees who are entitled to business class airfare, ₹20,000 for employees entitled to economy class airfare and ₹6,000 to employees entitled to rail fare of any class.> Initially, the scheme was launched for government employees but was later extended to the private sector as well, reported Mint.> According to the department of expenditure, the amount of up to 100 per cent leave encashment and 50 per cent value of the deemed fare is to be paid as an advance to the employee opting for the scheme and claims under the scheme is to be settled in the current financial year till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/date-to-claim-ltc-cash-voucher-scheme-nears-all-you-need-to-know-101616321747933.html
21-03-2021||India||Health minister says 6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses sent to 76 nations, 4.5 crore doses administered in India||More than 6 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been sent to 76 nations, while 4.5 crore doses have been administered to beneficiaries in the country till now, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday.He also called for making the vaccination drive a “Jan Aandolan” (mass movement).“Until this morning, nearly 4.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been given to the people in this country. More than six crore doses have been sent to 76 nations,” Vardhan said during a media interaction at the Institute of Microbial Technology (CSIR-IMTECH) here.“Our Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party (BJP) president J P Nadda have called for making the vaccination drive a 'jan andolan' (mass movement)," he said.In a major boost to entrepreneurship in life sciences, Vardhan, the Minister for Science and Technology and Earth Sciences, inaugurated IMTECH Bio-Innovation Centre which is an extension of the Atal Incubation Centre (AIC)-CCMB, Hyderabad.The aim of the IMTECH Bio-Innovation Centre is to become a hub for life sciences, biotechnology start-ups and MSMEs from all over the country in a short span of time.Sanjeev Khosla, director, IMTECH apprised the minister about the various activities of the institute and especially the work done by scientists during the Covid-19 pandemic in the last one year.“… Science has the potential to solve many of our longstanding issues, they may belong to any sector. When I see the science happening in all the labs of CSIR and other places, I feel convinced that it (science) has the potential.“That is why, we have been telling our scientists that we have to have a very people-centric approach and whatever we do in the labs, it should have a connect with the people for the future,” Vardhan said.The minister also urged the scientific community to use their experience around coronavirus to be ready for any unforeseen thing like (the disease) which the future may throw up.“I have told the scientific community that they developed a lot of experience during Covid pandemic. They rose to the occasion and helped us in a big way. They should be ready for any unforeseen thing like this (coronavirus) which the future may throw up,” he said.Vardhan said the Bio Innovation Centre will help the start-ups as well as MSMEs.“The Narendra Modi government stands rock solid behind anyone who has got a bright idea and wants to convert that idea into an entrepreneurship, discover or develop something new, which can help solve some of the long-standing unresolved problems of the countrymen and maybe alleviate their sufferings and make their lives better. That is what the idea of this ‘Start-up and Stand up’ movement is,” he said.He said a special fund worth almost over ₹900 crore was established to help the industry expedite research for Covid-19 vaccine.Vardhan also inaugurated Centre of Excellence for Intelligent Sensors and System at the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation here, as well as a vaccination help desk at Dadu Majra colony here, an event organised by the city unit of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-says-6-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-sent-to-76-nations-4-5-crore-doses-administered-in-india-101616327468025.html
21-03-2021||India||Centre causing hindrance to farmers' movement, claims Kejriwal in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday claimed that central government is causing obstruction to the farmers' protest, adding that his party support the movement."The Modi government is causing hindrance to this revolution. The farmers were obstructed, but they reached the borders of Delhi. All the farmers of the nation today stand united. Punjab is the land of the brave. The farmers of Punjab have taken leadership in the protest," Kejriwal said while addressing a rally at the Maha Kisan Panchayat in Moga.Kejriwal said that his party will always stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. "Few days back, I spoke with Mamata Banerjee. She said the farmers of Bengal support the revolution. This revolution belongs to all," he added.Kejriwal also hit out at the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, accusing it of not keeping its poll promises and deceiving people. He said four years ago, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had made “big promises”.“Captain Sahib had said smartphones will be given. Who got smartphones just raise your hands? Captain Sahib had said farmers' loan will be waived. Whose loan has been waived just raise your hands,” said Kejriwal.The Delhi chief minister said the Congress had also promised jobs to the youth ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls.“Not even a single promise has been fulfilled,” he alleged, adding that Amarinder Singh have “deceived” people.“Neither anyone was given job nor anyone's loan was waived,” he claimed. “I want to ask you if somebody deceives you, then what do you do? Usse se badla lete hain (Revenge is taken from him). Captain Sahib has deceived you. Whether revenge will be taken after one year or not,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-causing-hindrance-to-farmers-movement-claims-kejriwal-in-punjab-101616326579879.html
21-03-2021||India||No Holi celebrations, only Holika Dahan allowed: Gujarat Deputy CM amid Covid-19 rise||The Gujarat government on Sunday said permission won't be granted for Holi celebrations due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state though the religious ritual of 'Holika Dahan' associated with the festival can take place with crowd restrictions.Holi falls on March 29 and Holika Dahan on its eve on March 28.The government will only allow 'Holika Dahan', a pyre lighting ritual symbolizing the victory of good over evil on the eve of Holi, that too with a limited number of people in housing societies and villages, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said.Patel, who also holds the health portfolio, said people won't be allowed to form crowds to throw colour at each other, a prime part of the boisterous celebrations associated with Holi."No permission is granted for celebration of Holi. Action will be taken against violators. However, I believe the people of Gujarat will follow rules and will not play Holi," Patel said.Gujarat reported 1,565 coronavirus positive cases on Saturday, the addition being the highest in four months, taking the state's tally to 2,85,429.The active caseload in the state is 6,7373 as on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-holi-celebrations-only-holika-dahan-allowed-gujarat-deputy-cm-amid-covid-19-rise-101616327107772.html
21-03-2021||India||Goa govt warns of action against hotels if found flouting Covid-19 norms||The Goa government will take strict action against restaurants, hotels or entertainment zones, if they are found not adhering to Covid -19 norms, a state minister said on Sunday.Wearing a mask and maintaining social-distancing is a must for all to avoid the spread of the virus, he said."The state government will take a strict view on the functioning of restaurants, hotels and any place considered as an entertainment zone to ensure that people coming there strictly follow the coronavirus protocols," health minister Vishwajit Rane said."If these establishments fail to do so, the health authorities will take strict action against them," he added.If people find any restaurant, hotel, institution violating the rules, they can e-mail the information about it to- officeoftheministergoa@gmail.com- following which necessary action would be initiated by the government, he said.Rane added that people of Goa need to careful in view of the rise in coronavirus cases in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-warns-of-action-against-hotels-if-found-flouting-covid-19-norms-101616326828649.html
21-03-2021||India||News updates from HT| 'Maharashtra Vasooli Aghadi': BJP's CT Ravi over Param Bir Singh's claims and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Maharashtra Vasooli Aghadi': BJP leader's jibe over Param Bir Singh's claimsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued its attack on the ruling three-party coalition in Maharashtra, saying it should be renamed ‘Maharashtra Vasooli Aghadi’. Read moreGenerational change in Kerala Congress’ candidates list has Rahul Gandhi’s touchAt the break of dawn, Aritha Babu gets busy feeding and milking at her cattle barn, after which, she sets out to supply milk riding her two-wheeler. Read moreLargest ‘potentially hazardous asteroid’ of 2021 to pass by Earth today at 124,000 kmph. All you need to knowThe largest asteroid to pass by Earth in 2021 will be at its closest on Sunday, presenting astronomers a valuable opportunity to have a good look at a space rock that, according to Nasa, was formed at the “dawn of our solar system.” Read moreTahira Kashyap flaunts ‘bold bad*** and bikini’ look with 'ripped jeans' sarcasmThe latest to join the bandwagon is Bollywood producer Tahira Kashyap who took to her social media handle to share a sultry bikini look with a jibe on Rawat’s statement. Read moreInside Harman Baweja’s wedding: Shilpa Shetty shows a glimpse of Anand Karaj ceremony, Raj Kundra shares baraat videoHarman Baweja tied the knot with his fiancée Sasha Ramchandani in an intimate Anand Karan ceremony at a gurudwara in Kolkata on Sunday. Read more'They must do well': Aakash Chopra names two players who can be key figures for India in 2021 T20 World CupTeam India's hopes of winning the 2021 T20I World Cup will rely heavily on the shoulders of fast bowlers Jasprit Bumrah and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, believes former cricketer, Aakash Chopra. Read moreWatch | ‘Congress means bomb, bandook & blockade’: PM Modi at rally in Assam’s Bokakhat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-vasooli-aghadi-bjp-s-ct-ravi-over-param-bir-singh-s-claims-and-all-the-latest-news-101616324568397.html
21-03-2021||India||How Covid-19 cases spiked in India between Feb, March: Weekly comparision||India has been witnessing a steep rise in its daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the past few weeks. A comparison of the government data from a week each of February and March shows that India's infection tally has swelled by nearly three times.According to the data released by the Union health ministry, India saw 86,711 total cases of Covid-19 in the third week of February (15-21). In the same period in March, the country recorded close to 2.5 lakh (240,082 to be exact) new cases of the infection. The recent rise in cases is surpassing the surge India saw in December when the country had just come out of a festive month and public celebrations.In the last seven days, India has recorded more than 24,000 new Covid-19 cases every day, with the highest daily spike seen on Sunday when 43,846 infections were registered.The gradual increase in the daily caseload in the third week of February did send the alarm bells ringing for authorities, particularly in states like Maharashtra and Kerala, after which the Centre advised them to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests and regularly monitor mutant strains besides refocusing on strict surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts.To stop the sharp spike from burdening India's healthcare system, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met the chief ministers on Wednesday this week and handed out a five-point plan to fight the deadly infection.Reiterating his famous slogan 'Dawai bhi, kadai bhi' (yes to medicine, yes to caution), PM Modi told the CMs that states will have to step up testing and focus on maximising vaccination. In his five-point plan, the first is Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In addition to that, the states will have to scale up RT-PCR tests, create micro-containment zones, increase vaccination in both private and government hospitals and stop vaccine wastage.About 70 districts of the country have seen an increase of more than 150 per cent in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks, PM Modi said, adding that if the spread can’t be contained now, a situation of a nationwide outbreak can come up. But at the same time, he emphasised not to create panic among people.Case count in week 3 of February and March (as published by Press Information Bureau):||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-covid-19-cases-spiked-in-india-between-feb-march-weekly-comparision-101616292773120.html
21-03-2021||India||Generational change in Kerala Congress’ candidates list has Rahul Gandhi’s touch||At the break of dawn, Aritha Babu gets busy feeding and milking at her cattle barn, after which, she sets out to supply milk riding her two-wheeler. She doesn’t forget to remind customers about her candidature in the upcoming assembly elections while asking them to also rally their relatives behind her. The 27-year-old girl next door, who hails from a small-time farming family, is the Congress candidate from Kayamkulam assembly constituency in Alappuzha district. Congress has fielded many candidates like Babu in Kerala this time and she thinks it is reflective of the “generational shift” in the party. “Initially I could not believe when my name was announced. It took some time to sync in. It is a big recognition for the work I did for my party in the last 14 years,” she said. Inspired by her father, an ordinary party worker, Babu entered politics at a young age of 13 with the Kerala Students Union and later joined Youth Congress. She was elected to Alappuzha district panchayat in 2015 at the age of 22. A graduate in commerce, she is pursuing her masters in social work. She is up against the sitting MLA Pratiba Hari of the CPI (M) and NDA’s Pradeep Lal. Pratiba Hari had defeated Congress candidate N Liju by over 11,000 votes at Kayamkulam in the last polls. “It is really good as many youngsters have been given seats this time. I think this is the first time the party has fielded so many fresh faces and it really shows the generational shift in the party. I really thank party leader Rahul Gandhi for this,” she said, adding she won’t indulge in mud- slinging or personal attacks in the political fight. At least 70 km south of Kayamkulam, in Varkala in Kollam district, also a famous beach destination, another youngster is seeking votes on Congress ticket. 32-year-old BRM Shafeer is also known as the “one –rupee lawyer”. Hailing from a poor family, he was a rubber tapper for many years while pursuing his studies. After enrolling as a lawyer in Nedumangad court, he has spent a lot of time fighting cases of the poor for free, which has earned him the moniker. “Many leaders including the late veteran, K Karunakaran, helped me during my college days. At one point even three meals were a luxury to me. But many leaders groomed and helped me. I dedicate my seat to them,” he said. Sitting legislator V Joy is his main opponent here. The BJP-led NDA has fielded SRM Aji from Verkala. A close look at the candidates’ list of all three formations in the state (UDF, LDF and NDA) shows a decent input of fresh blood. “Our leader Rahul Gandhi was keen on young faces and at least 55% of our candidates are fresh ones,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, adding that Babu and Shafeer were classic examples of this approach. Not to be left behind, the ruling CPI(M) has also fielded many young candidates. At least four front candidates are under 30 and the secretary of the party-backed Students’ Federation of India (SFI) Sachin Dev (28) is the youngest of them. Dev is contesting from Balussery in north Kerala’s Kozhikode district, where the Congress has fielded the popular comedian of Malayalam cinema, Dharmajan. “For the CPI(M), it is routine to give chance to young blood unlike some Congress leaders, who are holding on to their seats for more than 30 to 40 years,” said Dev. He cited the elevation of 22-year old Arya Rajendran as the Mayor of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation to burnish his party’s credentials on this front. Though the BJP candidates are among the oldest in these elections, including 88-year-old Metro Man E Sreedharan, the party has fielded many youngsters, including party spokesman Sandip Warrier (31) and Asha nath (28). “Our leader PM Modi always gives a big push to youngsters,” said Asha Nath, seeking election from Chirayinkeehzu in Thiruvananthapuram district. She is also a councillor of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. “It is true that there is a whiff of fresh air in some parties including the grand old party. It is really good. I hope it will result in qualitative changes in state politics,” said political observer and thinker Prof M N Karassery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/generational-change-in-kerala-congress-candidates-list-has-rahul-gandhi-s-touch-101616324024426.html
21-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Health ministry says 6 states contribute nearly 78% of daily cases in last 24 hours||The Union health ministry on Sunday said that five states in the country accounted for 77.7 per cent of the new cases in last 24 hours.A total of 43,846 new daily cases reported in last 24 hours. 83.14 per cent of the new cases are from six states.Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 27,126 followed by Punjab with 2,578 while Kerala reported 2,078 new cases.197 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Six states account for 86.8 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (92). Punjab follows with 38 daily deaths. Kerala reported15 deaths.Eight states/UTs -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana among the top five districts contributing maximum to the new cases.Over 4.4 crore (4,46,03,841) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,25,138 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today.These include 77,79,985 Health Care Workers (HCWs) (1st dose), 48,77,356 HCWs (2nd dose), 80,84,311 Frontline Workers (FLWs) (1st dose) and 26,01,298 FLWs (2nd Dose), 36,33,473 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,76,27,418 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.As on Day-64 of the vaccination drive on March 20, more than 25 Lakh (25,40,449) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 22,83,157 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,669 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 2,57,292 HCWs and FLWs received second dose of vaccine.Meanwhile, country's total active caseload stands at 3.09 lakh (3,09,087) today. A net incline of 20,693 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours.On the other hand, India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,11,30,288 today with national recovery rate -- 95.96 per cent. 22,956 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours.Seventeen states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Puducherry, D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Mizoram, A&N Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-health-ministry-says-6-states-contribute-nearly-78-of-daily-cases-in-last-24-hours-101616321217978.html
21-03-2021||India||Second wave of Covid-19 has begun: Karnataka health minister||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday said the second wave of coronavirus has begun and sought people's cooperation to contain the disease. "We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us," Sudhakar told reporters here as the coronavirus cases started shooting up. He said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the Covid-19 situation and measures to be taken. He said the state Technical Advisory Committee on coronavirus has given clear guidelines to the government stating that people would be in for a trouble if certain activities were not controlled. "We all will be responsible for the aftermath if the government and people do not respond to experts' report," Sudhakar said. To a question whether election-related activities would be among those needed to be under check, Sudhakar sought to know, "Can any activity be an excuse for coronavirus? Will it spare VIPs, political parties or religious congregations?" The Minister underlined the need for an all-party meeting in view of the coronavirus situation since the byelections were round the corner and all the political parties would take part in it. Sudhakar's warning came as the cases in Karnataka shot upto 1,798 with seven deaths and Bengaluru urban district alone contributed 1,186 cases, including five deaths, on Saturday. The Chief Minister too had appealed to the people to exercise caution as coronavirus was on the rise at an alarming proportion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wave-of-covid-19-has-begun-karnataka-health-minister-101616322115839.html
21-03-2021||India||TN: BJP releases '100 reasons to reject DMK' document, calls party dynastic, anti-democratic||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National General Secretary and Tamil Nadu in Charge CT Ravi on Sunday called Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) a dynastic and anti-democratic party.While releasing the '100 Reasons To Reject DMK' document at Chennai, the BJP leader said, " DMK stands for dynastic politics. After M Karunanidhi, Stalin is the owner of the party. Udhayanithi will be the owner of the party next.""As an anti-democratic party, both DMK and Congress have similarities. The 'M' in DMK stands for money-making. When DMK and Congress were in power, scams were happening every day. Tamil Nadu will not forget 2G," he further said.He further slammed DMK when he said that the party is famous for "land grabbing".SG Suryah, Chairperson of the Committee that made the document, told ANI," DMK party was defeated in 2011 and 2016 in Assembly elections due to the corruption charges and land grabbing. Actually, the DMK has been manipulating the Tamils in the name of Dravidian principles. By separating 'Aryan and Dravidian', the DMK is playing with the sentiments of people."Elections for the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly will be held in a single phase on April 6 and the counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-bjp-releases-100-reasons-to-reject-dmk-document-calls-it-dynastic-antidemocratic-101616320581688.html
21-03-2021||India||'Maharashtra Vasooli Aghadi': BJP leader's jibe over Param Bir Singh's claims||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued its attack on the ruling three-party coalition in Maharashtra, saying it should be renamed ‘Maharashtra Vasooli Aghadi’. The comment was made by BJP leader CT Ravi in the wake of extortion allegations made by former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh."I think Maharashtra is governed by ‘Maharashtra Vasooli Aghadi’. We demand CBI inquiry and his removal from the cabinet," Ravi said on Sunday, according to news agency ANI.Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is heading the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, claiming that Deshmukh asked Sachin Vaze - the cop arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case - to extort ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants. Deshmukh, a leader of the NCP, has denied Singh's allegations.The 'letter bomb' has the potential to cast serious strains in the Maharashtra government, causing NCP chief Sharad Pawar to rush to resolve the crisis. Though Pawar said that allegations against Deshmukh are serious and it is the prerogative of the chief minister to take appropriate action, he rubbished claims that there is threat to the ruling alliance.The BJP has stepped up its attack on the Thackeray government, demanding resignation of Deshmukh. Former Maharashtra chief minister and leader of the opppsition Devendra Fadnavis said on Sunday that the home minister must be sacked. He also questioned the silence of Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.The BJP also staged demonstrations against Deshmukh in Mumbai.The allegations were made by Singh a day after Deshmukh said that the police officer was moved out as Mumbai police commissioner so that cases pertaining to Vaze were probed without obstruction. In the letter, Param Bir Singh, who has now been posted as Commandant General of Home Guards, said that he has been "made a scapegoat to divert attention from the actual wrongdoers".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-vasooli-aghadi-bjp-leader-s-jibe-over-param-bir-singh-s-claims-101616320378835.html
21-03-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi likely to address 'kisan panchayat' in 5 eastern UP districts after Holi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is likely to address 'kisan panchayat' in five eastern Uttar Pradesh districts after Holi, taking the fight against the Centre's new farm laws to the home turf of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Priyanka Gandhi is likely to begin her programme in eastern Uttar Pradesh next month with a visit to the famous Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi, state party spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI on Sunday."Five rallies are proposed in Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Gorakhpur, Mirzapur and Allahabad," he said.Singh said the party general secretary's visit will enthuse cadres ahead of the panchayat election and the 2022 assembly polls."The party will be contesting the panchayat elections and will put up a good show at the grassroots level," he claimed.Priyanka Gandhi has so far addressed 'kisan panchayat' (farmers' meet) in western Uttar Pradesh against the Centre's farm laws.Addressing a 'kisan panchayat' in Saharanpur on February 10, Priyanka Gandhi had attacked the Centre and said the if voted to power, the Congress would scrap the farm laws.She had also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of "insulting" farmers protesting against the laws."These three laws were drafted in such a way that government 'mandis' will eventually close down, farmers will not get MSP (minimum support price) for their crops and there will be hoarding," she had said.Singh said the party has been staging agitation highlighting the plight of the common pople in the state."UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu was arrested for raising issues concerning people. A large number of Congress workers were sent to jail. The Congress has stood with the people, be it during the Covid-19 pandemic or the Hathras rape-and-murder case. We did not move back even an inch," he said, claiming that the people are looking at the Congress as an alternative now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-likely-to-address-kisan-panchayat-in-5-eastern-up-districts-after-holi-101616319948659.html
21-03-2021||India||JP Nadda to release BJP's poll manifesto for Assam assembly polls on March 23||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda is scheduled to unveil the party's manifesto for the upcoming Legislative Assembly elections in Assam on March 23.Elections for the 126-seat Assam assembly are scheduled to take place in three phases from March 27 to April 6. The results will be announced on May 2.Speaking at a public rally in Golaghat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that 'doosri baar, BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) sarkar' has been decided in Assam."The double engine sarkar of NDA has made available several facilities such as toilets, LPG gas, electricity and free medical treatment. Now we are working towards the availability of water with full force," the Prime Minister said.In 2016, the BJP scripted history and formed the government for the first time in the state ending Congress's 15-year rule. BJP and its allies AGP and Bodoland People's Front (BPF) won a combined 86 seats in the 126-member Assam assembly. BJP had bagged 60 seats, AGP 14, and BPF 12 seats.This time the BPF has joined the Congress-led coalition 'Mahajath' after breaking away from the BJP-led BJP is contesting the polls in Assam in alliance with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-to-release-bjp-s-poll-manifesto-for-assam-assembly-polls-on-march-23-101616318550027.html
21-03-2021||India||World Water Day: PM Modi to launch Jal Shakti Abhiyan; agreement for 1st river interlinking project to be signed||On the occasion of World Water Day on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain' campaign via video conferencing.During the virtual launch of the campaign, a Memorandum of Agreement will be signed between the Union ministry of Jal Shakti and the governments of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh for the first river-linking project of Ken-Betwa.The agreement for the Ken-Betwa Link Project heralds the inception of the inter-state cooperation to implement former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's vision to carry water from areas with a surplus to drought-prone and water-scarce areas through interlinking rivers, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's office.The project involves the construction of the Daudhan Dam and a canal for linking the Ken and Betwa river for the transfer of water from the former to the latter. The project also involves the Lower Orr Project, Kotha Barrage and the Bina Complex Multipurpose Project. As per the statement, the interlinking of rivers project will provide annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hactre, drinking water supply to about 62 lakh people and will also help in generating 103 MW of hydropower.Also Read | Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla tests positive for Covid-19: AIIMSThe project is expected to benefit the water-deficit regions of Bundelkhand, districts of Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen of Madhya Pradesh and Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur of Uttar Pradesh.The 'Jal Shakti' campaign that will be launched as a Jan Andolan on Monday will be implemented till November 30, 2021. The campaign to save water will be launched across the country in rural and urban landscapes with the theme, “catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls”.The essence of the campaign lies in spreading awareness and implementation of the rainwater harvesting system. The campaign which aims to reach the grassroots level through people's participation is intended to nudge all stakeholders to harvest rainwater by creating structures suitable to the climatic conditions and subsoil strata for proper storage of water.Gram Sabhas are also scheduled to be held in all Gram Panchayats of every district except for the poll-bound states after the launch of the campaign to discuss issues pertaining to water conservation. During the meet, Gram Sabhas will also be taking ‘Jal Shapath’ or pledge to save water.Addressing the high-level meeting around the implementation of water related sustainable development goals and targets of 2030, the Union Jal shakti minister on Friday has emphasised on building resilient systems to make water available to the most vulnerable. "We need to make water available to the most vulnerable. At the same time, we need to build resilient systems that provide long term solutions for sustainable use of water," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-water-day-pm-modi-to-launch-jal-shakti-abhiyan-agreement-for-1st-river-interlinking-project-to-be-signed-101616314688725.html
21-03-2021||India||Puducherry L-G flags off mobile unit to generate awareness about Covid-19||Lt Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday flagged off a mobile unit of the health department in neighbouring Muthialpet to generate awareness about steps to be taken to keep Covid-19 at bay.She also declared open a booth which would distribute masks, sanitisers and hand gloves to the people. She helped some people wear the masks."It is through nose and mouth does the virus get into our body and hence proper wearing of face mask is necessary` Soundararajan told a woman, correcting the position of the mask.She also urged the people not to lower their guard against Covid-19 or panic bout the pandemic, which could be prevented through preventive measures. The Lt Governor felicitated the health staff for their dedicated services in implementing anti covid measures in the Union Territory.A Health Department release said Covid vaccine would be administered at the Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Hospital at Krimambakkam on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-l-g-flags-off-mobile-unit-to-generate-awareness-about-covid19-101616317928533.html
21-03-2021||India||In poll-bound Kerala women enjoy an edge, parties in race to keep them happy||Political parties race to keep women in good humour with generous promises in poll-bound Kerala. While the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) announced a pension for housewives, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) went a step further to announce ₹2000 monthly dole for all women in the 40-60 age group. The BJP-led National Democratic Front’s (NDF) manifesto, to be released on March 24, was also expected to announce many sops for women, said political observers.While the LDF manifesto put emphasis on three Ws, (women, welfare and workforce) the UDF tried to address specific needs of women voters, who outnumber men by 8 .27 lakh in the electoral roll of the state. The UDF has promised a hike in the qualifying age of women for government competitive examinations to 37 years and promised to give mothers with small children, another two-year extension. Similarly, it proposed a ministry of happiness to ensure better domestic life and deal with post-Covid blues.The LDF said the free food kits distribution will continue. It was started on a pilot basis during the height of the pandemic in March-April 2000 and was extended till May this year. A big hit among economically weaker sections, free food kits played a key role in the decisive victory of the LDF in the local body elections in December. Distributed twice a month, the kit includes basic groceries worth ₹500-600. To counter kit diplomacy, the UDF has showcased Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s pet minimum income guarantee scheme.“Eying women votes, parties are competing to announce sops for them, but when it comes to proper representation to women in the candidates’ lists, all sulk,” said women activist K Ajitha.Last week the state witnessed an unusual event at the Congress headquarters in the state capital. Upset with denial of a ticket to fight elections, Mahila Congress state president Lathika Subhash tonsured her head in public. In tears, she accused the party of ignoring women candidates and later announced her candidature from Ettumanoor constituency in Kottayam, as an independent.A close look at the candidate lists of all parties (LDF, UDF and NDA) shows only 38 women figure among the 420 candidates fielded by the three main fronts on 140 seats. It is roughly 9% representation.Kerala goes to polls on April 6 and the results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-kerala-women-enjoy-an-edge-parties-in-race-to-keep-them-happy-101616318143903.html
21-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says government wants to 'snatch' farmers' future via farm laws||Stepping up his attack on the BJP-led Centre over the three new farms laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the government wants to snatch the income and future of farmers for the benefit of a few top businessmen in the country.He was addressing a function in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur to disburse cash benefit to farmers and cattle-rearers under the two schemes of the state government through a recorded video-message in Hindi."What we had promised to farmers, we have fulfilled it today. You know the government of India is heading on some other path. It has brought three farm laws against the farmers. The central government wanted to snatch the income and future of farmers and hand it over to two-three big businessmen," he said without naming anyone.Hailing the Bhupesh Baghel-led dispensation in Chhattisgarh, Gandhi said he is happy that his party's governments in Chhattisgarh and other states are walking on the path of supporting farmers, labourers, small businessmen, youth and women.Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over demonetisation and GST rollout, Gandhi said, "Narendra Modiji's government implemented 'notebandi' and GST, and today you can see that India has failed to create employment."In contrast, the Chhattisgarh government extended support to farmers and strengthened the rural economy, he said."We pumped in money into the rural economy and therefore, Chhattisgarh has not been facing any trouble (during the coronavirus crises), which is being faced by other states," he added.On the occasion, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel transferred ₹1,104.27 crore into the accounts of 18.43 lakh farmers as the fourth and last instalment of Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana (for kharif and rabi crop year 2019-20).Besides, he also transferred ₹7.55 crore to the accounts of cattle-rearers under the Godhan Nyay Yojana.Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, farmers have been paid a total of ₹5,627.89 crore in four instalments as input support to paddy cultivators and certified seeds growers, a government official said.Under Godhan Nyay Yojna, the state government has been procuring cow dung at ₹2 per kg from cattle-rearers for production of vermi-compost, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-government-wants-to-snatch-farmers-future-via-farm-laws-101616315692027.html
21-03-2021||India||Suspected Bangladeshi cattle smuggler killed by BSF, case lodged||Tripura police has launched an investigation into a suspected Bangladeshi cattle smuggler’s death--in firing by a BSF (Border Security Force) personnel-- at Yakubnagar border outpost in North district of Tripura on Friday night.The deceased, identified as Bappa Miyan (32) was a resident of Moulvibazar district in Sylhet division of north eastern Bangladesh. One fence cutter, one sharp weapon and some cattle were found beside his body. A case was registered at Kadamtala police station following the incident.“We have registered a case on Saturday. No cattle smugglers have been caught so far. We have not arrested anyone till now. Our investigation is on,” said North superintendent of police, Bhanupada Chakraborty, on Sunday.According to BSF, the patrolling team saw at least 12-15 cattle smugglers from the Indian side and 10-12 smugglers from Bangladesh approaching the border. As they tried to intercept them, the suspected smugglers from both the sides started pelting stones at the soldiers. Some smugglers from Indian side surrounded a BSF jawan and attacked him with a sharp weapon. The jawan, who had a narrow escape, fired two rounds from his non-lethal pump action gun in self-defence that hit one Bangladeshi smuggler.Earlier in February this year, a 22 year old youth, suspected to be a cattle smuggler, died after he was hit by a bullet fired by the BSF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-bangladeshi-cattle-smuggler-killed-by-bsf-case-lodged-101616316343851.html
21-03-2021||India||President Kovind calls for greater participation of women in science, technology||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday called for enhanced participation of women in the field of science and technology.Kovind, while addressing the 18th convocation of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Rourkela here, said, "Growth and excellence of women in the technical area will add a new dimension to our national development."He said more girls need to get higher education, particularly in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.Quoting a recent survey, he said enrolment of women in engineering and technical institutions in India is abysmally low at only 20 per cent."Our girls should be encouraged to pursue technical education and excel in the same manner as they do in other areas. Our daughters are outshining boys and getting more gold medals in arts and other fields," he said.Kovind said three of the seven gold medal winners at NIT Rourkela are women and the situation is similar in other central universities.Around 1,518 of the 7,116 students in the university are women.He said NIT Rourkela has made a significant contribution in the field of science and technology for over six decades."I am pleased to know that NIT Rourkela has students from 33 states and Union territories. I am told that students from 17 countries are also enrolled in various academic disciplines," he said.In his message to the students, the President said, "I advise you to never judge your success only in terms of material gains. You don't have to limit yourself by the pressures of conventional notions of success and societal norms. You need to figure out what you really want to do in your life."He suggested the students choose what gives them satisfaction."Do what takes you closer to your aspirations. Do what makes your families proud of you. Plan for yourself a fruitful and productive path ahead," he said.He expressed satisfaction over the institute adopting five villages as part of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan.The President said that one of the objectives of the National Education Policy 2020 is to make India a global knowledge superpower and institutions like NIT Rourkela have a major role to play in achieving it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-calls-for-greater-participation-of-women-in-science-technology-101616315875912.html
21-03-2021||India||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla tests positive for Covid-19: AIIMS||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla is admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the hospital said in a statement on Sunday.Birla tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19, the statement further said."He was admitted to AIIMS COVID Centre for observation on March 20. He is stable and his parametres are normal," a release by AIIMS read.The Lok Sabha speaker actively attended the second part of the ongoing Budget session in the Parliament which began on March 8.The two Houses of Parliament functioned regularly as the opposition parties agreed to participate in proceedings at a meeting chaired by Birla, after the opening week of the budget session was washed out amid protests over rising fuel prices.According to two opposition leaders, Birla told them that while issues like fuel price hike and farm laws are important for them, urgent business that has constitutional requirements needs to be completed.“The speaker told us we need to pass the Finance Bill and the demand for grants on an urgent basis. He also told us that he will adjourn the House quickly so that the MPs can go back to their states for the poll campaign,” said senior Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Ray.Birla had also participated in the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) in the Parliament's Central Hall last week and said that India has a clearly stated policy against expansionism and terrorism.Birla also said that no Parliament should debate laws passed by the legislatures of other nations and issues related to their sovereignty.His remarks came days after British lawmakers discussed the farmers' protest in India.Underlining that India has always worked for global peace and tranquillity, Birla said that India, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has clearly stated its policy against global terrorism and expansionism.The budget session of Parliament is likely to be cut short by 10 days and is expected to be adjourned on March 25.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-tests-positive-for-covid19-101616314994652.html
21-03-2021||India||Allegations against Anil Deshmukh serious, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar||The allegations against Maharashtra home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh is turning into a full-blown political crisis in the state. Deshmukh has been accused by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh of asking arrested police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month from the city’s bars and restaurants.Also Read: Ex-Mumbai police chief accuses minister of extortion, throws govt into crisisNCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Sunday that allegations against Deshmukh are serious. "It is the prerogative of the CM Uddhav Thackeray to take appropriate action into the allegations," Pawar said at a press conference on the issue, adding, "There has to be in depth inquiry by such an officer who enjoy full respect in police administration."He then suggested the name of celebrated police officer Julio Ribeiro to carry out the probe.Also Watch: Deshmukh denies Param Bir Singh's allegations, BJP demands his resignationThe NCP chief further said that reinstating Vaze, who has now been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia bomb scare, was the decision of Param Bir Singh and that not of CM or the home minister."Reinstating Vaze after 16 years and giving him an important posting were decisions taken by ex-commmissioner of police in Mumbai. And the allegations have been levelled by Singh after his removal from the post," Pawar said.The entire issue has case serious strain among the partners of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance - Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress. While Deshmukh has accused Singh and the Mumbai Polie of “serious and unpardonable mistakes”, the Sena has come in support of Vaze. Also, in an editorial in Saamana, the party said that Singh showed commitment towards the fight against Covid-19, visited Dharavi, which was a hotbed of infections last year. It added that the TRP scam, in which Vaze had been part of the team that arrested certain accused, was brought to light under his tenure.The Congress, meanwhile, said that there is conspiracy behind the allegations against home minister Anil Deshmukh. "Attempts are being made to pull down non-BJP governments in the country. This is part of the same," party spokesman Sachin Sawant said on Sunday.But Pawar said there is no threat to the MVA government. "I don't know whether efforts are being made or not to topple the government (Maharashtra). All I can say is they will have no impact on the government."Pawar has stepped in, like on various previous instances, to resolve the latest crisis to rock the Maharashtra government. The NCP chief has been the architect of the three-party alliance to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) away. He has been monitoring the functioning of the government and even held a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after the removal of Param Bir Singh.The BJP has been targeting the ruling alliance, particularly Thackeray, demanding the resignation of Deshmukh. The BJP workers led by state unit chief Chandrakant Patil staged a protest at the Deccan area in Pune, demanding resignation of Deshmukh. BJP workers also staged protests at Kolhapur, Nagpur and Aurangabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-serious-says-ncp-supremo-sharad-pawar-101616315501733.html
21-03-2021||India||PM Modi tears into Congress’ 5 guarantees, accuses party of neglecting Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lambasted the Congress party’s five guarantees announced as part of its manifesto, ahead of the three-phased assembly polls in Assam and said the party’s rule will instead guarantee reign of corruption, nepotism, instability, appeasement and fake promises. Modi campaigned at Bokakhat in Golaghat district for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and ally Asom Gana Parishad’s (AGP) candidates and urged voters to reject Congress and return the BJP-led government to power. AGP president Atul Bora, who is a minister in the state cabinet, is contesting from Bokakhat, which will go to polls in the first phase on March 27. “Those who ruled Assam for over 50 years are these days giving five guarantees to people of the state. But Assamese people are aware of the intentions of these people, who have the habit of making false promises. Sell dreams to the poor, tell lies, make them fight among themselves and rule over them. This has been Congress’s old formula to stay in power,” said Modi. “You have to remember Congress means guarantee of a false poll manifesto. Congress means guarantee of confusion. Congress means guarantee of instability. Congress means guarantee of bombs, guns and blockades. Congress means guarantees of violence and division. Congress means guarantee of corruption, guarantee of nepotism,” he added. Modi was referring to Congress’s five guarantees—non-implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Assam, ₹2000 every month to housewives, 200 units of free electricity to all households, increase in daily wages of tea garden workers to ₹365 and creation of 5 lakh government jobs—which is part of the party’s manifesto released on Saturday by Rahul Gandhi in Guwahati. “BJP and NDA governments are working towards ‘sabka saath’, ‘sabka vikas’ and ‘sabka vishwas’, but Congress is concerned only about getting power by all possible means. Actually, Congress’s coffers have become empty and they want to come to power at any cost. Congress’s only true friend is the ‘kursi’ (seat of power),” said Modi “Those with whom Congress has formed governments in Jharkhand and Maharashtra are campaigning against them in West Bengal. In Kerala, it abuses the Left, but in West Bengal it ties up with it for power. Congress calls itself secular, but in Assam, West Bengal and Kerala it has made friends with parties which are formed on communal lines. For Congress, nothing else matters but power,” he added. Modi accused the Congress of ignoring indigenous Assamese people and reminded voters that the BJP’s Sarbananda Sonowal government in the state provided land allotment certificates to nearly 300,000 landless people. The PM accused the Congress of neglecting tea-garden workers and lauded the state government for launching schemes for the community’s education, income and healthcare. He assured that once the BJP returns to power, it would take steps to increase daily wages of tea-garden workers further. “During the Congress rule, everyone was worried on how to save Assam from being looted. But during NDA rule, the state is moving ahead to touch new heights of progress. During Congress rule, there was a question on how Assam and the nation’s pride, the one-horned rhino, could be saved from poachers protected by the Congress. But our government has sent these rhino poachers behind bars,” he said. Modi spoke about road and bridge construction work in Assam, praised the increase in forest cover in the state in the past few years, congratulated the state government for giving funds to nearly 9,000 religious institutions in Assam for development of their infrastructure as part of Asom Darshan scheme. “The double-engine of the BJP government in Assam and at the Centre has worked for the state’s development. But during the Congress rule, when they had governments in state and at the Centre, there was double neglect as the grievances of Assamese people were not heard either in the state or at the Centre. Corruption was also double at that time, because local party workers and those in the Centre used to take their cuts. Infiltration was also double as the party needed to increase its vote bank,” the PM said. Assam goes to polls in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. The results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tears-into-congress-5-guarantees-accuses-party-of-neglecting-assam-101616315203642.html
21-03-2021||India||4 killed as ambulance collides with oil tanker in Odisha’s Angul district||At least four persons including a patient and driver of an ambulance were killed and three others were critically injured after an ambulance collided head-on with an oil tanker in Angul district Sunday morning, police said.Angul’s superintendent of police (SP), Jagmohan Meena said the ambulance carrying seven people including a patient from Burla in Sambalpur was on its way to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack when it collided with an oil tanker coming from opposite direction near Jarapada Chhak in Angul. The ambulance driver reportedly lost control and crashed his vehicle into the tanker.While the ambulance driver was killed immediately, three other persons in the ambulance also died before they could be moved to a hospital.The police sent the bodies for post-mortem and started an investigation. The injured have been admitted to the Angul District Headquarters Hospital for treatment. The oil tanker was seized by police while its driver was detained for questioning.Amid high fatalities in road accidents in Odisha, the government plans to start an intelligent highway traffic management system between Rameswar and Chhatia on National Highway 16 by the end of this year. At least 138 CCTV cameras along a 120-km stretch would detect over speeding and violations of helmet, seat belt and triple-riding rules. Last year, 4,738 people died in road accidents across Odisha while 5,333 deaths were reported in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-killed-as-ambulance-collides-with-oil-tanker-in-odisha-s-angul-district-101616314003651.html
21-03-2021||India||86.8% of India's Covid-related deaths recorded in these 6 states||As India reported 43,846 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, the biggest daily jump in four months which pushed the tally to 11,599,130 cases, 197 Covid- related deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll reached 159,755 and six states accounted for 86.8 per cent of the new Covid- related deaths reported, according to the health ministry. Seventeen states and union territories, however, did not report any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These include Rajasthan, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Puducherry, Dadar and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Here’s a look at the six states that accounted for 86.8 per cent of the Covid-related deaths:MaharashtraMaharashtra, which is the worst affected state, reported 27,126 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday which took the tally to 2,449,147 cases. The state reported the highest number of Covid-related deaths with which the death toll in the state mounted to 53,300.PunjabPunjab recorded 2,587 new coronavirus cases on Saturday which was the highest single-day spike in the past six months, taking the tally to 210,466 cases. The state reported the second highest number of deaths from the pathogen as 38 more people died from the infection which took the death toll to 6,280.KeralaKerala logged 2,078 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday and 15 deaths, taking the infection count to 1,102,702 and the death toll to 4,482. The state, therefore, reported the third highest number of Covid-19 related deaths.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh on Saturday recorded 1,273 Covid-19 cases which was the highest single-day spike in the state this year which pushed the state's tally to 323,153. With 11 people succumbing to the infection, the state reported the fourth highest number of Covid-19 related deaths which took the death toll in the state to 3,940.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 1,243 new infections and 8 fatalities which took the caseload to 865,693 and the death toll to 12,590. Thus, the state reported the fifth highest number of Covid-19 related deaths.KarnatakaKarnataka logged over 1,798 new Covid-19 cases and seven Covid-19 related deaths on Saturday. As Karnataka recorded the sixth highest number of deaths due to coronavirus in the country, the death toll in the state stood at 12,432.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/868-of-india-s-covid-related-deaths-recorded-in-these-6-states-101616312361250.html
21-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP steps up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray to act against Anil Deshmukh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP steps up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray to act against Anil DeshmukhThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stepped up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray’s government to act against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, a day after shunted Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the minister had asked arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants. Read moreMaharashtra ATS arrests 2 in Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s murder caseThe Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which is probing the suspicious death of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has arrested two persons in the early hours of Sunday, said additional director general, ATS, Jaijeet Singh. Read moreOver 70,000 health, wellness centres set up under Ayushman Bharat: MinistryThe Union ministry for health and family welfare (MoHFW) informed on Sunday that the government has achieved its planned target of operationalising 70,000 Ayushman Bharat- health and wellness centres (AB-HWCs) ahead of time. Read more‘Especially when India bat first': Ian Bishop gives his verdict on Suryakumar, has his say on Kohli the openerIndia put in a commanding performance in the fifth T20 International against England at the Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad. The series was tied 2-2 with all to play for in the decider. Read moreFirst picture of Kareena Kapoor's newborn son with dad Saif Ali Khan shared by Saba as he turns 1 month oldSaba Ali Khan, the sister of actor Saif Ali Khan, has shared one of the first pictures of his newborn son. Saba on Sunday took to Instagram Stories to celebrate one month of the baby's birth. Read moreWoman throws ‘birthday party’ for road, bakes a special cake too. Here’s why“The world is a strange place,” there is a possibility that after reading the story’s headline this is what you’re thinking. However, once you know the reason behind this special celebration, you may want to applaud the woman for her efforts. Read moreWatch| 'Politicians to blame for state of Muslims in India': Farooq Abdullah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-steps-up-pressure-on-uddhav-thackeray-to-act-against-anil-deshmukh-and-all-the-latest-news-101616311387606.html
21-03-2021||India||Pune district has more active Covid-19 cases than entire Kerala | 10 points||India's active Covid-19 caseload on Sunday breached the 3 lakh-mark, after dropping to below 1.5 lakh in February. This comes as the country is witnessing a sharp surge in the number of daily infections, which is being called the 2nd peak of the virus.On Sunday, India's active number of Covid-19 case was 3,09,087, which is 2.66 per cent of the country's total tally. Active Covid-19 cases refer to the number of people presently suffering from the virus. Hence, this number indicates the extent of the spread of the infection.Here are 10 points about India's present Covid-19 situation> With 38,803 active Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra's Pune district has the highest number of cases in the country. In fact, Pune and Nagpur (28,423) have more active cases than Kerala, as the state's active tally stands at 25,317, according to Union health ministry data.> Active cases of an area rise when the gap between daily infections and daily recoveries widens. It means that new cases are being added, but the recovery rate is not keeping up, hence more cases are remaining in the active cycle.> After Pune and Nagpur, Mumbai (20,019), Thane (18,088) and Nashik (13,223) are the top districts with the highest active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra's active Covid-19 case tally is inching towards 2 lakh-mark. Till Saturday, it had 1,92,294 active Covid-19 cases> In Punjab, the top five districts with the highest active Covid-19 cases are Jalandhar (2,500), SAS Nagar (2,115), Patiala (1,812), Hoshiarpur (1,768) and Ludhiana (1,765). Punjab has 16,988 active cases.> Chennai district has 2,750 active Covid-19 cases, followed by Chengalpattu (669), Coimbatore (635), Thiruvallur (509), Thanjavur (393). Tamil Nadu has 7,291 active cases at present.> Madhya Pradesh, which has announced Sunday lockdown in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur has 7,344 active Covid-19 cases. The top contributors are Indore (2,066), Bhopal (1,747), Jabalpur (476), Ujjain (282) and Gwalior (250).> Gujarat has 6,737 active infections and the top five districts are Surat (1,991), Ahmedabad (1,381), Vadodara (848), Rajkot (468) and Bhavnagar (190).> With 12,847 active cases, Karnataka stands fourth in the active tally, after Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab. Bengaluru Urban has 9,044 active cases while Dakshina Kannada has 492, Kalaburgi 447, Tumakuru 313, and Mysusu 299.> Gurugram district has 819 active cases, while Karnal has 790, Panchkula 642, Kurukshetra 612 and Ambala 547. Haryana currently has 4,830 active infections.> India's case fatality rate is 1.38 per cent and recovery rate is 96.96 per cent||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-district-has-more-active-covid-19-cases-than-entire-kerala-10-points-101616311394652.html
21-03-2021||India||Sharad Pawar calls NCP meet, Maharashtra ‘letter bomb’ may scalp Anil Deshmukh||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has convened an urgent meeting of top party leaders in Delhi on Sunday evening that may seal the fate of Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s damning letter alleging that Deshmukh had asked police officers to collect ₹100 crore every month.The party is expected to take a call on the replacement of Deshmukh who is also a senior NCP leader.Pawar convened the meeting in the backdrop of the huge controversy triggered by Singh’s letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday. The letter is seen as a major embarrassment for the NCP than to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government.In his email, Singh, who was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner on Wednesday, alleged that Deshmukh was indulged in malpractices and had asked suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and other officers from Mumbai police to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars, pubs, restaurants and hookah parlours.Deshmukh has refuted the allegations and has threatened to sue Singh for defamation. He has also said that Singh was making the allegations to save himself from future action as the links of the Vaze case were reaching him.“It is a huge embarrassment for the party. The allegations of ‘collection’ are directly against the party leader who has already been in soup for the inept handling of the Antilia bomb scare and Hiran death case. He may be asked to resign but a cabinet reshuffle may not happen immediately. The additional charge of the department is likely to be given to either deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar or water resources minister Jayant Patil. Pawar is believed to be not very keen on holding the home department, and in such a case Patil will be asked to hold the portfolio once again,” said a senior NCP leader who did not wish to be named.Another party leader and state health minister Rajesh Tope was reportedly another choice for the post, but the party’s top leadership said to be insisting on a stronger leader to handle the home department in the current scenario.“Tope has been doing a very good job in his incumbent portfolio, but the way the home department is in the mess currently, it needs a strong leader like Pawar or Patil. Some of the top IPS officers are believed to be in constant touch with state BJP leaders and it has proved to be detrimental to the MVA government,” the leader said.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut too is expected to meet Sharad Pawar in Delhi on Sunday evening.According to another NCP leader, the meeting is also expected to discuss the party’s candidate for Pandharpur-Mangalvedha assembly bypoll to be held next month.“The meeting, called by NCP chief Sharad Pawar, is expected to be attended by senior party leader Praful Patel, Supriya Sule, Sunil Tatkare along with Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil. Pawar saheb is on tour of poll-bound states and is expected to return to Delhi by afternoon. The meeting will be held in the evening at his Delhi residence,” he said.Param Bir Singh, who was removed as Mumbai’s commissioner of police on March 17, had also alleged in his letter that Deshmukh had interfered in the police force.The opposition BJP has demanded that Deshmukh resign immediately or be sacked. The BJP staged agitations across Maharashtra demanding Deshmukh’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-calls-ncp-meet-maharashtra-letter-bomb-may-scalp-anil-deshmukh-101616310523584.html
21-03-2021||India||BJP steps up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray to act against Anil Deshmukh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stepped up pressure on Uddhav Thackeray’s government to act against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, a day after shunted Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the minister had asked arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants.The BJP workers led by state unit chief Chandrakant Patil staged a protest at the Deccan area in Pune, demanding resignation of Deshmukh. BJP workers also staged protests at Kolhapur, Nagpur and Aurangabad.Param Bir Singh, in his letter written on Saturday to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleged that Deshmukh had tasked assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze with collecting ₹100 crore when the latter was the chief of Mumbai’s crime intelligence unit. The letter has added another sensational twist to the case of an explosives laden car found in front of Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai recently.“The new revelations have shown how corrupt this government is. Uddhav Thackeray should immediately sack Deshmukh and initiate inquiry against him,” said Patil.The BJP state unit chief also appealed to Raj Thackeray-led MNS and Prakash Ambedkar led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi to join the protests.To support his allegations, Param Bir Singh enclosed various chat messages purportedly exchanged between himself and assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil during March 16 and 19.The latest revelations have put further pressure on the MVA government to act against Deshmukh, who is already facing allegations of mishandling the Antilia explosives case, which has resulted into embarrassment for Mumbai police and the state government after NIA arrested Sachin Vaze, the investigating officer in the case, alleging he was himself involved in the plot. The state government then shunted Param Bir Singh to fix accountability for the fiasco, however, Singh’s bombshell has now left the government red faced, once again.While Deshmukh has threatened to sue Singh, chief of his Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Sharad Pawar has convened an urgent meeting in Delhi on Sunday evening to deal with the fallout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-steps-up-pressure-on-uddhav-thackeray-to-act-against-anil-deshmukh-101616309803508.html
21-03-2021||India||Congress is used to doing politics over tea, BJP is committed to those working in tea gardens,' says PM Modi in Assam's||Addressing a public meeting in Assam's Bokakhat on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Assam has already decided that it will bring a BJP government in power for the second time. Beginning his address in Assamese, PM Modi said, "It is now decided that Assam will get double engine ki sarkar — doosri baar, BJP sarkar."The 'double engine sarkar' of the NDA government ensured the availability of free gas cylinders, LPG, electricity and free healthcare to the people of the state, Modi said while attacking the Congress government.Under the NDA government, the wildlife of the state has been taken care of, which the previous government failed, PM Modi said. Referring to the development of a four-lane bridge over the Brahmaputra river, PM Modi talked about the infrastructure development works taken by the BJP government.Slamming the Congress, PM Modi said more than ₹40,000 crore have been invested for the development of the oil and petroleum sector in the state. He cited the example of the Barauni-Guwahati gas pipeline and said this pipeline will provide affordable gas to every household; CNG-powered transportation will get a boost and businesses will also be able to meet the energy requirements. The 'double engine sarkar' has ensured investments of thousands of crores to increase the production capacity of the refineries, the Prime Minister added.Talking about employment initiatives of the Sarbananda Sonowal government, PM Modi said over ₹1,300 crore have been invested for biorefinery that will help create ethanol from bamboo waste and thereby generate employment."Congress means confusion; Congress means 'bomb, bandook and blockade'. The people of the state need to keep this Congress 'loot ka engine' away," Modi said, launching an attack on the Congress. "While Congress indulges in politics over tea, the BJP takes care of the workers of the tea gardens, provides them education, medicines, jobs," PM Modi said.Click here for complete coverage on assembly electionsPolling for assembly elections in Assam is scheduled to begin with first phase of on March 27 and last phase to take place on April 6. The counting of votes is scheduled to happen on May 2.Prime Minister is also scheduled to address a public rally in the state of West Bengal on Sunday. He will be addressing the public rally at 3:30pm in Tila Bediya Ground, Bankura in West Bengal.A day before, Modi had addressed a rally in West Bengal' Kharagpur where he slammed the state chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for violence, corruption and misgovernance in the state. Accusing the West Bengal government of no development in the state, he said the flagship programme, 'Atmanirbhar Bharat's prospects were hurt by the TMC government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-public-meeting-in-assam-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101616306125845.html
21-03-2021||India||'Known for corruption, controversies, criminality': MoS Anurag Thakur attacks Kerala LDF govt||Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur on Sunday said that the communist government of Kerala is known for three Cs - corruption, controversies and Criminality.Addressing a press conference in Thiruvananthapuram, Thakur said, "This communist government is known for three Cs, Corruption, Controversies, and criminality. The officials, ministers, the senior leaders of the ruling party is involved in the smuggling,""The killing of RSS, BJP workers and leaders. Atrocities against women, SC and ST is on the rise," he added.Accusing the state government, Thakur alleged that the government is anti-Hindu and trying to destroy the faith and tradition of Kerala."The government is anti-Hindu, people were forced to have halal. By trying to destroy Kerala's faith and tradition, the government forget to promote the philosophy of Shankaracharya. We have seen LDF government's stand on Sabrimala issues, Love jihad issues, there was hardly any action taken by the state government when Hindu girls and Christian girls were missing," said Thakur.Taking a dig at the ruling party, Thakur claimed that, the senior leaders of the party are involved in smuggling."The officials, ministers, the senior-most leaders of the ruling party is involved in the smuggling," said Thakur.Comparing the UPA and NDA government, Thakur mentioned figures of tax devaluation, granting from the government of India, and finance commission grants during UPA and NDA government for Kerala."The tax devaluation from 2009 to 2014 during the UPA government was 29,841 crore whereas in NDA government during 2014-2019 it is 71,713 crore. The granting from the government of India during UPA time it is15,297 crore. During NDA time it is 44,856 crore. It clearly shows it is almost three times in our period," said Thakur."Finance commission grants during UPA government from 2009 to 2010 was 602 crores whereas, in 2020 disclosed to 18,000 crores," he added.The minister also mentioned that the NDA government has helped Kerala during the 2018-2019 floods."We have also helped Kerala during the floods in 2018 and 2019. But those affected are yet to get the money," said Thakur.Thakur claimed the major issue of brainwashing is seen during the Left government's rule."We have seen major issues of brain drain and brainwashing in the last five years. Brain drains as one of the figures shows that 40 per cent of the youth is unemployed and they are going overseas for the job opportunity. No one wants to establish a company in Kerala because of the policies of the LDF," said Thakur."The state government gets a lot of money through, remittance but even during the Covid time for those who died overseas, the LDF government shied away to give any help to those families. It is PM Modi and V Murlidharan who through the Vande Bharat brought back more than eleven lakh seventy thousand people who belong to Kerala from overseas," he added.The election for the 140-member Kerala assembly will be held on April 6. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/known-for-corruption-controversies-criminality-mos-anurag-thakur-attacks-kerala-ldf-govt-101616307254797.html
21-03-2021||India||SII to delay further vaccine shipments to Brazil, Morocco, Saudi Arabia: Report||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has told Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Morocco that further supplies of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine will be delayed due to surging demand at home and as it works through a capacity expansion, a source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.The news comes as India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, is being criticised domestically for donating or selling more doses than inoculations conducted at home, despite reporting the most number of coronavirus infections after the United States and Brazil.India is currently seeing a second surge of cases, taking its total to about 11.6 million.The latest delays, first reported by the Times of India daily, came to light days after Britain said it would have to slow its Covid-19 vaccine roll-out next month as SII was likely to deliver more doses later than expected.SII has supplied half of the 10 million doses recently ordered by Britain.Brazil has already received 4 million doses from SII, Saudi Arabia 3 million doses and Morocco 7 million, according to India's foreign ministry. The three countries had ordered 20 million each.Reuters could not immediately contact representatives for the countries or determine if they had agreed to a revised delivery schedule.SII, the single-biggest maker of vaccines, declined to comment. It has partnered with AstraZeneca, the Gates Foundation and the Gavi vaccine alliance to make up to a billion doses for poorer countries.The source, who declined to be identified, said SII was working on expanding its monthly production to 100 million doses by April/May, from 60 million to 70 million now, suggesting supplies could improve then.SII was originally supposed to sell vaccines only to middle- and low-income countries, mainly in Asia and Africa, but production issues at other AstraZeneca facilities forced it to ship to many other countries as well on the British company's behalf.India has so far donated 8 million doses and sold nearly 52 million doses to a total of 75 countries, mainly the AstraZeneca shot made by SII. India has administered more than 44 million doses since starting its immunisation campaign in the middle of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-delay-further-vaccine-shipments-to-brazil-morocco-saudi-arabia-report-101616306626132.html
21-03-2021||India||Over 70,000 health, wellness centres set up under Ayushman Bharat: Ministry||The Union ministry for health and family welfare (MoHFW) informed on Sunday that the government has achieved its planned target of operationalising 70,000 Ayushman Bharat- health and wellness centres (AB-HWCs) ahead of time. The government had earlier set March 31 as the deadline for realising the target.The ministry added in its statement that the government is increasing the workforce of the health care centres which now includes a trained non-physician health worker with BSc Nursing/BAMS qualification, community health officer (CHO) and primary care team of health workers.The ministry also said that the AB-HWCs are not only providing services related to communicable diseases but also for non-communicable diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and cancer. Preventive health care services are also provided through the health and wellness centres and the ministry said that so far 9.1 crore screenings for hypertension, 7.4 crores screenings for diabetes, 4.7 crore screenings for oral cancer, 2.4 crores screenings for breast cancer in women and 1.7 crore screenings for cervical cancer in women have been done.The essential diagnostics list and the list of essential medicines have both been expanded, according to the ministry and tele-consultation services of more than 9.45 lakh have been provided by the HWCs till now.The health ministry also highlighted the role played by the AB-HWCs during the coronavirus pandemic, both for the prevention of Covid-19 as well as for enabling other essential health services.The government has also expanded the AB-HWC to include pregnancy care and child birth, infant health care services, health care services for children, family planning, oral health care and emergency medical services.Ayushman Bharat, the government’s flagship scheme which was launched in April 2018, aims to achieve the target of 150,000 sub-health centres and primary health centres in urban and rural areas by December 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-70-000-health-wellness-centres-set-up-under-ayushman-bharat-ministry-101616306726708.html
21-03-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan to be last Communist CM of country: Chennithala||One of the contenders for the chief minister’s post if the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) comes to power in Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala was instrumental in unearthing many cases of alleged kickbacks like Sprinklr, Life Mission project, Deep sea fishing MoU and Backdoor entry in government service to keep the ruling dispensation under pressure. In an interview with the Hindustan Times, he spoke about the UDF’s prospects in the assembly elections, contentious Sabarimala issue and the alleged omissions and commissions of the Pinarayi Vijayan regime.Q. Most of the pre-poll surveys suggest Pinarayi Vijayan government will buck the four-decade- old trend to win a consecutive term in the state and that the going was tough for the UDF?A. We don’t believe in surveys. In the last Lok Sabha election, many surveys predicted a fifty-fifty chance for both fronts. But we swept all but one of the 20 seats. Most of the surveys were based on recent local body elections but these elections were fought on local issues. The state has never seen such a corrupt regime. The CM’s office was directly involved in smuggling and money laundering cases. Pinarayi Vijayan is going the Buddhadeb way. In Kerala, he will preside over the fall of the last Communist regime. Even the party ideology of dialectical materialism (the Marxist theory that sees political and historical events as a result of conflicts caused by material needs) was toned down and he rolled out the red carpet for companies with dubious pasts. There are not many differences between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Vijayan, both are autocratic and oppress dissent with force.Q. The government says you are raking-up the emotional Sabarimala issue eyeing votes?A. It is not true. State temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran took it up, expressing regrets over the incidents that unfolded at the hilltop temple three years ago. A day after party general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the government’s position was right and there was no need for any regrets over the issue. They are talking in different tones. The government is cheating believers. We always took a view to protect the interest of believers. We have already made it clear in our manifesto that we will bring a special legislation to protect age-old tradition of the temple. Sentiments of believers were hurt and we will do everything to correct them.Q. Why should people bring UDF to power?A. I think people are waiting for an opportunity to boot out the present government steeped in corruption and scandals. The government pumped in money for PR exercises to give an impression that everything was right but things were pretty bad. We all know how its publicity stunt on Covid-19 control measures went awry and the state later turned into a hub of the virus. We know the government and party recruited many cyber warriors to present a pleasant picture and attack the critics. The brutal murder of two Congress workers in north Kerala is still afresh in our mind. If voted to power, we will ensure a corruption- free and transparent regime and protect all believers. I reiterate that the government has no business to tamper with age old beliefs and customs.Q. You recently said there is a tacit understanding between the BJP-led union government and CM Vijayan?A. Our suspicion is right. Both are hand in glove. The CBI, probing the 30 year-old Lavalin kickbacks against the CM, is deliberately delaying the case. It sought time for more than 30 occasions in the apex court. And in gold smuggling and money laundering cases too, central agencies’ probes slowed down. Gold smuggling case investigation stopped abruptly after the CM’s private secretary was questioned. More than 9 months have passed since the recovery of smuggled gold from the UAE consular office but the probe is yet to reach the real beneficiaries or perpetrators. The CM is sacrificing his officials to escape the smuggling taint.Q. Are you in the race for chief minister ship if the UDF is elected to power?A. This will be decided by the party after the election. You might have noticed the candidate list. We gave opportunities to many youngsters as desired by our leader Rahul Gandhi. There was no group infighting or differences with our allies. Everything went as expected. We are united in the fight and we are sure that the incumbents will be shown the door.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-to-be-last-communist-cm-of-country-chennithala-101616306983239.html
21-03-2021||India||Param Bir Singh letter: No question of replacing Anil Deshmukh, says NCP leader Jayant Patil||Nationalist Congress Party Maharashtra president Jayant Patil said there is no question of replacing home minister Anil Deshmukh following the allegations levelled against him by former police commissioner Param Bir Singh. "The letter is a reaction after Maharashtra Chief Minister and home minister decided to take a tough stand," the state minister said."If we ask Deshmukh to resign now, we would be doing what certain people want," Patil told Hindustan TimesIn his letter, Param Bir Singh, who has been transferred to a low-key post in Mumbai Police's Home Guards in the aftermath of the Antilia security scare, alleged that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect funds from bars restaurants and other establishments. He mentioned that Sachin Vaze, who is now in NIA (National Investigation Agency) custody for his alleged links with the Antilia security breach, was asked to collect ₹100 crore a month.'How many sacrifices to save king?': Who said what on Param Bir Singh's letter implicating Anil Deshmukh"Shri Sachin Vaze who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police was called by Shri Anil Deshmukh, Hon’ble Home Minister, Maharashtra to his official residence Dyaneshwar several times in last few months and repeatedly instructed to assist in the collection of funds for the Hon’ble Home Minister. In and around mid-February and thereafter, the Hon’ble Home Minister had called Shri Vaze to his official residence. At that time, one or two staff members of the Hon’ble Home Minister including his Personal Secretary, Mr Palande, were also present. The Hon’ble Home Minister expressed to Shri Vaze that he had a target to accumulate ₹100 crores a month. For achieving the aforesaid target, the Hon’ble Home Minister told Shri Vaze that there are about 1,750 bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai and if a sum of Rs. 2-3 lakhs each was collected from each of them, a monthly collection of Rs. 40-50 crores was achievable. The Hon’ble Home Minister added that the rest of the collection could be made from other sources," a part of his letter said.The letter came to light on Saturday afternoon after it was e-mailed to the official email ID of the chief minister's secretariat — not from Param Bir Singh's official email address. The mail was unsigned too. Param Bir Singh, however, confirmed that the letter was sent from his email ID.Amid the growing chorus of the BJP demanding the resignation of the home minister, NCP leaders met at party supremo Sharad Pawar's residence on Sunday, though Jayant Patil said the meeting had nothing to do with the letter and was planned before.The letter incident puts NCP in a spot not only because Anil Deshmukh is from the party, but also because Sharad Pawar is considered the architect of the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-singh-letter-no-question-of-replacing-anil-deshmukh-says-ncp-leader-jayant-patil-101616306402806.html
21-03-2021||India||Not yet time to 'pawri': Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Covid-19 rise||Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday joined in the latest 'pawri' trend, begun by a Pakistani social media influencer, as he said restrictions are necessary in some regions that are seeing a surge in the Covid-19 cases. And so are mandatory RT-PCR tests, the minister added.Restrictions like night curfews and lockdowns have been imposed in several parts of India as many states are hit by the second wave of Covid-19. Amid this, the minister added that the number of domestic fliers is holding steady as more than 2.47 lakh passengers flew domestically through 2,330 flights on March 19, more than 26.3 million fliers since May 25."With rising Covid-19 cases in some regions necessitating restrictions & imposition of compulsory RT-PCR tests, it's not yet time to #pawri. But the number of domestic fliers is holding steady. 2,47,037 fliers on 2,330 flights on 19 March 2021. More than 26.3 million fliers since 25 May," the minister tweeted on Saturday.With rising COVID19 cases in some regions necessitating restrictions & imposition of compulsory RT-PCR tests, it's not yet time to #pawri.But number of domestic fliers is holding steady.2,47,037 fliers on 2330 flights on 19 March 2021.More than 26.3 million fliers since 25 May pic.twitter.com/CWE59Kr9FQThe domestic flight operations in the country were stopped from midnight of March 24 last year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The flight operations resumed on May 25 starting with a lower capacity.Puri also shared more statistics pertaining to the recovery of domestic aviation operations. As per the tweet, the domestic flight operations are growing steadily towards the pre-Covid levels. Overall flight movements on March 19 were reported to be 4,663 with total footfall at the airport surpassing over 4.96 lakh, the data shared by the aviation minister showed.The domestic flight operations reached the highest since its resumption on May 25, 2020. on February 28, when more than 3.13 lakh domestic passengers flew through 2,353 flights.The aviation industry has been hit hard with the raging coronavirus pandemic and re-imposition of restrictions all around the world. The optimism brought in by the vaccine rollout may get washed out with the new waves, variants of the virus with the International Air Transport Association (IATA) predicting the risk of an increased number of bankruptcies.The minister's tweet to be careful and not party or 'pawri' comes as India on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of the year by reporting more than 43,000 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-yet-time-to-pawri-aviation-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-on-covid-19-rise-101616302511834.html
21-03-2021||India||Two Maoists killed in encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district||Two suspected Maoists were killed in an encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district on Saturday, police said. Dantewada police said both were collectively carrying reward of ₹4 lakh and were involved in several incident of violence. Police have also recovered one 9 mm pistol, one country-made revolver and a 5 kg improvied explosive device (IED) from the site of encounter. Superintendent of Police , Abhishek Pallava said that the encounter took place at Bada Gudra village, at around 1.30 pm, when the jawans of District Reserve Guard were on an anti-Maoist operation. “The deceased Maoists were identified as Madvi Hadma and Ayeta and total six cases were registered against both of them in various police stations of the district,” Pallava said. “Hidma was a deputy commander of Maoists in Katekalyan area and was carrying a reward of ₹3 lakh while Ayeta, a janmilitia commander was carrying a reward of ₹1 lakh on his head,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-district-101616306263094.html
21-03-2021||India||India has world's fourth strongest military, says Military Direct's study||China has the strongest military force in the world while India stands at number four, according to a study released on Sunday by defence website Military Direct."The USA, despite their enormous military budgets, comes in 2nd place with 74 points, followed by Russia with 69, India at 61 and then France with 58. The UK just about makes the Top 10, coming in 9th place with a score of 43," said the study.The study said "ultimate military strength index" was calculated after taking into consideration various factors including budgets, number of inactive and active military personnel, total air, sea, land and nuclear resources, average salaries, and weight of equipment.China has the strongest military in the world, scoring 82 out of 100 points in the index, it noted."Based on these scores, which account for budgets, men, and things like air and navy capacity, it does suggest that China would come out as top dog in a hypothetical super conflict," it mentioned.The world's biggest military spender with a budget of USD 732 billion per year is the USA, it noted, adding that China comes second with USD 261 billion, followed by India at USD 71 billion. "China would win by sea, USA by air and Russia by land" in this hypothetical conflict, it said."USA wins in an aerial war with 14,141 total airships vs Russia with 4,682 and China with 3,587. The Russian Federation wins in a land war with 54,866 vehicles vs USA with 50,326 and China with 41,641," it mentioned.China wins in a sea war with 406 ships vs Russia with 278 and the USA or India with 202, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-world-s-fourth-strongest-military-says-military-direct-s-study-101616304773460.html
21-03-2021||India||'Lapses will be rectified': Pratap Bhanu Mehta, Ashoka university board issue joint statement||The Ashoka University board and professors Arvind Subramanian, Pratap Bhanu Mehta issued a joint statement on Sunday, speaking up for the first time about the recent developments in the varsity, and said that the board recognises that there are lapses in institutional processes which will be rectified.Breaking their silence after a week, the board which includes the chancellor, vice-chancellor and the chairman of the board of trustees of the varsity said they express "deep regret at the recent events surrounding the resignations of Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian who have been extraordinary colleagues and faculty members at Ashoka University.""The University has been privileged to have been led, guided and counselled by Pratap first as Vice Chancellor and then as senior faculty. He has worked closely with the faculty and founders over the years to take the University into a position of being rightly acknowledged as a great centre of learning, teaching and research," the statement read.On Subramanian's exit, the statement read, "Arvind brought eminence, stature, fresh ideas and energy to the University. He is one of the premier thinkers about the Indian and the global economy. He leaves a void that will be hard to fill."News of Mehta’s exit broke on Thursday — he resigned on March 15 — and caused a stir among students and faculty of the university, and the academic community across India and overseas. “After a meeting with Founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the University may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politic that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university. In the interests of the University, I resign,” he said in his resignation letter.Faculty members also wrote to V-C Malabika Sarkar saying that Mehta’s exit would set a “chilling precedent”. Sheldon Pollock, a Sanskrit scholar who is closely associated with Ashoka University, also issued a statement on Thursday expressing his solidarity with Mehta.On Friday morning, his colleague and former chief economic adviser Subramanian resigned saying he was “devastated” by Mehta’s resignation, and it reflected the university’s inability to protect “academic freedom and expression”.The students’ body at Ashoka University on Saturday announced a “two-day boycott of classes” next week to protest the resignation of two professors, even as more academics -- including former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan -- weighed in and expressed their support for Mehta and his departure on fears that he could be a “political liability” for the university on account of his strong political views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lapses-will-be-rectified-pratap-bhanu-mehta-ashoka-university-chief-issue-joint-statement-101616301568071.html
21-03-2021||India||Modi, Shah rallies in Bengal today; Adhikari’s father may join BJP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah will address rallies at different locations in poll-bound West Bengal on Sunday. This is the first time the two top leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be seen in action on the same day in the state during this election season, marked by frequent visits by Union ministers and top saffron camp leaders from north and central Indian states. PM Modi will arrive in Bengal on Sunday afternoon and address a rally at 1 pm in Bankura district where the BJP won two seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and made deep inroads in the tribal belts. Shah arrived in Kolkata late on Saturday night, BJP leaders said. He will address his first rally around noon at Egra in East Midnapore district, where former Trinamool Congress (TMC) minister Suvendu Adhikari is contesting against chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the Nandigram seat. Shah will address party workers at Mecheda in the same district at 1.30 pm. He will return to Kolkata and release the BJP’s election manifesto at 4 pm. Suvendu Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari, the octogenarian TMC Lok Sabha member from Contai in East Midnapore, has been invited to Shah’s rally at Egra, BJP leaders said. He is likely to join the BJP. His eldest son, Dibyendu, is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Tamluk. He, too, has been invited to join the BJP. “My father may join the BJP,” Dibyendu Adhikari told reporters on Saturday night but remained noncommittal on his next move. Soumendu, the youngest son of the family, joined the saffron camp in December last year. He was head of the TMC-run Contai municipality. While addressing a rally at Haldia in East Midnapore on Saturday, the chief minister targeted the Adhikari family, calling the members “traitors”. “I fed some traitors for years. Those who joined the BJP have done so to escape jail sentence. I am relieved that they left. They always controlled my movement and I had to seek their permission before coming here,” Banerjee said. Reacting to this, Sisir Adhikari alleged Banerjee was in a habit of insulting her party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-shah-rallies-in-bengal-today-adhikari-s-father-may-join-bjp-101616302542677.html
21-03-2021||India||Congress must take stand on Param Bir's claim, says former MP Sanjay Nirupam||Congress must take a stand on former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh's claim that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars and hotels, former MP Sanjay Nirupam has said."If at all, whatever Parambir Singh is saying is truth, question should be asked from Hon Sharad Pawar ji because he is the architect of current Maharashtra Govt. Is it what the so called third front is going to do finally ? Congress must take a stand on this issue," he tweeted.The demand by Nirupam came even as the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) state government, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, is reeling under the impact of the "letter bomb" by the serving IPS officer.A former Shiv Sena leader, Nirupam joined the Congress in 2005.In the eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments.The Chief Minister's Office, in a late night release, said Singh's "unsigned letter to Thackeray" was not sent from his official email ID and efforts were on to contact him to verify it.Ending the speculation, Singh later confirmed that he indeed emailed the letter, a signed copy of which will reach the government shortly.The IPS officer claimed that the minister told Waze that he had set a target of collecting ₹100 crore a month, half of it from nearly 1,750 bars, restaurants and similar establishments operating in the city.Singh also claimed that Deshmukh "from day one" wanted a case of abetment of suicide to be registered in Mumbai after the death of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar in a Mumbai hotel last month.Sources in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress state government said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar are yet to take a call on replacing the home minister in the backdrop of the latest controversy.BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis sought Deshmukh's the resignation over the claims made by the IPS officer."We demand the home minister's resignation. If he doesn't, then Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must remove him. An impartial probe must be conducted. The letter also says the chief minister was informed about this earlier, so why didn't he act on it?" said Fadnavis, Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-must-take-stand-on-param-bir-s-claim-says-former-mp-sanjay-nirupam-101616301628193.html
21-03-2021||India||'How many sacrifices to save king?': Who said what on Param Bir Singh's letter implicating Anil Deshmukh||A letter allegedly written by Mumbai's former police commissioner Param Bir Singh to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has opened a can of worms in the aftermath of the Antilia bomb scare incident. In the letter, Singh alleged that Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked assistant police inspector Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month from bars and restaurants. Waze has been arrested by NIA (National Investigation Agency) because of his alleged links with the Antilia security breach incident and the following death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, whose car was found parked near Ambani house carrying explosives and a threat letter. After Mumbai police's link to the incident came to the fore, Param Bir Singh was removed from the post of commissioner.Home minister Anil Deshmukh said he will file a defamation suit against Param Vir Singh for the "false allegations".Congress must take a stand, says former MP Sanjay Nirupam"If at all, whatever Parambir Singh is saying is truth, question should be asked from Hon Sharad Pawar ji because he is the architect of current Maharashtra Govt. Is it what the so-called third front is going to do finally? Congress must take a stand on this issue," he tweeted.If at all, whatever Parambir Singh is saying is truth, question should be asked from Hon Sharad Pawar ji because he is the arcitect of current Maharashtra Govt. Is it what the so called third front is going to do finally ?Congress must take a stand on this issue.#AnilDeshmukh'Remove Anil Deshmukh': Devendra Fadnavis"We demand the home minister's resignation. If he doesn't, then Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must remove him. An impartial probe must be conducted. The letter also says the chief minister was informed about this earlier, so why didn't he act on it?" said Fadnavis.We demand detailed investigation by CentralGovt agencies into the very serious allegations against Maharashtra HomeMinister.If GoM disagrees,a Court monitored investigation be done.Looking at the evidence placed in this letter,HM should immediately resign or CM should sack him. pic.twitter.com/vAaTW7Fzek"To save the king?" tweets Amruta FadnavisBanker Amruta Fadnavis, wife of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, said things will go a long way now. "How many will have to be sacrificed to save the king?" Amruta tweeted.बात निकली है तो बहुत दूर तलक जाएगी,बादशाह को बचाने में कितनो की जान जाएगी ?#SachinWaze #SachinVaze #Target100CrFile corruption offence: Former IPS officer PK Jain"To my mind, an offence under the anti-corruption Act should be registered right away. Deshmukh has no right to continue in his position because if Param Bir Singh can be removed from his position for carrying out a fair probe, then I think by the same analogy the minister has no business to continue in his position," Jain said to news agency ANIDamaging for Maharashtra's image: Raj Thackeray"Mumbai's former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh's letter to the Chief Minister is explosive. This is so damaging for Maharashtra's image. Anil Deshmukh needs to submit his resignation immediately and a thorough investigation too needs to be made," he said in a tweet.Mumbai’s former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh’s letter to the Chief Minister is explosive. This is so damaging for Maharashtra’s image. The Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh needs to submit his resignation immediately and a thorough investigation too needs to be made.Uddhav Thackeray has no right to remain in power: Ramdas AthawaleUnion minister Ramdas Athawala said he will write a letter to Amit Shah urging the imposition of President's Rule in the state. "Sachin Waze and Shiv Sena's relationship also came to light. Now Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has no right to remain in power. I will write a letter to Minister Amit Shah on Monday that President's rule should be imposed in Maharashtra as the law and order condition is deteriorating and the government has not been able to function as they were also unable to control coronavirus pandemic in the state," he told news agency ANI.BJP's conspiracy: Sachin SawantIn the noise of untruth, some words desperately try to tell you the truth.#UrgentPlease pic.twitter.com/Kn1ETFpmCzMaharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the letter appeared to be an afterthought. "HM had told a month ago that some officials were under pressure. BJP has conspired against the MVA govt by putting officials under pressure from agencies. This is evident from the fact that the BJP leaders get secret info so early and planned manner," he tweeted.What was the target of other ministers, asks Ravi Shankar PrasadUnion minister Ravi Shankar Prasad expressed shock over the revelation and said if ₹100 crore was the target by home minister, then what might be the targets of other ministers of the cabinet. "Uddhav Thackeray’s government has lost the moral authority to govern the state even for a day," the minister said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-sacrifices-to-save-king-who-said-what-on-param-bir-singh-s-letter-implicating-anil-deshmukh-101616299534447.html
21-03-2021||India||India records 43,846 new Covid-19 infections, more than 3 lakh active cases||India on Sunday recorded 43,846 fresh infections of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the cumulative tally past 11,599,130, data by the Union health ministry said. This is the highest daily spike in the Covid-19 cases recorded this year.The active cases in the country crossed the 3 lakh-mark after 20693 new active cases were added to the count, which accounts for 2.5% of the cases.Witnessing a surge in the last 10 days, India's death toll rose to 159,755 after 197 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, showed health ministry's data updated at 8 am.A total of 11,130,288 people have recovered from the viral contagion, with 22,956 recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours, lodging the country's recovery rate at 95.9%.The sharp rise in Covid-19 cases has been recorded in the month of March, which experts point out is an evident second wave based on the increasing positivity rate and active cases.India registered over one lakh cases in just three days. On Saturday, India saw 40,953 new cases, Friday 39,726 new cases were registered while 35,871 fresh cases were registered on Thursday.The 197 new fatalities include 92 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 11 from Chhattisgarh.A total of 1,59,755 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,300 from Maharashtra, 12,590 from Tamil Nadu, 12,432 from Karnataka, 10,955 from Delhi, 10,303 from West Bengal, 8,758 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh.According to the ICMR, 23,35,65,119 samples have been tested up to March 20 with 11,33,602 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-43-846-new-covid-19-infections-more-than-3-lakh-active-cases-101616295733647.html
21-03-2021||India||Government seeks justice Bobde’s recommendation on next CJI||The government has initiated the process of appointment of the next Chief Justice of India (CJI) by seeking the recommendation from present CJI Sharad Arvind Bobde, who will retire on April 23. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad is learnt to have written to CJI Bobde on Friday, asking him to recommend the name of the next CJI, as is the practice under the Memorandum of Procedure for Appointment of Chief Justice of India.As per protocol, the senior most judge after the CJI is entitled to hold this constitutional office. But the procedure requires the law minister to seek the recommendation of the outgoing CJI “at the appropriate time” for appointing the next Chief Justice of India. This recommendation has to come at least a month before the vacancy arises. Justice NV Ramana is the next in line to become the CJI. On appointment, he has a long tenure as CJI for over 16 months. Before making the recommendation, if the CJI has any doubt about the fitness of the senior most judge to hold the highest judicial office of the country, Article 124(2) of the Constitution allows the CJI to consult other judges of the top court.“After receipt of the recommendation of the Chief Justice of India, the Union Minister of Law, Justice and Company Affairs will put up the recommendation to the Prime Minister who will advise the President in the matter of appointment,” the Memorandum of Procedure states.Justice Ramana became a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh high court in June 2000 and was elevated to the Supreme Court in February 2014. On October 6 last year, the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh YS Jaganmohan Reddy wrote a letter to CJI Bobde alleging justice Ramana was trying to expedite criminal cases pending against him in various courts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The letter followed days after a bench headed by justice Ramana passed an order in a PIL filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay to fast-track criminal cases pending against lawmakers. The CJI is yet to decide on this letter after considering the response of justice Ramana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-seeks-justice-bobde-s-recommendation-on-next-cji-101616296422279.html
21-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP to unveil manifesto for West Bengal polls today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP to unveil manifesto for West Bengal polls todayThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to unveil its manifesto for the upcoming West Bengal assembly elections on Sunday. Party leader Amit Shah, who is scheduled to visit the state, is expected to release a manifesto which will be aimed to benefit 'all sections of society'. Read more.Madhya Pradesh lockdown: Over 1,000 fresh cases for 2 days amid restrictionsMadhya Pradesh, which was badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, is again on the radar as the number of fresh infections from this state is on a steady rise. Read more.In Boris Johnson’s April 26 visit to unlock opportunities, a trade pact on tableBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to launch a new trade pact on his visit to India on April 26, his first major international visit after the United Kingdom left the European Union. Read more.Tale of friends of over 40 years taking an impromptu trip together wows peopleHave you ever seen a Goa plan meme? In case you haven’t, allow us to explain. It’s a meme template which shows how friends make plans for visiting the place and then end up cancelling it at the last moment. Read more.Virat Kohli, Jos Buttler engage in heated verbal exchange during 5th T20I India captain Virat Kohli engaged in a heated verbal exchange with England batsman Jos Buttler after the latter was dismissed by pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Read more.Watch: Neel Bhattacharya, Trina Bhattacharya join TMC ahead of WB pollsActor couple Neel Bhattacharya and Trina Bhattacharya joined TMC. The couple joined TMC ahead of West Bengal assembly polls. TMC general secretary was present as the couple was inducted into party. Watch video.Priyanka Chopra regrets not calling out a director after being mistreated on sets: 'I was so scared'Priyanka Chopra recently sat down for an intimate interview with Oprah Winfrey on her award-winning talk show Super Soul. The actor, who appeared on the show just days after her friend Meghan Markle spoke to Oprah about her life as a royal, opened up about various incidents including the one where a director mistreated her. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-to-unveil-manifesto-for-west-bengal-polls-today-101616295838096.html
21-03-2021||India||‘ECI targeting us’: TMC slams order to remove politicians heading civic bodies||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday ordered that politicians in West Bengal, appointed as administrative heads of civic corporations and municipalities beyond their terms, should be replaced by government officers by 10 am on Monday, triggering a sharp reaction from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, who said it was a move against the ruling party prior to the eight-phase assembly polls, beginning on March 27.Saturday’s order, the ECI said, was passed “to avoid a situation where critical functions of urban local bodies are actually discharged, thereby affecting the level playing field during the operation of Model Code of Conduct….” Since the administrators are politically affiliated persons, the present situation may “give rise to a legitimate apprehension in the mind of the voters about the fairness and impartiality of the election process,” the ECI said.The TMC controls most of the 120 civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended last year but fresh elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators till fresh polls are held. For example, urban development minister Firhad Hakim, who was the mayor of Kolkata, was reappointed as administrative head of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s board.The ruling TMC is under pressure to protect its turf from the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) bid to dethrone the party in this assembly election, which will see the first phase of voting on March 27 and conclude with the eighth phase of polling on April 29. The results will be announced on May 2.The ECI asked the government to set up a committee headed by the chief secretary for appointment of officials who will serve as administrators or heads of board of administrators during the elections.“The ECI’s order directly targets the TMC since it won most of the civic body elections. The appointment of the administrators was earlier challenged at the Calcutta high court. The court did not entertain the demand for their removal. The ECI has done what the high court didn’t,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy.“The ECI has simply followed the rules,” said Samik Bhattacharya, Bengal BJP's chief spokesperson of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-targeting-us-tmc-slams-order-to-remove-politicians-heading-civic-bodies-101616295281949.html
21-03-2021||India||Railways to run Holi special trains. Check full list here||In anticipation of huge crowds in trains owing to the festival of colours Holi being celebrated on March 28-29, the railways announced 18 pairs of new Holi special trains for the convenience of the passengers. These trains will run on a daily, bi-weekly, tri-weekly and weekly basis. Northern railway's general manager Ashutosh Gangal told news agency ANI, "In anticipation of a huge crowd in trains during Holi, Northern Railway will run 18 pairs of additional trains between March 21 and March 31. 18 pairs of puja special trains have been extended."Passengers will have to follow all the Covid-19 related protocols and guidelines while travelling on the Holi special trains. The railways also said that in case of any query related to the trains, passengers can call on the helpline number 139 or can visit the following link: https://enquiry.indianrail.gov.in/ntes/index.html.Here is the full list of Holi special trains 202103512 Asansol-Tatanagar Special Train (Sunday, Tuesday and Friday)03511 Tatanagar-Asansol Special Train (Sunday, Tuesday and Friday)03509 Asansol-Gonda Special Train (Monday)03507 Asansol-Gorakhpur Special Train (Friday)02335 Bhagalpur-Lokmanya Tilak T Special Train (Daily)02336 Lokmanya Tilak T-Bhagalpur Special Train (Daily)03510 Gonda-Asansol Special Train (Wednesday)03508 Gorakhpur-Asansol Special Train (Saturday)03402 Danapur-Bhagalpur Special Train (Daily)03419 Bhagalpur-Muzaffarpur Special Train (Daily)03420 Muzaffarpur-Bhagalpur Special Train (Daily)03023 Howrah-Gaya Special Via Sahibganj Train (Daily)03024 Gaya-Howrah Special Via Sahibganj Train (Daily)02315 Kolkata-Udaipur City Special Train (Thursday)02316 Udaipur City-Kolkata Special Train (Monday)02361 Asansol-CST Mumbai Special Train (Sunday)02362 CST Mumbai-Asansol Special train (Wednesday)03002 Siudihawada Special Train (Daily)03506 Asansol-Digha Special Train (Sunday)03505 Digha-Asansol Special Train (Sunday)03418 Malda Town-Digha Special Train (Thursday)03417 Digha-Malda Town Special Train (Thursday)03425 Malda Town-Surat Special Train (Saturday)03415 Malda Town-Patna Special Train (Wednesday, Friday and Sunday)03416 Patna-Malda Town Special Train (Thursday, Saturday and Monday)03165 Kolkata-Sitamarhi Special Train (Saturday)03166 Sitamari-Kholakata Special Train (Sunday)03502 Asansol-Haldia Special Train (except Sunday)03501 Haldia-Asansol Special Train (except Sunday)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-holi-special-trains-check-full-list-here-101616294173636.html
21-03-2021||India||Turn Bengaluru into Delhi, gherao city from all sides, Rakesh Tikait tells farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait urged the farmers agitating against the three farm laws in Bengaluru to organise a protest in the state similar to that of Delhi and gherao the city from all sides, according to news agency ANI."There are lakhs of people gheraoing Delhi. This fight will go on for a long. We need to start such protest in every city until these three black laws are taken back and the law on MSP is not brought. You need to run a protest in Karnataka. A strategy has been made to snatch your land. Big companies will do farming... Labour laws have been amended to employ cheap labour," Tikait said while addressing a farmers' meeting in Shivamogga.Also Read: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic divertedRefuting the government's claim that as a result of these laws, farmers will be able to sell their crops anywhere, Tikait said, "The Prime Minister said farmers can sell crops anywhere so you take your crops to offices of District Collector, SDM and if the police stop you, ask them to buy crops on MSP." Watch | ‘Make Bengaluru like Delhi; gherao city from all sides’: Rakesh Tikait﻿﻿He also said that the farmers needed to raise their voices against the privatisation of the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). "If this agitation is not held, then the country will be sold and you will lose your land in the next 20 years. You need to protest against these companies. Around 26 major PSUs are in process of privatisation. We need to take a pledge to stop this sale. We need to protest against this," he said.Thousands of farmers from various states are protesting in the national Capital against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September last year. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turn-bengaluru-into-delhi-gherao-city-from-all-sides-tikait-tells-farmers-101616292923841.html
21-03-2021||India||Mumbai Covid-19: No need to wait for vaccination's scheduled date, random tests from tomorrow | All you need to know||Mumbaikars who are eligible to get inoculated will not have to wait for their scheduled date for vaccination, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has said on Saturday so that the vaccination drive of the city gains pace. However, they will have to first register at cowin.gov.in."The vaccine has now been made available to help prevent Covid-19 and it is necessary to speed up the vaccination drive. In this regard, the government has made arrangements to vaccinate senior citizens above 60 years of age and those with co-morbidities in the age group of 45-59 years. Citizens in the above-mentioned age groups are thereby appealed to register successfully on the Co-WIN portal and visit their nearest vaccination centre to get vaccinated without waiting for the date of the scheduled appointment," the civic body said in a statement.Speeding Up The Vaccination Drive!Citizens eligible for vaccination can now, after successful registration at https://t.co/QYkqAzBenq, visit the center nearest to them and get vaccinated without any delay.There is no need to wait till the scheduled date.#JabToBeatTheVirus https://t.co/8BzsmQISaeAmid surge, BMC to conduct random tests at public places without consentMumbai on Saturday reported 2,982 new infections, slightly lower than its previous day's infection tally. The civic authorities have made it clear that there will be no lockdown in the city. Instead, the authorities are working towards tightening surveillance and covering the maximum people under vaccination.Here is all you need to know about Mumbai's present Covid-19 situation> Mumbai has a 91 per cent recovery rate, while the doubling rate is 114 days. This means the number of cases is getting doubled in 114 days.> There are 34 active containment zones and 302 active sealed buildings in the city.> From Monday, the civic body will be conducting rapid antigen tests at crowded places like railway stations, malls and markets.> The consent of the person will not be required for the test and if someone does not comply, action will be taken against them under Epidemic At 1987.> There will be a minimum of 400 tests daily at each mall in the city.> At railway stations and bus depots, the target is to carry out 1,000 daily tests per station or depot.> There will be a minimum of1,000 daily tests at hotels, markets, tourist spots per ward.> The cost of the test will be borne by the civic authorities except in malls.> Prospective beneficiaries of vaccines won't have to wait for their scheduled date of vaccination. This will quicken the pace of the inoculation drive in the city. It is also likely to address the issue of vaccine wastage. If people do not turn up at their booked slots, the shots sometimes get wasted. But if there are other beneficiaries, the wastage can be stopped.> Cinema halls, theatres, private offices of the city has been asked to operate in 50 per cent capacity, according to a state government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-covid-19-no-need-to-wait-for-vaccination-s-scheduled-date-random-tests-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know-101616290597632.html
21-03-2021||India||'No reason to link everything to RSS': Hosabale on Rawat's 'ripped jeans' remark||RSS General Secretary Dattatray Hosabale on Saturday said Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat is capable of answering on his 'ripped jeans' remark and added that there is no reason to link everything to the RSS."The person, whose name you took, is capable of answering. People express views. Whether it's right or wrong is something which must be asked of them. No reason to link everything to RSS," he said when asked to comment on Rawat's 'ripped jeans' remark.The newly appointed Uttarakhand chief minister recently stirred a row by saying that women wearing ripped jeans send a wrong message to society and children.Speaking at a workshop organised by the Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights in Dehradun, Rawat said that he was shocked to meet a woman, who runs an NGO, wearing ripped jeans on a flight with her kids. "What kind of message are we giving out to society," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-reason-to-link-everything-to-rss-hosabale-on-rawat-s-ripped-jeans-remark-101616287954471.html
21-03-2021||India||Cong MPs ‘dissociate’ from Parl panel report||In an unusual move, three Congress MPs have written to the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to “dissociate” themselves from a standing committee’s report that asked the Centre to “implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit”. The three MPs, members of the House panel on food, consumer affairs and public distribution, also alleged that the report was approved in the panel chairman’s absence.Saptagiri Ulaka from Odisha’s Koraput, V Vaithilingam of Puducherry and Kasargod’s Rajmohan Unnithan have written to the Speaker against the Eleventh report of the House panel on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution. The report, titled “Price Rise of Essential Commodities – Causes and Effects”, was adopted on March 18 and presented in Parliament the following day. The panel is headed by Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay. The Congress MPs “completely dissociated” from the panel’s recommendation” to implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit…” The amendments to the ESA are one of the three laws being opposed by many farm unions, the Congress and other opposition parties. The report recommended that “the Government implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit, and without let or hindrances so that the farmers and other stakeholders of farming sector in this country receive the benefits intended under the said Act.”The dissenting MPs maintained that their position “in line with the stand expressed by the Congress Party, where it opposed tooth and nail the implementation of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, as it impinges on federalism, encourages hoarding and black-marketing, and therefore demand its immediate repeal.” Ulaka said he earlier expr-essed his opposition in a meeting in December. Bandopadhyay said the “Trinamool is also opposed to the farm laws” and said the panel suggested that “foodstuffs such as potato, onions and pulses are part of a common man’s daily diet and that lakhs of people who do not get the benefits of Public Distribution System may suffer adversely in the aftermath of the implementation of the new Act..”Senior Congress strategist Jairam Ramesh quoted Ulaka’s letter and said, “MPs of the Congress party did not ask for implementation of the ESA. The Standing Committee Report is a misrepresentation!” TMC floor leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien targeted the BJP for the adoption of the report and tweeted: “This is the BJP cheap ‘n dirty tricks department in action. Con job was done when Chairman of #Parliament Committee was not at meeting. @aitc position on #FarmLaws and Essential Commodities Act well documented. Withdraw draconian laws #FarmersProtest.”The Congress MPs also raised an objection that the report was adopted under “acting chairperson” Ajay “Teni” Misra, a BJP MP from UP. “...I was not present when the Report was adopted as the meeting was called in a short notice of merely 15 hours, on the adoption of a report on the very important subject of ‘Price Rise of Essential Commodities’,” read Ulaka’s letter posted on Twitter. Rejecting the charges, Bandopadhyay said: “There is nothing called as an acting chairperson. The final meeting went for two days—March 17 and 18. One the first day, NC leader Farooq Abdullah chaired the meeting... the report has been adopted properly and all rules have been adhered to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-mps-dissociate-from-parl-panel-report-101616281843998.html
21-03-2021||India||EX-PM PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter elected in Telangana MLC elections||Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao, was declared elected to Telangana state legislative council from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar graduates’ constituency, after the counting of second preferential votes on Saturday.The election took place on March 14 and the counting of votes began on March 17. The results were declared after a laborious counting process that stretched for four days.The TRS is likely to win the second MLC seat from Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency as well. TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who is fighting the elections for the second consecutive time, was leading the table during the counting of second preferential votes when the last reports came in.Vani Devi, who contested the election on the Telangana Rashtra Samithi ticket, defeated her nearest rival N Ramachander Rao of Bharatiya Janata Party, who is the sitting MLC from the constituency. She secured 1,87,339 votes in the final round after counting of second preferential votes, as against 1,68,520 votes required for winning the seat, accounting for 50 per cent of the total votes polled.Vani Devi secured 1,12,689 first preferential votes (around 33 per cent). As a result, the election authorities took up the process of eliminating the other contenders and transferring their second preference votes to those who stood at the top.Apart from the BJP candidate, two others – G Chinna Reddy of the Congress and K Nageshwar, a former MLC who contested as an independent – stood among the top contenders. In the penultimate elimination round, only Ramachander Rao remained in the race with 1,37,566 votes, while Vani Devi was leading with 1,49,269. And in the final round, the second preferential votes of the BJP candidate were transferred to Vani Devi, who was declared elected with 1,87,339 votes.It was a sort of moral victory for the TRS to wrest the seat from the BJP, after its loss in the by-election to Dubbak assembly seat and the subsequent debacle in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.The TRS took these MLC elections very prestigiously because they reflect the mood of the educated voters and a defeat would definitely have its impact on the forthcoming by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat to be held on April 17, besides ensuing elections to Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations.TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao made all-out efforts to ensure victory for the TRS in the MLC elections. He roped a large number of ministers, including his son KT Rama Rao, daughter K Kavitha and nephew T Harish Rao, into the campaign. The choice of Vani Devi was also a strategic one as it comes at a time when the state has been celebrating the birth centenary of her father PV Narasimha Rao, the only Telangana leader to rise to the position of Prime Minister of the country. Thus, KCR successfully triggered this Telangana sentiment once again and secured the victory to the party.Several TRS leaders, including KT Rama Rao, Harish Rao and their cabinet colleagues, congratulated Vani Devi for winning the MLC seat. “It is an endorsement of KCR’s policies by the educated voters,” Harish Rao said.BJP official spokesman K Krishnasagar Rao said the BJP would respect the mandate given by the graduate voters and humbly accept the electoral outcome. He, however, alleged that KCR had crowded the contest by ensuring multiple social influencers in the fray, which was an unethical attempt to confuse the electorate and split the BJP vote.Congress candidate Chinna Reddy said the TRS had won the MLC elections purely because of its money power and it was unfortunate that the unemployed graduates were sold out to the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expm-pv-narasimha-rao-s-daughter-elected-in-telangana-mlc-elections-101616267317543.html
21-03-2021||India||Centre hands Hiran murder case to NIA||The Centre on Saturday suo motu handed over the probe into Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been probing the SUV laden with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month.The NIA will take over the case from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which has been investigating the possible murder of Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane-based auto spare parts dealer, who is linked to the Scorpio that was found with 20 loose gelatin sticks, and a threatening letter addressed to the Ambanis, outside their Antilia residence on February 25.NIA officials will take over case files including the post mortem report of Hiran after re-registering the FIR filed by the ATS on March 7 against unknown persons for the charge of murder. The NIA arrested suspended police officer Sachin Vaze on March 13 for purportedly planting the explosives in the Scorpio. The ATS has also questioned Vaze over his role in Hiran’s death after it came to light through the statement of Hiran’s wife, Vimla, that the two knew each other.The ATS on Saturday sought Vaze’s custody in the murder investigation, but the NIA special court scheduled the hearing to March 25, when his custody with the NIA ends.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) used its power under Section 8 of the NIA Act, which says that any connected offence related to a scheduled offence already under investigation, in which the suspect is same, can also be taken over by the central anti-terror agency.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the NIA taking over the probe into Hiran’s death was not a setback to the Mumbai police or the Maharashtra government. “There was no need for the NIA to take up the probe into the explosives-laden SUV and Mansukh Hiran case. However, the Centre is looking for opportunities to see how the MVA government can be put in a spot. You can bring the CIA or KGB...It makes no difference...,” he added.With inputs from Manish K Pathak and Faisal Tandel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-hands-hiran-murder-case-to-nia-101616265516440.html
21-03-2021||India||Held discussions on human rights in a meaningful way, says Austin||US defence secretary Lloyd Austin, the first senior member of the Biden administration to visit India, said on Saturday he had raised the issue of human rights of the country’s minorities with members of the Indian cabinet as “partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions”.Austin, the first African-American to hold the post of defense secretary, made the remarks while responding to a question at a media briefing on whether he had raised the human rights of India’s minorities during his interactions with Indian interlocutors.Human rights and values were discussed as shared strengths of the two countries, senior Indian officials said, though there was no specific discussion on the human rights situation in India. The only specific discussion on this pertained to minorities and women in Afghanistan, the officials said.Austin acknowledged he had discussed with defence minister Rajnath Singh on the issue of India’s acquisition of the S-400 missile defence system from Russia, which faces potential sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), but said sanctions were not “on the table” as India is yet to acquire the weapon system.Austin also said the US never considered that “India and China were on the threshold of war” during their ongoing standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Asked specifically if he had raised the violation of human rights of India’s minorities as the first member of the Biden administration to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Austin replied that he “did not have an opportunity to talk with him [Modi]” about the issue during their meeting on Friday.“Having said that, I did have a conversation with other members of the cabinet on this issue. I think we have to remember that India is our partner and a partner whose partnership we value, and I think partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions. And certainly we feel comfortable in doing that, and you can have those discussions in a very meaningful way and still make progress,” he said.His version of events differed from the Indian side’s reading of the meeting, the Indian officials cited above said, although there was no official comment from India’s foreign or defence ministries on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/held-discussions-on-human-rights-in-a-meaningful-way-says-austin-101616265517103.html
21-03-2021||India||Ashoka students seek return of professors||The students’ body at Ashoka University on Saturday announced a “two-day boycott of classes” next week to protest the resignation of two professors, Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian, even as more academics -- including former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan -- weighed in and expressed their support for Mehta and his departure on fears that he could be a “political liability” for the university on account of his strong political views.In a statement released on Saturday, the Ashoka Student Government demanded “public acknowledgement by the founders” of Mehta’s statement about “political liability” and an assurance that he will be “given a public unconditional offer letter”; an open meeting between the founders and the students’ body; and the “divesting of administrative powers and roles from the founders” to the “elected representatives of faculty, students, and administration”. The statement added that the students would protest till these demands were met, and added that if they were not “met by Tuesday” (March 23), the students would “organise a separate movement demanding that the Vice-Chancellor resign”.The university and the founders have so far not offered their version of events.During a townhall with students on Thursday, VC Sarkar rejected allegations that Mehta was asked to resign due to his role as a government critic. “I spoke to Pratap and tried to persuade him multiple times not to leave Ashoka and to withdraw his resignation,” she said.News of Mehta’s exit broke on Thursday — he resigned on March 15 — and caused a stir among students and faculty of the university, and the academic community across India and overseas. “After a meeting with Founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the University may be considered a political liability. My public writing in support of a politic that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university. In the interests of the University, I resign,” he said in his resignation letter.Faculty members also wrote to V-C Malabika Sarkar saying that Mehta’s exit would set a “chilling precedent”. Sheldon Pollock, a Sanskrit scholar who is closely associated with Ashoka University, also issued a statement on Thursday expressing his solidarity with Mehta.On Friday morning, his colleague and former chief economic adviser Subramanian resigned saying he was “devastated” by Mehta’s resignation, and it reflected the university’s inability to protect “academic freedom and expression”.Late on Friday, around 150 academics from overseas universities wrote an open letter terming Mehta’s exit as a “dangerous attack on academic freedom”.In the letter, addressed to Ashoka trustees, administration, and the faculty, the academics express their “distress” over Mehta’s resignation under “political pressure”. “A prominent critic of the current Indian government and defender of academic freedom, he had become a target for his writings. It seems that Ashoka’s Trustees, who should have treated defending him as their institutional duty, instead all but forced his resignation,” it read.The signatories included Homi K Bhabha, Anne F Rothenberg, professor of humanities at Harvard University; Erwin Chemerinsky, dean at the University of California Berkeley School of Law; Rogers Smith, Partha Chatterjee of Columbia University; Faisal Devji, professor of Indian history, University of Oxford; and Lawrence Lessig of Harvard Law School.The university alumni council on Friday held a meeting to discuss the future course of action in order to “protect the academic freedom in the university”.On Saturday, Rajan weighed in on LinkedIn. He wrote that “free speech” is the soul of a great university and by “compromising on it, the founders (of Ashoka) have bartered away its soul”. “The reality is that professor Mehta is a thorn in the side of the establishment. He is no ordinary thorn because he skewers those in government and in high offices like the Supreme Court with vivid prose and thought-provoking arguments,” he added.HT learns that on Friday, some of the founders met Mehta and sought his return. Ashoka University did not respond to queries, saying a statement on the matter will be issued soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashoka-students-seek-return-of-professors-101616265397092.html
21-03-2021||India||A skilled planner, Hosabale rises through Sangh ranks||Dattatreya Hosabale, 66, replaced Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, 73 as the general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Saturday, signalling a significant change ahead of the Sangh’s centenary celebrations that will begin in 2024.Hosabale’s appointment was announced at the ongoing Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, the meeting of the highest decision-making body of the Sangh, in Bengaluru.His appointment comes at a time when the Sangh is in an expansion mode and has set itself the task of opening at least one Shakha, or unit, in every mandal or a cluster of 10-12 villages ahead of its centenary celebrations. While the ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party, and its ideological parent, the Sangh have become increasingly synergistic over the past decade, it wasn’t always that way, and analysts said it will interesting to watch the interplay between both as they expand .In the Sangh, the general secretary is the deputy to the chief or the sarsanghchalak but is largely seen as a key figure in decision making and everyday running of the organisation.Hosabale’s skills as a planner and an organisational leader, displayed during his stint with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) or the students’ wing of the RSS and the ease with which he balances the Sangh’s ideological position with political pragmatism have been pivotal in his selection for the crucial position, said people familiar with the thinking behind his appointment who asked not to be named.“His ability to straddle the ideology of the Sangh and BJP’s politics are well known and will be put to good use as the Sangh prepares for its expansion as well as acts as a guiding force for the BJP that will also face a test in 2024 (general elections),” said one of them, a senior RSS functionary.A joint general secretary of the RSS since 2009, Hosabale was in the reckoning for the position for the last six years. In 2018, when the last elections took place, there was a section of the cadre that pushed for a younger, more articulate Hosable to replace Joshi, who served as second-in-command for three terms. Joshi went on to complete his fourth term.In 2018, when speculation about Dattatreya being appointed the general secretary arose, a section within the Sangh was reported to have expressed concern over the insinuation that his promotion was being linked to his ties with PM Narendra Modi. Many felt that his equation with the PM could influence the Sangh’s work.“There were fears that the Sangh, which is known to not shy away from taking a stand against government policies, could soften its stand. But the Sangh follows a robust process and does not intervene in political decision making,” said a second person familiar with the matter, also a senior Sangh functionary.Rakesh Sinha, BJP member of Rajya Sabha and an author who was extensively written on the Sangh, said Hosabale has been a driving force behind the Sangh’s efforts to reach out to marginalised sections of society.“He has the capacity to contextualise the ideology as per emerging trends and socio-economic forces. He believes in discourse and dialogue and consequently even those opposed to the Sangh enjoy engaging with him. He represents Sangh’s model of outreach,” Sinha said.Keeping in view that a larger section of the karyakartas (volunteers) is under 50, Hosable who is younger than Joshi is expected to have a better understanding of the “aspirations and the changed thought process of the cadre”, said a third RSS functionary.And Hosabale is also perceived to be Sangh’s liberal face. “While there is no question of diluting the Sangh’s ideology; there is a need to be more inclusive. It was Dattaji who articulated the Sangh’s view on controversial issues such as homosexuality,” the second person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-skilled-planner-hosabale-rises-through-sangh-ranks-101616264796353.html
21-03-2021||India||120 million doses ordered as vaccine urgency deepens||The Union government has placed orders for 120 million more doses of coronavirus vaccines with Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, moving to secure more stocks at a time when officials and experts are calling for speedier delivery as a new wave of infections takes holds in several parts of the country.Of the 120 million doses, 100 million will be of Covishield being manufactured by SII. The remaining will be of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. The two are the only vaccines approved in India till now for use among people.From adding an average of 15,494 cases a day at the beginning of March, the country recorded close to 32,000 cases daily over the last week on an average. Experts and the leaders of at least three states – Delhi, Maharashtra and Kerala – have urged the Union government to either allow more people to become eligible for doses or ramp up supplies.As on Saturday, India has delivered 43.6 million doses of the two vaccines. The vaccination of the first of the general population (people above age of 60 and those older than 45 with particular medical illnesses) began on March 1 and by March 28, the ones who have had their initial doses will need to get their second shots.“The procurement was to happen in phases -- that has been the plan all long. This is so that when more options open up, which is going to happen in some time, the basket of choice will expand. Also, as demand increases, the cost of vaccines also comes down, which is why it helps to not procure in bulk in one go,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, asking not to be named.India aims to give doses to 300 million people – health workers, frontline workers and those at highest risk due to their age or comorbid conditions -- by the end of July. But experts now believe as many people as possible should now be allowed to take the doses in order to head off this new wave of cases.“The vaccination strategy, I think, should remove the age bar if the vaccines are available in plenty. The government is doing it phase-wise, but we need to vaccinate anybody over the age of 18 and quickly. For a state like Maharashtra, vaccinating more people now would not be of much help because the cases have already spread. But, in the case of Delhi and other parts of the country where the surge hasn’t started yet, it will,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.Maharashtra on Saturday added over 27,000 cases – the most it has recorded on a single day – and at present accounts for the highest share of new cases among any states. In Delhi, the health bulletin said 813 new cases were recorded – the highest since December 24. The proportion of samples testing positive is also the highest since December 27, although – at 1.07% -- it is comfortably under the ideal threshold of 4%.Experts said the immediate need to accelerate vaccines is even more acute since the two vaccines India uses offer protection two weeks after the second shot – which means a person will be adequately protected only after 42 days after the begin their dosing.According to Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research, the mRNA vaccines produce quicker protection against the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “The mRNA vaccines produce some immunity within 12 to 13 days of being given the first shot,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120mn-doses-ordered-as-vaccine-urgency-deepens-101616264676262.html
21-03-2021||Today's||The Union versus Delhi, Act II, Scene 1||Act 2, Scene 1 of the Delhi vs the Union saga was unveiled by the home ministry, by introducing a bill to amend the Government of National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi Act, 1991. The explicit objective, in the statement of objects and reasons, is to give “effect” to the 2018 judgment of a five-judge constitutional bench of the Supreme Court (SC), on the structure of governance in NCT. The implicit purpose is to nullify it. In doing so, it also renders the 69th amendment to the Constitution, which established Delhi as a Union Territory (UT) with a legislative assembly, infructuous. This bill, despite its stated objective, represents yet another step toward centralising India’s federal polity. If passed, it will not only sharpen the political battle between the elected government of Delhi and the Union government, but also deepen the fault lines in India’s fragile federal compact.Three amendments in the bill are noteworthy. First, it defines the term “government” in the context of laws made by the legislative assembly to be the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of Delhi, not the elected government. Second, it expands L-G’s powers by requiring the elected government to seek L-G’s opinion, on specific matters. It is left to L-G to define these “matters” through a general or specific order. Third, it weakens the powers of the assembly by prohibiting it from making rules for its committees on day-to-day administration.These provisions contradict the 2018 judgment, which unambiguously clarifies that the council of ministers with the chief minister at its helm is the executive head of the government of Delhi. By conflating the government of Delhi with L-G, the bill blurs the distinction between the elected government and L-G. Further, by requiring L-G’s opinion before the elected government can take executive action, it effectively renders the elected government powerless. This is in direct contravention of the 2018 judgment, which decided that “requiring prior concurrence with the L-G would negate the ideals of representative governance and democracy”, thus undermining the spirit of the 69th constitutional amendment. The playbook is familiar. This is precisely how Article 370 was nullified — by interpreting the definition of government as the governor and not the elected state legislature, thus ushering in central control.At the heart of this quagmire is a fundamental federal question — is the presence of a strong sub-national government with full powers, within the geographical area of the seat of the national government, incompatible with national interest? The Balakrishnan Committee argued that as the national Capital, Delhi belongs to the nation and, therefore, cannot be given full statehood. Delhi’s unique status as a UT with a legislative assembly was the unwieldy outcome. However, global experience shows that several large megapolises around the globe, from Jakarta and Seoul to London and Paris, have had strong sub-national governments, whose mayors have gone on to become heads of government, without compromising national interest. Even countries such as Australia and the United States that have chosen a more restricted form of sub-national government have not had trouble in appropriately delineating powers in ways that enable the harmonious construction of responsibilities. Indeed over time, as Niranjan Sahoo has highlighted in this newspaper, the trend has moved towards allocating greater powers to city governments. Subsidiarity — the foundational principle of fiscal federalism — necessitates empowered sub-national governments.The challenge of governing Delhi is thus not one of first principles. Rather, it is one of politics. The degree of sobriety, political maturity and commitment to the federal principle that is necessary for a harmonious construction of responsibilities is lacking in India. Let us not forget that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is today contesting this blatant effort to divest its powers as an elected government, vocally supported the move to convert a full-fledged state into a UT through the deployment of the very same tactics. Genuine federalism has very few takers in our political culture today. Indeed, given our politics, it would appear that the concept of a UT with a legislature is oxymoronic.If passed, there is every likelihood that a legal challenge will be mounted. But SC is yet to make a determination on the constitutionality of the Union government acting to transform a state into a UT. It would seem unlikely, thus, that it would act with alacrity, when just the form of a UT is being changed.So the question before us is this. Shall we keep idealistically striving to create a more perfect Union or shall we resign ourselves to realistically accept the situation as it exists today? If diminution of states is constitutionally permissible, then perhaps one should (only half in jest) start thinking about electing L-G directly. It can even be a pilot for an eventual transition to a presidential system, in a world where states are remade as UTs. But is this what our Constitution envisages? Even more than the courts, this is a question for our political parties to answer. Yamini Aiyar and Partha Mukhopadhyay are with the Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-union-versus-delhi-act-ii-scene-1-101616330808884.html
21-03-2021||Today's||Looking back at the lockdown and India’s Covid-19 journey||Exactly a year ago, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi called for a janata curfew. The country ground to a standstill, and all activity, except essential services, stopped. The same evening, the PM had called for five minutes of clapping, beating of thalis and blowing of conch shells across the country to support health workers, police forces and people involved in essential services. This was to prepare people for what was to come. At that time, there was only frightening news from across the world. It had been established that the virus originated from Wuhan in China. The United States (US) and Europe were in a state of panic. Harsh lockdowns were imposed but casualties were rising. But the situation at that time in India suggested that the trajectory of the virus was not so bad.When the lockdown was announced late on March 24 last year, no one could have imagined that for a long time to come, they would be confined to their homes. But the pandemic was especially devastating to those who did not even have a roof over their heads. People living in the slums and chawls of the metros found themselves unemployed overnight. They had come to the cities from their villages in the hope of a better life and livelhood. All that suddenly went down the drain.And then, people began leaving the metros of Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, often on foot, covering hundreds of kilometres, disillusioned and sad. Pictures of migrants walking home were splashed across the media. Many people lost their lives on the long trek home. The government has been accused of depriving people of their jobs by imposing such a drastic lockdown. But this overlooks the fact that since health services were not adequate at that time, the government was really constrained when it came to saving people during the pandemic and had to take tough measures. A total of 536 cases of infection had been confirmed at the time of the lockdown and only ten people in a country with a population of a billion had lost their lives due to the pandemic.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, at that time, said in Parliament that people had to be ready to lose their loved ones. During those days, we saw some disturbing images from the US, of corpses being buried in spaces outside cemeteries for lack of space in these. At such a time, there were alarming scenarios about the possible trajectory of the disease in India, expressed by sceptics. Today, a year later, India’s figures have proved them wrong. The death rate in India, in particular, is much lower than in the world’s rich and wealthy economies.Could this have been possible without the lockdown?It is not that the Indian government went to sleep after imposing a lockdown. Till March 31, 2020, 183 laboratories were available for testing for the virus across the country. Today more than 2,400 laboratories are doing this. Hospitals too were not prepared for such a pandemic. During this time, PM Modi himself took command and interacted with the chief ministers of states in several rounds, encouraged health workers and kept in touch with vaccine researchers. This is why India, despite its limitations, was in the frontline of the vaccine-developing countries. Today we are providing vaccines to over 70 countries.During this period, despite political differences, the central and state governments set a unique example of synergy. For those who keep questioning the federal structure of India, this past year is a testimony to our resolve and our instincts towards unity. There may be many unfortunate examples in terms of social, economic and ethical behaviour, but there is no doubt that in the past one year, people have shown an amazing ability to move forward despite an enormous amount of pain and suffering. It is true that Covid-19 has dealt us a drastic economic shock, but it is also a fact that the Indian economy is about to come out of the recession faster than many other economies.But this process will be able to gain momentum only when our world is completely free from the clutches of Covid-19. It is impossible to predict any timeline for this. The pandemic is an unpredictable creature in many ways. To cope with this, it is necessary to follow all standard operating procedures. Ever since the vaccine drive began, people have dropped many preventive actions they were observing earlier. Among these are social distancing, wearing masks, and washing hands often. The pandemic cannot be stopped only with government efforts. We have to be alert at all times until the pandemic is declared to be well and truly over. And this is not likely to happen for quite a while. Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/looking-back-at-the-lockdown-and-india-s-covid-19-journey-101616330384671.html
21-03-2021||Today's||To tackle the water crisis, women’s leadership in water management is crucial||Water scarcity has been consistently considered as one of the top five risks by business leaders in the annual global risk report of the World Economic Forum. According to the United Nations, over two billion people live in countries experiencing high water stress. India alone has 88 million people who lack access to safe water, placing the nation at the centre of this global problem. Eighty per cent of India’s freshwater is used in agriculture, making it a critical resource for the livelihoods of farmers and the country’s food security. Farmers rely heavily on groundwater through wells and tube-wells. The crisis created by large-scale groundwater extraction needs concerted and scaled-up water management efforts in rural India.The water problem runs deep, and to address it, it is crucial to identify and mobilise the right agents for change. Women constitute 37% of the agricultural workforce — with nearly 100 million involved in the sector. Several studies, as well as our institutional experience, have revealed that women spend twice the number of hours that men do, working on fields in the cropping season. With men increasingly migrating out of their villages, women are now working in farms alongside managing their homes — both of which need them to plan for and use water judiciously. Considering their high stakes in ensuring water security, women are well poised to champion change.Women engage with the issue of water in different avatars — as farmers, panchayat members, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers and extension workers. This makes them well-suited to leading water management programmes. For instance, apart from their presence in agriculture, women have a significant representation in governance. At least 43% of elected representatives in local bodies such as panchayats, are women. Women’s participation in MGNREGS is high and stands at almost 55%. They have also demonstrated their ability to mobilise funds from the government. In a project in West Bengal, women influenced the government to release MGNREGS funds to construct water supply structures that created an additional water potential of 7.4 billion litres and benefitted 35,000 women, Unicef’s work in India has also proved women’s prowess at mechanical work. In Jharkhand’s Lava panchayat, women formed a diverse group from across every panchayat to maintain 450 pumps. They even ran their village spare stores and met the domestic water needs of 130 villages. In this endeavour, they were more efficient and were able to resolve issues more quickly than their male counterparts. A study conducted on water supply projects in Gujarat in 2000 showed that when women were included in technical and decision-making capacities, there was a marked improvement in the impact of projects. Women have also shown an eagerness to adopt new technologies, explore sustainable farming methods and spread awareness among their families, making them excellent potential water champions. A 2017 study, which explored the role of women farmers in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals, reported that women-led collectives have driven changes in cropping practices, and demonstrated a bigger willingness to switch to organic inputs and grow climate-resilient crops that consume less water. Women have been creating consistent ripples in India’s water security efforts — the time is right to leverage them as leaders of change. This heavily-invested, yet relatively unrecognised, demographic of women farmers are likely to power the next frontier of positive change. The idea that diverse leadership teams create better and more innovative outcomes is not new. Several organisations have deployed winning diversity programmes to deliver breakthrough business results, endear themselves to an increasingly conscious set of consumers and attract the best talent. With an already strong presence of driven and aware women in agriculture, the same principles can well be the key to accelerating India’s journey towards water security.Sanjiv Mehta is chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever Limited The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-tackle-the-water-crisis-women-s-leadership-in-water-management-is-crucial-101616330144967.html
21-03-2021||Editorials||A realignment in the RSS||With a set of changes in its top leadership over the weekend, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) now has a new team in place, under the continued leadership of Mohan Bhagwat. This team will lead the Sangh’s centenary celebrations in 2025; take forward its mission of “uniting Hindu society”; expand its organisational footprint; and play a key part in the coordination between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre and in states and other institutional affiliates. Among the changes, the most significant is that of Dattatreya Hosabale’s elevation as the sarkaryavah (general secretary), the de facto executive head of the organisation with the responsibility of day-to-day management of the Sangh’s vast activities. A protege of Sangh veteran Madan Das Devi, Mr Hosabale is the first functionary who served as the national organisation secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) to rise to the Sangh’s second most important position. This background gives Mr Hosabale several advantages. He has a wide network of close associates from his ABVP years, who are today in key positions in the Sangh, in the BJP and in BJP governments. He also has a good working relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, and has known BJP president JP Nadda for decades. The fact that he is from Karnataka, and the Sangh and the BJP are focused on southward expansion, will mean a focus on newer geographies. And the fact that while being wedded to the Sangh’s ideological framework, Mr Hosabale is among its more suave and modern faces may also mean a slight shift in Sangh’s external projection. There is, of course, close ideological convergence between the Sangh and the BJP, reflected in the government’s push on Kashmir and the construction of the Ram temple, and reports of divergence are often exaggerated. But, at the same time, there remains a difference in outlook on some economic issues — for instance, it will be instructive to see how the Swadeshi Jagran Manch and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh respond to the government’s privatisation plans. Mr Hosabale will have a key role in keeping various elements of the Sangh on the same page. But he can play an even more crucial role if he helps the Sangh evolve into a more inclusive body, ensure a firm line against religious extremism in principle and practice, and recommit to constitutional principles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-realignment-in-the-rss-101616329904652.html
21-03-2021||Editorials||The quest for water security for all Indians||On World Water Day, there is little to celebrate. A recent United Nations report suggests that there is a global water crisis due to population growth, the nature of economic growth, the climate crisis, land-use change, inefficient water use, and weak planning and enforcement. The report also pointed to the need for measures to help more than three billion people who either lack access to safe drinking water or face periodic water shortages.India, unfortunately, is not an outlier. Even 74 years after Independence, over 60% of Indians do not have piped drinking water. The country is the largest extractor of groundwater; it extracts about 24 billion cubic meters of groundwater to cater to 85% of its drinking water needs. On the other hand, the quality of water sources is hardly fit for drinking. According to NITI Aayog, nearly 70% of all fresh water sources are contaminated and 600 million citizens are under water stress. The crisis shows how India has disregarded its strong tradition of water harvesting and hasn’t been able to cope with changing demands. In 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Jal Jeevan Mission — a truly ambitious and laudable scheme, which has already shown much progress — to provide drinking water to all rural households by 2024. The same year, the Jal Shakti Abhiyan was launched to campaign for water conservation and security. Both are interlinked — without recharging of groundwater, there will be no piped water. For safe and constant supply water, the government must promote community-based water conservation, push citizens to harvest rainwater, and stop destroying wetlands and catchment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-quest-for-water-security-for-all-indians-101616329424655.html
