24-03-2021||Other||Man shot multiple times in Dakshinpuri, police suspect personal enmity behind murder||New Delhi A 31-year-old man was killed after four unidentified men riding opened fire at him in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri late on Tuesday night. The victim’s family members have alleged that the assailants fired more than 30 rounds and the man was shot nearly 24 times.The police too confirmed that multiple rounds were fired, but refused to give the exact count of bullet injuries that the man might have sustained, while stating that they were waiting for the autopsy report.Police identified the victim as Dalip alias Kunal, who they said had a criminal past and he was involved in seven cases of murder, kidnapping, robbery and hurt. The police suspect that Kunal may have been killed over personal enmity. His family, however, has accused a local criminal for the murder and said that the local goon had threatened his brother around two months ago. Kunal ran a meat shop at H-block in Dakshinpuri.“We have registered a case of murder and are probing it from all possible angles. Prime facie, personal enmity appears to be the reason behind Kunal’s murder,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.DCP Thakur said that the crime took place around 11.30pm outside Kunal’s meat shop and it came to their notice at about 12.45am, after a call was received from a hospital.During initial enquiry, the DCP said, it was learnt that Kunal was standing near his shop when the four men arrived on two two-wheelers and opened fire. Kunal was declared brought dead at the hospital, he said.Kunal’s brother Sunny said that his brother was with two other persons when the four men — all wearing helmets —arrived on a bike and a scooter and opened fire. “They fired 30-40 bullets. Doctors told us that my brother was shot at least 23-24 times. We were having enmity with a local gangster, who had threatened me over the phone around two months ago,” said Sunny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-multiple-times-in-dakshinpuri-police-suspect-personal-enmity-behind-murder-101616610198104.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Police probing snatching angle in CA’s murder after his gold chain is found missing||Eight days after a 45-year-old chartered accountant (CA) was shot dead at his under-construction building in a residential colony near the Adarsh Nagar Metro station in north-west Delhi, it has emerged that his gold chain was missing since the day of the murder.This missing chain, apart from other possible motives, has prompted the police to probe a snatching angle and are looking for a snatcher, who allegedly had committed a couple of snatchings in west Delhi, a few days before the murder of the CA, identified as Anil Aggarwal. The scooter used in the murder was also used in the other two snatchings, a police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity. Aggarwal’s family members also confirmed that his gold chain was not among the items that the police showed them after the autopsy. Aggarwal’s son, Aayush, as well as his brother-in-law, Mohit Goyal, said the police told them that they did not find the chain on Aggarwal’s body or at the crime scene.“We are investigating the case from all possible angles and it’s too early to reach any conclusion,” said deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani, when asked if Aggarwal’s murder has any connection with his missing gold chain.Aggarwal lived with his wife and two children on the first floor of a four-storey building in Majlis Park. The occupants of all four floors, including Aggarwal, own a property on Mahatma Gandhi Road that is less than a kilometre away from their home. A four-storey building is being constructed there and Aggarwal was murdered at the under-construction site when he had gone there with his wife to meet the labourers on March 16, the police said.A woman labourer working at the site said she was cooking food while Aggarwal and his wife were talking to another labourer, when she heard a gunshot. “By the time I rushed out there, Aggarwal lay bleeding on the floor. An unidentified man had shot him and fled on a scooter,” said the woman, who did not share her name.A case of murder and use of firearm was registered and several teams were formed to identify and nab the suspect. The investigating team scanned CCTV cameras around the crime scene and the routes that the suspect had taken. It helped them identify the scooter and its owner, who told the police that it was stolen some days ago from central Delhi. The owner also said teams from police stations in west Delhi had also contacted him regarding the use of his scooter in snatching incidents, said the officer cited above.After picking up some clues, the police teams of west and north-west districts are conducting searches at various places, including Uttar Pradesh, to nab a snatcher who could be involved in Aggarwal’s murder and the snatching incidents of west Delhi, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-probing-snatching-angle-in-ca-s-murder-after-his-gold-chain-is-found-missing-101616610197548.html
24-03-2021||Other||Covid norms followed at Karol Bagh; not quite at Ghaffar||New Delhi: Watchful civil defence volunteers and an alert market association ensured that Covid norms were largely followed at the Karol Bagh market in central Delhi, in stark contrast from other popular markets such as Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and Chandni Chowk where HT, during a spot check, found very few people wearing a mask and almost no social distancing being observed. During a visit to Karol Bagh on Wednesday, HT saw civil defence volunteers issuing challans to those who were not wearing a mask and most shopkeepers ensuring that their premises were not crowded. A camp of civil defence volunteers has been set up at the main entry point to the market, near Karol Bagh Metro station, where people can also register for vaccination. Civil defence volunteers were seen cracking down on violators on Ajmal Khan road in the market. “We have issued challans to at least six to seven persons who were not wearing a mask. There are people who do not wear masks properly but we cannot fine everyone, so we educate them about the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” one of the civil defence volunteers deployed in the market said on the condition of anonymity. Barring a few shops, crowding was not observed at most of the establishments. Strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour was being observed at most shops. The market association has issued specific instructions to the traders regarding adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines.Ram Lal, general secretary, Karol Bagh Traders Federation, said continuous efforts are being made to ensure that people follow Covid-19 protocols. “We have issued instructions to all shopkeepers in the market to not entertain any shopper without a mask and also ask them to sanitise their hands while entering their establishments. We also make public announcements regarding maintaining social distancing in the market. We are working closely with police and the district administration to maintain discipline in the market,” Lal said.Ajay Bajaj, advisor of the federation, said they hold regular meetings with the authorities for proper implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in the market. He, however, said the footfall has gone down due to the pandemic. However, at Ghaffar Market, a popular hub for electronic items, there was chaos. HT spotted several shoppers either without a mask or many wearing them improperly.There was hardly any social distancing with street vendors occupying road space and shoppers jostling for space.“Fear of coronavirus seems to have ended among the public and hence many visitors come to market just to hang out. People should understand the gravity of the situation and follow Covid-19 protocols. I have come to market today after 3-4 months as it was necessary,” Juhi Katariya, a shopper (32), said.District administration officials said that all necessary measures were being taken to ensure that the area does not turn into a “superspreader”.“Our teams are constantly monitoring the situation and issuing fines against violators. Every day, at least 100 challans are being issued by the district administration teams,” Akriti Sagar, district magistrate (central), said. 100 CHALLANS IN THE DISTRICT OR THE MARKET?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-norms-followed-at-karol-bagh-not-quite-at-ghaffar-101616610137566.html
24-03-2021||Other||HC stays AAP MLA Somanth Bharti’s conviction, jail term; grants him bail||New DelhiThe Delhi high court on Wednesday suspended the two-year jail term awarded to AAP MLA Somnath Bharti in a case of assault on AIIMS security staff in 2016, and granted him bail in the case.Justice Suresh Kait, while staying Bharti’s conviction in the case, also sought response of the Delhi government on his plea challenging his conviction and the sentence.Bharti, an Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Malviya Nagar, was taken into custody and sent to prison on Tuesday after pronouncement of the verdict by a trial court.In his plea before the high court a day later, Bharti sought setting aside of the trial court’s order and acquittal from all charges.On Tuesday, the court had upheld January verdict by a magistrate that convicted Bharti for unlawful assembly. The court though had set aside Bharti’s conviction under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with a JCB machine.In his plea, Bharti has said that there is no evidence and the judgment of March 23 of the Special Judge has been passed relying upon conjectures and surmises based upon the totally false and fabricated story of the prosecution foisting erroneously the guilt upon the petitioner.“That the prosecution has miserably failed to prove guilt of the petitioner beyond reasonable doubt to substantiate the charges…That there is no iota of evidence which can be attributed to the petitioner in the instant case attracting ingredients of offence u/s 3 of The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 and u/s 147 IPC r/w sec149 IPC,” the plea read.“Further, the case of the prosecution is full of improvements, embellishments, contradictions and is unworthy of reliance and will fall like a pack of cards just by the stroke of the sheer hand of providence by this court,” the plea added.The matter will now be heard on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-stays-aap-mla-somanth-bharti-s-conviction-jail-term-grants-him-bail-101616610078731.html
24-03-2021||Other||HC orders Delhi govt to pay nearly ₹900 crore to MCDs by end of March||New DelhiThe Delhi high court on Wednesday directed the state government to release the remaining amounts due to the three civic bodies towards their Basic Tax Assignment (BTA) on the basis of revised estimates presented in the budget for the year 2021-22, within the current financial year.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said that the amount, which is nearly ₹900 crore, is one of the major and important sources of revenue for the corporations. It said that this contribution by the Delhi government to the corporations is used to meet the expenditures towards the salaries and other expenses on a day-to-day basis.“….we direct the Delhi government to release in the financial year the remaining amount due towards BTA to the three corporation on basis of revised estimates presented in budget for year 2021-22,” the court said.The corporations had sought that the amount deducted by the Delhi government in their revised estimates be released to them for release of salaries.The Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel advocate Satyakam, told the court that they have incurred a huge deficit in the revenue generation due to the pandemic and they would release the amount in April.However, the court said that the money should be released by this financial year. A detailed order is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi high court.Reacting to the development, Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, at a press conference, said that the decision of high court ordering immediate release of funds to the three municipal corporations has vindicated his party’s agitation, demanding fund release for MCDs.He said that BJP has all along said that due to its biased political attitude, the Arvind Kejriwal government has not allowed rise in MCDs funds as per 4th Delhi Finance Commission & Municipal Reforms Committees recommendations.“Apart from this, the Arvind Kejriwal government every year cuts the budget allocated funds of the three MCDs. Due to this biased politics of Arvind Kejriwal government, today over ₹13,000 crore of MCDs funds stand accumulated with it.“….the court today delivered a historic decision rejecting all pleas put up by Delhi government and ordered that they should in one week release Rs. 991 crores of pending funds of the three MCDs for this current financial year 2020-21,” he said, adding that the order has established that the Delhi government has with political bias stalled municipal funds and it is responsible for the problems of deficient public services faced by the people apart from the salary problem faced by the employees.The AAP did not respond to requests for a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcorders-delhi-govt-to-pay-nearly-rs-900-crore-to-mcds-by-end-of-march-101616610079293.html
24-03-2021||Other||Delhi govt drops name of ration delivery scheme, Centre says it still dilutes Food Act||New Delhi: The Delhi Cabinet headed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday approved the removal of the name ‘Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana’ from its ambitious doorstep delivery of a ration scheme after objections by the Union food and consumers affairs ministry. However, the Centre hinted that it may not be enough to launch the scheme on March 25. The ministry on Wednesday said that prima facie the scheme appears to “dilute” the National Food Security Act (NFSA).In a letter to the Delhi administration on Friday, the Union ministry principally raised two objections to the scheme -- the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA); and that any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA can only be done through a Parliament amendment. In a statement issued by the government on Wednesday, the chief minister’s office said: “The original name of the scheme, Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana, which was expected to be rolled out on March 25, will not have any name due to the obstruction by the Centre. Under the new scheme, wheat flour atta, rice, and sugar will be delivered to homes in packed bags.”However, DJ Narain, spokesperson for the Union ministry of food and public distribution, said dropping the name has nothing to do with the essential parameters of NFSA.“No reply (on the letter dated March 19) from the Delhi government has been received by the Ministry so far. We are still awaiting clarity from the Delhi government on several grey areas. From their order, prima facie it seems that many aspects of the NFSA act are either being diluted or slipping into uncertain zones,” he said. The spokesperson further asked if the additional price of milling and packaging will be recovered from consumers. “To ensure fair and foolproof transparent delivery, biometrics are needed of the fair price shop owner and the beneficiaries. Delhi remains only one of the four states in India which is still not doing it. The other three states --- Chhattisgarh, Assam and West Bengal had valid infrastructure and Aadhaar seeding issues. But Delhi has no infrastructure problem and was one of the first states/UTs to have 100% Aadhaar seeding, yet biometric system has not been implemented in the national Capital,” said Narain. On Saturday, Kejriwal said the scheme, after its name being removed, will be sent to the Central government for its approval.“This scheme will have no name. The central government sends the ration which gets distributed through the ration shops and now we will send the ration to the homes of the individuals. We do not want any kind of credit for this scheme and that is why the name of the scheme will be removed,” he said at a press conference. The home delivery system of ration will be optional for beneficiaries, government officials sad. “The file is being sent to the Central government now,” the official added. In its letter to the Delhi food commissioner on Friday, the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said the Delhi government is free to launch the scheme “without mixing the elements of the NFSA foodgrains”.The scheme was to be launched on March 25 from 100 households in Shahdara district’s Seemapuri area. On Saturday, Kejriwal said the scheme was planned with the intention to remove loopholes in the system and address the difficulties faced by people in getting their monthly quota of ration. Delhi has around 7.2 million ration beneficiaries, according to government data.The distribution of ration is currently managed by a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops. “At present, people can get ration only by going to a fair price shop. They have to stand in long queues or wait for shops to open as many open only for 2-3 days a month which is illegal. Then there is the problem of pilferage, adulteration and corruption. So, the doorstep delivery programme was aimed at addressing these systemic problems,” the chief minister said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-drops-name-of-ration-delivery-scheme-centre-says-it-still-dilutes-food-act-101616610078158.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Lockdown brought to fore the humane face of policing||On the first anniversary of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said it has, so far, lost 34 personnel to the viral infection, while 7,733 personnel were infected. Even so, the force did its best to bring relief to people amid the pandemic -- it distributed over 12 million food packets to the needy, while 997 pregnant women were shifted to various hospitals in police vehicles during the lockdown. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the city police mentioned how they helped people by issuing movement passes, delivering food, ration and other essentials, apart from taking care of senior citizens, migrants and stray animals.Terming 2020 a “challenging year”, the Delhi Police said the lockdown brought about a paradigm shift in policing while putting a humane face on the law enforcing mechanism. After the nationwide lockdown was announced beginning March 24, police were among the first responders to the Covid-19 pandemic and were called the “Corona Warriors,” along with health care personnel and sanitation workers, the statement read.“So far, Delhi Police has lost 34 of its own -- they died while discharging their duties during the pandemic. A total of 7,733 personnel were infected, while 7,688 personnel have recovered, so far,” said city police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.While enforcing the lockdown in Delhi, Biswal said the focus of the force was to ensure that there was no panic among the people. The force also ensured that migrants had a regular supply of food, medicines, and other essentials during the months of restriction. All 15 police districts organised food networks through community kitchens.Apart from the food distribution, the police also started a helpline to address grievances of the public and to tackle emergency situations such as providing relief measures to the hungry, shelter to the stranded and aid to the helpless. The patrolling vans doubled up as ambulances for ailing and serious patients, thousands of whom were safely transported to and from hospitals.“A total of 997 women in labour were transferred to hospitals in PCR vans while nine babies were delivered in vans with the help of our personnel. In one such case, constable Dayaveer of Ashok Vihar police helped a pregnant woman shift to a hospital where he helped her deliver the child. The family named the child Dayaveer, after the policeman,” said Biswal, adding that several recovered personnel became plasma donors for those who were seriously infected. The city police said they issued movement passes to many whose family members were stranded at different locations outside the city and also to those who wanted to attend funerals of their loved ones in other states. “We were also monitoring emergencies flagged on social media and addressing them as quickly as possible. Medicines were made available to patients at their doorstep while issues of senior citizens were also taken care of,” said Biswal.According to Biswal, as a mass movement of migrant labourers towards their home towns in other states was one of the biggest challenges before the force -- these workers were persuaded by the police to stay at their homes or in shelters homes.“As migrants were already in distress, the police were briefed to be extra polite with them. Supplies of food, water and other essentials were distributed to them with the help of the civil administration, NGOs and civil society. When the lockdown was gradually eased, proper arrangements were made for them to reach their home towns,” added Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-brought-to-fore-the-humane-face-of-policing-101616610077492.html
24-03-2021||Other||Delhi govt proposes annual licence for party venues to serve liquor||New DelhiThe Delhi government has proposed introducing a new annual licence system allowing banquet halls, farmhouses, motels and other such party venues to serve liquor at events, like it is done in hotels.The government report on the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, has also recommended doubling the one-time P10 licence to ₹10,000 for hosting in-house parties — a permit which is extensively applied for by the general public to serve alcohol in private parties hosted at home or any other non-licenced premise. The report, seen by HT, talks about starting a new liquor licence specifically for banquet halls, farmhouses, party lawns and other such venues, the fee for which will depend on the carpet area of the premise. For venues having a carpet area of up to 5,000 square feet, the annual liquor license fee will be ₹5 lakh, ₹10 lakh for those above 5,000 sqft and up to 15,000 sqft and ₹15 lakh for places having more than 15,000 sqft area.“No separate P10 license will be required at any event being conducted at these venues once the yearly licence is acquired. The area will be calculated basis the entire usable carpet area, which is leased out for events and gatherings. In case of venues with multiple floors, the carpet area of each floor will be calculated,” read the report, prepared by a group of ministers, headed by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.It further stated that venues that conduct multiple events will have to take this mandatory licence in order to serve liquor on their premises. Delhi has around 300 banquet halls, and most of them have multiple halls within their premises taking the total number of halls to over 1,000.But the government has also not completely done away with P10 licence as people who are organising a relatively smaller party of, say, about 50-100 people, may not want to book a banquet hall or such formal set up.“For an in-house party or any function in any community centre, the P-10 fee will be applicable at Rs.10,000/- irrespective of the number of guests. To serve liquor in banquet halls, party places, farmhouses, wedding/ party/event venues, the one-time P-10E licence fee will be ₹50,000/- per event, if the said venue does not hold a regular annual licence,” the report said.At present, P10 licence can be obtained on payment of Rs. 5,000/- to serve liquor in any party, function, marriage and so on at non-licenced premises, anywhere in Delhi, excluding public parks. The existing P10 licence fee for motels, banquet halls and farmhouses is ₹15,000 per event. Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association of Delhi said the move is in favour of owners of such venues. But he said it could turn out to be an expensive proposition for the general public or the hosts of the parties. “Even though they have increased the P10 license fee by at least 233%, the move is still favourable for us. This is because all banquet halls, farmhouses and other such party venue owners will shift to the annual licence system as it is a cheaper and more hassle-free option. It will allow us to charge for alcohol and the service provided to serve it — which means the cost of alcohol will be relatively more expensive at our venues, just like it is charged in hotels. The cost will be higher than the MRP of the bottles at our venues not only because of the service provided, but also because we will have to recover the annual licence fee paid to the government,” he said. Mandeep Singh, the owner of Bel-La Monde hotels private limited, which also owns several farmhouses and banquet halls, said the process will now be tension free for party hosts. “Many banquet halls or venue owners at present ask the hosts to themselves arrange the P10 licence and get their liquor bottles from retail stores at MRP. This licence is available online or can also be taken from an authorised liquor store from where the bottles are being procured. Most people are unaware of the procedure and used to feel hassled by the unnecessary paperwork. So, now those who are willing to pay slightly more, can just pay us and get the entire liquor part of the party or event taken care of by us,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-proposes-annual-licence-for-party-venues-to-serve-liquor-101616610019639.html
24-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Noida to randomly test people at Delhi borders from today||Noida: From Thursday, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration will test people at random for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease at all borders of the district, besides from railway stations, bus stands, and Metro stations within the district.The decision comes in the wake of a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district and the national Capital, as wellas in anticipation of large gatherings in light of the festive season and upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. The district administration has formed two teams to take samples from people at random at 14 identified border points for a period of seven days, said district magistrate Suhas LY.Health department officials have been asked to intensify random sampling and testing at all places and “critical” pockets located near the district’s borders with the national Capital. “A few months ago, we found that the rate of the spread of the virus in critical pockets – mostly villages adjoining the Noida-Delhi border – was four times higher than in general areas. Health officials have been asked to increase testing in these areas to assess the nature of the spread of Covid-19 there,” he said.Police nod for public eventsGoing by guidelines issued by the central and state governments, prior permission from the local police is mandatory for any public event, the DM added. “The process has been made transparent and hassle-free. Before organising any public gathering, the organisers will have to apply for a permit online. If it is deemed fair by the authorities, permission will be granted instantly. For any private gathering, however, no permission is required,” he said.There is no limit, however, on the size of the crowd that can attend a public event. “However, maintaining social distancing and following all Covid-19 standard operating protocols (SOPs), are mandatory,” he said.The DM added that all industrial, commercial and educational establishments, including private and government offices, have been asked to establish and activate help desks for Covid-19, to be tasked with sanitising all persons entering the premises and to take their body temperature, in their premises to keep a close tab on the workers there. “Noida, being an industrial hub, caters to thousands of migrant workers. With these help desks, we will be able to identify persons with influenza-like illness (fever, cough) symptoms,” he said.37 new cases in GB Nagar districtGB Nagar on Wednesday recorded 37 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district’s total positive tally to 25,836, according to the state health department’s 24-hr daily bulletin. The number of deaths in the district remained at 91, unchanged from January 5. The active case count in the district was 150.Delhi on Friday saw 1,254 new cases of Covid-19, pushing its tally so far to 651,227, as per the Delhi government’s 24-hour health bulletin.Ghaziabad recorded 18 new cases and its death toll remained unchanged from December 29, 2020, at 102. The total case count till date in the district was 27,037 with the active case count at 147.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-to-randomly-test-people-at-delhi-borders-from-today-101616610019003.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Caught on camera: Man assaulted, forced to chant slogans in Khajuri Khas; one of the attackers held||A man was allegedly kicked, punched, and forced to chant “Hindustan Zindabad” and “Pakistan Murdabad” slogans in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas by a person who is an accused in the riots that took place in 2020, police said on Wednesday. A video of the incident, which allegedly happened on Tuesday, was widely circulated on social media after which police registered a case and arrested the attacker on Wednesday. Police identified the attacker, purportedly caught on camera, as Ajay Goswami, a resident of Old Garhi village and a dairy trader, said Sanjay Kumar Sain, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).The officer said Goswami is an accused in the 2020 north-east Delhi riots, but clarified that his alleged involvement in the riots has no connection to the latest alleged assault. Police did not immediately share details on Goswami’s nature of involvement in the riots or the current status of that case.Unwilling to identify the victim, Sain said victim too has a criminal record and was allegedly involved in a murder and robbery case. Another police officer, who asked not to be identified, said the victim is a Muslim man. “On Tuesday, the man was allegedly trying to enter Goswami’s dairy, purportedly with the an intention to steal, when he was caught,” said the officer.Police, however, have not registered any case of theft or attempted theft against the victim. In any case, the DCP said Goswami beat up the victim while another accused, Deepak, recorded the video on his mobile phone. The video, which was widely shared on social media, showed Goswami allegedly punching the victim in the abdomen, kicking him in the face and other parts of the body, and throwing him around.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video. As he beat the victim, he also kept asking him to chant ”Hindustan Zinadabad” and ”Pakistan Murdabad” slogans, which the victim repeatedly did while pleading for an end to the assault, the video purportedly showed. Once the video landed on the internet and was brought to the police’s notice, the police took cognizance of it and began probing its origin. The victim and assailants were eventually identified by Wednesday after which Goswami was arrested. Deepak is yet to be arrested.A case of voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful restraint has been registered at Khajuri Khas police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/caught-on-camera-man-assaulted-forced-to-chant-slogans-in-khajuri-khas-one-of-the-attackers-held-101616610017542.html
24-03-2021||Other||JNUTA alleges appointment of new registrar ‘backdoor entry’||New Delhi: The Jawaharlal Nehru University teachers’ association (JNUTA) on Wednesday alleged “discrepancies” in the appointment of the new registrar and accused the vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar of “brazen abuse of temporary extension” by making an appointment without approval from the executive council, the top decision-making body. While Kumar’s tenure was set to end on January 26, the education ministry on January 22 directed that Kumar be allowed to continue in his position “until further orders”.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the JNUTA alleged that contrary to the university’s claim the appointment was not approved by the competent authority. “On 17 March 2021, through an office order issued by deputy registrar...the university was informed about the appointment of a new registrar. Like in all other matters the letter stated that the decision made had the ‘approval of the Competent Authority’. The question that comes up therefore is precisely this --- who is the Competent Authority in the matter of appointment of the Registrar. Statute 8 (1) of University rules categorically states that the ‘Registrar shall be appointed by the Executive Council’ and ‘shall be a full-time salaried officer of the University’. It may be noted that there has been no Executive Council meeting where the EC has deliberated on the matter or approval for this decision has been specifically sought.”The teachers body said the appointment of the new Registrar as a “backdoor entry”. Despite several requests, the university administration did not comment on the allegations. Earlier on Tuesday, the university issued a statement condemning a section of faculty members for spreading “falsehood & malicious propaganda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnutaalleges-appointment-of-new-registrar-backdoor-entry-101616610018171.html
24-03-2021||Other||Delhi riots: HC vacates stay, trial court to hear arguments in conspiracy case||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has lifted the stay on the trial case for conspiracy the north-east Delhi riots, paving the way for a city court to commence arguments on framing of charges against several accused, including student activist Umar Khalid, suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, and others.Earlier, in November 2020, the high court stayed the trial after the police challenged an order by the trial court to supply hard copies of the 17,500-page charge sheet to all 15 accused. The HC, however, allowed the trial court to hear any application being filed in the case.On March 23, Justice Suresh Kait vacated the stay on the trial after the police, represented by Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad told the court that complete hard copy of the charge sheet is ready and the accused may collect it from the Karkardooma court on March 25, when the case is next listed for hearing.The court said, “In view of above, no further order is required to be passed and the same is, accordingly, disposed of with pending application…. Accordingly, interim order is vacated”.Delhi police’s special cell had challenged the legality and validity of September 21 and October 21 orders by additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, directing the police to supply physical copy of the charge sheet.On October 9, the trial court judge directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet after being told that the police “have inadvertently” put a document in it which contained the details of some of the protected witnesses and its copies were supplied to the accused booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The judge directed the police to file fresh copies of the charge sheet, redacting the details of the protected witnesses and supply it to the persons charge-sheeted in the case and their counsel.On October 21, the investigating officer told the court that he has submitted 16 new pen drives containing the redacted version of the charge sheet and accompanying documents in terms of the earlier order.However, the court directed the accused and their counsel to be provided with both the hard and soft copies of the fresh charge sheet.The judge also said that the court was not impressed with the submission of the investigating officer who had sought 15 days time for the sanction for funds from the Delhi government for taking out the hard copies for every accused. The judge directed the police to supply the documents at the earliest.Challenging these orders in the high court, the city police contended that the mandate of law under section 207 of CrPC is to provide “copy” of each of the report/ statements/ document subject to reasonable exception. It said that law does not specify supply of “hard copy” or “soft copy” nor does it draw any distinction between “hard copy” or “soft copy”.Till date, the city police has filed three charge sheets, including two supplementary charge sheets, against several accused —former JNU student Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Shafa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Shadab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim Khan and Athar Khan.-- for allegedly being part of a larger conspiracy in the riots that broke out in February 2020 in various localities of north-east Delhi.Meanwhile, a Delhi court on Wednesday directed the police to ensure safety and security of Umar Khalid while bringing him for the proceedings in a case related to the riots.Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar directed the Tihar Jail superintendent, DCP (Deputy commissioner of police) and DAP (Delhi Armed Police) to ensure safety and security of Khalid while bringing him to the court and taking him back to the prison.Khalid had moved an application seeking directions for his security during his physical production in the court for the remand proceedings.He was arrested in October last year in the case of violence in Khajuri Khas area. Suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain is also an accused in the case. He was also arrested in September, 2020, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in another case related to a conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-riots-hc-vacates-stay-trial-court-to-hear-arguments-in-conspiracy-case-101616609958337.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||15-second snatching: Two boys strangle pedestrian before making off with his phone; both held||Less than 15 seconds is how long it took for two minor boys to allegedly strangle and choke an 18-year-old pedestrian in north-west Delhi’s Ashok Vihar and snatch his mobile phone on Tuesday, showed the footage from a CCTV camera near the scene of crime. The victim is later seen lying on the road, in pain, shouting for help. The footage of the incident was widely shared on social media, after which the police quickly apprehended the suspects, who turned out to be juveniles. Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), on Wednesday said the police used their local sources to identify and apprehend the two suspects, after a case of robbery and voluntarily causing hurt during robbery was registered at the Ashok Vihar police station.Last year, as many as 7,965 snatching cases were registered in Delhi, a 27.11% rise from the 6,266 cases reported in 2019, according to police data. Robberies, last year, on the other hand, increased from 1,956 to 1,963 cases. These were two street crimes that increased in 2020, while the other crimes decreased. Police had claimed that PCR calls related to snatching and robberies were substantially fewer last year, compared to 2019. They said such distress calls (made to the 112 number) are the best way to measure crime in an area. The snatching happened on Tuesday while Pintu Kumar, a resident of Jahangirpuri, was visiting Wazirpur Industrial Area in search of work. As he was walking on the road, the CCTV footage showed one of the snatchers approaching him from behind and strangling him.As Kumar struggles to free himself, the other snatcher also arrives from the rear to snatch Kumar’s mobile phone from his loose grip. Less than 15 seconds later, the two suspects flee the scene even as Kumar collapses on the road. As he lies there, trying to get someone to help him, the CCTV footage shows several people walking past him without stopping. Kumar then gets back on his feet and is seen looking around for help.“Kumar visited the police station on Wednesday after which we registered a case and formed multiple teams to nab the culprits. The teams acted swiftly and carried out searches before the two minors were apprehended,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/15second-snatching-two-boys-strangle-pedestrian-before-making-off-with-his-phone-both-held-101616609957526.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Teachers back on Covid duty as cases spike||With Covid-19 cases spiking once again in the national capital, teachers of government and municipal schools are back on pandemic-related duty, causing several schools to raise concerns over the deployment of teachers for non-teaching work at a time when practical exams of board classes have begun and the evaluation process of the other classes is underway.On Wednesday, Delhi reported 1,254 cases of Covid-19 — the highest single-day spike since December 18 last year.In January, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had directed chief secretary Vijay Dev to issue an order to reduce the number of government schoolteachers deployed on Covid-19 duty to ensure that teachers are re-engaged in academic work, following which a large number of teachers was released from pandemic related work. With cases increasing again, teachers, as well as other government employees, have been asked to undertake a door-to-door mobilisation for the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. For instance, in Shahdara district, around 124 teachers have been asked to join the survey work on Sunday. Similarly, teachers from different districts have been assigned duties at the airport in the past few days. For instance, as many as 100 teachers of the east municipal body-run schools were deployed at the Delhi airport on Covid duty last week.The deployment has not gone down well with schools, however. A principal of a government school in old Delhi said their only physical education teacher has been called back on Covid-19 work on Tuesday. “We have our class 12 physical education practical exam on Friday. How will we do that without our internal examiner? Besides, at least seven teachers who were busy uploading internal marks of students on to the directorate of education (DoE)’s portal have been assigned survey work and duty at the airport,” the principal said, without wishing to be named.Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of government schoolteachers’ association, said, “The government should not allow the district administrations to deploy teachers on Covid-19 duty at such a crucial time -- the academic session is ending and students need teachers the most right now.”The principal of another government school in Jhilmil Colony said their only IT professional had been deployed at the airport last week. “Our staff are completely dependent on the IT person for uploading student marks and preparing results. The government has already asked schools to declare results up to class 8 by March 31. How will we finish the work in such a situation?” the principal said, also on condition of anonymity.Similar concerns were raised by heads of municipal schools. A principal of the East Delhi municipal body in Gandhi Nagar said, “The result of the classes where teachers are on duty is not prepared yet. Another teacher will have to finish the work of his/her class first and then complete the work of others. So, half the students will be getting their results soon while the other half will have to wait a while.”A senior official at the Delhi government’s education department, requesting anonymity, said, “The government will ensure that teachers of important subjects and those teaching board classes are not deployed on Covid-19 duty.” Similarly, officials of the east municipal corporation’s education department said that they will look into problems caused by the deployment in their schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-back-on-covid-duty-as-cases-spike-101616609898235.html
24-03-2021||Other||50 cleared by SHO may be allowed to pray in Nizamuddin Markaz on Shab-e-Barat: Centre to HC||New Delhi: The Centre on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that 50 people chosen by the state wakf board can be permitted to offer prayers at the mosque in the Nizamuddin Markaz on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat once the names of those individuals are provided to the station house officer of the local police station. The submission was made during the hearing on a plea by the Delhi Wakf Board through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, seeking opening of the Nizamuddin Markaz where a Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It was locked down by the authorities on March 31 last year, after removing members of the Jamaat who were staying there in violation of the curbs imposed to stop the spread of the infectious disease. An FIR was registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the Markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the Covid-19 lockdown. Representing the Centre, advocate Rajat Nair told Justice Mukta Gupta that if the Delhi Wakf Board seeks permission from the SHO for 50 people, they may be allowed to enter the Masjid Bangle Wali to offer prayers on the occasion of Shab-e- Barat, which will be observed on March 28-29.Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, who was representing the petitioner, urged the court to permit some individuals to pray at the mosque and assured that the adjacent madrasa will not be accessed. Gupta also urged the court to decide on the opening of the mosque before the month of Ramzan commences from April 13 “as more people would want to offer prayers at the mosque during that time”. The court listed the matter for further hearing on April 12.The wakf board, in its plea, has contended that even after Unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the Markaz -- comprising the Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and a hostel -- continues to be locked up.It has further argued that even if the premises were a part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it “under lock as an out of bound area” was a “primitive method” of enquiry process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-cleared-by-sho-may-be-allowed-to-pray-in-nizamuddin-markaz-on-shab-e-barat-centre-to-hc-101616609897540.html
24-03-2021||Other||ndira Gandhi National Centre for Art starts shifting to make way for Central Vista revamp||New DelhiOfficials of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Art (IGNCA) have started shifting their campus to Janpath Hotel, which will be their temporary home for at least three years, as the Central Vista redevelopment project takes shape. Once the Central Vista project is ready, the national centre for art will move into a new campus near Jamnagar House. Indira Gandhi National Centre for Art is one of the many government buildings which will be demolished to make way for 10 new, state-of-the-art office complexes proposed as part of the Centre’s ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project. The approximately ₹15,000 crore project includes construction of a new Parliament building, common central secretariat, and new residences for the vice President and the Prime Minister. While the Parliament building will be completed next year, the entire project is looking at 2024 completion.Sachidanand Joshi, member secretary of IGNCA, said, “We have started shifting out of IGNCA. Some of our divisions have already moved to our new office. We estimate that the entire shifting process will take at least two months. By the third week of April, we will physically shift everything to Janpath Hotel and by mid-May we plan to wind-up everything here.”On Wednesday, HT noted that at the arts and culture centre, work was progressing at a rapid pace to shift artefacts, paintings, collection of rare manuscripts, microfilms, the library of rare books and reference material, archives to the new five-storeyed building at Janpath hotel. The corridors of the spacious centre were spotted stacked with cardboard, wooden and aluminium boxes, that had historical material neatly packed in them.Joshi said that they have been planning for the shifting process for the past six-eight months. “We have planned the process in two steps: long and short term. There is stuff which we don’t need on a day-to-day basis. We are packing all the archival material in boxes that will be stored safely in the new building. The rest is our daily routine stuff. Some divisions have already shifted and are in the process of settling down. We have planned the shifting process keeping in mind that we will be shifting again to our new centre (Jamnagar house) in a few years.”Set up in 1985, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Art is spread over 25 acre along the Central Vista. The centre has been developed on a design provided by American architect late Ralph Lerner, who was a professor at Princeton University. His design was selected in an international competition in which the government received 194 entries from architects from 37 countries, as per information available on IGNCA’s website. The centre has been actively involved in organising exhibitions, performances, conferences, lectures. It also offers short-term and other courses in art and culture, which currently are being held online. Joshi said that they will resume regular activities from the new centre in June.Joshi said that the space at Janpath hotel is more or less same as on the current campus. “There is an amphitheatre with a seating capacity of 400 and an auditorium with space for 160 people. There is space for galleries. There are more organised spaces there which we can convert into galleries. CPWD has refurbished the place as per our requirements,” said Joshi.IGNCA officials said that the entire campus will be handed over to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) by June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ndira-gandhi-national-centre-for-art-starts-shifting-to-make-way-for-central-vista-revamp-101616609837546.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Now, UP gearing up to make budgetary sanctions paperless||The Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up to make all budgetary allocations/sanctions for 2021-2022 paperless. With this, it aims to bring about more efficiency and transparency in its functioning from the new financial year -- April 1, 2021. “All the budgetary sanctions will be paperless. We will ensure that financial sanctions at every level are paperless,” said S Radha Chauhan, additional chief secretary, finance, who issued two government orders this month to streamline the process of financial sanctions to different departments. The current financial year (2020-2021) comes to close on March 31, 2021 and any government expenditure on or after April 1, 2021 will be made as per allocations in the ‘paperless’ state budget that the state assembly passed on March 4, 2021. “As per the provisions of Article 204 of the Constitution of India, the state assembly, through the Uttar Pradesh Appropriation Act, 2021, has authorised the budgetary grants and necessary expenditure (for 2021-2022) from the consolidated fund. So, the approved grants and charged expenditure should be taken as the final budget for 2021-2022,” said Chauhan in a government order on March 22, 2021. “All the financial sanctions for new items of expenditure (as provided in the state budget), disbursement of loans etc will be issued only with approval of state finance department,” she said in the GO. The state government, along with the GO, has circulated a format on which departments are expected to provide necessary information. Besides providing details about how the financial sanctions will be issued by departments in 2021-2022, the GO asks the departments to make allotment of old age, widow and farmers’ pension etc directly to the accounts of beneficiaries. On March 10, 2021, the state government had issued another order giving details about the use of Budget Allotment System to make paperless budgetary allocations. “The state government has presented its budget for 2021-2022 as e-budget. The state finance department will perform all its functions on e-office system……Under the present system, financial sanctions are issued manually and the financial controller or respective officer makes the entry about this on the online budget allotment system. The implementation of the budget for 2021-2022 w e f April 1, 2021 will be done digitally,” the GO said. The state government also pointed out towards the problems being faced in issuing sanctions up to now and says under the present system it can’t be ensured that sanctions are being issued in accordance with budgetary provisions. It further pointed out that sanctions thus issued by administrative departments are not available to heads of department (HoDs) in real time or respective HoDs do not feed the details on the system well in time. Yashvir Tyagi, former professor department of economics, Lucknow University, said: “The UP government’s decision is a welcome step. All departments will have to be up to date in maintaining accounts now. Under the new system the state government will have greater control over monitoring of expenditure. It will enable the government to immediately know how the departments are spending budgetary allocations. This will ensure efficiency and transparency in government’s functioning and help in boosting UP’s economy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-up-gearing-up-to-make-budgetary-sanctions-paperless-101616609477508.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Salon chain restricted from using name over trademark infringement||A salon chain was restricted by a local court from using the name “Apple Unisex Salon” pending a trademark infringement suit filed against them. The order was passed by judge Ashwini Lokhande on March 10 and a copy of the order was made available on Monday. However, the court has granted a four-week stay on the order in order for the defendant to approach the Bombay High Court. “Defendants, their men, agents, servants, dealers, distributors, assigns or any of them are hereby restrained from making unlawful use of the trade-mark of the plaintiff Apple Unisex Salon and/or making any or adopting or rearranging or re-alerting the words thereof in any manner for their profit and gain till disposal of the suit,” read the order. The two salon owners have been involved in a tiff about the name since the inception of the defendant’s chain, according to the complainant. The complainants claim to have registered a police complaint, sent a legal notice and then filed a civil suit in the court. “We started our salons in 2006, we applied for registration and got it in 2008. The defendant started using our mark in 2016. First, we filed a police complaint, and sent them a legal notice, they did not respond. So, we filed a civil suit in January 2019. On March 10, the court ordered them to not use the name. They applied for a stay on it and the court has granted them a stay of four weeks. We got the certified copy of the order day before yesterday (Monday),” said Akshay Borude of Apple unisex Salon. The Apple Unisex Salon business has two outlets in Pune and is registered in the name of Kavita Borude, mother of Akshay Borude. When asked for a statement from the defendant salon chain, their representative cited “ethical issues.” Advocate Sagar Bhirange refused to comment on the issue. “It will be unethical of me to comment without my client,” he said. While he was not asked to make a personal comment, he refused to forward a request for a comment to the defendant while repeatedly citing “ethical issues”. The salon chain that was started later on has a bigger operation in the city, according to the applicant. “We have no relation with them. We do not know them. They tried to get registered, but the government has not processed their application as we had already registered it. They have sold the franchise to almost 45 people. They have earned almost ₹9-10 crore using our name,” said Borude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/salon-chain-restricted-from-using-name-over-trademark-infringement-101616609181432.html
24-03-2021||Pune||GR office verifies 2 lakh property documents in 17 sub registrar offices in Pune||The Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) has carried out the title verification and other details of over two lakh registered property deeds and plans to cover another one lakh deeds before March this year. The action follows complaints related to bogus registration at some of the sub registrar offices during the past two years. The property documents from 17 sub registrar offices of the total 27 have been checked and verified after the state revenue department issued an order to the effect. Considering the voluminous nature of documents to be scrutinised, the deadline to submit the report to the government has been extended from January 31 to March 31. The IGR officials investigating the case have laid focus on whether the builders who engaged in registration of property have Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) number, permission to construct from government authority and whether a plot of land was divided and sold off. During the early 2020, complaints were made to the Mantralaya alleging illegal registrations taking place in Pune in connivance with officials. The then Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh had stated that there were complaints regarding registration of properties of unauthorised constructions and illegal plotting. The IGR office formed squads to probe the case. Despite repeated attempts, IGR Shravan Hardikar did not respond to calls/messages. The office of state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat is yet to respond to queries. Earlier, the state government had received complaints, especially 1,000 of bogus registrations at the sub-registrar office, Hadapsar on a single day, in violation of the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act, 2016. The IGR squad comprises deputy inspector general of registration Govind Karad, acting DIG (headquarters) Bharat Garud, joint district registrar of stamps Vijay Bhalerao and joint district registrar Udayraj Chavan. What led to the investigation An alleged complaint of registration of flats ignoring norms was brought to the notice of Mantralaya The revenue department orders probe of cases and verification of over 300,000 documents The IGR office forms squads to probe RERA number of the real estate developer, construction and land details The report is expected to be submitted to the state by March 31||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gr-office-verifies-2-lakh-property-documents-in-17-sub-registrar-offices-in-pune-101616609180609.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Traffic police shut U-turn from new Holkar bridge due to frequent mishaps||After a series of traffic mishaps, the Pune traffic police have shut the U-turn from the new Holkar bridge flyover to the War Cemetery near Khadki on Monday. Many commuters were spotted taking an immediate U-turn at the end of the flyover from the Deccan College road towards the cemetery through the new Holkar bridge increased the frequency of accidents in the last one week. Ganesh More, a frequent commuter on the road said that in the last three days alone he has seen four minor mishaps on the road. “In all these events, two-wheeler drivers slipped and fell off their vehicle as they applied the emergency brake. They did not anticipate a four-wheeler taking a U-turn. These two-wheeler drivers were at considerable speed. If the traffic diversion is not done, someone will lose their life,” said More. He also added that the traffic in the last one week has increased exponentially. “Due to this sudden U-turn, traffic congestion has also increased on the road. There is no free flow of traffic as everyone wants to go ahead. More traffic police officials have been deployed in the area, but the regulation is less as there is too much traffic. Many commuters take the wrong side which adds to the traffic congestion,” added More. Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic for Pune city said that the traffic has increased in the area due to diversion of traffic from the Pune-Mumbai highway. “The diversion was made for the ongoing metro work. We have done the diversion at a trial level. If things go smoothly, we will continue this route for the next three months,” said Shrirame. He also added that after various complaints a ‘No U-turn’ signage was put at the end of the flyover on Monday. “To avoid any accidents, we have deployed traffic cops at the site as well to regulate the traffic,” added Shrirame.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-police-shut-u-turn-from-new-holkar-bridge-due-to-frequent-mishaps-101616609178778.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Tech education department orders colleges to submit report on refundable amount||The Pune division of state technical education has ordered all the technical education colleges and institutes to submit a report on the refundable amount taken by students from the year 2010 to 2020. Student groups have alleged that thousands of students have not received their refundable amount worth crores. The student groups believe, every college collects this amount, but after completion of the course, it is not returned back. After an official complaint was lodged by the student association, the Pune division of state technical education has ordered all the technical education colleges and institutes to submit their report on ‘refundable amount’ taken and given back to students from the year 2010 to 2020. Student groups have alleged that thousands of students have not received their refundable amount back and it should be returned back immediately. “For diploma, graduate and postgraduate courses under technical education while taking admission in the first year, the college administration takes this refundable amount under caution money, library fees and laboratory fees. After completing the course, students are supposed to take back this amount, but in most colleges, students do not take it or forget the amount. In some of the cases even colleges avoid giving it back citing various reasons, we got several complaints about the same from students,” said Amar Ekad, president of the association. “So we decided to take an overall data of this refundable amount pending with the technical education colleges and institutes in the Pune division and gave an application for the same. Taking cognizance of our application letter, state technical education joint director Pramod Naik has given orders to all the divisions to submit a report of the refundable amount of all colleges from the year 2010 to 2020,” he added. The circular issued by Dattatray Jadhav on March 19, 2021 states, “All the technical education institutes in Pune division are instructed to submit a report of the refundable amount pending with them from the year 2010 to 2020. Under this total amount collected for library and laboratory, amount refunded to students, total pending refundable amount with the college, expenses done by the college from this refundable amount and whether permission was taken from the higher office about spending the amount,” According to the state government rule, the remaining amount needs to be spent on the Economically Backward Class (EBC) students. Under which their hostel and mess fees, educational material, medical services, earn and learn the scheme and various other expenses need to be done. Shantanu Hisabe, a student who completed his diploma in technical education two years ago said, “After I completed my course, I demanded my refundable amount from college, but the office clerk gave some reasons and avoided paying it back. This is not right,and our refundable amount should be given back in time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tech-education-department-orders-colleges-to-submit-report-on-refundable-amount-101616609177500.html
24-03-2021||Pune||SPPU to develop ‘Nakshatra Garden’ inside campus||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) administration has now decided to develop a ‘Nakshatra Garden’ inside the university near the servants’ quarter. The actual work of the garden will start soon and in the near future another tourist attraction spot will be developed inside SPPU. SPPU has a long history, and the main building is a heritage building itself, and every year tourists come to visit the building out of curiosity. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the university campus is closed for the public, but earlier there were heritage walks organised for the public inside the SPPU campus. There is an underground tunnel from the main building, which was developed and through that the heritage walk was taken. According to the information given by the SPPU administration, a new garden called ‘Nakshatra Garden’ is going to be developed on the university premises. It will be close to the servants’ quarter and inside the Hatti Talaw area in the university. The funds will be raised under the CSR initiative and the construction work will begin shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-to-develop-nakshatra-garden-inside-campus-101616609178151.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Bank a/c data theft case: 14th arrested sent to judicial custody||The 14th arrested person in the bank account data theft cyber case was remanded to judicial custody by a local court in Pune on Wednesday. The man remanded to judicial custody was identified as Suhir Shantilal Bhatevara alias Jain (54), a resident of Anand nagar area of Sinhagad road. He was arrested by the police on March 21 and remanded to police custody until Wednesday. During the initial raid, Jain along with the other accused was found in possession of ₹25 lakh in cash. The cash was suspected to have been a payment for the fraudulent online transfer of money from accounts whose information was stolen and brought to Pune on the demand of a woman. The 40-year-old woman is suspected to be central to the plot. While Jain was suspected to have brought the money as payment, the bank account information is suspected to have brought into the fold by multiple people. The police had asked for an extension of his police custody by three days. Senior police inspector Kumar Ghadage, with the help of public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More, submitted in court that the police wanted to investigate the source of ₹25 lakh cash. Another reason for which the police were seeking his custody was his link with people who were indulging in data theft even though he claims to be a real estate businessman. The 13 others arrested in the case are also in Yerawada Central Jail in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bank-a-c-data-theft-case-14th-arrested-sent-to-judicial-custody-101616609118574.html
24-03-2021||Pune||MNS corporator booked for littering ward officer’s workspace||Sainath Babar, a corporator from the Wanowrie-Ramtekdi area and a member of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) was booked along with 10-15 others for throwing garbage in the office chambers of the local ward officer. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Kishori Shinde, ward officer of Wanowrie-Ramtekdi whose office was targeted. “There are no arrests in the case yet. It was the complainant’s office,” said police sub-inspector Umesh Kadam of Wanowrie police station is investigating the case. The incident happened at around 12 noon on Monday when the complainant was out for the inspection of Swach Sarvekshan-related work. In her complaint, Shinde mentioned that the men targeted the office at that time because they knew she was not present in it to stop them. She also submitted in her complaint that the men ignored the protests of her colleagues and subordinates to not enter her office in her absence. The men covered her office floor with garbage before filling the lobby with garbage on their way out, according to the complaint. The act vandalised her office and also flouted Covid-19 regulations, according to the police. A case under Sections 143, 147, 353, 452, 188, 269 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation 2020 and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mns-corporator-booked-for-littering-ward-officer-s-workspace-101616609117428.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Two senior citizens robbed in separate incidents by men who posed as cops||Two separate incidents were recorded in Pune on Tuesday of senior citizens robbed by people posing as police officials. While one case was registered at the Alankar police station with a 65-year-old victim, the other was registered at the Wakad police station with a 73-year-old victim. In one incident, a 73-year-old woman who was walking along the Prasondham road in Thergaon area after buying milk was approached by a man around 10 am who claimed to be an official of the local police force. The man took the old woman to another person who claimed to be his superior and an officer of the crime branch, according to her complaint. “They told her that a woman her age should not be roaming with gold ornaments for her security and then a third man arrived there with a gold chain in his neck. The first person who had approached the woman pretended to go to the third man and tell him that he should not be wearing the gold either and pretended to pack up his chain in a paper for him. While the complainant was distracted by this third person’s entry, her necklace got stuck in her hair in the process of removing it. They pretended to help her and all three of them fled from there,” said assistant police inspector Tanaji Bhogam of Wakad police station who is investigating the case. The necklace weighed 40 gram and costed ₹1,60,000, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 170, 406, 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Wakad police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police jurisdiction. Two hours after the incident in Wakad, a 65-year-old who was walking along the street near Karve road area of Kothrud was stopped by three unidentified people who said that a police check-post was on the route on which the woman was walking. They allegedly pretended to advise her to remove her jewellery and keep it in her bag. As she was doing so, one of them went close to her and took it before she could land it in her bag. The incident happened around 12 noon on Tuesday. The woman was also distracted using a method similar to the case in Wakad as the gold chain worth ₹60,000 was stolen. A case under Section 170 (personating a public servant), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Alankar police station against the three. Police sub-inspector S Sakhare of Alankar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-senior-citizens-robbed-in-separate-incidents-by-men-who-posed-as-cops-101616609117945.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Pune dist sees 6,754 Covid cases, seven deaths||PunePune district reported a major spike with 6,754 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Seven deaths were reported on Wednesday, with two in Pune rural, two in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and three deaths in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 251,709 Covid cases and 4,674 deaths till Wednesday. Whereas PCMC has reported 122,847 cases so far and 1,361 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 113,410 cases so far and 2,190 Covid deaths. In the Pune district, there are a total of 487,966 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 430,656 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,274 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 49,036 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 15,098 patients were discharged on Wednesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 2,262,593 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 88.21%. Across Maharashtra, 31,855 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Wednesday and 95 Covid deaths were reported on Wednesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.09%.The state health department stated that of 18,725,307 laboratory samples, 2,564,881 have been tested positive till Wednesday. That is 13.70% patients till Wednesday.Currently, 1,268,094 people are in home quarantine and 13,499 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-sees-6-754-covid-cases-seven-deaths-101616608217390.html
24-03-2021||Other||Covid norms drown insea of humanity at Lko’s Buddh Bazar||LUCKNOW Covid protocols went for a toss on the Gole Market-Badshahnagar stretch in Mahanagar, as thousands of people thronged the Buddh Bazar (a weekly market) to make purchases ahead of the festive season. Spread across the 600-metres stretch, the weekly market comes up on Wednesdays.Shoppers seemed least bothered about wearing masks or maintaining physical distancing, revealed a spot check by HT to assess the anti-Covid measures and the awareness level among people in the market. The market has more than 1,600 shops and witnesses an average footfall of around 28,000 people (as per records of Saptahik Bazaar Dukandaar Kalyan Samiti). Locals said cops were deployed in the market, but they remained mute spectators to the violation of Covid norms. The Saptahik Bazaar Dukandaar Kalyan Samiti — the body that works for the welfare of street vendors though made arrangements for announcements of anti-Covid measures, but these fell on deaf ears. Besides shoppers, who largely behaved irresponsibly, traders were found to be a bit more aware as most of them were wearing masks. “We are making masses aware of anti-Covid measures and have also issued strict directives for traders to wear masks and to use sanitisers,” said Mohammed Nadeem Siddiqui, president, Saptahik Bazaar Dukandaar Kalyan Samiti. In March 2020, the district administration had ordered closure of the Buddh Bazar in order to contain the virus. “In December 2020, the market was reopened after eight months,” said Siddiqui. He, however, said that further closure of the market would leave traders hand to mouth. The traders were taking all precautionary measures and spreading awareness among people,” he added. Officials of the LMC — the body that regulates the weekly markets – said things were under control. Dr SK Rawat, nagar swasthya adhikari, said: “Traders are taking all precautionary measures to keep the infection at bay. We are continuously sanitising the Buddh Bazar, before and after the market is set up. We are also running awareness drives to make shopkeepers aware of Covid protocols,” he said. Apart from Buddh Bazar, the city has four prime weekly markets. Of these, Bara Birwa area of Alambagh sees the weekly market on Tuesdays, Aminabad on Thursday, Sarojini Naidu Marg in Sadar on Saturday and Nakkhas on Sundays. As per records with the Saptahik Bazaar Dukandaar Kalyan Samiti, more than 1,800 traders were associated with weekly markets in the city. Locals said that the LMC and the district administration were yet to give a thought that such gatherings could further trigger the virus outbreak. IN NUMBERS •Buddh Bazar, spread across the 600 m stretch, was found chock-a-block with the shoppers in Covid times. ••On an average, the market witnesses a footfall of around 28,000 people (as per the records of Saptahik Bazaar Dukandaar Kalyan Samiti). •The market has more than 1600 shops. ••The city has four more prime weekly markets. Of these, Bara Birwa area of Alambagh sees the establishment of weekly market on Tuesdays, Aminabad on Thursday, Sarojini Naidu Narg in Sadar on Saturday and Nakkhas on Sundays. EXPERT-SPEAK Dr PK Gupta, pathologist and former president of IMA Lucknow who says that such gatherings could make the Covid situation worse. He said the virus still exists and any violation of Covid protocols could prove fatal. The administration should impose restrictions on such large gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-norms-drown-insea-of-humanity-at-lko-s-buddh-bazar-101616608037987.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||21-year-old held for sodomising 10-year-old boy||A 21-year-old man was arrested from Sector 51 on Tuesday for allegedly sodomising a 10-year-old boy who lives in his neighbourhood. A medical examination of the boy confirmed sexual assault and he is currently stable, undergoing treatment, at Civil Hospital, the police said.According to the police, the suspect lured the boy, a class 5 student, to his room around 9.30pm on Monday, when the boy’s mother was busy with work.Amit Sharma, station house officer of Sector 50 police station, said that a case under IPC Section 377 (unnatural offences) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered against the accused. Singh said, “The families of the minor boy and the suspect are neighbours. The suspect lives with his mother who works as domestic help in the area. She was in Bihar to meet her ailing brother. He was alone at home at the time of the incident. The accused lured the victim to his room to watch a movie and informed the boy’s parents that he would return the next morning as he was alone, following which he sodomised him.” According to the police, when the boy tried to raise the alarm, the suspect assaulted him and threatened to kill him. The boy returned home on Tuesday and started crying in pain. He informed his mother of the incident, following which the woman informed the police control room and filed a complaint. “A medical examination was conducted on the boy soon after the complaint was filed. Doctors confirmed sexual assault and admitted him to the hospital as he suffered grave injuries to his private parts,” Singh said. Singh further said that the suspect was arrested from his friend’s house in Sector 51 on Tuesday. He was produced before the district and sessions court on Tuesday and sent to 14-day judicial custody. Sonia Yadav, a member of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that the boy was still recovering and required treatment for a few days. “We counselled him on Tuesday and have recorded his statement,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/21yearold-held-for-sodomising-10-year-old-boy-101616607921358.html
24-03-2021||Other||S-I shot dead in Agra village,Yogi announces ₹50 lakh, job for kin||A police sub-inspector (S-I) was shot dead when he arrived to resolve a dispute between two brothers at Naharra village under the Khandoli police station limits in Agra district on Wednesday, officials said. The S-I was identified as Prashant Kumar Yadav, 35. One of the warring brothers was the accused in the murder of the policeman, officials added.Expressing grief over the S-I’s killing, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced compensation of ₹50 lakh to the bereaved family, a government job to a dependent and a road would be named after the sub- inspector, said additional chief secretary (Home).“The sub-inspector had reached to resolve a dispute between two brothers over potato crop after information about the same was received at the police station. The accused brother is absconding after the incident,” said additional director general of police (Agra Zone) Rajeev Krishna. “Teams have been constituted and the accused would be arrested soon,” the ADG added.Giving details, the senior police official also said, “There was a dispute over potato crop between brothers Shivnath (Singh) and Vishwanath (Singh). Sub-inspector Prashant Kumar Yadav had reached the field along with constable Chandrasen to resolve the dispute. The S-I chased the accused Vishwanath, who fired at him which proved fatal.” Vishwanath has no criminal record. He used a country made pistol in the crime, according to the police.The constable tried to nab Vishwanath, but he fled after brushing the policeman aside.The field belonged to Vijay Singh Pehalwan. The elder son Shivnath lived with the father (Vijay) while the younger son Vishwanath resided with the mother. Shivnath had sown potatoes and was harvesting the crop on Wednesday, when Vishwanath reached the field and stake claim to half the crop.“On information of the dispute, sub inspector Prashant Kumar Yadav and constable Chandrasen reached the spot where Vishwanath was threatening the labourers (with the country made pistol) when they were digging potatoes (out of the ground). The sub- inspector exhibited courage and tried to nab Vishwanath by chasing him. The accused Vishwanath fired at the sub-inspector, who was hit in the neck and fell down,” ADG (Agra zone) said.Police took the sub-inspector to the community health centre in Khandoli where he was declared dead on arrival.Yadav had joined police force in 2015. He belonged to Chatari village in Bulandshahr district of western UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/si-shot-dead-in-agra-village-yogi-announces-rs-50-lakh-job-for-kin-101616607920602.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||Gang held for fraudulent insurance claims of terminally ill patients||The special task force (STF) of Gurugram busted a gang that was allegedly involved in fraudulent life insurance claims of terminally ill patients and projecting their deaths as road accidents, the police said on Wednesday. The gang used to target cancer patients and involved their family members to get their insurance policies done. Virender Vij, the superintendent of police, STF headquarters, Gururgam, said that the gang members, in connivance with family members of the patients, got the insurance policies done from various companies and after their death, claimed the insurance, estimated to be more than ₹60 lakh so far. “They used to show the deaths as accidental road deaths. They conspired with other accused and committed at least 281 offences by portraying natural deaths as accidental deaths,” he said. The police on Tuesday arrested the kingpin of the gang, identified as Salim, of Narwana in Jind, from Karnal. His close associates, Sunil, of Hisar living in Hansi, and Manoj of Kaithal, living in Janakpuri of Delhi, are yet to be arrested. Vij said they have recovered ₹66.87 lakh, 53 ATM cards, 41 cheque books, 38 OPD cards, 40 policy papers, 14 passbooks, four mobile phones and 66 new kits of different banks from Salim’s possession. They used to select cancer patients undergoing treatment at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak and convinced their family members to make a quick buck. The gang would buy term insurance policies from eight companies by paying a premium on their behalf, the police said. “After the death of policyholders, the suspects used to portray it as accidental deaths to claim insurance amounts,” Vij said. The police discovered the modus operandi after an official at an insurance company in Delhi had found foul play in a policy. A deputy manager of a general insurance company in Delhi last November, during an internal investigation, found that a man, identified as Satyanarayan of Khanda Kheri in Hisar, died due to cancer but his family had stated that he died after falling from a bullock cart and suffering severe head injuries on December 10, 2017. He further alleged that the family had taken an insurance policy in October 2017 for ₹20 lakh and claimed the money after his death. He pointed out in the complaint that it was a nexus.When the police took up the investigation, they ascertained from medical reports and post-mortem examination reports that the cause of death was due to cancer. Three family members of the policyholder who died were arrested last December. “They revealed during questioning that suspects had contacted them and offered them money to get the insurance done,” said Vij. The police said they are also probing the role of others, including insurance company inquiry officers, doctors, advocates, police officials, agents and bank officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gang-held-for-fraudulent-insurance-claims-of-terminally-ill-patients-101616607919917.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination pace at private facilities falls||Private hospitals in the city are witnessing a gradual slowdown in the number of Covid-19 vaccinations since March 17, with nearly 14,006 inoculations done in the last eight days, comparatively fewer than 26,551 inoculations at government set-ups during the same period, according to the district health department data. Although the number of private set-ups is lower than the government centres, private hospitals had reported 25% higher coverage than government facilities between March 1 and 16.“The district health department has set up more vaccination centres compared to private hospitals. There are more than 100 government-run vaccination centres in the district and only 56 at private hospitals. The outreach of government-run vaccination centres is higher in rural and urban areas compared to private set-ups. Second, people are aware that the government has been supplying the vaccine to private hospitals, so they prefer to go to nearby health centres to take the vaccine shot,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. The data provided by the district health department shows that from March 1 to 16, vaccination centres at private hospitals inoculated at least 40,809 people in the prioritised population group, which was almost 25% higher than the number at government facilities. In the last 24 days, over 56,881 inoculations of the prioritised population group have taken place at government-run vaccination centres and 54, 815 at private hospitals. Private vaccination centres account for 49% of the total inoculations since March 1. At the state level too, vaccinations at private facilities are much lower when compared to neighbouring Delhi. According to the data shared by the union minister of health and family welfare on Wednesday, only 21.4% of 1,200,479 vaccine doses have been administered by private facilities across Haryana, whereas in New Delhi, the share was 46.34%. Officials said that Delhi has set up more vaccination centres at private hospitals.Private hospital chains in the city, despite setting up multiple vaccination centres and camps in various condominiums for inoculation, agree that there has been a slight fall in vaccination. “Private hospitals cater to different strata of society, where people are aware of different vaccines available across the globe. Many people do not want to be inoculated as they have been waiting for the single-dose vaccine shot. Second, people have developed faith in the government system knowing that private hospitals procure vaccines from the government. Third, many senior citizens fear contracting infection while visiting hospitals,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, director and head, internal medicine, Medanta Hospital. According to Kataria, the response has been equally low at camps set up in condominiums. “As RWAs (residents’ welfare associations) have been catering to people within their society and not allowing people from outside, it also restricts the turnout.” Acknowledging a slowdown in vaccinations, Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said, “A large number of people did get vaccinated in the first few weeks. It has declined a little bit. But with the steps taken by the district health department to outreach RWAs by setting up vaccination camps, overall coverage will be increased. Also, the widening of eligibility criteria allowing people above 45 years of age to get vaccinated, irrespective of the health issues, will increase the footfall once again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-pace-at-private-facilities-falls-101616607918664.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||Toll plazas on expressways to be removed in pilot project||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is working on a pilot project to do away with toll plazas on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and Dwarka Expressway, as part of a nationwide exercise, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.NHAI officials cited an announcement made by union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in Parliament a few days ago, in which he said that toll plazas across the country would be removed by next year.Officials, however, clarified that the removal of toll plazas would not signal the end of toll collection. “The toll plazas would be removed but a new gantry-based model is likely to be introduced, which will make it easier for toll collection through FASTags. Toll plazas, no doubt, lead to some congestion and a pilot project on closed-loop tolling on these roads is underway,” said Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI. Sharing details of other projects in the meeting, NHAI officials said that the U-turn at Sirhaul border will be opened on May 1, while land for shifting toll plaza is under consideration. With the opening of the U-turn at Sirhaul toll plaza, commuters from Gurugram need not travel to Rajokri in Delhi for reaching Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3 from Udyog Vihar. A statement issued by the district administration on Wednesday said that highway officials also posited that a toll plaza might not be needed at Panchgaon if the pilot project on expressways is successful.NHAI officials said they are also setting up various public amenities, including the construction of toilets near pedestrian bridges along the NH-48 from Daula Kuan in Delhi to Hero Honda Chowk, lifts for easy movement and commercial constructions to encourage people to use pedestrian bridges.The road safety meeting was held under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who asked the NHAI and all stakeholders to work in tandem and ensure better facilities for road users, particularly pedestrians.The removal of the Kherki Daula toll plaza has been a longstanding demand of city residents and industry owners in Manesar, as heavy congestion leads to long delays for commuters and also causes pollution due to increased emissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/toll-plazas-on-expressways-to-be-removed-in-pilot-project-101616607919343.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||Signage to be placed 500 metres ahead of black spots||Signage indicating black spots will be installed 500 metres ahead of the spots along the National Highway 48 (NH-48) to caution drivers to navigate these stretches carefully, according to a release issued by the district administration on Wednesday. A location is designated as a black spot if more than five fatalities were reported on a 500-metre stretch within three years. The decision was taken during a road safety committee meeting held at the Mini Secretariat.Deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who heads the district road safety committee, said, “Drivers can be alerted if they spot road signage 500 metres before black spots, informing them of accident-prone spots ahead. Hence, directions have been issued to departments concerned to install them on priority. Further, directions have also been issued to officials concerned to share the latest data of black spots in the city so that remedial measures can be executed immediately.”Six spots on NH-48 have repeatedly come under the scanner due to accidents. As per the data of the now-defunct Haryana Vision Zero, between 2016 and 2019, 22, 17, 17, 16, 12 and seven road fatalities were reported at Khandsa, Bilaspur Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Shankar Chowk and Sidhrawali exit, respectively.Garg also said that ambulances should be parked near black spots to ferry accident victims to the nearest hospital at the earliest.Officials discussed the issue of CCTV cameras blocking commuters’ view of signals. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials, responsible for the same, said they have identified 25 such spots and have taken corrective steps at 12 locations.GMDA officials said that the seven-kilometre stretch between Atul Kataria Chowk and Rezangla Chowk via Sheetla Mata Road is in the process of being redeveloped and a detailed project report (DPR) on the matter will be prepared in two months.Discussions were also held on the possibility of closing the exits at Givo and Siddharawali on NH-48 to reduce congestion. Garg directed officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), district administration and Gurugram police to jointly inspect both the spots and take a decision on this matter.Garg also directed them to simultaneously explore the possibility of setting up pedestrian-friendly amenities at both points, so that pedestrians don’t have to navigate their way through fast-moving traffic on NH-48.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/signage-to-be-placed-500-metres-ahead-of-black-spots-101616607918019.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG opens second steel bank in Sector 48||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) opened the city’s second steel utensil bank in Sector 48, next to Sohna Road, for residents to avail of steel utensils for free from the MCG. The rationale behind opening such banks is to reduce the need for single-use plastic, said MCG officials.The Sector 48 steel utensil bank operates out of the office of Ward 29 councillor, Kuldeep Yadav. The MCG has more than 2,000 steel utensils, including plates, glasses, and spoons, at the bank, officials familiar with the matter said.MCG officials appealed to nearby RWAs and residential areas to donate to the bank and also avail of their services for public events to reduce the usage of single-use plastic. “We are unknowingly polluting the environment, which is a matter of concern. It is not only affecting humans but also animals and birds,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Singh cited a 2018 incident, wherein a migrated bird at the Basai Wetland suffered an injury due to plastic.“One of the birds had a plastic ring-like object stuck to its beak. After two to three days of effort, the bird was caught, and we were successful in rescuing it. The benefit of this incident was that rag pickers near the wetlands were identified and subsequently, regulated. Such incidents remind us that it is our moral responsibility to stop using single-use plastic and polythene,” said Singh.Kuldeep Singh, MCG brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission, said that the civic body is in the process of opening its third steel utensil bank in Ward 15 by mid-April and is aiming to open a facility in each of its 35 wards by the end of the year. The first steel bank was opened in Sector 10 on March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-opens-second-steel-bank-in-sector-48-101616607917355.html
24-03-2021||Other||6 acres of irrigation dept’s land freed from grabbers||LUCKNOW The UP government on Wednesday freed six acres of land of the state irrigation department from land grabbers in New Delhi.Maintaining its ‘zero-tolerance policy’ against crimes and criminals, the state government freed property of six acres (2.62 hectares) of the UP irrigation department in Madanpur Khadar village of Sarita Vihar in New Delhi from the illegal possession of land mafia on Wednesday, said the spokesperson of UP government in a press statement.A drive was launched to remove the encroachment at Madanpur after the marking of plot number -612 by the irrigation department, UP; head, works division, Agra canal, Okhla, under which a total of 6 acres of land was held.The drive was initiated after chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the ministry of jal shakti to take action against those engaged in unlawful encroachment of irrigation department’s land.UP Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, in a tweet said, the drive to free the six acre land of irrigation department was launched on the direction of chief minister. Singh also shared a video clip of the illegal structures being demolished to free land from grabbers.The state government spokesperson said after the formation of the government in 2017, an anti-land mafia task force was constituted to free public and private land grabbed illegally by mafia under the patronage of those in power or by using various tricks. The task force had so far freed up over 67,000 acres of land and priority had been given to make sports grounds on them, whether under the sports department, youth welfare department or under MGNREGA.The state government also came up with an online portal for anti-land mafia task force set up in various districts to put up daily updates regarding action taken against those involved in illegal land deals and encroachment. The portal, which was launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, was meant to ensure better coordination between the state government agencies working against land mafia, he said. CM Yogi Adityanath has issued orders to take action against those who were found guilty of encroaching land of the irrigation department of UP in Okhla, Jasola, Madanpur Khadar, Aali, Saidabad, Jaitpur, Molarwand and Khureji Khas, etc. Earlier, despite repeated complaints, no government dared to take action against those involved in illegal land occupation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-acres-of-irrigation-dept-s-land-freed-from-grabbers-101616607737381.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Minister objects to ‘azaan’ on loudspeakers, mosque caretaker says will sort out||Hours after Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla wrote a letter to the Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh, seeking regulating the volume of loudspeakers from mosques, the official said there were court orders in this regard which would be followed. “The Supreme Court, High Court and the state government have from time to time issued directives regarding use and norms of loudspeakers at all public places and instructions have been regularly issued in that regard to police and officials of administration,” the Ballia DM said. Asked if she proposed to take any action on the basis of the minister’s letter, Singh said, “All complaints that are received are looked into.” In its May 2020 order the Allahabad High Court had said the azaan or the call for prayer may be an integral part of Islam but its amplification cannot be said to be integral to the religion, warranting protection of the fundamental right enshrined under Article 25 of the Constitution.It was not immediately clear about how Ballia DM proposed to move ahead on the issue, but the minister was categorical that the high decibel levels during azaan (call for prayers) from loudspeakers put up in mosques affected his concentration while he performed his religious rituals in the morning and also in discharge of his official duties. Shukla, a junior minister in Yogi Adityanath government looking after parliamentary affairs, rural development and integrated rural development ministries, confirmed having written to the DM on the issue. “There are directions that the court has issued from time to time and those should be followed,” he said while flagging how high decibel levels were causing health concerns to the elderly, affecting studies in schools besides affecting his concentration during his morning prayers.He singled out Madina mosque at Kajipura whose loudspeakers he said caused lot of disturbance.Mohd Ayub Qureshi, the caretaker of Madina mosque said, they would remove the four loudspeakers if they were causing problems to people or the minister. “Ours is an old mosque and loudspeakers are used during azaan. So far there was no issue but if someone has any issue, we will sort it out and if need be, remove the loudspeaker,” he said.An employee of the district magistrate’s office said though no action has so far been taken, the matter flagged by the minister was being evaluated.The minister’s view on loudspeakers from mosque, came days after Allahabad University (AU) vice chancellor Sangita Srivastava too flagged similar concerns about loudspeaker from Lal Masjid, a mosque near AU, disturbing her sleep. Kaleem-ur-Rehman, the caretaker of the mosque said they had lowered the volume of the loudspeaker and direction of one of them had been changed. Khalid Rasheed Firangi mahal, the naib imam of Lucknow Eidgah and a senior functionary of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), said everyone should respect court orders. “As far as court orders are concerned, they apply to all, there is no scope for being selective and all must respect it. As far as azaan is concerned, it’s hardly two to three minutes affair and if somewhere the decibels levels were higher, the matter can be sorted locally without making it sound political,” he said. The AIMPLB functionary, however, said use of loudspeakers from mosque should be limited to ‘azaan’ and Friday prayers. “Any other use of loudspeakers should be discouraged and there was no need for several loudspeakers in a mosque,” the senior cleric added.The minister had in his complaint also mentioned that the loudspeakers were being used for making various announcements from mosque like seeking donations, other religious activities. “In fact, during Ramzan too, we will issue appeals against using loudspeakers for making announcement about timing of fasting,” the senior cleric said. Only recently, the Karnataka State Board of Wakf restricted the management of mosques and dargahs (mausoleums) from using loudspeakers between 10 pm and 6 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/minister-objects-to-azaan-on-loudspeakers-mosque-caretaker-says-will-sort-out-101616607677419.html
24-03-2021||Other||UP’s daily case count above 700; 4 deaths in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s daily Covid case count crossed the 700-mark (737) after 75 days, taking the state’s infection tally to 6,09,443 on Wednesday. Five more deaths, including four in Lucknow – the highest in March – and one in Ayodhya pushed the fatality count to 8,769 in the state. On January 8, 775 fresh cases were reported in the state, according to the health department. Lucknow, however, reported a slight fall in the number of fresh cases. During the day, it logged 220 fresh cases, 12 less than the previous day. Kanpur saw 33 fresh Covid cases, Prayagraj 32, Ghaziabad 18, Gautam Buddh Nagar 37, Meerut 31, Varanasi 36, Rae Bareli and Hapur 26, Gorakhpur 11 and Mathura 14. “Lucknow has till now reported 83,288 Covid cases, of which 80,939 have recovered while the recovery rate is 97.17%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Lucknow now had 1,153 active cases, of which 915 were in home isolation. In Lucknow, fresh cases were reported from Indira Nagar 20, Gomti Nagar 12, Hazratganj 12, Aliganj 22, Chowk 11 while samples of 9,777 people were taken for Covid test. Minister inspects Covid command centre Health minister JP Singh inspected the Covid command centre and took stock of patient care management and ambulance service being managed by the centre. The minister also conducted a meeting with officials. In the meeting, the DM informed that public address systems were being used at 10 crossings to make people aware about Covid infection. From Thursday, the number will go up to 100 as announcement systems will also be installed at public toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-daily-case-count-above-700-4-deaths-in-lucknow-101616607437428.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Don’t hike fees this session: Dy CM urges schools||: Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Wednesday appealed to management of all the private schools across Uttar Pradesh not to hike fees in this new academic session in view of prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state.He said, “The schools must not increase fees in this academic session. I am sure school management and principals will understand the crisis situation and provide relief to parents. The spike in Covid-19 cases has led the government to give an extended Holi vacation to break the chain.”Sharma was speaking at the felicitation function of corona warriors organised by Unaided Private Schools Associations, UP at Farida Abraham Memorial auditorium, La Martiniere Girls’ College on Wednesday.He said private schools are helping the government by imparting quality education.Last year also the state government did not allowed schools to increase fees.The mega event saw felicitation of members of police departments as the true Covid Warriors. A total of 13 police personnel, including commissioner of Police, DK Thakur and joint commissioner of police Naveen Arora were felicitated.Besides, 10 eminent personalities of Lucknow from the field of education, medical, art, literature and social reformers were also honoured.President Anil Agarwal and secretary, Mala Mehra said for the very first-time schools across UP came together to recognize the efforts of bravehearts of the police department. Principal La Martiniere Girls College Aashrita Dass welcomed the guests.The event also saw the launch of Mission Gyan Ganga, a book bank for the less fortunate students. The idea was conceptualized by joint commissioner, law and order Naveen Arora, who had earlier successfully launched the Vastra Seva Kendra where free clothes are given to those in need. Commissioner of Police DK Thakur lauded the efforts of the Commissionerate and spoke about the challenges being faced by the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-hike-fees-this-session-dy-cm-urges-schools-101616607017313.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Shahjahanpur horror - Police to press murder charge against 4, appeal for hearing in fast track court||: Police have decided to press charges of murder against the four persons accused of setting a 21-year-old woman on fire after a failed rape attempt. The woman who was found abandoned near a highway in Shahjahanpur on February 22, succumbed to her burn injuries at a hospital in Lucknow on Tuesday. “Considering that the act (of setting her afire) led to the victim’s death, we have decided to add section 302 (murder) of IPC against the four accused in the case,” the police superintendent, Shahjahanpur S Anand said. Currently the accused were booked under sections 376D (gang rape), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 511 (attempt to commit offence) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of IPC, based on the initial complaint lodged by the father of the victim, he said. “Her body has been sent for post-mortem examination. Investigation regarding the case is still on,” the SP said. “I have also directed the investigation officer in the case to file chargesheet in the matter at the earliest so that we could appeal for hearing of the matter in the fast track court as wished by the family of the victim,” added the officer. The incident occurred on February 22 when the victim was found in a semi burnt state near a highway at around 6 pm. According to police, her father had dropped her to the college that day at 11 am. Four days after the incident police arrested four people, including a woman. The accused were identified as Manish Lal, Raju Lal, Subhash Chandra and Pinki Singh, all being senior students of the same college where the victim studied. Police claimed that the three male accused had doused the victim with petrol and set her afire after a failed rape attempt. The arrest was made on the basis of dying declaration made by the victim before a magistrate at the hospital. Police said the 21-year-old woman was friends with Pinki, who introduced her to other accused. “On the day of the incident Pinki asked the woman to meet her near a spot outside the college. When she reached there and found the three accused waiting for her. They attempted to rape her and when she resisted, they then attempted to immolate her. The girl ran from the spot towards the nearby road where she was rescued by locals,” according to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shahjahanpur-horror-police-to-press-murder-charge-against-4-appeal-for-hearing-in-fast-track-court-101616606897418.html
24-03-2021||City||35-year-old Agra cop goes to mediate between brothers, shot dead||In a shocking incident, a 35-year-old sub-inspector of Agra Police, Prashant Kumar Yadav, was shot dead on Wednesday evening as he went to resolve a dispute between two brothers over the crop in Naharra village of Agra district. He was shot by one of the brothers, who fled the spot after shooting the cop, ADG (Agra Zone) Rajeev Krishna said. “The sub-inspector reached to resolve the dispute between two brothers over the crop of potatoes. The Accused brother is absconding after the incident,” Krishna said. Two brothers Shivnath and Vishwanath were engaged in a brawl over potato crops since morning. The field belonged to their father Vijay Singh Pehalwan. While the elder brother, Shivnath, had sown potatoes on the field, the younger brother Vishwanath came and claimed half of the crop. As police were informed about the ongoing dispute, sub-inspector Prashant Yadav and constable Chandrasen reached the spot and found Vishwanath was threatening the labourers digging potatoes.As Yadav chased Vishwanath, he fired at him and after Yadav fell down on the ground, Vishwanath pushed Chandrasen and fled the spot. Yadav was immediately taken to CHC in Khadoli where he was declared brought dead. “It was a dispute over the crop of potatoes between brothers Shivnath and Vishwanath and sub-inspector Prashant Kumar Yadav reached the field along with constable Chandrasen to resolve the dispute. The SI chased the accused Vishwanath who fired at him which proved fatal,” Rajeev Krishna said.Yadav had joined the police force in 2015. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed condolences on Yadav's demise and announced a compensation of ₹50 lakh to the family and a government job to a dependant and a road to be named after him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35yearold-agra-cop-goes-to-mediate-between-brothers-shot-dead-101616605606669.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||NIA arrests key member in fake Indian currency case||The national investigation agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested Babloo, a resident of Sitapur and a key member of the fake Indian currency notes racket (FICN) in Lucknow, NIA officials said on Wednesday. The NIA official said the accused Babloo’s role had surfaced in the case after the arrest of three people by UP’s Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) on November 25, 2019 when they unearthed the fake Indian currency notes (FICN) racket. The ATS had seized the FICN worth ₹ 1. 79 lakhs from the three accused identified as Phulchand, Aminul Islam, and Nasiba Khatoon. The NIA officials said the trio was arrested near Itaunja toll Plaza on Lucknow-Sitapur highway and the case was initially registered at the ATS police station in Gomtinagar, Lucknow. Later, the NIA took over the case on January 20, 2020 and had filed a charge sheet against the three accused in this case. NIA officials said, since then the NIA teams were in search of Babloo as the investigation in the case revealed that he was engaged in smuggling of high quality FICN and was in regular telephonic contact with the charge sheeted accused Aminul Islam and Phulchand. He said investigation in the case has also revealed that accused had received the high quality FICN from Malda, West Bengal and had further circulated and supplied the same to various persons in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. He said further investigation was on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nia-arrests-key-member-in-fake-indian-currency-case-101616606777341.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Committed to make state TB free by 2025: Yogi||: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said after successful management of COVID-19 and eradication of encephalitis, the state government is committed to make Uttar Pradesh Tuberculosis (TB) free.He urged the people, ministers and lawmakers to adopt a TB patient each and help in achieving the target to make the state TB free by 2025.“You do not need to keep the child at home. All a person needs to do is to keep a check on the child,” Yogi said while addressing an event at Vidyagyaan School, in Kasmanda Block of Sitapur on the occasion of World Tuberculosis Day.Post-adoption, each TB patient will be entitled to ₹500 per month for a nutritious diet and the cash amount will be directly transferred to the patient’s account, he said.Yogi also appealed to the patients to complete full course of TB treatment, which is absolutely free in the state. “If the treatment course is for 300 days then breaking a course after 100 days won’t help at all,” he said.“The centre has opened up its COVID-19 vaccination drive for people above 45 years of age. All eligible should immediately get registered and get vaccinated from April 1,” he said.“Everyone should stringently adhere to the COVID-19 protocol. There is no restriction on the celebration of festivals, but everyone should be made aware of the spread of COVID-19,” he said.“COVID-19 vaccines have come, but corona hasn’t been eradicated yet. It takes time to develop anti-bodies. Till then, precautions are must,” he added.“Despite having a weak health infrastructure, UP’s management strategy especially tracking high-risk contacts helped the state step up the fight against the deadly coronavirus. As a result, the recovery rate has now reached 95 percent. This had become possible only because of effective health management and exemplary teamwork,” he said.“Similarly, to combat poliomyelitis, the state government has launched the largest ever mass immunization campaign against polio, targeting 3.40 crore children,” he said.The Chief Minister virtually inaugurated regional RTPMU established in Gorakhpur and honoured the District Tuberculosis Officers of the five districts, including Pradeep Varshney of Rampur, Vinod Agarwal of Sonbhadra, Narendra Singh from Unnao, Deenanath Mishra from Chandauli, and Vivek Srivastava from Maharajganj.He laid the foundation stone was laid for the construction of drug warehouses in 21 districts including Sitapur, Mirzapur, Sambhal, Pratapgarh, Hapur, Ballia, etc. The CM said that Drugs Store Centers will be built in Fatehpur, Basti, Rae Bareli, Farrukhabad, Auraiya, Barabanki and Varanasi.He also inaugurated 25 Digital X-ray machines and 451 TrueNat machines which will increase the COVID testing in the state and launched LPA (Line Probe Assay) labs established in Gorakhpur and Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/committed-to-make-state-tb-free-by-2025-yogi-101616606657335.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||HC rejects anticipatory bail of animal husbandry tender scam accused||: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail of Umesh Kumar Mishra, one of the accused in the multi-crore Animal Husbandry tender scam.A single judge bench of Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh said: “The accused-applicant has not been cooperating with the ongoing investigation. He has been declared a proclaimed offender and the proceedings under Sections 82-83 CrPC have been undertaken against him.”“The Supreme Court in the case of Lavesh Vs. State (NCT of Delhi), (2012) 8 SCC 730 has held that a proclaimed offender is not entitled to be enlarged on anticipatory bail. In view thereof, the present anticipatory bail application is hereby rejected,” said the court. “However, as prayed, the accused-applicant is granted time till tomorrow (Thursday) to surrender and apply for regular bail,” added the court.“Till tomorrow (Thursday) no coercive steps to be taken against the accused-applicant pursuant to the said FIR,” ordered the court. Rao Narendra Singh, assistant government advocate, who represented the state government, informed the court that in the present offence regular bail applications of co-accused Santosh Mishra and others have been rejected.In this case, 49 co-accused have been chargesheeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-rejects-anticipatory-bail-of-animal-husbandry-tender-scam-accused-101616606537270.html
24-03-2021||Patna||'We are greater in number': Bihar CM Nitish Kumar warns opposition parties||Enraged over the day-long rumpus created by the opposition on the previous day, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday warned the Grand Alliance against provoking the ruling NDA which was numerically stronger.Kumar made the remark inside the legislative council where he rose to intervene when MLCs of the opposition coalition led by RJD tried to create a ruckus over the previous days happenings inside the assembly.The Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which had led to the day-long drama on Tuesday, was presented and being debated inside the Upper House a day later when Grand Alliance members made noises about the "high handed" manner in which MLAs were thrown out of the assembly a day earlier.Quivering with rage, the 70 years old chief minister screamed at the top of his voice "the entire public saw what goondaism took place yesterday. They will give you a befitting reply".Waving an angry finger at Congress MLCs, Kumar said they seemed to have lost their sense of propriety following their long association with Lalu Prasads party which has often been accused of rowdyism.He also said "do not forget that we are greater in number than you are. Yesterday, people of this side sat quietly, maintaining decorum, while you were engaging in mischief. Be mindful of the consequences".In the 243-member assembly, the ruling NDA has 126 MLAs besides it enjoys support of an Independent.The opposition has 110 legislators while AIMIM has 5 and one MLA is from LJP.In the 75-member legislative council, the ruling coalition has overwhelming numbers.Later, talking to reporters, Kumar expressed displeasure over the opposition accusing him directly of having called the police, on Tuesday, inside to help marshals physically evict the most unruly of the opposition MLAs."It is the Speakers prerogative to requisition whatever resources he deems necessary to maintain order inside the premises."Whatever happened yesterday was unusual but has there been any other instance, in any state legislature, of the Speaker having been held hostage", Kumar asked.He also deplored the opposition indulging in acts like tearing up documents and throwing shreds of paper towards the Chair besides clambering atop the speakers dais to physically prevent him from running the House.Asked about the intention expressed by speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha that action might be taken against those MLAs whose behaviour was found most objectionable, the chief minister replied "the government has nothing to do with that."If the speaker deems it fit, he will take action in accordance with rules. We will neither egg him on nor try to restrain him".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/we-are-greater-in-number-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-warns-opposition-parties-101616603729488.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature of 34.2 deg C; air quality 'moderate'||Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 34.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, and it is likely to increase to 38 degrees Celsius by next week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The minimum temperature settled at 16 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, it said.The mercury is predicted to rise to 38 degrees Celsius by Monday amid clear skies, the weather office said.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature stood at 29.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. It was 33.6 degrees Celsius on Monday and 35.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday.The air quality in the national capital improved to the "moderate" category due to a favourable wind speed. The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 175, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered 'poor', 301-400 'very poor' and 401-500 'severe', while an AQI above 500 falls in the 'severe plus' category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-34-2-deg-c-air-quality-moderate-101616603962787.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Fire breaks out at three places in Lucknow; properties worth crores gutted||Properties worth several crores were reduced to ashes in three separate incidents of fire reported from Aminabad, Aliganj and Hasanganj police station limits here on Wednesday, said police and fire service officials.In Aminabad, the fire broke out at the famous Gadbadjhala market due to short circuit at the shop of trader Sanjiv Jain. Jain operated the shop named Jain Plastics from the ground floor while two other floors were used as godown in the same building. Plastic products worth over one crore rupees stored as preparations for Holi sale were gutted.Chief fire officer (CFO) Vijay Kumar Singh said people spotted smoke emanating from the shop-cum-godown and informed the fire service control room at around 6 am. He said highly inflammable plastic products led to fast spreading of flames which also engulfed three near-by establishments, including two jewellery and one papad and pickle shops.He said the fire was so massive that 15 fire tenders took around five hours to douse the flames. Local police personnel said since the fire broke out in the morning hours so there was no crowd in the market otherwise it would have been very difficult to contain the situation. He said thick smoke engulfed the entire area following which residents of some near-by houses had to be evacuated as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, another fire broke out in the slum alongside railway line near Naveen Gallamandi in Aliganj in which as many as 25 huts were gutted.The CFO said the incident took place when a slum dweller Bheem alias Raju was cooking his food in an open space at around 8.30 am. “The fire from the makeshift oven soon spread due to heavy winds and engulfed 25 huts in no time. At least 10 fire tenders were deployed to douse the flames,” he said adding that the slum dwellers have been provided immediate relief with the help of local police and district administration. In another incident, a garbage dump and dry leaves caught fire on Lucknow University premises at around 12 pm but the flames were doused soon with the help of two fire tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fire-breaks-out-at-three-places-in-lucknow-properties-worth-crores-gutted-101616604617127.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Then ACS has confirmed’: NCP reiterates Rashmi Shukla 'illegally' tapped phones||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) reiterated on Wednesday that senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla “illegally” tapped phones of police officials and politicians in Maharashtra, countering former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ claims that the officer had “sought proper permission” to do so while preparing a report on alleged “money for transfer scam” in the state police department.Also Read | MVA didn’t act on evidence of scam in police dept: Devendra Fadnavis“Former commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla did not take permission for the tapping of the phones in question in the alleged corruption in police transfers,” NCP leader and Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad said on Wednesday. “Then additional chief secretary, home, who is the current chief secretary, has confirmed that Shukla did not take his permission for the tapping of the phones of the people mentioned in the report submitted by her,” Awhad further said.The minister also claimed that Shukla “apologised after her wrongdoings came to light.” He also accused the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of misusing her report to target the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition of which NCP is among three constituents. The Shiv Sena and the Congress are the other two members of the alliance.“Shukla had a 'bad habit' of tapping phones illegally and had intercepted phones of political leaders during the formation of the three-party state government as well,” Awhad remarked, echoing fellow NCP leader Nawab Malik’s claims from the day before. The MVA was formed after the 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections which saw the Sena break its victorious alliance with the BJP and join hands with the NCP and the Congress.Earlier, in a press conference in Mumbai on Tuesday, Fadnavis, who is from the BJP, had said that Shukla had “sought proper permission” from then-ACS, home, Sitaram Kunte, and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politicians. Malik, the Maharashtra minority affairs minister, had responded later in the day, saying that Shukla, who was then the Commissioner of Intelligence, had tapped phones “illegally.”Also Read | NCP counters Fadnavis’ corruption claims, alleges illegal phone tappingShukla’s report has also been cited by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his petition in the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh accused Deshmukh of running an “extortion racket” through now-suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Earlier in the day on Wednesday, the top court refused to entertain Singh’s plea, instead asking him to approach Bombay High Court first.Also Read | Param Bir Singh, asked by SC to approach HC, withdraws plea against DeshmukhShukla is currently serving as Special Director General (SDG), south zone, of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). Following the tapping episode, in August 2020, she was transferred to the civil defence department in what Malik described as a “punishment posting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/then-acs-has-confirmed-ncp-reiterates-rashmi-shukla-illegally-tapped-phones-101616603882988.html
24-03-2021||Other||Day after Maoist escapes, Balumath police station officer in-charge, four others suspended||A day after a People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) member escaped police remand, officer in-charge of Balumath police station in Latehar district and three other policemen were suspended Wednesday for alleged dereliction of duty, officials said. Latehar SP Prashant Anand said, “Four policemen, including Balumath police station officer in-charge, have been suspended with immediate effect. We have also recommended suspension of the security guard to the deputy commissioner. During investigation, they were found to be guilty of not discharging their duties properly and of gross negligence.”PLFI’s area commander Krishna Yadav escaped from Balumath police station on Tuesday while being taken to the washroom. At the time of the incident, only a security guard was accompanying him, police said. Following the incident, police released a poster of the fleeing ultra and announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for providing information about him. “Those providing information about Yadav will get cash reward of ₹1 lakh and identity will be kept secret,” the SP said.Yadav was brought to Balumath police station on a two-day police remand for interrogation about Maoist incidents in Balumath police station area. On Tuesday, he was to be forwarded to jail again.Palamu range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Rajkumar Lakra, Latehar superintendent of police (SP) Prashant Anand and other police officers on Wednesday reached Balumath and inspected the crime scene inside the police station premises.The suspended police personnel were Balumath police station officer in-charge Rana Bhanu Pratap Singh, investigating officer (IO) in the case Deep Narayan Singh, officer on-duty Thakur Prasad Singh and assistant sub-inspector Ramdev Mandal and security guard Suresh Ganjhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-maoist-escapes-balumath-police-station-officer-in-charge-four-others-suspended-101616604437232.html
24-03-2021||Ranchi||Ahead of 1st phase, dry day declared in 6 districts||Jharkhand has prohibited supply, distribution and sale of liquor in six of its districts for 48 hours, effective from 6.30pm on Thursday in wake of the assembly polls in the neighbouring state of West Bengal, officials said on Wednesday.As per an order issued by the state excise department on direction of Election Commission of India, the six districts where the dry day has been declared are Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan.The first phase of polls in West Bengal will be conducted on March 27 and the final phase will be held on April 29. The poll panel will announce the results on May 2.The restrictions will also be implemented in four districts -Sahebgunj, Pakur, Jamtara and Dhanbad- 48 hours before the seventh phase, which will be conducted on April 26, and four districts- Sahebgunj, Pakur, Dumka and Jamtara- for the final phase of the election, which will take place on April 29. The dry day will also be applicable in these districts on the counting day on May 2, officials said.Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan issued an order in this regard for Ranchi district on Wednesday. Ranjan said any kind of supply or distribution of liquor will be strictly prohibited.He said all kinds of liquor outlets, bars and manufacturing units of Jharkhand State Beverage Corporation Limited (JSBCL) will remain closed during the dry period.Jharkhand Retail Liquor Traders’ Association (JRLTA) office-bearers, however, said the order will cause huge monetary loss to them, as it was coming into effect just before the festival of colours, Holi.The association’s general secretary Subodh Jaiswal said, “We faced huge loss during the Covid-19 period last year. We hoped to make up some of those losses during Holi, as its sales go high during the festival. As per our calculation, the trade will see a loss of nearly ₹1 crore during the dry day period.”He said the traders are required to submit excise tax duty (ETD) on the 25th of every month. “We requested the government to extend the date till March 30 for this month, as dry day is coming into effect. But, the department concerned denied our demand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ahead-of-1st-phase-dry-day-declared-in-6-districts-101616604317780.html
24-03-2021||Ranchi||WB Assembly elections: Hemant campaigns for TMC, appeals voters to defeat ‘divisive’ BJP||Chief minister and working president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Wednesday campaigned for Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidates across three assembly segments in Purulia and Bankura districts in West Bengal and appealed the voters to defeat the “divisive” Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) as voters did in Jharkhand in the 2019 Assembly polls. “They (BJP) won 12 out of 14 the Lok Sabha seats in Jharkhand. Months later, we defeated them badly. They boast to be the largest political party in the world, but we forced them to bite dust in Assembly elections...Now it’s your turn to defeat them in Bengal,” said Soren. Purulia and Bankura districts in West Bengal are neighbouring districts of Jharkhand and have a sizeable population of tribals, who form the core voter base of the JMM. The Shibu Soren-led party was planning to field its own candidates in over a dozen seats, especially those dominated by tribals, before it decided to support Mamata Banerjee’s TMC that approached the former for support. In the 2019 general elections, the BJP won Lok Sabha seats in the area and was currently locked in a direct battle with the TMC in the upcoming Assembly elections. However, canvassing for TMC candidate in Bandwan assembly segment in Purulia, CM Soren reminded the voters that success in Lok Sabha polls was not a guarantee for victory in Assembly polls. Soren in 2019 led a three-party pre-poll alliance of the JMM-Congress and RJD to wrest power from the BJP in the last state Assembly elections with a comfortable majority in the House. He underlined that though many parties were contesting the election in Bengal, there was a direct fight between the TMC and the BJP and it was important to defeat the “communal and divisive” forces, as the world was watching. “All they do is divide people, be it in the name of religion or caste, for votes. They pitted Hindus against Hindus, Hindus against Muslims, tribals against tribals. They just want to form the government, either by hook or crook. First, they try to buy voters. If they fail in that, they buy MLAs to form the government,” said Soren. Terming the BJP as a “junior East India Company” that was out on a selling spree (disinvestment of public sector companies), the Jharkhand chief minister said that the BJP was “anti-tribal and anti-dalit”. “You need to understand why tribals, dalits and minorities are still under developed despite special provisions in the Constitution. It’s because of parties like BJP and their corporate friends. They are now selling everything and as a result, there will be no meaning left for reservation in government jobs,” Soren said.Citing example of privatisation of public banks, the CM also advised people that it was better to keep their hard earned money at home than depositing them in banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/wb-assembly-elections-hemant-campaigns-for-tmc-appeals-voters-to-defeat-divisive-bjp-101616604317196.html
24-03-2021||Other||Allahabad high court expresses displeasure over people not wearing masks||The Allahabad high court has expressed displeasure over people not wearing masks in Uttar Pradesh and has directed some responsible police officer to inform the court as to why steps were not being taken to implement court’s directions to ensure cent percent use of mask in the state.While hearing a clutch of PILs filed last year regarding spread of Covid cases in the state, the court had directed the people to observe hundred per cent masking. Besides, the court had also directed the police to see that one and all wear masks. The court had made it clear that non-wearing of masks should entail penalties as have been enumerated in the Pandemic Act and other relevant laws. Besides, crowding should be stopped with immediate effect. The control of number of guests in marriages and other social functions etc should be observed and any violation should be strictly punished, the court had added. Besides, the court had directed that the schools where small children go should not be asked to start physical classes. If, however, for any reason schools are going ahead with physical classes then all guidelines issued by the state government should be followed in letter and spirit. Institutions where students above the Class 10 have to compulsorily attend classes should observe social distancing and wear masks, the court added.“Eateries should see that no food is served in the open, that is to say, people should take covered food in packets and should eat them at their home. Within the restaurants, tables should be laid in such a manner that social distancing is properly observed”, the court had directed.During the course of hearing on March 22, the police department informed that so far as masking was concerned, in between March 1 and 21, 2021, it had challaned 1192 persons in Prayagraj. Court appointed advocate commissioner Chandan Sharma also informed that almost nobody was wearing masks. Taking a serious note of these submissions, the division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “This small number of penalisation shows that the police have also become complacent.”So far as observance of the Covid guidelines in the high court is concerned, the court directed the counsel appearing for the high court to inform as to how guidelines would be followed.The court has fixed March 26, 2021 as the next date hearing of this PIL. Jitendra Sarin9651737686||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-high-court-expresses-displeasure-over-people-not-wearing-masks-101616604257702.html
24-03-2021||Other||J’khand brings in ‘land pooling’ for planned urban growth||RANCHIThe Jharkhand government has approved “land pooling” of private land in order to promote planned urbanisation in the state without the need to acquire land and making the land owners a stakeholder in the process. The state Assembly on Tuesday passed a Bill amending the Jharkhand Regional Development Authority Act, 1981, to introduce the concept, amid apprehensions by legislators about its implementation and violation of the state-specific tenancy Acts. “Land pooling is a tool which will promote planned urbanisation and would help in key aspects of urbanisation such as roads, parks, landfill sites and other infrastructure projects without going through the complex process of land acquisition while simultaneously making land owners a partner in the process,” the Bill that was passed on Tuesday says.However, during discussion on the Bill, legislators from both treasury and Opposition benches raised apprehensions about effectiveness of the instrument, besides lack of clear mechanism in the Bill to prevent violation of tenancy Acts such as CNT and SPT. Congress legislator Pradeep Yadav said while the new law was welcome, it lacks teeth in absence of a separate Act. “This is a borrowed concept from other states. We need to have a separate Land Polling Act to implement it here,” said Yadav. BJP legislator and former land and revenue minister Amar Bauri said the Bill did not clarify how would the land owners would benefit. “It has not been clarified what would be the share of the land owners in the entire project. Also, this state has special tenancy Acts and this Bill does not have any mention how would the rights of tribals would be protected if their land is taken for pooling,” he said.Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was present in the House when the Bill was being passed, said rules would be framed in a such a way that all these apprehensions are taken care of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkhand-brings-in-land-pooling-for-planned-urban-growth-101616604257130.html
24-03-2021||Patna||UP cops assaulted during raid in Buxar village||Four persons have been arrested in Buxar’s Englishpur village in connection with the attack on a police team from Gazipur in Uttar Pradesh which had come to the village to rescue a minor girl who was abducted earlier.As the police team closed in on the house of one Bhulan Rajbhar, the main accused in the abduction case, it came under attack, allegedly from his family members and accomplices, who took some of them hostages and thrashed them.Later, Buxar subdivisional police officer (SDPO) K K Singh rushed there with reinforcement and rescued them.The minor girl, however, was yet to be found.Police said Bhulan was accused in a case lodged with Nagsar police station of Gazipur district on the charges of abducting a minor girl. According to the FIR, Bhulan had gone to his sister’s house at Khadwal village in Gazipur and abducted the minor and brought her to his native village Englishpur in Buxar. The SDPO said when a six-member team of Gazipur police, with help of local police, came to the village, Bhulan managed to escape, while shouting that robbers had entered his house. His family members and accomplices obstructed the police team and also tried to snatch their firearms. Some of them also pelted stones at the team. The injured police personnel are undergoing treatment and their condition is out of danger. “They attacked the police team and created a ruckus. Bhulan’s father and some female relatives confined the local chowkidar Harendra, besides mother and brother of the abducted girl in their house. They also thrashed them. Soon, the additional force reached there and rescued them,” the SDPO said. The police have arrested Bhulan’s father Shivpujan Rajbhar and kin Tetri Devi, Guriya Devi and Sarita Rajbhar,” said the SDPO, adding that a case has been lodged against 15 identified and several unidentified accused for the incident. A senior official of state police headquarters said Englishpur village in Buxar district has been notorious for attacks on police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/up-cops-assaulted-during-raid-in-buxar-village-101616604137878.html
24-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Covid hits tuberculosis case notifications||The tuberculosis (TB) elimination programme has been hit like most other national health mission programmes during the coronavirus pandemic. Bihar could notify only 98,913 cases of TB in 2020 as against 1.22 lakh notified in 2019. As per the Centre’s estimation, 153 per 1 lakh population are infected by TB. That would leave Bihar with a TB burden of 1.83 lakh given the fact that its population is estimated to be 12 crore. However, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, said Bihar had done well than the rest of the country in terms of notifying TB cases. “Bihar’s shortfall in notification was 18% against the average national shortfall of 25% in 2020-21. This was because our focus never went off TB even during the pandemic,” he added. Kumar, however, stressed on expeditious detection of missing TB cases. The state’s annualised TB case notification rate, which had gone up to 100 per lakh population in 2019, had also slipped to 80 in 2020 that was at par with the notification rate in 2016. The primary reason for low notification was shortage of resources. Even the existing resources, both in terms of manpower and machinery, were redeployed to contain the pandemic. “We are, however, trying to get it (the programme) back on track, with healthcare workers reaching out to the homes of TB patients during the pandemic,” said Dr BK Mishra, state programme officer for tuberculosis. Most of the existing 70 CBNAAT machines, used for testing TB samples, were redeployed for Covid-19 testing. Health minister Mangal Pandey, who dedicated 37 TrueNAT machines, a diagnostic tool for TB, expressed unhappiness over the low testing rate. He called upon his officials to increase testing and participation in the TB control programme. He accepted that notification was an issue and the state was unable to identify the actual number of TB patients. Speaking at a function to mark the world TB day on Wednesday, he said the social stigma associated with the disease was also responsible for the low notification, as patients feared being ostracised.He, however, said that all vacant positions in the TB unit would be filled up in next two months. The minister also inaugurated the interactive voice recording system (IVRS) for sensitising patients whose bank accounts were not linked, for transfer of nutrition allowance of ₹500 per patient per month during the treatment period. Dr Ashutosh Sharan from East Champaran, Dr Rajesh Kumar Ranjan, Dr Anil Kumar and Dr Subodh Kumar (all from Siwan), Dr SS Nandi (Samastipur), Dr Ashok Kumar Singh (Kaimur), Dr Prakash Chandra Verma (Lakhisarai) were among some doctors felicitated for their contribution in elimination of TB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-hits-tuberculosis-case-notifications-101616604137239.html
24-03-2021||Patna||Rahul slams Nitish over Assembly incident, says under RSS hold||A day after Bihar Legislative Assembly witnessed unprecedented scenes wherein Opposition lawmakers allegedly held Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha hostage in his chamber for three hours before themselves being evicted by the police, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined the issue on Wednesday, saying democracy has been murdered in Bihar after Opposition legislators were roughed up by the police inside the Assembly. “It is clear from the shameful events in Bihar Assembly that the chief minister is firmly under the influence of BJP and RSS. Those stripping democracy have no right to call themselves a government,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged people to raise their voice against the alleged police high-handedness in Bihar.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said, “A murderous attack on democracy has taken place. The attack on MLAs by armed forces is a criminal act,” said Yadav in a tweet in Hindi.RJD legislator Awadh Bihari Chaudhury said, “I have never seen police entering the House and forcibly evicting and beating legislators.”Congress legislature party leader in the Assembly, Ajeet Sharma, too questioned how the police were allowed to enter House and beat legislators.Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) general secretary Deepankar Bhattacharya said, “This is what happened in Uttar Pradesh also. It is all a blueprint of the RSS to make an autocratic state. But Bihar will never accept it.” Political analyst NK Choudhary said the visuals from the House clearly showed a collapse of the democracy, but the initiation certainly was from the Opposition as they held Sinha captive and did not allow him to conduct House proceedings. “But there was an overreaction to it. There should have an attempt to find a political solution to the impasse. The Opposition also needed to behave responsibly...”Vinod Kanth, senior lawyer at the Patna High Court, said one could not straightaway condemn any legislation. “A lot will depend on how it evolves. If there is any arbitrariness and violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, the court is always there. If there is any sinister design behind it or it is stretched beyond the purpose for which it is made, people can approach court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rahul-slams-nitish-over-assembly-incident-says-under-rsshold-101616604077661.html
24-03-2021||Other||After flare-up, new low averted in Upper House||PATNABihar’s Legislative Council witnessed a peculiar scene on Wednesday, the concluding day of the budget session, when a group of infuriated treasury members advanced menacingly towards the Opposition benches in a bid to silence them even as chief minister Nitish Kumar was chastising and asking them to behave.Provoked by the Opposition’s offer for bangles to the CM over Tuesday’s incident in the Assembly, Kumar stood up and advised them to behave in a dignified way. “Recall what happened with those in the Assembly who resorted to hooliganism. People would give you a befitting reply. You don’t know what are you doing,” the CM told the Opposition, which was seeking a debate on the scuffle in the Assembly through an adjournment motion moved by RJD member Subodh Kumar. Apparently annoyed by Subodh Kumar’s act of displaying bangles, JD(U) member Neeraj Kumar asked the Opposition to maintain dignity and urged the chair to discipline RJD members. As the agitating RJD members refused to pay heed to repeated requests from the chair, a group of JD(U) members, led by Sanjay Singh, stormed the well and advanced towards the RJD leader arguing at top of his voice. Another JD(U) member Sanjeev Singh, however, intervened and prevented a likely altercation. Tanveer Akhtar, Bhishm Sahni and Ram Ishwar Mahato were accompanying Sanjay Singh who had reached near the Opposition benches. Sensing trouble, working chairman of the Council, Awadhesh Narayan Singh, stood on his chair and asked the members to maintain cool and listen to the leader of the house, the chief minister. “Don’t force me to do something that never happened here,” said Singh, as the CM kept on speaking, oblivious of heated exchanges between the members of both sides. The CM advised the Opposition to stay quite, while reminding them of the strength of treasury in the Council. “Do you know what is the number of this side (treasury),” asked Kumar, while advising Congress members to distance themselves from the RJD. Congress members, led by Prem Chandra Mishra, whose demand to discuss the police assault on MLAs through an adjournment motion led to an uproar and suspension of question hour in the first half, were also supporting the RJD in its protest. Later, the Council passed the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, and other legislations in the absence of the Opposition, which staged a walkout. In-charge home minister Bijendra Yadav later clarified in the House that the Opposition’s dears about the new legislation were totally unfounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-flare-up-new-low-averted-in-upper-house-101616604017094.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab continues to report over 2,000 daily new Covid-19 cases, active caseload jumps by over 1,000 cases||With 2,634 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, Punjab witnessed yet another day of over 2,000 daily infections as the state’s tally climbed to 220,276 cases, according to a bulletin from the state government. Also, 39 new deaths on the day took the death toll to 6,474.Daily new cases have been gradually increasing in the state with over 2,000 new cases being reported every day since March 18, 2021. The state had reported 2,274 cases on Tuesday, 2,319 cases on Monday and 2,669 cases on Sunday, as per state government data.The active caseload in Punjab also increased by 1,119 cases to 20,522 cases from the 19,403 reported on the previous day. Meanwhile, 1,455 patients recovered from the disease on the day and the total recoveries reached 193,280 patients.Also read | Telangana leads list of states where private hospitals contributed maximum to Covid-19 vaccination driveAmong the districts, Jalandhar, with 351 cases, reported the highest daily infections on the day followed by Ludhiana with 320 cases and SAS Nagar with 303 cases. Ludhiana also remained the worst affected district in terms of total confirmed cases with 31,750 cases. It is trailed by Jalandhar with 26,956 cases and SAS Nagar 24,485 cases.As cases continue to surge, the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that Punjab and Maharashtra are two states “of grave concern” in a press conference earlier in the evening. He also noted that the number of cases is high in Punjab in comparison with the state’s population. The ministry also identified Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Hoshiarpur as five districts with maximum active cases as of date.Also read | Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases breach 1,000-mark for second consecutive day; tally over 651,000Punjab currently has six containment zones across five districts and 72 micro containment zones across 12 districts. The government tested 38,829 samples in the day for the coronavirus disease. Also, 272,315 essential workers in the state have received the first dose of the vaccine and 93,001 have received the second. Among the public (people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities) 272,787 have received the first dose of the vaccine, data from the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-continues-to-report-over-2-000-daily-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-jumps-by-over-1-000-cases-101616602766843.html
24-03-2021||Other||A day after clashes with police, top RJD leaders among 3,000 booked||PATNATwo separate cases were lodged late Tuesday night against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav and 21 other leaders of the opposition and 3,000 unidentified people in connection with clashes with the police during a protest in the state capital earlier in the day. More than 18 police persons, including Kotwali police station house officer, journalists, a deputy SP and three magistrates were injured in stone pelting by RJD workers after they were stopped from crossing Dak Bungalow crossroads in Patna on Tuesday. Patna SSP Upendra Sharma said the first case was lodged with Kotwali police station against opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav, RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh, MLAs Tej Pratap Yadav, Ritlal Yadav, Chetan Anand, former minister Shyam Rajak, Abdul Bari Siidiqui, Ramai Ram, Kanti Singh, former MLAs Rajendra Yadav, Shakti Singh Yadav, besides Ritu Jaiswal, Bhai Arun, Kranti Singh, Archana Yadav, Gautam Kumar, Azad Gandhi, Nirala Yadav, Mahtab Alam, Prem Kumari Gupta and Nirbhay. The FIR was lodged on the statement of executive magistrate Kumari Pratima Gupta of Danapur. The second case was registered with Gandhi Maidan police station. “All the named and unknown accused were attacking police on duty and holding protests despite being denied permission for the same. The FIRs have been registered against them for damaging public property,” the SSP said. Police said RJD workers, under the leadership of brothers Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, had on Tuesday planned to surround the Bihar Assembly to protest against the Nitish Kumar government. However, they were stopped by police near Dak Bunglow crossing in Patna. Following this, a clash erupted around 11.30 am between RJD workers and police and continued till 2pm. Police used water cannons to disperse the crowd while RJD workers pelted stones in retaliation. Police then lathi-charged the protesting RJD workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aday-after-clashes-with-police-top-rjd-leaders-among-3-000-booked-101616603837041.html
24-03-2021||Other||HC seeks state govt’s stand on Kafeel’s plea to quash charge sheet, case||The Allahabad high court on Tuesday asked the state government to apprise it (the court) of the government’s stand on a petition moved by Dr Kafeel Khan seeking to quash the charge sheet and criminal case against him for his alleged inflammatory speech delivered at Aligarh Muslim University in December 2019.Justice JJ Munir passed the order on a petition filed by Dr Kafeel Khan after hearing his counsel. The court directed the state government counsel to apprise it on April 6, which was fixed as the next date of hearing in the case.Dr Khan had challenged the order passed by the chief judicial magistrate, Aligarh, taking cognizance of the charge sheet for the alleged offences under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Dr Kafeel Khan had addressed a rally at AMU on December 12, 2019 in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (anti-CAA) protests. Later, on February 13, 2020, the National Security Act (NSA) was imposed on him.On September 1, 2020, the Allahabad high court set aside the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the NSA and had directed the state government to immediately release him.The state government challenged the high court order before the Supreme Court but the apex court had refused to interfere in the matter.Dr Kafeel Khan was first in the news after the 2017 oxygen tragedy at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College in which several children had died allegedly due to lack of oxygen cylinders. While initially he was hailed as a saviour of the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders, he later faced action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-state-govt-s-stand-on-kafeel-s-plea-to-quash-charge-sheet-case-101616603717724.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Yogi dedicates 18 buildings in 13 districts||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the use of technology could expeditiously redress the grievances of people in Uttar Pradesh.He said the state government was committed to finding effective solutions to the problems of people and technology should also be used to carry out the work of the people smoothly.Yogi Adityanath was speaking via video conference after virtually dedicating to the public 18 residential/non-residential buildings worth ₹118 crore in 13 districts. He said the offices of different government departments would be set up in non-residential buildings to ease the process of grievances of the people.He said the state revenue department had completed the construction of these buildings in a time-bound manner. All the departments should complete all the projects in time in accordance with the wishes of the state government, the chief minister added.He also said a review should be conducted to know about the condition of old government buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-dedicates-18-buildings-in-13-districts-101616603717083.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||Death of 2 Pilibhit sisters: Post-mortem rules out rape, police question family members||A day after a 20-year-old woman and her 17-year-old sister were found dead in Bilsanda area of Pilibhit district of western Uttar Pradesh, the police have focused their investigation on the suspected involvement of people close to the girls, including family members, regarding the incident. Two police teams quizzed the family members of the girls, including their mother and brother, separately on Wednesday.The sisters went missing from their house on Monday evening. The body of the younger sister was found in a field while the elder sister was found hanging from a tree. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination and the police registered an FIR of murder regarding the incident.“The post-mortem investigation has revealed that the younger girl died due to strangulation while the cause of death of the elder sister was hanging. The post-mortem investigation has ruled out any possibility of injuries, torture or rape with the girls,” said superintendent of police (Pilibhit) Jaiprakash.As per police personnel familiar with the matter, suspicion about the role of family members and people known to the two sisters grew after the police team recovered the same kind of rope at the house of the girls which was used to hang the elder sister.The sisters reportedly worked at a brick kiln in the area and lived in shanties nearby with their mother, elder brother and sister-in-law. The sisters left their home at around 7pm to answer nature’s call. When they didn’t return after a few hours, their family members and relatives went out to search for them.“The family members continued the search overnight. They found the body of the younger sister around midnight while the body of the elder sister was found in the morning,” said the SP.The body of the younger sister was found in the field some 200 metres from their home.The elder sister was found hanging from a tree in a sugarcane field. The family members of the girl refused to speak on the issue despite repeated attempts.The family members informed the police about the incident in the morning. The family members have not blamed anyone for the deaths, nor have they alleged rape.Based on their complaint, the police registered a case of murder (section 302 of IPC) against unidentified people regarding the matter. “Additional charges will be added in the case on the basis of findings of post-mortem examination report,” said the SP.Police personnel familiar with the matter said a mobile phone was recovered from near the body of the elder girl. Police were taking the help of IT experts to recover data from the phone.“Our teams are in the process of gathering evidence in the matter. Arrest in the matter will be made once substantial evidence is collected,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/death-of-2-pilibhit-sisters-post-mortem-rules-out-rape-police-question-family-members-101616603597121.html
24-03-2021||Lucknow||LMC executive passes ₹1946.82 cr budget||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) executive committee passed a budget of ₹1946.82 crore for the financial year 2021-22 on Tuesday night.Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “No new tax was imposed on the common man in the LMC budget. ₹5 crore was allocated to fight corona in the city. Things like sanitisers, masks, PPE kits and sanitising machines would be purchased from this budget.”The executive committee decided to install statues of martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev in a city park which would be selected later.“A women’s bazaar would be set up and the place for it would be finalised by the mayor, along with women corporators. This bazaar would be a unique one in which all the shops would be owned and operated by women only,” she said.The executive committee decided to construct a women’s toilet and baby feeding centre at main parks of the city. It also decided to extend 5% rebate on house tax to residents who have got rainwater harvesting system at their home.A community centre for the Valmiki community would be made and ₹50 lakh has been earmarked for that.While ₹5 crore has been allocated for nullah (drain) cleaning work, ₹4 crore has been earmarked for flood pumping stations. A sum of ₹176 crore was allocated for development works like construction of roads and drains.A sum of ₹2 crore was given for construction of new garbage dump yards and ₹1 crore allocated for construction of new urinals and toilets in the city.ACCENT ON SANITATION The executive committee allocated ₹36 crore, especially for the management of solid waste in the city. A sum of ₹140 crore was allocated for sanitation of the city and ₹11 crore was marked for the maintenance of Kanha Upvan and Lakshman Gaushala.While ₹21 crore was allocated for streetlights, ₹30 crore was earmarked for the development of city parks.A sum of ₹2 crore has been set aside for creating compost pits in every city park.Besides, ₹150 crore will be spent on construction of Kalyan Mandap in the city parks . ₹3 crore will be spent on renovation of LMC hall and ₹2 crore for fencing of LMC land. ₹8 crore has been earmarked for creation of new parking lots in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lmc-executive-passes-rs-1946-82-cr-budget-101616603537174.html
24-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM seeks support in state's anti-coronavirus campaigns||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday expressed concern over the spurt in coronavirus cases in the state and appealed to the people to help the government in making its campaigns against the pandemic a success.The chief minister wrote letters to religious heads, political parties, different organisations and media, seekin their support in making the government's 'Mera Mask Meri Suraksha' and 'Meri Holi Mere Ghar' campaigns successful."We need everyone's help in the awareness campaign and whatever steps are required to be taken to break the virus chain, will be taken," a public relations department official quoted Chouhan as saying.The economic activities will continue, but breaking the chain of infection is the top priority of the state government, he said.The administration told Chouhan that nearly 1,700 coronavirus cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, including 450 in Indore and 385 in Bhopal, the official said."There is a need to take special measures in these two cities and also for taking other precautions," the CM was quoted as saying.Meanwhile, state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang on Wednesday visited the government-run Hamidia Hospital in Bhopal to review the preparations at the Covid-19 centre.He said that 390 beds are available at present in the Covid-19 centre and arrangements are being made for 120 more soon.In the days to come 400 more beds will be made available, he said.On the ongoing vaccination process, the minister said that 26 lakh doses have been administered to people and from April 1, persons above 45 years of age will also be vaccinated.He also urged the people to wear masks for their and their family's safety and appealed to them to come forward to raise awareness on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-seeks-support-in-state-s-anti-coronavirus-campaigns-101616600641834.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Even as cases surge, testing brought down by Pune dist admin||Pune: Even as Pune reports the most number of cases in the state and currently has the most active cases in Maharashtra, the district administration has brought down the number of tests. While Sunday is an exception as most labs are shut or working with limited capacity, the fall in the number of tests continued on Tuesday when most people would step out to test. As the number of tests is brought down, the positivity rate has gone higher. On Tuesday, the positivity rate was at 28.90% which is higher than what the district reported in September last year at around 23% during the peak of the first wave, according to the data provided by the district health office. On Tuesday, the number of tests conducted in the district was less than 20,000 even as more than 5,700 new cases were reported which took the positivity rate to approximately 29% for the day. Civic and district officials said that this is because of the weekend impact. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer said, “We sometimes get the results of Saturday and Sunday in two days and so the number reflected in the daily test report is that of the pending reports which have been released on Tuesday.” District health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar said that the number of tests reflected in the daily reports include the samples collected and test reports for the samples collected on Sunday. The increasing positivity rate has been a matter of concern for the administration as more cases means more load on the health infrastructure. However, officials claim that despite the increasing positivity rate, Pune is testing highest number of samples per million. As per the district health office, Pune tests 1.43 lakh tests per million which in Maharashtra is about 71,971 and 88,936 tests per million in India. As per a latest report from Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG), grouping on ten national laboratories, it was found that a double mutation found in the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra is of concern as these mutations have not been yet catalogued, announced the health ministry on Wednesday. The report stated, “The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E484Q and L452R mutations. Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity. These mutations have been found in about 15%-20% of samples and do not match any previously catalogued variants of concern (VOCs), These have been categorised as VOCs but require the same epidemiological and public health response of ‘increased testing, comprehensive tracking of close contacts, prompt isolation of positive cases and contacts as well as treatment as per National Treatment Protocol’ by the states and Union territories.” Drop in test count Date Cases Tests Positivity rate March 19 5,065 200,56 25.25% March 20 5,473 234,83 23.30% March 21 5,408 21,112 25.61% March 22 4,321 21,616 19.98% March 23 5,722 19,796 28.90% *Data provided by district health office||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/even-as-cases-surge-testing-brought-down-by-pune-dist-admin-101616600476816.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Ban on Holi celebrations dampens festive mood, events in Pune||Pune: The spike in Covid cases has prompted the district administration and Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations to issue orders on Wednesday to prohibit Holi celebrations scheduled on March 28 and Dhulwad (festival of colour) the next day. In his order, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has directed resorts and hotels located in rural parts from holding Holi events. “As a precautionary measure looking at the spread of Covid-19 and prevent crowding at public places, hotels, resorts, public auditoriums, open spaces and residential societies, Holi celebrations will not be allowed. Action will be taken against those found violating the rules,” states the order issued by Deshmukh. The festival is usually celebrated in Pune for five days starting with Holi. The circular issued by Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar banning celebrations of Holi, Dhuliwandan and Rangapanchami in its jurisdiction states, “The directives to ban Holi celebrations has been given according to the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.” Jaggy Mento, an event organiser said, “We had received contract to hold two private Holi event parties at resorts on Sunday and had already put in place all Covid safety precautions for guests.” Deepti Singh, member of Kingsbury building of Pride World City housing society in Lohegaon, said, “We will follow the circular issued by the district administration and celebrate the festival at our homes.” Last year, Maharashtra reported its first case on March 9 when the state was to celebrate the festival of colour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ban-on-holi-celebrations-dampens-festive-mood-events-in-pune-101616599276683.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases breach 1,000-mark for second consecutive day; tally over 651,000||Delhi on Wednesday continued to see a sharp rise in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally as 1,254 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. This is the highest number of daily cases seen in the national capital since the beginning of this year. The Capital registered 769 recoveries and six deaths on Wednesday.It is also the second consecutive day that more than 1,000 people tested positive for the disease. On Tuesday, 1,101 cases were seen - which have been the highest since December last year.The caseload has now climbed to 651,227 including 10,973 deaths, 635,364 recoveries and 4,890 active cases, the bulletin showed on Wednesday. Authorities carried out over 82,331 tests of which 30,107 are rapid antigen tests while the remaining 52,224 are RT-PCR/TruNat/CBNAAT, it added. As many as 2,560 infected patients are in home isolation and containment zones as of Wednesday stand at 976.Delhi reports 1254 new #COVID19 cases, 769 recoveries and 6 deaths. Total cases 6,51,227Total recoveries 6,35,364Death toll 10,973Active cases 4890 pic.twitter.com/p4aEFeWqu4As the overall situation has been declining in Delhi since last month, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led government ordered all district magistrates to ensure strict enforcement of all Covid-related norms, especially in crowded areas.Issuing an order, the Delhi government stated that movie halls, religious places, malls and weekly markets are super spreader areas. “There has been a steady increase in the number of cases in the last 15 days, but people are not following the Covid-19 norms,” the government order added.Keeping in view that celebrations of festivals can lead to a rapid surge in cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Tuesday that no public celebrations of Holi, Navratri, Shab-e-Barat will be permitted in the city. The DDMA also announced on Monday that the Delhi airport along with all railway stations would test passengers for Covid-19 due to the rise in cases.More than 857,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far against Covid-19 in the national Capital so far, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urging eligible people to get vaccinated. “Vaccine doses are free of cost at all government centres,” Kejriwal’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-cases-breach-1-000-mark-for-second-consecutive-day-101616597084752.html
24-03-2021||Dehradun||Will review Covid situation in Haridwar: Uttarakhand govt ahead of Kumbh mela||With almost one week to go for the Kumbh Mela (on April 1) in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar amid the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across India, state secretary Om Prakash said on Wednesday that no lockdown will be imposed currently, news agency ANI reported. “The High Court has directed to follow both Centre and State SOPs (for RT-PCR negative test report not older than 72 hours)” Prakash said adding that he would be staying in Haridwar to review the Covid-19 situation.The chief secretary on Tuesday ordered the district administrations, government organisations (central and state level) and other such associates to take necessary measures to ensure all residents of the state adhere to the Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing and sanitising/washing of hands etc.Uttarakhand on Wednesday reported 200 new Covid-19 disease cases and 49 more recoveries taking the caseload and total discharges to 98,880 and 94,634 respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. There were no new deaths on Wednesday and the toll stands at 1,706. The active cases, on the other hand, have climbed to 1,115, the bulletin added.The Union health ministry on Sunday warned that a huge gathering of devotees during the Kumbh mela could lead to a spike in the number of people testing positive for Covid-19. A central government team led by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) paid a visit to Uttarakhand from last week to review the medical and health measures undertaken by the Uttarakhand government for the festival.Following this, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote a letter to state chief secretary Prakash where he said that more than 12 states were seeing a surge in their cases recently and the devotees expected to attend the Kumbh Mela could be from these states. Citing the report prepared by the NCDC, Bhushan noted that 10-20 pilgrims and 10-20 locals were testing positive on a daily basis and urged for the need to impose stringent measures to control the spread of the disease during the festival.However, days before the ministry’s letter was sent to the state government, the newly appointed chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tirath Singh Rawat had eased Covid-related restrictions for all devotees gathering in Haridwar for the mela by saying that the event is held once every 12 years and devotees could not be stopped from coming, according to a report by Hindustan Times on March 22. This comment of Rawat led to criticism from experts and former Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat who said that lifting of curbs will be very risky due to the surge in cases all across India, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/will-review-covid-situation-in-haridwar-uttarakhand-govt-ahead-of-kumbh-mela-101616595540079.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Lockdown rumours wear heavy on gym business in Pune||Pune: Gym owners may face empty workout spaces again as rumour of lockdown is keeping customers avoid visiting the establishments. While inquiries for new membership are falling, old clients are demanding assurance of money refund before renewing membership. “Since the night curfew was imposed from February 22, people have been apprehensive of a lockdown. The rise in Covid cases has left many on wait-and-watch mode to extend membership. The common queries are whether membership will be transferred or extended after Diwali if lockdown is announced,” said Nilesh Kale, president, Pune Fitness Club Association. Gyms were allowed to reopen from October 2020 after seven months of closure. There are around 3,000 gyms in the city. “The number of those in 15-22 year age group seeking membership has dropped. Those in the IT sector who used to workout at the gym have also become less as many are working from home. Only the fitness freaks are regular and our business has hit by 50 per cent,” said Kale. According to estimates, the lockdown has left the industry face losses running over ₹500 crore. The annual turnover of the industry is ₹800-1000 crore. “People are avoiding yearly and six-month packages and it affects the gym maintenance expense,” said Ayesha Nagargoje, RC Fitness Club, Wagholi. “As the summer season is approaching, we are looking forward to good business as it is a peak period for us. The lockdown talks has left many customers in two minds about investing in gyming,” said Manish Patwardhan, Fitranger Gym, Kothrud. Saurabh Gandhe, a regular at a gym at Sadashiv peth, said, “Last time, my six-month membership got wasted because of the lockdown. Hence, I have opted for one-month subscription which though is on the higher side than the bulk package but is economical given the lockdown probability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-rumours-wear-heavy-on-gym-business-in-pune-101616593396307.html
24-03-2021||Other||PMC water budget, with demand for hike in city’s water supply, pending with state dept||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has submitted a water budget to the state water resource department, demanding an increase in the city’s water quota. However, pending a canal committee meeting, the official water quota has not been sanctioned yet.Every year, PMC submits a water budget as per the Maharashtra Water Resource Regulatory Authority (MWRRA). This year, PMC has raised the water quota to 18.58 thousand million cubic feet (TMC). However, the state water resource department’s Khadakwasla irrigation division is firm on its decision to sanction 11.50 TMC of water to Pune city.In its water budget for 2020-21, PMC has shown an increase in numbers in the floating population from 2,60,422 to 2,65,630. Also, the city’s population has increased from 58,06,723 to 59,16,099. Hence, the PMC has demanded 18.58 TMC of water from the Khadakwasla irrigation department.Pune city gets water from the Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar dams. However, the Temghar dams has been under repair. At present, there is a total of 17.71 TMC water available in the four dams which more than last year’s 16.20 TMC.Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner (PMC) said, “We have demanded 18.58 TMC of water to the city, as the city area has expanded due to the inclusion of 11 villages; there are also another 23 villages in line for inclusion in the PMC limits.”Manisha Shekatkar, Eeecutive engineer of PMC’s water supply department said, “There is a population increase in the water budget. Water demand has increased by half TMC every year as per the increasing population rate of the city. The norm has been set by MWRRA.”She added, “The Khadakwasla Irrigation department has signed an agreement of 11.50 TMC for the next six years. However, our demand is 18.58 TMC. Therefore, an additional water quota will be decided at the canal committee meeting. Right now, we are getting regular water supply.”A senior official of the irrigation department, speaking anonymously, said, “PMC is getting 2.5 TMC water from Bhama-Askhed dam. If we approve the 18.58 TMC demand, it will be more than 21 TMC. We have to supply water to rural parts of Pune district for drinking purposes, as well as agriculture and industrial purposes. We will consider all these facts before taking any decision on PMC’s water demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-water-budget-with-demand-for-hike-in-city-s-water-supply-pending-with-state-dept-101616593216371.html
24-03-2021||Patna||‘It is in speaker’s hand’: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar says speaker can take any help to control situation in assembly||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the speaker of the state assembly can decide to call on any help to control the situation in the house, commenting on the ruckus in the Bihar state assembly on Tuesday. “Everyone knows how the speaker's chamber was gheraoed and what was done in front of his chair in the house. Today it is being said that Police was called there, it is in the speaker's hands that he can take any help to control the situation,” the CM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister’s comments came amidst ongoing protests by the opposition parties against a bill passed by the state government on Tuesday.Also read | Bihar’s new police bill explained and why it has evoked protestsThe government of Bihar passed the Special Armed Police Bill on Tuesday, which the opposition parties heavily opposed. When some opposition leaders blocked the way of speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha after an adjournment order during the proceedings, marshals and police personnel were called in to evict the members. Also, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA Satish Kumar was carried on a stretcher from the assembly. He alleged manhandling by “police and local goons” according to a report by ANI.Criticising the bill, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said, “We wanted to speak but we were thrashed. This law means that search will be conducted without warrant and any policeman can arrest if he believes something is wrong. No use of courts and magistrate."Condemning the chaos in the assembly, Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said, “I have never seen such activities in the Assembly. They (Opposition MLAs) should have participated in the debate. We would have replied to every question of them (regarding Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021).”Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha MP and former deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Modi also commented that he had never seen such “hooliganism, sabotage and scuffle,” ANI reported. “If tomorrow they (opposition) get another chance, they will do the same for the entire state of Bihar,” ANI quoted Modi as saying.Meanwhile, a first information report (FIR) was filed against Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav and other unnamed party workers, according to a news report by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/it-is-in-speaker-s-hand-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-says-speaker-can-take-any-help-to-control-situation-in-assembly-101616592139645.html
24-03-2021||Other||Days after being held captive, beaten for stealing, boy dies in K’taka’s Haveri||A 10-year-old boy died on Tuesday days after he was allegedly locked up in a room, tied to a stone, and beaten for allegedly stealing snacks from a store at Uppanashi in Karnataka’s Haveri district on March 16, said two police officers requesting anonymity as they were not authorised to speak to the media.In his complaint, the boy’s father said they found the boy was in the shopkeepers’ captivity and was allegedly being beaten on the suspicion of the theft when they went looking for him after he did not return home for two hours.Also Read | 3 human skeletons recovered from house in Panipat , murder case registeredPolice said the shop owners held the boy captive for over two hours and let him go only after his mother’s pleadings. By the night of March 16, the boy’s condition worsened, and he was rushed to a hospital in Haveri. The doctors then referred him to Hubballi where he died.The owners of the store were absconding.Police said they were awaiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death and to press charges.The shop owners are yet to be booked for murder as a probe was being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/days-after-being-held-captive-beaten-for-stealing-boy-dies-in-k-taka-s-haveri-101616585763400.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Non-Covid patients in Pimpri-Chinchwad suffer due to unavailability of doctors at hospitals||PUNE Amid the surge in Covid cases, the civic body is making all efforts to vaccinate people even as non-Covid patients in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are facing tough times as hospitals run by the administration are either closed or lack doctors as they are on vaccination duty.In PCMC, there are 52 vaccination centres, while 37 are run by PCMC, 17 centres are at private hospitals.Patients suffering from normal fever, cough, cold, diarrhoea among others are unable to get proper medical attention.Ramesh Phadnis, a patient from Thergaon, said, “I am experiencing mild fever from the last two days, but I could not meet the doctor at a hospital in Kalewadi. On Tuesday, the ward boy said the doctor will come on Wednesday morning, but I found the clinic was closed.”Along with doctors, nurses, ward boys all are occupied with duty at vaccination centres.Usha Patil, a nurse who works at a hospital near Dange chowk, said, “Two of my colleagues are on duty at the vaccination centre along with the doctor. Sometimes the doctor visits the clinic in the evening, few patients wait while others return.”“Many hospitals are facing the problem, we are in the process of increasing staff at the vaccination centres. In a couple of days, we will find a solution to the problem. Few private hospitals are helping us with their staff,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.As of March 23, PCMC’s progressive count stands at 121,019 and the death toll at 1,358. At least 1,02,321, beneficiaries have been vaccinated here. The vaccination drive started on January 16, while the third phase started on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noncovid-patients-in-pimpri-chinchwad-suffer-due-to-unavailability-of-doctors-at-hospitals-101616585342717.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor a BJP karyakarta, alleges Raut||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sent a delegation to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday over the “situation” in the state, Shiv Sena alluded to “BJP karyakarta” in Raj Bhavan which itself has become a “political adda”.Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Sena leader Sanjay Raut also said that the state government could order a probe under a retired high court judge to investigate the allegations levelled against home minister Anil Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.In their meeting with Koshyari, the BJP delegation had requested the Governor to send a report on the state’s situation to President Ram Nath Kovind to which Raut responded by saying, “They [BJP leaders] are only meeting their party workers; some are in the administration and some are in Raj Bhavan. So, it is a family gathering. I am saying that our governor was an RSS worker, a BJP union minister and a BJP chief minister. So, is it an insult to call him a karyakarta?” he said. He also raised the issue of Raj Bhavan not clearing the names of 12 nominees, who are recommended by the state cabinet, as governor-nominated members of the legislative council (MLC). “Raj Bhavan has become a political adda, and there will be criticism till the time it remains so. We will continue to say so till the Governor clears the 12 nominated MLCs. He is not clearing these names due to pressure from the BJP.” Also Read | Send report on Maharashtra’s ‘political situation’ to Prez: BJP leaders to GuvLeader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said he doesn’t consider Raut a leader to respond to his statements. “Sanjay Raut has a lot of time on his hands. When you (the media) don’t have any news, you go to him. He is not such a big leader for me to respond to what he says. The Governor is the constitutional head...If we go to him [Koshyari], he becomes a BJP leader. When Raut goes and bows before him out of respect, whose leader does he [Koshyari] become then?” he said.The Sena-led government is in the eye of the storm following Param Bir Singh’s allegation against Deshmukh. The state government is expected to announce a probe in the matter. Raut said the probe could be headed by a retired high court judge. “The CM wants a probe, the home minister too wants it...A retired high court judge or somebody else [can probe it]. The probe will not be hampered till Uddhav Thackeray is the chief minister,” Raut said.Also Read | Mansukh Hiran murder: ATS calls Sachin Vaze ‘mastermind’, to seek custodyMeanwhile, he added, that the report of IPS officer Rashmi Shulka, which alleged corruption in police transfers, does not contain anything “serious”. On Tuesday, Fadnavis submitted the report to Union home secretary and sought a probe by the CBI. “The documents are not serious at all. ..The report doesn’t have anything in it, it should be released and everybody should read it carefully. It does not have even a line against the way the government acted,” Raut said. The Sena leader also added that the government has full knowledge of the “leaks” in the state administration and chief minister is taking steps to plug them. Raut said that they have names of the officers who are “loyal” to the previous government. “There can be some officers in the administration who are loyal to the previous government, and may have prepared a report...But it is not some ‘bomb’… In the last 1.5 years, some leaks have been found, a serious thought must be given to that. We have information about these officers,” he said. Summing up the ongoing political drama in Maharashtra, Raut invoked a popular slogan of West Bengal assembly elections and said, “Khela Hobe” or game on. “Currently. Maharashtra and Delhi are doing ‘Khela Hobe’. It is entertaining for the people of Maharashtra, and it is tax-free entertainment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-a-bjp-karyakarta-alleges-raut-101616585104980.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Fuel prices drop in Pune for the first time in 5 months||Pune: The prices of fuel have dropped in the city for the first time since October 2, 2020. On Wednesday (March 24), petrol was sold at ₹97.02 per litre, a drop by ₹0.17. The price of diesel per litre was ₹86.70, a decrease by ₹0.18. The last hike in fuel prices was recorded on February 27, 2021 — petrol ( ₹97.19/litre) and diesel ( ₹86.88/ litre) —and it remained unchanged till Wednesday. In Pune, the last date on which the petrol price dropped was September 22, 2020 when it touched ₹87.51 per litre and diesel price was ₹76.34/litre. In the upcoming days till October 2, 2020, diesel prices slipped down a couple of times. After October 2, fuel prices had remained steady for almost 47 days and prices increased on November 20, 2020. The price of petrol was ₹87.67 per litre and diesel ₹75.71 per litre. “It is good news for common people. Citizens can expect a further reduction in fuel prices as the rate has come down by almost 10 dollars per barrel in the international market,” said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India Petroleum Dealers Association (AIPDA). According to experts, residents will only be able to get relief if the excessive taxation is suspended. “Now they claim that the prices have dropped because of the crude oil prices falling in the international market. These prices have gone down before, but citizens didn’t get any substantial benefit because the taxation on petrol and diesel had been increased since last May. Now there is a slight drop in prices because no additional cess has been imposed. As the elections in five states were announced prices remain constant. It is up to the government to give relief to citizens,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch. “The petrol and diesel prices should drop by at least ₹15- ₹20 to give us real benefit. If after some time the prices start increasing again, then this price range will become the standard and we will not see previous rates again,” said Rutika Deshmukh, a resident of Kharadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-prices-drop-in-pune-for-the-first-time-in-5-months-101616584442714.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Thane court orders Maharashtra ATS to transfer Mansukh Hiran murder case to NIA||The chief metropolitan magistrate court in Thane on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) to transfer the Mansukh Hiran murder case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) forthwith. The court gave its order on an application filed by NIA on Tuesday seeking the transfer of the Mansukh Hiran murder case registered on March 7, 2021 to the special NIA court at Mumbai in view of a March 20 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The case is being investigated by Maharashtra ATS.Forty-eight-year-old Hiran, linked to the explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio parked near Antilia, billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai, was found dead on March 5. His body was found dumped in the creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra, about 12 hours after he went missing late in the evening of March 4. Some handkerchiefs were stuffed in his mouth and his face was covered with a scarf when police took out the body from the creek.Also Read | Antilia bomb scare: NIA slaps stringent UAPA against Sachin VazeHiran’s belongings, such as his mobile phone, gold chain and ring and wallet were missing.Though initially an accidental death report was registered by Mumbra Police in connection with the auto part dealer’s death, on March 7, ATS registered a murder case after his wife, Vimala, said she was sure that her husband was murdered and that suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze had a hand in it.Vaze is already under arrest by NIA in the Antilia security scare case on March 13. NIA had taken over that case on March 8 following orders from MHA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-court-orders-maharashtra-ats-to-transfer-mansukh-hiran-murder-case-to-nia-101616584023393.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare case: NIA slaps stringent UAPA against Sachin Vaze||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has slapped the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, officials said on Wednesday. Vaze is currently in NIA's custody for his alleged role in planting an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai on February 25.Also Read | Sachin Vaze stayed at 5-star hotel using forged Aadhaar card, fake name: NIAVaze, an assistant police inspector (API) with the Mumbai Police, has been charged under sections 16 and 18 of the UAPA, officials said. These deal with an individual/group conspiring or attempt to commit or advocates, abets, the commission of a terrorist act or any act preparatory to the commission of a terror act.The agency had detained Vaze earlier this month, before formally arresting him on March 13. He was the lead investigator in the case before it was transferred to the NIA by the Union home ministry. Separately, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has called him the "mastermind" behind the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was the owner of the Scorpio which was found near Antilia, the Ambanis' residence.The NIA has been tasked with probing Hiran's death as well. The home ministry transferred the case to it on March 20. The ATS was on Wednesday evening directed by Thane sessions court to hand over the probe to the central agency.Also Read | Thane court orders Maharashtra ATS to transfer Mansukh Hiran murder case to NIAVaze's name has also cropped up in connection with an alleged extortion racket in Mumbai. Param Bir Singh, who was shunted from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner to commandant general, Home Guards, last week, has accused state home minister Anil Deshmukh of tasking Vaze with collecting ₹100 crore per month from bars, restaurants and hotels in the city.The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has refused to sack or suspend Deshmukh, who has denied Singh's allegations and threatened to sue him for defamation.Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court dismissed Singh's plea seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against the home minister, asking the senior officer to approach Bombay High Court first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-nia-slaps-stringent-uapa-against-sachin-vaze-101616583419761.html
24-03-2021||Patna||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav threatens to boycott Assembly session over Special Armed Police Bill||A day after the ruckus in the Bihar Legislative Assembly over Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday threatened to boycott the remaining tenure of the session if the Nitish Kumar-led state government fails to apologise for the incident. "Nitish Kumar Ji should know that governments change. MLAs were abused and beaten inside the Assembly yesterday," news agency ANI quoted Yadav as saying. "'Nirlaj (shamless) Kumar Ji' has lost all shame," he also said, according to ANI.The Bihar assembly was thrown into disarray on Tuesday after the opposition created a ruckus over the Special Armed Police Bill which seeks to give more teeth to the state police. The assembly saw multiple adjournments as opposition RJD leaders raised slogans demanding the state government to withdraw the bill. The opposition later staged a walkout, while the bill was passed.Following the uproar, some opposition leader also surrounded the the speaker's chamber and prevented Vijay Kumar Sinha from leaving. As the chaos unfolded, marshals were called to take control of the situation and prevent the agitated legislators from getting physical with those in the treasury benches. A heavy contingent of police personnel wearing riot gear also reached the premises and evicted lawmakers.RJD MLA Satish Kumar was also carried on a stretcher from the assembly; the leader claimed he was "manhandled by police and local goons" inside the premises during the protest.Earlier in the day, the Opposition parties issued a joint statement in which they condemned the attack on MLAs during the assembly chaos. "This is an unconstitutional bill that effectively transforms the police force into an armed militia to harass, suppress and crackdown on academics, activists, journalists. the political opposition and all those who dare to speak truth to power," the parties said in the statement.The parties, which condemned Tuesday evening's incident, included Rashtriya Janata Dal, Samajwadi Party, Aam Aadmi Party, Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Trinamool Congress, and Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjd-leader-tejashwi-yadav-threatens-to-boycott-assembly-session-over-special-armed-police-bill-101616578002342.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||10 police officers transferred in Punjab, Gurdaspur gets new SSP||The Punjab government on Wednesday transferred two IPS and eight PPS officers. Nanak Singh, IPS, will be the new Gurdaspur senior superintendent of police (SSP) in place of Rajinder Singh, who has now been posted as the assistant inspector general (AIG), counter intelligence. Another IPS officer and deputy inspector general, vigilance bureau, Surjit Singh has been shifted as the DIG, special task force, Ferozepur and Ludhiana ranges. Of the PPS officers transferred, Kashmir Singh Gill has been posted as AIG, STF, Ropar range. Lakhbir Singh will be commandant, 5th IRB, Amritsar, in place of Kuljit Singh, who has been transferred AIG, STF, Amritsar. Rajpal Singh is the new AIG, STF, Jalandhar, with additional charge of commandant, Recruits Training Centre, Punjab Armed Police, Jalandhar. Ranjit Singh is the new AIG, STF, Bathinda range, while Nirmaljit Singh joins as AIG, STF, Ferozepur range. Davinder Singh has been posted as the superintendent of police, STF, Bathinda and Ferozepur ranges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-police-officers-transferred-in-punjab-gurdaspur-gets-new-ssp-101616578383287.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||TRP scam: Maharashtra to complete probe against Republic TV in 12 weeks||On Wednesday, after the Maharashtra government assured the Bombay high court that it will complete its investigation into the role of Republic TV in the TRP manipulation case within 12 weeks, the court directed Mumbai Police to give an advance notice of three days to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, if he had to be arrested in the case.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and Goswami seeking quashing of the FIR and charge sheet filed by Mumbai Police in the alleged TRP manipulation case, was informed by senior counsel Ashok Mundargi that the cases were solely intended to target his clients for adverse reportage against the police and state government.Also Read | TRP Case: Probe agencies should act reasonably, says Bombay HCMundargi argued that while other channels were also named in the case, employees of only his clients’ channel were being interrogated. He added that though it had been four months since investigations started the police had been unable to get any evidence against the channel or Goswami. In light of this, Mundargi submitted that his clients are required protection from coercive action pending hearing.The bench then sought to know as to when the police would complete the probe.Responding to the court query on Wednesday, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare submitted that the investigation against Republic TV and its employees would be completed within 12 weeks. Thereafter, the court directed the state to give a three-day notice to Goswami in case he was to be arrested.The court noted that investigation could not be stayed as there was no clarity on who is and who is not an accused. While posting further hearing on the plea to June 28, the court directed Goswami to co-operate with the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-scam-maharashtra-to-complete-probe-against-republic-tv-in-12-weeks-101616577663236.html
24-03-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Rock-cut in Pune, an ode to the ages||Punekars, in general, are very fond and rightfully proud of their beloved hills. These hills provide a definitive character to the Pune and a much-needed break from the bustling city. It is, thus, a common sight to see Punekars flocking to the picturesque hills early in the mornings, and in the evenings, to breathe the much-needed fresh air. These sites of urban natural heritage are also home to some of the oldest cultural heritage sites in the city. In the last column, we visited the popular rock-cut temple in the form of the Pataleshwar caves. But, the rock cutting tradition of Pune stretches far and wide, in time and space. As the city engulfed villages such as Baner, Yerwada, Bhamburda, and Hinjewadi, these cultural sites are lost in the urban makeover, making it difficult to recognise their original character. Some historical context, patience and curiosity-fuelled enthusiasm will help you locate and explore these rock-cut marvels. These rock cutting signatures in Pune are seen mostly on elevations or foothills of various tekdis encompassing the main Mula Mutha basin. The Buddhist route entering the city from Tamhini via the Maan-Hinjewadi route is marked by single Buddhist cell vihara at Maan village. The Fergusson college hill is home to probably the oldest cave in Pune. The top of the hill marks the memorial of an important historical event - establishment of the Servants’ of India society to strengthen educational and social reforms in India (June 12, 1905), by noted reformist Dr Gopal Krishna Gokhale. As we move down towards the Wadarwadi slums, a set of rock-cut steps takes you to the courtyard of the rock-cut Pandav caves, recently named the Vruddheshwar cave temple.The main cave has a wide verandah and a 20-foot wide square cell carved with a rectangular doorway. No older sculptures or symbols can be observed apart from the modern installations of Shivlinga, Lord Vitthal-Rakhumai, and Hanuman.Another unfinished cell is carved as part of this complex. A few metres to the right, at some altitude, one can locate two more unfinished rock-cut cells. The highlight of the site is the quintessential Buddhist rock- cut cistern, which closely resembles the second-third century CE water cisterns found at other Buddhist sites in the Sahyadris. The original Baner village is situated next to the Tukai hill, which offers us another rock-cut endeavour belonging a few centuries later to the Pataleshwar caves. Flights of newly built steps towards Tukai hill take us to the complex of Baneshwar caves. A platform next to it houses a medieval memorial pillar symbolising a hero’s death, a deepmal and a balipeetha. Balipeetha has a depiction of the guru’s feet and ram heads on a square platform. Blood sacrifices or prasada were offered in the past on such platforms. The narrow rock-cut path takes us to the pillared cave excavated under the surface. A narrow, pillared verandah, pillared hall and three cells in the back, is how the cave plan is laid. The stocky square pillars have rectangular capitals devoid of any ornamentation; they are but a poor cousin of the finely polished pillars of Pataleshwar caves. The central square cell houses a modern Baneshwar shivalinga and has rough niches in the back wall. The left cell actually is a water cistern with a perennial water source which causes flooding in the cave. Overall the cave looks severely unfinished with rough chiselled surfaces and might be dated to between the ninth to and 11th centuries CE. One of the niches in the hall houses handsome herostones which probably belong to heroes of Baner who laid down their lives in a bygone era. Parvati hill in the heart of city marks the sacred temple complex developed during the Peshwa period, but to the southeast of the hill is located another rock-cut heritage. The rock-cut cave named “Parvati cave”, is another unfinished cave with a small courtyard and robust rock-cut façade. The cave is essentially a pillar hall with four roughly carved square pillars. On most occasions, it is filled with knee-deep water making access difficult. Based on the plan and style of the pillars, the cave might be dated to the 12th to 14th century CE, the Yadava period. The Chaturshrungi temple section of the Vetal hill complex, is also a rock-cut cave. The rock-cut nature of the cave separated from the bedrock can be surmised when one circum-ambulates the main cave using the rock-cut steps. In the 18th century, a wealthy banker, Durlabh Sheth established the goddess Chaturshrungi, as a satellite site of the goddess Saptshringi in Nashik, and was named after the four peaks of Vetal hill. The eastern-most cave in the city is situated on the Yerwada hill and is presently known as Tarakeshwar temple. The modern renovations in the sanctum have totally hidden the original rock-cut nature of the cave shrine. Dating of the cave at Chaturshrungi and Tarkareshwar caves in Yerwada is not possible due to absence of any datable signs. Today, most of these caves survive as places of worship. Though they have been renovated beyond recognition, it is the village association and reverence from families in the respective gaothan areas that have ensured the old memory of a bygone antiquity and sacred space even in 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-rock-cut-in-pune-an-ode-to-the-ages-101616577422331.html
24-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Noida to conduct random testing at Delhi border from tomorrow||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration would be conducting random sampling for Covid-19 at different points on Delhi-Noida and also inter-district borders, apart from railway stations, bus stands, and Metro stations, from Thursday.The decision comes amid a sudden spurt in Covid cases and also in anticipation of a crowd ahead of Holi festivities and panchayat elections.The district administration has formed two teams to conduct random testing for Covid-19 at 14 identified border points in the next one week, said district magistrate Suhas LY. The district magistrate said that as per the guidelines issued by the Central and state governments, for any public functions, prior permission from the local police is mandatory. “The process has been made transparent and hassle-free. Before organising any public gathering, the organisers will have to apply online to obtain permission. If it is be deemed fair by the authorities, permission will be granted instantly. For any private gathering, no permission is required,” he said.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s key border routes remain affectedThe DM added that no cap has been put on the number of people attending a public gathering. “But, maintaining social distancing and following all Covid-19 standard operating protocols, are mandatory,” he said.Suhas added that all the industrial, commercial and educational establishments, besides private and government offices, have been asked to establish and activate Covid-19 desks in their premises, to keep a close tab on the workers there. “Noida, being an industrial hub, caters to thousands of migrant workers. With these help desks, we will be able to identify persons with influenza-like illness symptoms,” he said.Health department officials have been asked to intensify random sampling and testing at all places and critical pockets. “A few months ago, we found that rate of spread in the critical pockets, mostly the villages adjoining Noida-Delhi border, was four times higher than the general areas. Health officials have been asked to increase testing in these areas, to access the nature of spread there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-to-conduct-random-testing-at-delhi-border-from-tomorrow-101616576162887.html
24-03-2021||Patna||FIR against Tejashwi Yadav, Tej Pratap after RJD leaders clash with cops||A First Information Report (FIR) was lodged in Bihar on Wednesday against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leaders Tejashwi Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, and other unnamed party workers, news agency ANI reported. This comes after a protest led by opposition legislators against the police bill, passed by the state Assembly, led to unruly scenes yesterday.The Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, which seeks to give more teeth to the state police, was passed on Tuesday. This led to the House witnessing unprecedented turmoil — order was thrown into disarray and multiple adjournments declared as opposition RJD leaders raised slogans demanding that the Nitish Kumar-led government withdraw the bill.In the meanwhile, protesting legislators laid siege to the Speaker's chamber, news agencies reported, and the police had to be called in to physically evict them. RJD MLA Satish Kumar was seen being carried outside from the Assembly on a stretcher; the leader claimed that he was "manhandled by police and local goons" inside the premises during the protest. Women MLAs of the Opposition were carried out of the assembly building by women security personnel.In a tweet early this morning, Yadav slammed the alleged police action against the legislators, and claimed that the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill is a "draconian act" that will give "absolute powers" to the police to act as a "veritable arm" of chief minister Nitish Kumar's "dictatorial politics".He also shared a clip which, according to him, showed the "shameless" police blocking RJD MLAs inside the House.Draconian Act which will give absolute powers to Police,so that it can act as veritable arm of Nitish's dictatorial politics, has been passed in police protection by throwing out battered MLAs using Police itself.See how Police is blocking our MLAs inside the house. Shameless! pic.twitter.com/EnUNg5GsWMAlso Read: 'Democracy murdered in Bihar': Congress on police action against opposition MLAsBihar Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Singh, however, highlighted the incident of RJD MLAs allegedly confining him to his chamber inside the legislature building premises and said that such acts were condemnable. Meanwhile, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that he had never seen such activities inside the Assembly before.Other opposition parties, including the Samajwadi Party, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Congress, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the Trinamool Congress, and the Shiv Sena have also joined the RJD in condemning the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Janta Dal (United) (JD-U) government in Bihar over Tuesday evening's incident.In a joint statement, the parties stated: "This is an unconstitutional bill that effectively transforms the police force into an armed militia to harass, suppress and crackdown on academics, activists, journalists, the political opposition and all those who dare to speak truth to power."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-fir-against-tejashwi-yadav-tej-pratap-after-rjd-leaders-clash-with-cops-101616570564119.html
24-03-2021||Other||21-year-old woman, set afire after rape bid, dies in UP’s Shahjahanpur||A 21-year-old woman succumbed to her burn injuries at a hospital in Lucknow on Tuesday over a month after she was set afire and abandoned near a highway in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur on February 22.Police superintendent S Anand said the woman was rushed to Lucknow for better medical treatment. “Her body has been sent for post-mortem examination. Investigation regarding the case is still on.”Police said the woman was found with serious burn injuries seven hours after her father dropped her at her college.Three seniors allegedly set the woman on fire after a failed rape attempt. They have been arrested along with a woman for allegedly introducing the 21-year-old to them. “On the day of the incident...[the woman] asked the 21-year-old to meet her near a spot outside their college. When the 21-year-old reached there, she found the three accused. The three tried to rape her and when she resisted, they tried to immolate her. The 21-year-old ran from the spot towards the nearby road where she was rescued by locals,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.In her statement to a magistrate, the 21-year-old named the four. Anand said the accused will now be booked for murder as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/21yearold-woman-set-afire-after-rape-bid-dies-in-up-s-shahjahanpur-101616569504007.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Send report on Maharashtra’s ‘political situation’ to Prez: BJP leaders to Guv||A delegation of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Maharashtra, led by leader of opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis, met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan, demanding his intervention in the “political crisis”. The BJP leaders cited about 100 cases to highlight the “administrative failure” of the state government and requested him to seek a report from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.After meeting Koshyari on Wednesday morning, BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said that the delegation cited about 100 cases to portray the failure of the government, from corruption and misuse of the police force for extortion to failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the delegation requested the governor to seek a report from chief minister or chief secretary on the current situation in the state and forward it to the President of India. Also Read | Mansukh Hiran murder: ATS calls Sachin Vaze ‘mastermind’, to seek custody“The state government has failed to act in the interest of the people. There is tremendous pressure on the administration for not acting in the interest of the state. There is urgent need of intervention by the governor to safeguard the interest of the state by using the constitutional powers he has. We have requested him for such intervention to do justice with the people of Maharashtra,” Mungantiwar said. Fadnavis said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s silence was surprising and they have requested the governor to make him speak, and, as head of the state, seek a report from him. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has maintained silence as he knows that he will have to take action against the people involved in corruption. The government has lost moral ground with its failure on all fronts. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar addressed two press conferences but opted to shield wrongdoers,” he said .Fadnavis questioned why the state government sat on the report submitted by then director general of police highlighting the corruption in the transfer of police officers for last seven months. “If they think there was nothing objectionable in the report, why was no action was taken in seven months after its submission on March 25? Whom are they saving from exposure? Who are the people involved in the transfer racket and to whom are they related?” he said.Fadnavis said that he was ready to face any action for unearthing the facts in the report. “I am ready to face any action for bringing the facts of the report to the fore as I have done it in the public interest,” he said.Replying to Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut’s remarks on governor BS Koshyari being a “BJP worker”, Fadnavis questioned, “If he is a BJP worker for meeting us, then why did you bow before the governor... (during a visit to Raj Bhavan last year)?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-leaders-meet-guv-demand-report-to-prez-on-maharashtra-s-political-situation-101616568062446.html
24-03-2021||Patna||Blame game begins after ruckus in Bihar assembly over Special Armed Police Bill||Opposition lawmakers allegedly held state assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha hostage in his chamber for three hours amid sloganeering and a siege of the House on the penultimate day of the budget session in protest against the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill on Tuesday. They were upset over a lack of debate. Anti-riot police were rushed into the House to clear it for the proceedings to resume.As minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav began his speech, the opposition walked out, and the bill was passed.Sinha said it seemed everything was targeted at him. “I was confined to my chamber with all gates closed... I have taken a serious view of it. The entire House was turned into a battlefield, something that never happened in the past,” he said.Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the dignity of the chair and the House was undermined. “The entire exercise seemed pre-planned, and it was unfortunate.”Also Read | Bihar Special Armed Police Bill to allow ‘searches without warrant’: TejashwiRashtriya Janata Dal lawmaker Awadh Bihari Chaudhury hit back at the government for getting the bill passed for special powers to the police under protection. “I have never witnessed police entering the House and forcibly evicting and beating legislators to clear the House for one-sided passage of a bill. There cannot be anything more heinous in parliamentary democracy. All the rules of legislative business were put on the backburner.”Choudhary said the government should have been sent the bill to the select committee for its scrutiny. “The government wants to forcibly get things done, which is not acceptable in a democracy. Unbridled powers to an already maligned police are a design to silence all those who speak against the government.”Congress leader Ajeet Sharma questioned how the police were allowed to enter House and beat legislators. “The police had powers earlier also and there was no need for a new bill... The police have powers to act against anti-social elements, but they cannot be allowed to enter anyone’s house.”Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) general secretary Deepankar Bhattacharya called the developments in the assembly “complete murder of democracy and Constitution”. “This is what has happened in Uttar Pradesh also. It is all a blueprint of the RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh] to make an autocratic state. But Bihar will never accept it.” Bhattacharya added what the police could be used for was demonstrated both inside the House as well as outside.Political analyst NK Choudhary said the visuals from the House clearly showed a collapse of the democracy, but the initiation certainly was from the Opposition as they held Sinha captive and did not allow him to conduct House proceedings. “But there was an overreaction to it. There should have an attempt to find a political solution to the impasse. The Opposition also needed to behave responsibly...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/blame-game-begins-after-ruckus-in-bihar-assembly-over-special-armed-police-bill-101616566325380.html
24-03-2021||Indore||Indore: 24-hr Covid control room to monitor home isolated patients||As Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh's Indore have been rising, the health department of the district is helping positive patients under home isolation through a control room."The district control room of Covid-19 in Indore helps the patients who are in home isolation through audio or video calls. The control room runs 24 hours. This control room also helps us to monitor their health status," the Nodal officer of the control room Dr Anil Dongre told ANI."The patients contact us through helpline number - 1075 and through 'Sarthak' app. In case of an emergency, the rapid response team visits the patient's home for treatment," Dongre said.He further informed that the people who have returned from foreign countries are also home quarantined as per the Covid guidelines and they are also monitored through video calls."There are 100 staff working in the control room presently. There are 2240 active cases in the district and most of them are home quarantined," he added.Madhya Pradesh has 8592 active cases while 2,64,575 people have recovered from Covid-19, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed."Indore recorded 477 positive cases in last 24-hours, taking the cumulative cases in the district to 65,373," the district health department informed on Tuesday.A total of 947 people have succumbed to the disease in Indore, while 62,186 people have recovered from the disease till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-24-hr-covid-control-room-to-monitor-home-isolated-patients-101616564144713.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||3 human skeletons recovered from house in Panipat , murder case registered||Three human skeletons were found in a house in Panipat’s Shiv Nagar area on Tuesday after which the police registered a case of murder. Police said the skeletons were recovered by labourers when they dug the floor of the house during its renovation in Shiv Colony. Panipat deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satish Vats said that a police team was sent to the spot soon after they got the report about the recovery of the three skeletons from the house. The owner of the single-room house was getting the cemented floor dug up for its renovation. The DSP said that the skeletons were taken out in the presence of the duty magistrate and sent to the civil hospital for examination. He said a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code as it appears the three people were murdered and buried. According to preliminary investigation, the skeletons appear to be that of adults. The house owner told the police that he had bought the property two years ago. The police are collecting information about the previous owners of the house. Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said that the skeletons have been sent for post-mortem and forensic tests were on to identify the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-human-skeletons-recovered-from-house-in-panipat-murder-case-registered-101616561402285.html
24-03-2021||Jaipur||Farmer may have to breach barricades again, says union leader Rakesh Tikait||Ahead of the Bharat Bandh, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday said that farmers agitating against the Central farm laws would not be divided and they may have to go to the national capital and breach barricades again."They (Centre) has tried to divide us on the lines of caste and religion but they were unsuccessful. You would need to go to Delhi when asked and have to breach barricades again," Tikait said while addressing a gathering in Jaipur.Hitting out at the Central government, he said: "PM Modi said farmers can sell crops anywhere. We will prove it by selling at State Assemblies, Collectors' offices and the Parliament. No mandi can be better than Parliament."Earlier on Sunday, during the protest at Delhi's borders, Tikait had suggested that farmers in Karnataka should organise a protest in the state similar to that of Delhi and 'gherao' (surround) Bengaluru from all sides."This fight will go on for a long. We need to start such protest in every city until these three black laws are taken back and the law on MSP is not brought. You need to run a protest in Karnataka," the BKU leader had said while addressing a farmers' meeting in Shivamogga.Farmers have been protesting at the different border of Delhi since November last year against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/farmer-may-have-to-breach-barricades-again-says-union-leader-rakesh-tikait-101616560199122.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Late army officer’s wife duped of ₹1.9 lakh in online fraud||The wife of a deceased Indian Army officer was duped of ₹1,90,000 by a person who claimed to have served with him. A case in the matter was lodged at Vimantal police station on Monday. The incident happened in January when the woman was at home in Viman nagar. “After sending the money, she called the right person and enquired about his health. He said nothing was wrong with him and that he never asked for money. They then approached the cyber cell,” said senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar of Vimantal police station. “The man who sent the text posed as the son of the woman’s husband. He knew the posting details and names that made her believe that he was genuine,” said police inspector (crime) Mangesh Jagtap of Vimantal police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 46-year-old daughter of the woman. The senior citizen received a text message from a person who claimed to be the son of the person who had earlier claimed to be her husband’s colleague. In the text message, the sender claimed that his father had recently travelled from a foreign country and had fallen seriously ill after the travel and needed certain amount for his treatment. He asked for monetary help and provided a bank account number where the money could be sent. The woman sent the money to that account. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c), 6(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at the Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/late-army-officer-s-wife-duped-of-rs-1-9-lakh-in-online-fraud-101616559482049.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Bank a/c theft case: Accused planned to use “sim swap” and stolen info||After gaining access to the information of five corporate bank accounts from two major banks, the alleged scammers were planning to use the sim swap method to misuse the information, according to the police. “There are five screenshots of five different accounts. Now, we cannot be sure where they came from. If the phone number attached with the bank account is accessed, rest of the account-related information was in those pictures already,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), cyber-crime cell and economic offence wing (EOW), Pune. Five pictures, which are suspected by the police to be screenshots of a banking system, were recovered by the police from the arrested people. Each screenshot pertained to one account and contained 17-18 data points of a particular bank account. All the bank accounts were corporate accounts with one of them being dormant while the others had recent activity on it, according to the police. Collectively, the balance in the bank accounts made up for ₹216 crore. Whether the arrested people were planning two siphon the entire amount or kept all the accounts as an option is yet to be known, according to the police. While the information about four of the five accounts came from Hyderabad, one came from Gujarat. Anagha Modak (40), a stockbroker by profession and the one who is currently considered to be one of the main conspirators in the case, was trying to make use of a hacker to gain access to the accounts while she had allegedly demanded ₹2.5 crore in cash from the three alleged benefactors - Rohan Mankani, AM news channel owners - Sharma and Sandhbu. Mankani was found along with a man named Sudhir Shantilal Bhatevara alias Jain (54) who claimed to only be helping his friend Mankani with the money and claimed that he was not involved in anything else in the plan. Jain, a resident of Sun Empire Society in Sinhagad road area of Pune, was the one person who was not arrested by the police during the initial raid. He was found with cash worth ₹25 lakh which was seized by the police. “He was nowhere to be found for two days after he was served with a notice (which required him to be available at home for investigation). He was then arrested from Pune itself,” said DCP Navatake. While the police are still investigating where the detailed information about the bank accounts came from, they are speaking to the officials of the two major banks whose accounts’ information has been compromised. At least one other person who is suspected to have helped with the information to Modak is on the run from the police since the news of the arrests was published. The people arrested so far include Anagha Modak (40) a resident of Vadgaon; Ravindra Mahadev Mashalkar (34), a resident of Ambejogai road in Latur; Mukesh Harishchandra More (37), a resident of Yerawada in Pune; Rajshekhar Yadaiha Mamidi (34), a resident of Hyderabad; Rohan Ravindra Mankani (37), a resident of Sahakarnagar in Pune; Vishal Dhananjay Bendre (45), a resident of Aurangabad; Atmaram Harishchandra Kadam (34), a resident of Mulund in Mumbai; Varun Shrikadam Verma (37), a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh; Vikaschand Mahendrakumar Yadav (25), a resident of Surat in Gujarat; Rajesh Munnalal Sharma (42), a resident of Aurangabad and Paramjitsingh Sindhu (42), a resident of Aurangabad; Lakshminarayan Gattu alias Sonya (32), a resident of Baudhanagar in Varasigude in Hyderabad, and Vyankatesh Subramanium Uppala (40), a resident of Bhandalaguda in Nagol region of Hyderabad; and Sudhir Shantilal Bhatevara alias Jain (54). While the others were remanded to judicial custody, Jain is in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bank-a-c-theft-case-accused-planned-to-use-sim-swap-and-stolen-info-101616559481206.html
24-03-2021||Pune||83-year-old trying to order food online duped||An 83-year-old woman trying to order food from a well-known online food delivery service was duped by a number she found on a search engine. The incident happened on December 29, 2020 at the woman’s house in Kothrud. The senior citizen wanted to order food from the application but did not know how to do so. She searched for a helpline number online and allegedly found a mobile number. When she dialed the number, a man answered her call and coaxed confidential bank account details from her under the guise of helping her place an order, according to her complaint. The man transferred ₹9,999 from her account to an unidentified account, according to the police. The woman approached the cyber cell where a preliminary investigation was conducted, and the case was registered at a local police station. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Kothrud police station. Police inspector (crime) Balasaheb Bade of Kothrud police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/83yearold-trying-to-order-food-online-duped-101616559422750.html
24-03-2021||Pune||PMC forms team to speed up 24x7 water supply project||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has deputed nine engineers to speed up an ambitious equitable and regular 24x7 water supply project which is getting delayed beyond schedule. Recently, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar conducted a meeting on a 24x7 water supply project. In the meeting, the civic body chief expressed dissatisfaction with the progress of the project. The civic body has also imposed a fine of more than one lakh per day on contractors for slow work. The project’s deadline is March 2023, and the work began in 2018. With only two years remaining for the completion date, the project’s pace must be increased. After the review meeting, the commissioner has issued an order to depute a team of nine engineers who had been involved in the completion of the ambitious project of Bhama-Askhed. Suresh Jagtap, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “A team will help the contractors and resolve ground issues such as getting permission from different agencies for digging and laying pipelines, creating awareness, and coordinating with different departments.” The team consists of executive engineer Sandesh Kadu, deputy engineer Manoj Gathe, Vijay Havaldar, Nivruti Utale, Rajesh Bhutkar, Uday Kodhe, Rajesh Khade, Deepak Sonawane and Suhas Mahendrekar. At present, these engineers are working in the water, road, and drainage departments. Now onwards, they will keep a tab on the 24x7 water project work and provide information to additional municipal commissioner Suresh Jagtap, the chief superintendent engineer of the water department. A meeting will be held every fortnight. On the irregular, uneven, and insufficient water supply problem in the city, the PMC initiated the project of 24x7 water supply project in the city. The project was approved in February 2018. The total cost of the project is ₹2,550 crore. Of that, the PMC raised ₹200 crore through bonds. The PMC also levied water charges for the 24x7 project, and they have been charging since 2018. However, the actual project work started last December 2018 in the city. Under this project, the contractors should have to lay down 1,600 water pipelines and install 3.5 lakh water metres. L&T company will construct 80 overhead water tanks, on both fronts, L&T is behind schedule. Therefore, the PMC has imposed a fine of more than one lakh per day for water metre work and ₹35,000 per day for water tank work. Before that, PMC slapped more than 30 notices to companies for delay in work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-forms-team-to-speed-up-24x7-water-supply-project-101616559242032.html
24-03-2021||Pune||PMC intensifies encroachment and demolition drives in BDP areas||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has intensified encroachment drives in Bio-diversity Plan (BDP) areas across the city. The civic body has also filed police complaints against encroachers along with notices. During the Covid pandemic, the PMC found an increased number of encroachments in the BDP area. PMC has issued 121 notices for illegal constructions and cleared 1, 34171 square feet of areas which included sheds as well as RCC structures. The process of issuing another 57 notices is underway. The action and notices issued are in the areas of Katraj (new limit), Ambegaon budruk and Khurd, Yewalewadi, Dhayri, Hingne Khurd, Vadgaon Budruk and Khurd, Baner, Balewadi, Bavdhan, Kothrud, Warje Dhanakwadi, (old limit), Katraj (old limit), Bibvewadi, Kondhwa, Khurd (old limit), Hadapsar, (old limit), Wanowrie, and Parvati. The city is surrounded by a range of hills like Dive Katraj ghat, Panchgaon, Fergusson hill, Parvati hill, Chaturshringi hill, and Vetal hill. The areas were already covered with slums and unauthorized constructions and it has spread over seven hills in the 12 merged villages of 23 merged villages. This includes 124.45 hectares of government land and 853.09 hectares of privately owned land. The purpose of reservation BDP is to save hill slopes and hilltops and maintain greenery in the city. The state government merged 23 new villages in 1997 in old Pune city limit. After that, the civic body prepared a development plan for 23 merged villages in 2005. After that, the state government gave approval to 23 merged villages DP in parts. In 2015, the Maharashtra government took a decision to give 8 per cent green Transfer Development Rights (TDR) to the landowner as compensation and acquire the BDP land. However, owners are not happy with the compensation and they want cash compensation instead of TDR as rates of TDR are very low. At present, due to the less compensation amount, most of the BDP land has encroached. Some of the landowners are selling land in small pieces in the market. Last year, during the Covid pandemic period, the PMC found an increase in encroachments in BDP areas. Therefore, after the unlock process started, the PMC building permission department kickstarted a drive and cleared more than 1 lakh square feet of encroachments from the BDP area. Besides that, the PMC issued more than 15 notices and filed four police complaints in Hingne and Kondhwa area. After December 2020, the PMC started an encroachment drive in the BDP areas. Vandana Chavan, Member of Parliament (MP) of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) recently met PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar and demanded action on encroachments. Yuvraj Deshmukh, superintendent engineer of the building permission and control department said, “We have intensified the encroachment drives in the BDP areas. Now, our engineers are continuously checking encroachments. PMC commissioner has also instructed to take strict action against any encroachment in the BDP area.” Namdev Gambhire, executive engineer of building permission and control department said, “We have taken action in Katraj (new limit), Ambegaon budruk and Khurd, Yewalewadi, Dhayri, Hingne Khurd, Vadgaon Budruk and Khurd areas. We collected a fine for digging in the BDP area of Kondhwa and Katraj. We also wrote a letter to the tahashildar about illegal mining in the BDP area. We filed four police complaints on encroachers in Kondhwa and Hingne area.” Pune’s BDP areas Baner-Balewadi (89.07 hectare) Bavdhan-Kothrud (279.82) Warje-Shivane (166.18) Hingne-Wadgaon-Dhayari (118.42) Dhankwadi-Ambegaon (20.05) Katraj (216.30) Kondwa-Undri (45.73) Mohamadwadi-Hadapsar (42.94)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-intensifies-encroachment-and-demolition-drives-in-bdp-areas-101616557741938.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Delay in diagnosis of spinal TB lands many in paraplegia: Experts||On World Tuberculosis (TB) Day, city doctors have said that spinal TB could often be confused with arthritis and delay in diagnosis or treatment could lead to severe problems including paraplegia. Experts mentioned that it is important to understand that back pain cannot be only related to arthritis. Also, any form of severe back pain should be immediately consulted with a doctor. A 55-year-old woman who was affected by spinal tuberculosis that eventually led to a total loss of nerve sensations in her lower body was happy that she could walk again. Requesting anonymity, she said, “Being able to walk again has been a moment of great joy. A delay in diagnosis landed me in total paraplegia, it has been three months since I was unable to walk. I was suffering from back pain for more than six months. Initially, I neglected it but after consulting many doctors and after a battery of tests I was diagnosed with spinal TB. Now, post-surgery, I can walk and free of back pain.” Dr Shailesh Hadgaonkar, orthopaedic spine surgeon from Sancheti hospital who treated the woman said, “We get to see around twenty cases every month at our hospital. We get early, mid, and late-stage cases but not all cases require surgery. Surgery is only for those who cannot walk. In around 10 to 20 per cent of the newly diagnosed spinal TB cases paraplegia is seen. Even if a patient has developed paraplegia, there is always a good chance of recovery if treated early.”Spinal TB is often misdiagnosed as arthritis, experts point out the need to spot correct symptoms. Spinal TB patients often lose weight and appetite, and they get excruciating pain even in deep sleep.Dr. Hrushikesh Mehata, consultant orthopaedic spine surgeon from Noble Hospital said, “The most common form of TB affects lungs and is called ‘pulmonary TB’ but it may spread to other areas like spine which is then called as ‘extra-pulmonary TB’. TB infection can travel through blood from the lungs to reach the spinal column. This is more commonly seen in people wherein immunity is compromised due to any reason. Diagnosis of spinal tuberculosis is often delayed due to lack of specific symptoms. One must have a high index of suspicion and good clinical acumen to diagnose it early, any severe and prolonged back pain should be investigated and treated early.” Dr Ajit Kulkarni, consultant pulmonologist at Sahyadri Hospitals said that delayed diagnosis of TB can affect lungs and other organs also. Spinal tuberculosis comes under the category of extra pulmonary TB. In India, the percentage of having extra pulmonary TB is the same as having pulmonary TB that is lung TB. Spinal TB is second in extra pulmonary TB as far as its prevalence is concerned. Many times, the diagnosis gets delayed because the symptom can be a simple backache which is neglected. It must be investigated properly with consultation of the doctor and early diagnosis is based CT and MRI of spine. While pulmonary TB may require six months of treatment, however, for spinal TB it requires 18 to 24 months of treatment.” Dr. Reema Kashiva, another senior physician from the city said, “The functioning of all the vital organs in our body are interconnected. If any organ gets damaged the health of the entire body is affected. Just like Covid-19 which usually causes respiratory symptoms. However, it may cause fatal illness affecting many other body’s systems. In many cases it is seen that patients suffering from Covid-19 have died of cardiac injury. In some Covid-19 patients, nervous system damage has led to seizures and hallucination. Kidney damage was commonly seen in many Covid-19 patients. Like Covid-19, TB commonly affects the respiratory system. But TB also affects, abdomen, kidney, bone, and joint, and central nervous system. In all the life-threatening respiratory diseases, like tuberculosis, lung cancer, pulmonary embolism, and Covid-19, it is seen that if it is not treated early, it can damage other vital organs of the human body. Hence, early diagnosis and timely treatment is important to save other body organs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/delay-in-diagnosis-of-spinal-tb-lands-many-in-paraplegia-experts-101616557563504.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Grand holi celebration unlikely this year due to Covid||The festival of Holi will be celebrated on March 28, but this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a grand celebration is more than unlikely. In Maharashtra, on the eve of Holi, typically after sunset, a pyre is lit, signifying “Holika Dahan”. There are public celebrations and social events usually planned around this event in housing societies. This year, residents are confused and unaware about how to celebrate the festival, as there are no guidelines yet from the state government or the civic bodies. Due to the increasing number of Covid cases, restrictions have been imposed in the district, under which not more than 50 persons are allowed to attend any gathering or function. Deepti Singh, a member of the Kingsbury building of the Pride World City housing society in Lohegaon, said, “The state government has not yet issued any specific guidelines for Holi celebrations. they should have published specific norms and set an advisory prior to the festival. It is one of the biggest festivals in the country and people do a lot of planning and preparation.” Singh added, “Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh have already given guidelines and accordingly, people have planned the Holi events. At our housing society we are still in a dilemma as to how to celebrate Holi on our society premises. We want to take safety precautions and then celebrate the festival.” Pritesh Kamathe, secretary of Swapnshil Residency in Kondhwa, said, “Holi is one of the major festivals which we celebrate in our society and there are traditional rituals. Due to the increase in Covid numbers, we have decided to call residents in time slots so that there won’t be any crowding at the society’s Holika Dahan programme. Also, social distancing will be maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grand-holi-celebration-unlikely-this-year-due-to-covid-101616557561830.html
24-03-2021||Pune||PCMC to reopen jumbo Covid care unit||Given the surge in Covid cases, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will re-open the Jumbo Covid care unit at the Annasaheb Magar stadium, from Sunday. As of Monday, PCMC has 11,225 active cases. Currently, Covid patients are admitted to the Covid care centre at the auto cluster at Balnagri; to the Yashwantro Chavan Memorial hospital; the Jijamata hospital, Pimpri; and the Bhosari Hospital. “Looking at the surge, we have decided to restart the 816-bed Jumbo Covid facility. It will start in four days’ time,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner. The jumbo facility at the Magar stadium began on September 1, 2020, and closed on January 1, 2021. In its first phase it was operated by Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). “PCMC will now rent this facility to a private firm which will be decided in due course. All the facilities at the Jumbo hospital are in working condition,” added Patil. Weekend curfew in PCMC? PCMC mayor Usha Dhore had suggested a weekend curfew to curb the rising Covid cases, but it has not been approved by the administration. “People should not take the current surge lightly. If negligence continues then we have to take strict action,” said Dhore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-to-reopen-jumbo-covid-care-unit-101616557261740.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Collector: Pune will not face oxygen shortage||Following a meeting with oxygen manufacturing units, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh claimed that the district would not face any shortage or disruption of oxygen supply. With a new plant in place, the district currently has an oxygen requirement of 135 metric tonnes, daily, and the new plant has a production capacity of 370 metric tonnes. In view of rising cases of Covid-19, which primarily affects the lungs, a patient’s oxygen requirement increases as the condition worsens. Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Pune division, who was also part of the meeting, said, “During the meeting we assessed if they have any problems to continue with production and to ensure the smooth supply of oxygen. Air Liquide, a private firm in Chakan, is one of the largest oxygen manufacturers in Pune. We authorised the plant in October 2020 which was after the September peak had receded. During the peak the maximum requirement of the district had gone up to 370 metric tonnes, so hopefully there should be no shortage of oxygen. The 70:30 medical-industrial oxygen supply proportion is still imposed on manufacturers.” Deshmkh said, “As of now, the district has a requirement of 135 metric tonnes of oxygen daily and manufacturers currently have 790 metric tonnes in stock. In the near future, it appears that there might be no shortage of oxygen.”The manufacturers also demanded that the employees and truck drivers working at the oxygen manufacturing units must be vaccinated as they are frontline workers to which Deshmukh agreed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/collectorpune-will-not-face-oxygen-shortage-101616556661767.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Ousted district official booked in multiple cases, arrested||An ousted official of Pune district was arrested on Tuesday by Pune rural police crime branch in a case of forgery registered against him in Baramati police station of Pune.The man was identified as Hanumant Jagnnath Nazirkar (55) a resident of Kothrud, Pune. Nazirkar was arrested in a case of forgery registered against him in 2020 at Baramati police station. The case is under Sections 417, 467, and 468 of Indian Penal Code.The arrest was made by a team created by Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of Pune rural police in order to find and arrest him.“The case was registered last year. He was seeking anticipatory bail which was declined by the Bombay High Court more than one month ago. Since then, he was on the run and evading arrest. We got the CR number and the orders to arrest,” said Police inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Local crime branch, Pune rural police.While searching for him, the team traced him to Satara. The CCTV footage of his movement led them to find that he was in Mahabaleshwar form where he was arrested.He is previously booked in a case of cheating at Dattawadi, corruption case at Alankar police station, and a forgery and cheating case registered at APMC police station of Navi Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ousted-district-official-booked-in-multiple-cases-arrested-101616556482368.html
24-03-2021||Jaipur||23-year-old mentally challenged woman gangraped in Rajasthan’s Udaipur||A 23-year-old mentally challenged woman was allegedly gangraped in Udaipur, police said.According to police, the incident took place around 8.30pm at the Surajgarh area of Gogunda on Sunday when three motorcycle-borne men allegedly abducted the victim on a motorcycle and took her to an isolated place where they allegedly gangraped her and fled the spot.Also Read | Girl attempts suicide after ‘uncle’ rapes her in Ludhiana“The relatives of the woman started searching her. A day later they informed the police after which Gogunda police started searching for her and found her on the roadside,” said a police officer.He added that an investigation in the matter has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/23yearold-mentally-challanged-woman-gangraped-in-rajasthan-s-udaipur-101616556481694.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s key border routes remain affected||Two important borders between Delhi and Haryana, Tikri and Singhu, continued to remain completely closed on Wednesday as farmers continue their agitation against the three farm laws. However, one carriageway at Ghazipur border is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway.The Delhi Traffic Police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists.Also Read | Advancing farmers’ movement true tribute to Bhagat Singh: BKU factionSome other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, also continued to remain closed.Motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year against the three newly enacted farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-key-border-routes-remain-affected-101616555221719.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Rain in Delhi brings down heat, pollution slightly, temp to increase from Friday||Delhi’s air quality on Wednesday improved marginally on Wednesday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 202, in the poor category. Central Pollution Control Board data shows that on Tuesday the overall AQI of Delhi was 244, also in the poor category.Some parts of Delhi on Tuesday experienced rain and gusty winds, which brought down the maximum temperature slightly. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that from Friday, the temperature is likely to rise again. The forecast says that around Holi, which is on Monday, the maximum temperature is likely to touch around 37-38 degrees Celsius. Also Read | Dry weather likely over NW India from tomorrow: IMDOn Tuesday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 29.6 degrees Celsius—a notch below the season’s normal. The minimum temperature, however, was the highest recording for the season. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 21.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the month. IMD recordings show that this month, barring Tuesday’s temperature drop, the maximum temperature has been 2-3 degrees higher than normal. Scientists said they are expecting the recordings to be a few degrees warmer than usual. “We are expecting this month’s mean maximum temperature recordings to be a few degrees above normal,” said Srivastava. The mean maximum temperature for March is 29.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-in-delhi-brings-down-heat-pollution-slightly-temp-to-increase-from-friday-101616554261673.html
24-03-2021||Bhopal||Govt considering partial lockdown in 2-3 cities as Covid-19 cases rise in MP||As Covid-19 cases in the country continue to rise, the Madhya Pradesh government is considering imposing a lockdown on Sundays in two to three cities, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday.Speaking to media persons, Mishra also urged people with 'folded hands' to follow Covid-19 guidelines prescribed by the government to prevent the spread of the virus."Around 300 to 400 Covid-19 cases are being reported in Indore and Bhopal daily. If cases increase at this pace, we will soon return to the situation that prevailed earlier. With folded hands, I urge people to follow all guidelines," he said.The government is mulling to imposed lockdown on Sundays in 2-3 cities, he added.Lockdowns have been imposed in Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur in the wake of rising cases. On Tuesday, Indore registered 477 Covid-19 cases.Coronavirus cases have increased drastically in India in the last few weeks, with 40,715 new cases and 199 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday.There are currently 8,592 active Covid-19 cases in the state. As many as 2,64,575 patients have recovered from the disease so far, while 3,908 fatalities have been reported, the Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/govt-considering-partial-lockdown-in-2-3-cities-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-mp-101616547158318.html
24-03-2021||Patna||Bihar Special Armed Police Bill to allow 'searches without warrant,' says Tejashwi Yadav||After uproar in the state Assembly over Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav slammed the Nitish Kumar-led government, claiming that this law means that search will be conducted without a warrant and "any policemen can arrest if he believes something is wrong".On Tuesday, the Assembly session witnessed multiple adjournments as the RJD leaders shouted slogans against the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. After a few Opposition leaders prevented Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha from leaving his chamber, police personnel reached the Assembly premises to evict the MLAs. Women MLAs of the Opposition were carried out of the Assembly building by women security personnel.RJD MLA Satish Kumar was also carried on a stretcher from the Bihar Assembly after he was allegedly manhandled by 'police and local goons' inside the Assembly during a protest against the Bill.Following this, Tejashwi Yadav alleged that Opposition MLAs wanted to speak against the Bill but they were assaulted."We wanted to speak but we were thrashed. This law means that search will be conducted without a warrant and 'any policemen can arrest if they believe something is wrong'. There is no use of courts and magistrates," he said.Responding to the ruckus, the Speaker while speaking to ANI said, "Today's incident is condemnable. All members of the Assembly should respect the Constitution. This is a serious issue."Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Kumar Jha had given a suspension of business notice under Rule 267 to discuss "brutal lathi-charge and unimaginable assault on MLAs in Bihar Assembly".The Bihar Assembly was adjourned twice following the ruckus by the opposition over allegations of "harsh provisions" in the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill 2021.Members of the opposition created a ruckus and demanded immediate withdrawal of the Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-special-armed-police-bill-to-allow-searches-without-warrant-says-tejashwi-yadav-101616545524871.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Two run over by train near Narela railway station, suicide suspected||A 45-year-old woman and her 35-year-old brother-in-law died after being run over by a train near Narela railway station on Tuesday morning. The railway police suspect that the duo had come in front of the moving train to die by suicide. However, no suicide note was found on their persons, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said around 9am, the station master of the Narela railway station informed the police that two bodies were found on the tracks going towards Haryana’s Sonepat.A mobile phone was found at the site and that helped the police identify the duo and contact their family members. They were related by marriage and belonged to outer Delhi, the police said.DCP Singh said the woman worked as a sanitation worker with a private diagnostics lab in outer Delhi. Her husband, who was employed in the civic department, had died two years ago. She is survived by her three children. The man whose body was found alongside hers was her brother-in-law. He worked as a housekeeping staff in a power distribution company and is survived by his wife and three children.“Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide. We are probing the reason for their extreme step,” the DCP said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-run-over-by-train-near-narela-railway-station-suicide-suspected-101616539885196.html
24-03-2021||Gurugram||Most meat shops shut, violators let off with warning||Officials said that 120 of the 129 meat shops remained closed during checks on Tuesday, as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) started to enforce the House decision to shut meat shops on Tuesdays.“Almost all the licensed meat shops operating in the city were found to be closed during our inspections. There were nine such shops which were found to be open, all in areas located in the vicinity of Sadar Bazar. Owners of such shops were let off with a warning this time and their shops were closed immediately. From next week, any violator will be immediately penalised,” said Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, the official responsible for issuing licences and penalties to meat shops in the city and ensuring norms compliance.Around 70 teams of the MCG and around 300 Gurugram police personnel scanned the city for open meat shops, officials said, and upon finding open ones near Sadar Bazar, alerted senior officials.According to MCG officials, the owners of all nine open meat shops were aware of the MCG’s direction. However, they had opened their shops hoping there would be no spot check or penalties.During an MCG House meeting on March 18, the civic body decided to close meat shops on Tuesdays after two councillors had floated the proposal citing religious sentiments. Despite the MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh stating that eating meat is a “personal choice” and the House should consider this before coming to a decision, the MCG approved the proposal as per the provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation by-laws, 2008, which permits the shutdown of meat shops on one day of the week.During last week’s House meeting, MCG officials also approved a proposal for increasing the fines for meat shop violations by 10 times, from ₹500 to ₹5,000 and permanently sealing a meat shop, if the owner commits three violations. MCG officials said that before next Tuesday, they will be issuing a notification regarding the change in the fine amount and then start sealing meat shops.Usha Kundu, the assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), Gurugram, said that around 300 personnel were deputed for the task, but did not find any open meat shop.“Our teams carried out inspections till the afternoon, especially in areas such as Jacobpura, Khandsa, Chakkarpur, and Badshahpur that have a sizeable number of meat shops. However, no meat shop was found to be operational. We also did not receive any receive report of any ruckus or complaints on the matter,” said Kundu.The MCG and Gurugram police were operating independently on the matter.“Across the city, almost all the meat shop owners complied with the MCG’s direction. The MCG needs to realise that more than 80% of the city’s meat shops are owned by local businessmen who operate their shops on a low scale. Their income and survival depend on the daily sale of meat. On Tuesdays, they had a sizeable amount of business and the MCG’s direction has put them under immense financial duress,” said Pritam Bhagat, president, Jacobpura meat shops’ association, adding that such small-scale owners do not have the wealth or the expertise to pursue the matter legally against the MCG.“I complied with the direction of the MCG, as I did not want me or my employees to face any trouble. Our business has been hit by the coronavirus and more recently, by bird flu. The MCG’s direction has only made things worse for us,” said Aftab Khan, a meat shop owner in Sector 12.MCG officials also clarified that only physical shops will remain closed while online meat delivery portals can continue to operate. On Tuesdays, such portals were found to be operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/most-meat-shops-shut-violators-let-off-with-warning-101616539379748.html
24-03-2021||Bangalore||Lockdown, rain revive groundwater level||Covid-19 brought with it endless suffering to people world over but for Bengaluru, it also brought in some relief in the form of increased groundwater levels, according to government data.Copious rainfall in Bengaluru last year coupled with the lockdown-induced decline in demand by commercial establishments helped reverse a downward trend of dipping water levels.The four talukas of Bengaluru—North, South, East and Anekal—have seen a marginal average rise in static water levels ranging from 0.30 metre to as high as 8.75 metres between 2016 and 2020, government data shows.“Good rains last year have helped reverse the trend of declining water levels. But there is over exploitation in all four talukas of Bengaluru,” said a Karnataka government official aware of the developments.Bengaluru received 1,082 mm of rainfall in 2020, 28% more than its normal, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre.But the rise in water levels cannot be mistaken for a reversal of the downward trend in the long term as excessive commercial activities, high-rise residential buildings and lack of reusing water have weighed in on India’s IT capital, experts and officials said.The crisis in Bengaluru comes on account of over exploitation of groundwater and the lack of resources to reuse water or feed it back into the earth to help recharge water levels below the surface, experts and scientists said.The United Nations World Water Development Report 2021, themed “Valuing Water” and released on Monday, stated that there will be a global water deficit of 40% by 2030.“Humans certainly use water as if it was limitless: an estimated 80% of all industrial and municipal wastewater, for example, is released into the environment without prior treatment,” the UN report stated.The report added that over 2 billion people worldwide already live-in areas subject to water stress and around 45% of the global population (3.5 billion) lack access to safely managed sanitation facilities.Several urban centres in India face a similar crisis, but few witness problems that Bengaluru endures on account of its water shortages. The city, despite all the money it spends on lake rejuvenation and other exercises, remains firmly in the grip of water tankers that deliver the precious resource as a business model to apartments and other households in Bengaluru.“The water mafia has sucked water dry and there is no groundwater because there is no recharge. People are paying a heavy price and the water scarcity in the region is really worrying,” said T.V Ramachandra from Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science.He added that over concretisation has led to the crisis, which the decision makers are yet to acknowledge.Having lost the river Vrishabhavathi to over exploitation and several lakes to encroachments, sewage inlets and bad maintenance, Bengaluru is heavily dependent on the inflow of Cauvery water from about a 100 km away to quench its thirst, experts said.Being Karnataka’s biggest revenue generator, successive governments have followed a predictable path of diverting Cauvery water into the city even if it deprives surrounding districts of their requirements.With no river water in close proximity, people in hundreds of villages in erstwhile Bengaluru built lakes and tanks as a resource for irrigation and drinking. Out of the remaining 210 lakes, around 19 are encroached and most others are in a pitiable state that neither quench the city’s thirst nor improve the groundwater table due to over three to four decades of accumulated silt, experts said.Bengaluru also receives copious rainfall but barely a fraction of it is harvested, leaving most of this water to flood streets and then flow into drains and eventually find its way into lakes, experts said.Several other parts of Karnataka face a similar problem with water, according to the groundwater directorate in Bengaluru.“There are about 14 districts, 41 talukas and 1,199 villages in Karnataka that are over exploited,” M Raveendrappa, the project director of the groundwater directorate, said. The directorate on Monday launched a campaign in 1,199 water-stressed villages of the state as part of a nation-wide campaign.Even where groundwater level is available, almost at nearly 2,000 ft, it is of poor quality like in Peenya industrial area, a locality where several micro and small industries operate.Priyanka Jamwal of Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE) said that in Peenya, the borewell water has heavy metals, trace metals and other toxic contaminants largely since most of the used water is let out without being treated.“If you go to parts of the city where there is Cauvery water supply, groundwater is not that contaminated because there is proper recharge happening,” she said. But in the outskirts of the city, which largely depend on borewells, there are high levels of nitrate and fecal coliforms because of the soak-away pits present there with no lining and contaminating the groundwater, Jamwal added.“Where there is no sewerage system or pipe water supply, there is groundwater contamination,” Jamwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lockdown-rain-revive-groundwater-level-101616531250170.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Only 58% health workers vaccinated in Mohali||The vaccination drive against Covid-19 in Mohali district continues to witness a poor response as only 58% health workers have received the jab. Even the response from senior citizens has not been very encouraging.In Mohali, vaccines are being administered at 40 private hospitals and 31 government hospitals.As many as 13,979 health-care workers got themselves registered for the first dose, but only 8,127 received the jab. Even for the second dose, out of total 8,127 health workers, only 3,825 beneficiaries came forward.As many as 8,910 front-line workers registered themselves, but only 6,912 got the first dose, which is around 75%; for the second dose, out of a total 6,912, only 1,706 got the second dose, which is 25%.The vaccination drive for health-care workers began on January 15; for senior citizens, it began from March 1.On the other hand, as many as 16,594 senior citizens got their first dose, while 2,861 persons aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities were administered the vaccine in the last three weeks.‘There is some mistrust among beneficiaries’Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “We are repeatedly requesting them to come and get the vaccine, but I think there is some mistrust among beneficiaries and now we are preparing them mentally to get the jab.”She further said that there is no target for senior citizens, but the response was not encouraging despite the city having a good literacy rate.Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, in-charge for Covid-19 vaccine in Mohali, said, “Though the drive is picking up, it is still not to the expectation and potential of the district. People are taking it casually and with the rising cases of Covid-19, I urge the residents to come forward as the vaccine is safe and without any side-effects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-58-health-workers-vaccinated-in-mohali-101616532359406.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze the mastermind, will seek his custody, says Maha ATS chief||Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad chief Jaijeet Singh on Tuesday said that suspended police officer Sachin Vaze was a “prime accused” in the Mansukh Hiran murder case, adding that the investigating agency has procured a transfer warrant from a Thane court with which it will approach the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court seeking his custody.Vaze is in custody of NIA till March 25 for allegedly planting an SUV filled with explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month. Hiran, a Thane-based auto spare parts dealer who was linked to the car, was found dead at the Reti Bunder Creek on March 5.Speaking to reporters at a press conference outside the agency’s office in south Mumbai, Singh said that more arrests were likely in the case.“Accused in the said crime, Sachin Vaze is in the custody of the National Investigation Agency till March 25. Since, it is necessary to thoroughly interrogate him in connection with the crime, a transfer warrant has been obtained from the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Thane and a comprehensive application has been filed before the Special NIA court at Mumbai. We are sure that after thoroughly interrogating him, the ATS team will get to the bottom of the crime and unearth the conspiracy,” Singh said.ATS on March 21 arrested two men, Vinayak Shinde, a convicted constable on parole in an encounter case, and bookie Naresh Gor in the murder of the 48-year-old spare parts dealer, who was in possession of the SUV, and which he reported stolen before it was found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Antilia residence last month containing 20 loose sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter addressed to the businessman and his wife.“It has come to light in the investigation that some of the 14 SIM cards obtained through accused Naresh Gor were activated and given to Vinayak Shinde, and Shinde in turn transferred the activated SIM cards to others involved in the crime and the SIM cards were used in commission of the said crime. Preliminary investigation has revealed that some of the SIM cards used in commission of the crime and some of the mobile handsets in which those SIM cards were used, were destroyed by the accused,” Singh said.The probe agency also claimed to have detained a person from Ahmedabad who allegedly provided SIM cards to the accused.ATS interrogated Vaze on March 8, following a statement by Vimla, Hiran’s wife, accusing the suspended cop of having a hand in her husband’s death.Her statement also revealed that Vaze and Hiran knew each other well and that Vaze had borrowed the Scorpio that was later found outside Antilia, for four months between November 2020 and February 2021. He returned it to Hiran in early February.Hiran reported the car stolen on February 18.Following Vimla’s statement, ATS registered a case of murder against unknown persons.“In interrogation, Vaze refuted all the allegations leveled against him. He claimed that the vehicle in question (Mahindra Scorpio) had never been in his possession and also maintained that he had nothing to do with the deceased. He denied having any involvement in the said crime and that he had no knowledge about the said crime. But ATS officials have collected evidence showing that the claims made by Vaze are false and further probe is on to find out his exact involvement in the said crime,” Singh said.The ATS chief said that it was Vaze who contacted Shinde when the latter walked out of jail on parole last year and took his help, he said.According to ATS, Shinde contacted Hiran, posing as “Tawde saab from Mumbai crime branch”on the evening of March 4, the day before Hiran’s body was found in a Thane creek.“Preliminary investigation suggests that Shinde along with others was involved. A Volvo car seized from Daman is suspected to have been used in the crime,” the ATS chief said.The Forensic Science Laboratory at Kalina in Mumbai examined the car on Tuesday, he added.A team of five forensic officers from Pune also visited Thane on Tuesday afternoon along with ATS officials. The forensic team examined the blue coloured Volvo seized by ATS. The officials refused to talk but collected several samples from the car for over two hours.“The team did not find any documents or equipments in the car. They were collecting fingerprints, footprints and any other forensic evidence which will help in the investigation,” an official said.ATS has also obtained CCTV footage from various spots even though the accused destroyed some CCTV footage in a bid to destroy evidence of their movement, officials said.“To understand how exactly the crime was committed, a demonstration was conducted by taking the arrested accused at the crime scene. Analysis of the information collected by raiding the residences, offices and godowns of the arrested accused is going on,” Singh said.Meanwhile, NIA is also conducting a parallel probe in the Hiran murder case as well as the explosives case. A team searched the premises of a room in Trident hotel, where Vaze reportedly stayed between February 16 and 20. According to a senior NIA officer, CCTV footage from the hotel shows Vaze entering with five bags. The bags are yet to be recovered, this officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-the-mastermind-will-seek-his-custody-says-maha-ats-chief-101616531205302.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Limited capacity in govt institutes, Chandigarh ropes in pvt labs to expand RT-PCR tests||Failing to expand the RT-PCR testing facilities in government institutions, the UT administration has roped in private testing laboratories to meet the target set by the Union health ministry amid the rising Covid-19 infection trajectory in the city.The UT administration, on Tuesday, held a meeting with representatives of eight private laboratories, asking them to process the samples collected by the UT health department at a fixed rate.Earlier, the UT administration had asked Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, to expand testing, but the capacity could not be stretched beyond 950 samples a day.The requirement is to expand the weekly RT-PCR testing to 70% from the current level of 50%.UT officials said the PGIMER, after the request of the administration, had obliged to process 600 samples of UT, and GMCH-32 was directed to expand the capacity from current 200 to 400. With more samples being collected for the RT-PCR testing, the turnaround period for the reports of the samples has also increased to 48 hours. The official said that though all private laboratories have accepted the proposal, a few labs require more than 24 hours to process the tests, however, the administration has put a strict condition to process the tests within 24 hours. UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said due to the issue of less capacity within the government sector, the private players have been involved to increase the pace of testing the city and meet the target of RT-PCR testing.“There have been some issues with increasing the testing in the government sector. On the pattern of Haryana, we have roped in private players to help us increase the ratio of the RT-PCR testing ratio as per the instructions of the central government. We have started with 200 samples today and based on our requirement, private facilities will be used. The expenditure for the same will be borne from the Covid fund by UT Administration,” he said.However, the decision has not gone well with residents who suggest that the government facilities should be increased for better quality and management of resource. “We have institutes like PGIMER and GMCH-32 which can easily process the samples. Resources should be utilised for increasing the capacity in the government sector,” said RK Garg, president of Second Innings Association.Responding to the criticism, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “PGIMER only receives 600 samples and the facility at GMCH-32 is also limited. It is the need of the hour to expand the facility and every available resource is being utilised.” Officials said orders for more machines for RT-PCR testing at GMCH-32 have been placed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/limited-capacity-in-govt-institutes-chandigarh-ropes-in-pvt-labs-to-expand-rt-pcr-tests-101616531818743.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two months on, only 50% health workers receive jab in Chandigarh||Even though more than two months have passed since the vaccination drive for health-care workers began, Chandigarh has been able to inoculate only 50% of them.On Tuesday, 150 health workers were inoculated with the first dose.A similar trend is also being witnessed among front-line workers from the police and the municipal corporation; only 125 received the jab on Tuesday.Vaccine hesitancy among priority groups including health workers is slowing the speed of the drive, even though more vaccination facilities are being created to accommodate more beneficiaries.Currently, more than 50 vaccination centres have been opened in the city with the capacity to inoculate more than 7,000 people, but not more than 2,500 have come forward. These include health workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and comorbid groups aged between 45 to 59.So far, 67,782 doses have been administered, including 26,354 residents above the age of 60. Among the health workers, 50% of the 28,759 targeted beneficiaries have been inoculated. Similarly among the front-line workers, 57% of the 14,173 targeted have received the jab. Only 3,330 persons from the comorbid group have been inoculated.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director of the UT health department, said that the health workers were being motivated to take the jab and a special camp would be organised for them.“By the end of this month, we target to cover more than 20% workers through special drives. We will organise doubt-clearing as well as vaccination drive this month for the same,” Dr Nagpal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-months-on-only-50-health-workers-receive-jab-in-chandigarh-101616531400332.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||High court allows plea seeking Panjab University senate polls||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday allowed a petition, seeking polls to Panjab University’s (PU) apex governing body-- the senate. The bench of Justice Fateh Deep Singh allowed the plea filed by seven ex-senators, who had moved high court in December, seeking senate elections and had accused the varsity of delaying the polls at the behest of ruling dispensation at the Centre. A detailed order from the court is awaited. However, the plea seeking polls has been allowed by the high court. The petitioners had challenged orders of August 15, 2020 and October 17, 2020 in which the senate elections were deferred in view of the prevailing conditions due to the Covid-19 outbreak. PU, in response to the plea, had argued that it has initiated a process to hold senate elections. However, it added that the varsity has also constituted a high-level committee of experts to examine the varsity’s present governing structure in view of the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, according to which the senate is to be replaced with the board of governors (BoG). PU is governed by a 91-member senate, the elections of which are pending since August last year. The varsity is currently functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-allows-plea-seeking-panjab-university-senate-polls-101616531338594.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs 2 deaths, 157 fresh Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 157 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total cases to 1,28,836 while the death toll reached 1,983 after two fresh fatalities in Kashmir.Officials said 105 people tested positive in Kashmir, of which 31 were travellers,while 52 cases were reported from Jammu division.Since March 17, Jammu and Kashmir has been reporting around 100 fresh cases, primarily from Kashmir valley.Officials said 1, 25,443 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 97.36%. There are now 1,410 active cases in J&K. Around 58 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT.Kashmir division has 1,079 active cases, of which 701 were reported in Srinagar alone, while there are 331 active cases in Jammu division. So far 1,251 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 732 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 56 more people tested positive, including 25 travellers, while 23 more cases were reported in Baramulla and 14 in Pulwama. In Jammu division, 39 cases were recorded in Jammu district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-2-deaths-157-fresh-covid-cases-101616531218645.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks Punjab’s take on Pak man seeking release from jail||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought Punjab government’s response on a plea filed by a Pakistani national who strayed into India in 2017.The high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur acted on the plea of Mohamad Ramjaan, who along with co-accused Ali Raja, was booked for illegally entering into India under the provisions of Passports Act and Foreigners Act by Valtoha police as the Border Security Force did not find any valid travel documents with them. They both are residents of Kahna village in Lahore district of Pakistan.Ramjaan has sought directions to release him forthwith as he has already undergone the imprisonment awarded to him by Patti court and now he is confined in jail “without” any order or authority.He is lodged in Central Jail, Amritsar, and was held guilty for violation of Passports Act and Foreigners Act by a Patti Court on April 30, 2019, upon their confessions that they entered into India illegally but inadvertently. They were awarded two years of jail, which was to run concurrently in both the cases.The court was told that the petitioner and co-accused have been behind bars since the day of arrest on August 14, 2017, for more than three years now. It is a well-settled law that individual liberty of the convict can’t be curtailed, and imprisonment cannot be extended without any valid order of the court, the court was told demanding that he be compensated for being kept in jail despite completion of sentence. The government response has been sought by April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-punjab-s-take-on-pak-man-seeking-release-from-jail-101616531038493.html
24-03-2021||Other||Chandigarh’s active cases cross 2,000||Chandigarh on Monday recorded 214 new Covid cases and one death, taking the number of active cases past 2, 000 and fatalities to 364. It is for the seventh consecutive day that the UT has recorded more than 200 cases in a single day. The latest fatality is a 52-year-old woman from Dhanas, who succumbed during treatment at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. The city has added around 3,100 cases to its tally in just 23 days, with the weekly positivity rate currently touching a worrisome level of 10%. So far, 22, 451 patients have recovered from the virus. 2,561 active cases in Mohali Mohali, again, had the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity area with 263 fresh infections that took the number of active cases to 2, 561 while three more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 414. The fresh infections included 205 from Mohali urban, seven each from Dera Bassi and Banur, three each from Gharuan and Kharar and 38 from Dhakoli. This month alone, the district has recorded a total of 29 deaths. 89 new cases in Panchkula In Panchkula, 89 persons, including 49 males and 40 females, tested positive for Covid 19 on Tuesday. With this the total number of positive cases went up to 12,085 in the district, of which 762 are active cases while 11, 173 got cured and 150 have died. Meanwhile, as the Punjab government said on Tuesday that 81% of the 401 samples collected from the state have tested positive for the B.1.1.7 COVID-19 variant that originated in the UK, Chandigarh maintained that the city is still awaiting the genome sequencing results. “The reports received till January have shown no mutation. The reports of the samples sent to NIV Pune on March 1 are still awaited,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarhs-active-cases-cross-2000-101616530918496.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Improve situation in Kashmir for sustaining Indo-Pak relations: Hurriyat Conference||The moderate Hurriyat Conference faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Tuesday said India and Pakistan’s agreement to adhere to ceasefire on the Line of Control and the subsequent statements and actions indicated a ‘positive shift’ in the relations between the neighbours. The Hurriyat said it welcomes the shift towards good neighbourly relations between the two countries, which was the first step in the direction of a meaningful dialogue for the peaceful resolution of the Kashmir conflict.“But we also believes that unless an atmosphere free of fear, repression and human rights violations is not permitted on the ground in Kashmir, efforts at good neighbourly relations will not bear fruit,” the Hurriyat statement said.The turn in India-Pakistan relations comes around one-and-a-half years after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was revoked by the central government and the region split into two Union territories. It asked the government to stop using government agencies to intimidate the youth. “The random arrests and slapping of PSA on the youth and policy of intimidation and harassment through agencies should be ended. Deaths and destruction during encounters which are deeply disturbing, should be immediately stopped,” it said.On March 9, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy had told the parliament that 173 people, including separatists, overground workers and stone pelters continue to be under custody after they were detained after the scrapping of Article 370. The separatist amalgam said it is ready to extend full support to all initiatives between the two countries that aim at bringing peace in the subcontinent and seek a fair and peaceful resolution of the Kashmir dispute.Last month, Indian and Pakistan’s militaries agreed to strictly observe a ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC). Last week Pakistan’s army chief general Qamar Javed Bajwa said it was time for India and Pakistan to ‘bury the past’ and move forward as that would help to ‘unlock’ the potential of South and Central Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/improve-situation-in-kashmir-for-sustaining-indo-pak-relations-hurriyat-conference-101616530798559.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||AAP MP Bhagwant Mann asks Punjab CM, Harsimrat to come clean on farm laws||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday challenged former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to come clean and make public their statements regarding the three farm laws made in the cabinet meeting and high-powered committee.Clarifying his position on the Essential Commodities Act by disclosing the minutes of the parliamentary standing committee on food consumer affairs and public distribution, Mann accused the rival parties of creating confusion among the people by spreading lies about the AAP to discredit it. “People of Punjab understand their tricks,” he said, reading out from the statement made by him in the parliamentary standing committee meeting against the farm laws.The AAP leader said this Act would give impetus to hoarding and was a conspiracy to remove onions and tomatoes from the list of essential commodities and make life difficult for the poor. “With the implementation of this law, hoarders will stockpile goods and later sell them at exorbitant prices. The government should keep such essentials,” he said, citing the example of potatoes.Mann said the AAP was opposing these “black laws” from day one, from the streets to Parliament. He asked that Harsimrat should also make public the proceedings of the meeting of June 5, 2020, when these bills came to the Union cabinet meeting and she supported them.Harsimrat hits back at Sangrur MPMeanwhile, Harsimrat Badal on Tuesday said the AAP MP’s statement on the parliamentary standing committee was “a resounding self-goal and an unequivocal admission” that he and his party did not oppose the controversial anti-farmer bills in the meeting or in the Parliament.The Akali leader said the masters of doublespeak have been caught in the act and themselves provided the most irrefutable proof of how meekly Bhagwant Mann and AAP surrendered to the BJP on the three Acts while publicly pretending to oppose the same. “They (AAP) have obviously over-reached their own cunning limits and unwittingly clinched the case against themselves,” she said in a press release here.The SAD leader said that in the entire audio and minutes released by Mann, there is not a single word of protest or opposition or rejection of the said Acts nor can he be heard voicing his own or his party’s protest against the damage the said laws would inflict on the farmers. “The only thing you can hear is Mann meekly and most obsequiously seeking mere clarifications on the implications of the Essential Commodities Act. He is virtually cringing before the chairman while he pretends to roar in public to befool the masses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-mp-bhagwant-mann-asks-punjab-cm-harsimrat-to-come-clean-on-farm-laws-101616530621233.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University closes libraries, classes, exams to continue online||Panjab University has decided to close the AC Joshi library and all other departmental libraries for students till March 31 in wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases.The decision was taken at an emergent meeting held by varsity’s dean university instructions (DUI) VR Sinha a day after the Chandigarh education department decided to close all schools and colleges in the city till March 31. During the meeting, it was also decided that the online examinations will continue as per schedule and all classes will continue in the online mode until further orders.However, the administrative staff of the teaching departments and other offices will continue to attend offices on all working days.Gatherings banned on campusPU, in its official communiqué, said, “No social gatherings, including the Holi-Milan, will be held on the university campus till further orders.” All other gatherings of staff and students are banned on campus, expect with the prior permission of deputy commissioner, Chandigarh.As of now, PU is only allowing PhD scholars and some categories of postgraduate final year students to stay at the campus hostels. PEC research scholars, M.Tech final yr students to continue visiting campusPunjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, on Tuesday decided that all PhD scholars and M.Tech second year students will continue to visit the campus for research work and the classes of M.Tech first year students will continue online till further orders. Moreover, at PEC, the physical examination and document verification for B.Tech first year students will continue as scheduled and all other B.Tech students will continue to attend classes online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-closes-libraries-classes-exams-to-continue-online-101616530558582.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K to take stock of its critically endangered Hangul population||Wildlife authorities will carry out a population census of the unique Kashmiri royal stag, vernacularly known as the Hangul, which once ruled the Valley but has become a critically endangered species with sightings mostly reported in Srinagar’s Dachigam National Park.The four-day counting exercise will start on April 3 and will around 220 wildlife experts, field staff, academics and scholars, some of them from the higher educational institutes of Kashmir. A population census is conducted every two years.“The census was scheduled to start from March 23 but has been postponed to April 3. It will be a four-day activity that will be held on alternate days,” said wildlife warden, Central Kashmir, Altaf Hussain.The last viable population of Hangul (Cervus hanglu hanglu) in the Indian sub-continent exists only in the protected Dachigam National Park, a vast mountainous 141 sq km sanctuary on the outskirts of Srinagar, where Hangul grazed in hordes before the start of militancy in 1989. Lately, there have been a few sightings in connected areas outside the park in south Kashmir but their number is believed to be negligible.The specie has been placed in ‘critically endangered’ category by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and is the only survivor of the red deer group in the Indian sub-continent. In 2019, the population of the animal had slightly improved to 237 from 214 in 2017.“There will be an orientation programme for experts and scholars before starting the census. Later, three field counts will be held on alternate days,” said Hussain, adding that the teams will disperse around 40-45 identified tracks of the Hangul. “Each track will be assigned to one group of four to five people with equipment such as GPS, binoculars, range finder and date sheets. They will be recording every physical sighting, sighting of pelt or other impressions on the basis of which we will be able to assess the number,” Hussain said. Population dropped to 200 from 3-5K during insurgency Poached for its meat, antlers and skin, the deer’s population dropped below 200 in the early 1990s from 800-900 in 1988 after insurgency paralysed the state administration. It had a thriving population of 3,000-5,000 in the 1900s.However, the number of Hangul stabilised after poachers were forced out when militancy reached its peak in mid-1990s and militants and the army battled each other deep in the forests, the natural abode of the shy animal.“Around three-four decades ago, Hangul thrived on a massive landscape from Bandipora (north) to Tulail Shopian (south) through Dachigam (centre),” Hussain said.The deer’s population has stabilised owing to conservation efforts of the wildlife department to protect the park and minimise disturbances. “Its population is not declining at an alarming rate anymore. We have been able to stabilise the numbers of the animal,” he said.However, wildlife experts are concerned as to why their numbers are not increasing despite three decades of conservation efforts.In 2016, a report compiled by a team of environmentalists and wildlife experts, named armed conflict, large-scale interferences to its habitats in the form of excessive grazing by livestock of nomads in the Hangul’s erstwhile summer habitats, grass cutting, fuel and firewood collection, human trampling owing to vehicles of hundreds of paramilitary forces camped inside the park and employees of more than seven government departments, as some of the reasons. “We have been able to control some of the factors to a large extent, though there is pressure in upper Dachigam,” Hussain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkto-take-stock-of-its-critically-endangered-hangul-population-101616530378887.html
24-03-2021||Other||Tarn Taran encounter: Post-mortem of victims done, recorded on camera||TARN TARAN The post-mortem examination of two nihangs, who were wanted in a murder case, and were shot dead by Punjab Police in an encounter, was carried out by a panel of doctors at the Patti Civil Hospital, and the entire process was video graphed. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a team of Nanded Police which had booked both the deceased on March 11 for killing a Sikh granthi Baba Santokh Singh at a gurdwara in Nanded, had also reached Tarn Taran to probe the role of both the accused in the murder case of Sikh granthi. “We have collected bullets pumped into the bodies of nihangs, their weapons and blood samples and sent these items to Forensic Science Lab, Chandigarh, for examination,” Nimbale added. After allegedly murdering the Sikh granthi, the nihangs, Mehtab Singh, 50, and Gurdev Singh, 40, had fled to Punjab. Maharashtra Police had informed their Punjab counterparts. Both attacked the police on Sunday when they were confronted near Singhpura village of Tarn Taran district, where they were staying at the headquarters of a religious sect. Bhikhiwind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajbir Singh led a police team to their hideout, but the nihangs attacked the police personnel, who had a narrow escape. The police, finally, had to open fire in self-defence, it has claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-encounter-post-mortem-of-victims-done-recorded-on-camera-101616530138319.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Supplementary chargesheet against Parra an afterthought: PDP||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday refuted allegations levelled in National Investigation Agency’s supplementary chargesheet against the party’s youth wing president Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra.The party’s additional spokesperson Najmu Saqib said Parra was being victimised for standing by and fiercely advocating the PDP’s political agenda and that the charges were a ‘pernicious attempt to muzzle voices of Kashmir’.“A through-and-through democrat who dedicated his life to strengthening the cause of the mainstream in Jammu and Kashmir, Parra is being punished for some thing he should be appreciated for,” Saqib said.“We strongly believe that none of these frivolous charges will stand judicial scrutiny and Parra will eventually get justice,” Saqib said. The NIA filed had a supplementary chargesheet against Parra and two others for their alleged links to terror cases involving Hizbul Mujahideen Commander Naveed Babu. In 2020, suspended Jammu and Kashmir deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh was arrested in connection with the same case.In its charge sheet, filed in the Jammu special court, the agency has alleged that Parra, a close aide of J&K former chief minister and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, was a crucial player in sustaining the ‘political-separatist-terrorist’ nexus in the Union territory, apart from financing the activities of the Hizbul Mujahideen.Meanwhile, the party’s Jammu spokesperson Firdous Tak said party leaders were being targeted by different agencies and were being forced to join BJP’s shadow organisation, Apni Party. Taking a swipe at the BJP, Tak said the PDP was continuing to resist the undemocratic and unconstitutional onslaught on Jammu and Kashmir. He urged the different political parties to unite against the unconstitutional onslaught. “PDP is ready to get consumed in its struggle to represent aspirations of people of erstwhile state instead of succumbing to the designs of the ruling BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/supplementary-chargesheet-against-parra-an-afterthought-pdp-101616530081190.html
24-03-2021||Other||Bhagat Singh death anniversary: Farmers, Sikh leaders call for united fight against Centre’s agri laws||Various farmer unions, Sikh leaders and youth activists on Tuesday converged on Banga city in Shaheed Bhagat Singh district and called for unity in the protests against the Centre’s agriculture laws. They had gathered to mark the 90th death anniversary of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, who were martyred during the freedom struggle against the British on March 23, 1931.Several Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) also attended the event organised by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Doaba).The leaders paid tributes to the martyrs in their speeches and also urged the people to keep faith in the “Sanyukt Kisan Morcha” leadership as it would not let them down. The event saw majority of youths in attendance, adding more energy to the unity call.Differences and ideological issues had erupted between the morcha leadership and a section of the youth after the Red Fort violence on January 26 during the tractor parade organised by the farmer leaders.While addressing the gathering, Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), said that following in the footsteps Shaheed Bhagat Singh, they were fighting against the Centre’s three farm laws. He alleged that the central agencies were busy running defamation campaigns against the morcha leadership. “I want to make it clear that the government has already lost the debate over the farm bills, which is why there are no more table talks. We were asked by a senior BJP leader, who admitted the new laws were anti-farmer, to reach a midway solution so that the government could also save face,” said Rajewal adding that it has become an international protest.He said the BJP also feared loss of votes as farmers opposed the party in the electoral states.Reaching out to the young faces of the agitation, Rajewal said, “Youngsters are the core and power of the protests while we (leaders) have to keep calm to carry forward the cause. We are fighting it on your (youths) support. I reiterate that the morcha leadership will not lose the fight.”Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, president BKU (Siddhupur), also invoked Bhagat Singh’s sacrifice and told the youth activists that it was their fight too and they were going succeed.Dr Darshan Pal, senior leader of the morcha, said that the country-wide farmer protests were haunting the central government. He also snubbed those calling the stir politically-driven. “We will not return till the farm laws are repealed,” he said.Noted Punjabi singer Babbu Maan said that be it youths, adults or elders, unity was vital to win the fight for betterment of Punjab. He called for strengthening the ongoing protests if it needed to be extended.Baba Nihal Singh, president of Tarna Dal, Hariwela, gave a clear message that of shunning differences and joining the banner of kisan unions to win the fight. Similarly, president of Budha Dal, Nihang Balbir Singh vowed to back the farmer organisations and their protests. “We will continue our support despite there being efforts to create rift among the sections,” he said.Hardeep Singh Dibdibba, grandfather of Navreet Singh who died during the tractor parade, said that they have been organising a march to Singhu border from Moga to connect the youth with farmer unions. Padma Shri awardee and environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh from Khadoor Sahib, Sant Kulwant Ram from Guru Ravidas society and others also addressed the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhagat-singh-death-anniversary-farmers-sikh-leaders-call-for-united-fight-against-centre-s-agri-laws-101616530080260.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Burail head warder gets four-year jail in graft case||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chandigarh, on Tuesday, awarded four-year jail to a former head warder of Model Jail, Burail, Chandigarh, who was convicted for seeking illegal gratification of ₹5, 000 from an inmate. While pronouncing the quantum of punishment in 2014 case, the court of special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg compared corrupt officials to “termites” while imposing a fine of ₹50,000 on Sarwan Kumar, the then head warder of Burail model jail. “The persons of the ilk of the convict are termites responsible for eating up the roots of the societal and fiscal tree of the nation and thereby depriving the entire nation of the fruits of that tree.” the court held. Seeking exemplary punishment for the corrupt official, CBI public prosecutor KP Singh had submitted, “It is the need of the hour to give exemplary punishment to the public servant. Taking a lenient view sends a very wrong message.” Terming conduct of Sarwan as “deplorable”, the court turned down his request for leniency. Court cites example of a termite-infested tree Drawing parallels between corrupt officials and termites, the court cited the example of a fruit-bearing tree. “In a locality, a mango tree was planted by a resident. It was nursed and cared for immensely. It bore honey sweet mangoes. The entire populace of the locality enjoyed the fruit. However, with the passage of time, termites ate the roots of the tree. As a consequence, the tree dried up and stopped bearing fruit. Not just the man who planted the tree but the entire populace of the locality was deprived of the fruit. Termites, who ate the tree up, had not contributed towards its growth and nursing,” read the court order. Inmate had sought change in duty from the warder Sarwan Kumar was arrested in July 2014 on charges of demanding money from Sandeep Kumar, who was serving a life term since December 2008 in a kidnapping case. After returning from parole, he had requested the head warden to change his duty from the visitors’ room, in the presence of his cell mate Prem Singh Bisht. After Sarwan sought bribe from Sandeep, Prem provided him with his brother, Pratap Singh Bisht’s phone number and asked him to get in touch with him with the demand. According to Pratap, who works with the Chandigarh administration and was the complainant in the case, Sarwan first asked him to buy a water purifier for him but later asked for ₹5,000 cash instead. Pratap alerted the CBI and a trap was laid to catch the accused red-handed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exburail-head-warder-gets-four-year-jail-in-graft-case-101616530078362.html
24-03-2021||Other||Name Chandigarh airport after Bhagat Singh, demand Khatkar Kalan residents||The residents of Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, on his death anniversary on Tuesday, expressed displeasure over the Chandigarh airport yet to be named as “Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh International Airport” and demanded it should be done immediately.They also demanded a sports stadium for the youth in the village.The name of the airport has been a subject of contention between the Punjab and Haryana governments. In 2008, Punjab and Haryana had signed a memorandum of understanding, according to which, the states would get a stake of 24.5% each while the remaining would be with the Airports Authority of India. Shaheed Bhagat Singh welfare society chairman Gurjit Singh said the government should name Chandigarh airport after Shaheed Bhagat Singh as token of respect for his sacrifice.Singh also urged the government to complete the remaining work on Shaheed Bhagat Singh museum in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/name-chandigarh-airport-after-bhagat-singh-demand-khatkar-kalan-residents-101616530018728.html
24-03-2021||Other||53 deaths due to covid-19; over 2,200 fresh infections reported in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab witnessed 53 more deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll to nearly 300 in just a week. Tuesday was the second day in a row when the state registered over 50 deaths in a single day in this year. Jalandhar saw the most number of deaths at 14, followed by nine in Hoshiarpur, six in Patiala, four each in Ludhiana and SBS Nagar, three in Amritsar and two each in Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran. Punjab’s total number of positive persons to date has reached 2,17,663, while the deaths have reached 6,435.As per the media bulletin, the state witnessed 2,274 fresh infections of the virus, and for the eighth day in a row, the number of daily infections in the state were above 2,000. It was on March 21, that the state had witnessed maximum 2,644 cases, the highest tally in 2021. From March 17-23, the state has reported 16,647 cases.On Tuesday, the maximum 364 were detected in Ludhiana followed by 322 in Jalandhar, 263 in Mohali and 246 in Amritsar. Hoshiarpur (192), Kapurthala (148), Gurdaspur (111) and SBS Nagar (68) are other districts with high caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/53-deaths-due-to-covid-19-over-2-200-fresh-infections-reported-in-punjab-101616529598270.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||AAP announces candidates for Dharamshala, Solan MC polls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is fighting elections to the local bodies for the first time in Himachal Pradesh, on Tuesday released the first list of candidates for Dharmshala and Solan municipal corporations.Dharamshala, Solan, Palampur and Mandi civic bodies will go to polls on April 7. AAP’s state spokesperson SS Jogta said the party has declared candidates for eight of 17 wards in Dharamshala and 10 of 17 wards in Solan.March 24 is the last date for filing nominations. The BJP has declared candidates for all 64 wards of four Municipal Corporations. Scrutiny of papers will be done on March 25 and candidate may withdraw their nomination on March 27.State forest minister Rakesh Pathania, who is BJP in-charge of election for Dharamshala municipal corporation polls, said the ruling party would continue its winning streak. On the other hand, All India Congress Committee secretary and former Dharamshala legislator Sudhir Sharma said the Congress will repeat its tenure in the civic body as the BJP government has been biased against Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-announces-candidates-for-dharamshala-solan-mc-polls-101616529538333.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Somnath Bharti sent to Tihar after court upholds conviction in AIIMS case||A Delhi court on Tuesday upheld an order sentencing AAP MLA Somnath Bharti to two years in jail for assaulting the AIIMS security staff. After the court order, Bharti was taken into custody and sent to Tihar jail, his lawyer said.In January, a magistrate court sentenced Bharti, MLA from Malviya Nagar assembly constituency, to two years in prison.Special judge Vikas Dhull partly dismissed Bharti’s appeal and convicted him for the offences under sections 147 (rioting) read with 149 (unlawful assembly) of IPC and under section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.The court, however, set aside his conviction under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) read with section 149 of IPC.After the court upheld his conviction, Bharti tweeted: “It was March 23 when people in power duly aided by Indian politicians hanged Shahid-e-azam Bhagat Singh Ji, Rajguru Ji n Sukhdev Ji n today again I failed to get justice 4m sessions court n being sent to Jail for my struggle for rights of people in a false case.Inquilab zindabad!”The Aam Aadmi Party refused to comment on the matter.A senior officer at Tihar, who did not wish to be named, confirmed that the AAP leader has been brought to the prison and lodged in jail number 2. “He was brought after a detailed medical examination. His health is stable. He has not made any demands or asked for any facilities. He has been lodged in a regular cell with other prisoners.”Prison officers said they will keep an eye on Somnath Bharti’s safety owing to his political background.Welcoming the court’s order, Delhi BJP Adesh Gupta said, “Now the Speaker of Delhi Assembly should immediately terminate Somnath Bharti’s membership, failing which Delhi BJP will approach the Election Commission of India seeking his disqualification.”According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence on a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with a JCB operator.According to Bharti, AIIMS had no authorisation to cover the ‘nallah’ (drain) between Gautam Nagar and Ring Road as it was a public property and had to be opened for general use. During the course of investigation, it came on record that the drain was given on lease to the AIIMS for covering and maintenance.The sessions court said in its order that the evidence of eye witnesses to the incident was consistent to the effect that a gathering of around 200-300 people along with Bharti were present near the boundary wall of AIIMS and they were trying to break the wall and the fence by the use of JCB machine.It added that when some of the eye witnesses resisted the bringing down of the fence, they were abused and injured due to stone pelting by the mob.“The evidence which has come on record of the eye witnesses shows that unlawful assembly was comprising of 200-300 persons of which appellant (Bharti) was the member.“It is true that only five accused persons were charged for the offence under Section 147 IPC read with Section 149 IPC and out of which four accused persons have been acquitted but still I do not find any illegality in the conviction of appellant for the offence under section 147 IPC read with Section 149 IPC as the evidence which has come on record shows that unlawful assembly was comprising of 200-300 persons and the remaining persons could not be identified or apprehended,” the judge said in his order.The judge said however that the magistrate court had committed “grave illegality” in convicting the AAP leader for the offence of voluntarily causing hurt as the evidence of the injured persons were not reliable and trustworthy.It said no explanation has been given by the prosecution as to why the injured persons were not medically examined on the date of the offence and on what basis, opinion was sought, when no injuries were observed by the doctor or reported by injured.“The opinion regarding injuries has been taken by the IO (investigating officer) on May 5, 2018, i.e. almost after two years of the incident,” it said.It further said the manner in which the persons had suffered injuries was not corroborative and was contradictory to each other which made their testimony doubtful and unreliable.The court said the prosecution has not brought any such medical record which made this court raise an adverse inference against prosecution that no such injuries were suffered by the injured.“In the light of the evidence which has come on record, the evidence of injured persons namely...was not at all reliable and trustworthy and the MLCs could not have been relied upon. “Therefore, the trial court had committed a grave illegality in convicting the appellant for the offence under section 323 IPC read with Section 149 IPC when the evidence which has come on record, was not reliable and trustworthy. Accordingly, the appellant is acquitted for the offence under Section323 IPC read with Section 149 IPC,” it said.In his appeal filed through advocate Mohd Irshad, Bharti had claimed the magistrate court’s order was based upon a totally false and fabricated story of the prosecution which failed miserably to provide even an iota of evidence to prove his guilt.The public prosecutor, appearing for the police, said there was no illegality or infirmity in the judgment for conviction and sentencing order of the magistrate court and the judgment has been delivered based upon the reliable evidence which has come on record.In January, Bharti was granted bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term.The magistrate court had acquitted Bharti’s associates and co-accused -- Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey -- citing a lack of evidence against them.The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS.Bharti had told the court that police officials and other witnesses had deposed against him in order to falsely implicate him in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/somnath-bharti-sent-to-tihar-after-court-upholds-conviction-in-aiimscase-101616525291155.html
24-03-2021||Other||Notice to Ludhiana police chief for inaction against modified silencers of bikes||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal in a petition pertaining to plying of Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles in the city without properly fitted silencers.The notice was issued after an RTI activist, Rohit Sabharwal, filed a contempt petition before the court.The petition was filed against three respondents — Dinkar Gupta, DGP, Punjab Police; Sharad Satya Chauhan, additional DGP (traffic), Punjab Police; and Rakesh Agrawal.In the petition filed by Sabharwal, it was highlighted that the high court had earlier directed all SSPs, SPs and DSPs in the state of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh to ensure that motorcycles throughout the state are duly fitted with silencers to avoid noise pollution and menace. The court had also issued directions to the officers to take necessary action against the owners of Royal Enfield (Bullet) motorcycles if they are found running their vehicle with an illegal exhaust.“It was the duty of the respondents to ensure that the Bullet motorcycles are running in Ludhiana without any modification made in their silencers. But the respondents have failed to act against the violators and a large number of Bullet motorcycles fitted with illegal exhaust or without silences are running in the city,” mentioned Sabharwal while adding that this is not only leading to extreme level of noise pollution, but also causes nuisance to the people standing nearby or crossing these bikes. It also causes shock to the people when they suddenly hear such an extreme loud noise coming out of these illegal installed exhausts, he added. Sabharwal said despite several representations, the respondents failed to curb this menace.Meanwhile, Agrawal said that the Ludhiana police on February 22 had initiated action against such violators and announced registration of FIRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/notice-to-ludhiana-police-chief-for-inaction-against-modified-silencers-of-bikes-101616529358195.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Over 43,000 get jab on second day of mega vaccination day in Haryana||Over 43,000 coronavirus vaccination doses were administered to beneficiaries across Haryana on the second day of the mega vaccination day.Around 2.48 lakh doses were administered on March 22, the first day of the twice-a-week mega vaccination day.Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said 43,126 vaccine doses were administered on Tuesday taking the cumulative vaccine coverage figures to about 12 lakh.The ACS said 604 vaccination centres including 440 government-run ones across state were made functional for the mega drive.Most beneficiaries are above 60 years of age or between 45 to 60 years with co-morbidities, he said.On administration of vaccines to healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), he said that around 1.80 lakh (82%) workers were administered the first dose and about 1.08 lakh HCWs (60%) were administered the second dose.About 99,915 FLWs (74%) have been administered the first dose and 33,162 FLWs (33%) were administered the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-43-000-get-jab-on-second-day-of-mega-vaccination-day-in-haryana-101616529062008.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||From no facilities to urban amenities, Moga village panchayat shows the way, creates its own income pool||Once deprived even of basic amenities, Moga district’s Dala village has come a long way just in a matter of few years. For, the village panchayat has set an example for others by creating an income pool from a host of amenities like a mini-marriage palace, a booth market comprising 14 shops and a modern gym that it built largely from its own resources. A large under-construction marriage palace will fetch the panchayat an additional annual income of ₹8-10 lakh, locals said. Besides, the village with a population of 7,000 is completely covered with HD CCTV (high-definition closed-circuit television) cameras, solar street lights and interlocked tiles. Village sarpanch Kuldeep Kaur said, “Four years ago, the village streets remained waterlogged for months in the absence of a drainage system. We dug up its 5 ponds for accumulating the sewage and then discharge it into the nearby drain.”Panchayat secretary Sukhbir Singh, who is a resident of the village, said, “Currently, we are generating ₹3 lakh annually from the mini-marriage palace, the market and the gym. The second marriage palace will be completed by the end of the year.”Even the Union ministry of panchayati raj recognized development in the village and awarded it with the ‘Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar’ in April 2018. The ministry had teams visited the village twice in 2017. Also, the then Punjab rural development and panchayati raj minister Sikander Singh Maluka had also given the best panchayat to the village in 2016. Sukhbir Singh said, “Nearly 85% of the total expenditure for development works was incurred by the panchayat from its own resources. Residents of cities have to pay multiple charges to have facilities. But our objective is to provide these facilities to the villagers at low charges or fees.”Low chargesKaur Singh, a village panch, said, “We are charging only ₹5,100 per marriage for the banquet hall. We have kept the charges low so that the poor can afford a good marriage ceremony. The banquet hall has capacity of 300 persons. The upcoming marriage palace will have a seating capacity of 1,000 persons and we will charge around ₹20,000-25,000 per marriage for this.”Lakhvir Singh, sarpanch of nearby Daudhar village who was at Dala, said, “We are also planning to adopt the Dala model. I came here to review the works.”District development panchayat officer Jagjit Singh Bal said, “We are trying to implement this model in other villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-no-facilities-to-urban-amenities-moga-village-panchayat-shows-the-way-creates-its-own-income-pool-101616528946901.html
24-03-2021||Other||‘Gurugram has half of Haryana’s effluent monitoring non-compliant GPIs’||Most effluent monitoring non-compliant grossly-polluting industries (GPIs) of Haryana are located in the NCR, especially in Gurugram, Faridabad, and Sonepat, shows data provided by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) officials.Of these, more than 50% of the total non-complying units (380) are located in Gurugram alone. Officials said most of these GPIs are textile units, distilleries, and food and beverages units.As per the letter issued by the chairman of the Central Pollution Control Board to the chairman of HSPCB, the local board has been directed to ensure that all GPIs in Haryana have online continuous effluent monitoring systems (OCEMS) installed and they should submit an action-taken report within a month.This was after data revealed that only 285 of the 1,631 GPIs identified in the Yamuna river basin (in Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand) have installed OCEMS and provided its connectivity to the CPCB.Of the 1,346 GPIs identified without OCEMS, 661 are operating in Haryana and are immediately required to install the system and give its connectivity to the HSPCB and CPCB for real-time monitoring of pollution being caused by the effluents discharged from these units.In the letter, HSPCB has been asked to issue directions to owners of the 661 GPIs to install OCEMS within three months. The system has to be set up at the outlet of the effluent treatment plants for measurement parameters set up to monitor pollution.The GPIs will also need to connect and upload online continuous effluent monitoring data at HSPCB and CPCB in a time-bound manner to ensure regular maintenance, calibration and operation of OCEMS for round-the-clock monitoring.Haryana has also been asked to submit action-taken report within a month. S Narayanan, member secretary of the HSPCB, said, “Soon after getting directions from the CPCB, we have issued directions to all regional officers to ensure compliance of orders and have sought detailed reports on action taken in this regard.”On whether this online monitoring system will help the pollution control board to take immediate action against the erring industries, he said, “Since the units will be connected with the servers of HSPCB and CPCB we will be able to monitor the real-time values. We have established a special cell at our headquarters for the same.”Untreated effluents from industrial units are a major cause of pollution in Yamuna and have affected the groundwater in multiple districts.As per the recent monthly progress report by the Ghaggar and Yamuna Action Plan of the Haryana government, water quality of groundwater is being monitored at 78 locations in the catchment area of Ghaggar by the HSPCB.Of total 78 locations, groundwater was found unfit at 38 locations. In the Yamuna belt, groundwater quality was monitored at 50 locations and was found non-complying at 10 locations.Maximum four such locations were found in Ballabgarh and three each in Panipat and Palwal districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-has-half-of-haryana-s-effluent-monitoring-non-compliant-gpis-101616528940765.html
24-03-2021||Other||Girl attempts suicide after ‘uncle’ rapes her in Ludhiana||A 17-year-old girl attempted to commit suicide after being raped by a 43-year-old man whom she addressed as uncle, police said on Tuesday. The accused has been arrested on the charges of sexual assault and clicking obscene pictures of the victim. Due to the ordeal, the victim is said to have missed one of her final exams as well. As per the complaint filed by the parents of the girl, the accused is a resident of Chomo village in Adampur. The Daba police, under whose jurisdiction the crime took place, have registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused under sections 376 (2) (n) – (committing rape repeatedly on the same woman), 506 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said. The victim is a student of Class 11. She used to live with her maternal grandparents in Jalandhar and the accused was a tenant there. The girl used to call him ‘mama’ (maternal uncle) as the accused is a foster brother of her mother.The victim told the police that in May 2020, when schools were shut down due to the lockdown after the coronavirus outbreak, her parents had brought her back to Ludhiana. In August 2020, the accused visited them, but her parents were not at home. The accused then mixed some sedatives in her cold drink after which she lost consciousness. On gaining senses, she realised that she was raped. When she confronted the accused, he raped her again and also clicked lewd pictures of hers. The accused then threatened her with dire consequences if she shared anything with her parents.The victim added that in September 2020 also, the accused had come to her house and on finding her alone, sexually assaulted her at gunpoint. He also came in October 2020, but on finding her parents at home, returned after meeting them, she told the police. During his visit to the victim’s house in November, the accused found that the girl was planning to visit a market to buy books. He offered to accompany her to the market, but took her to an unidentified place and again raped her. He committed the same crime in February 2021 as well, the victim said. She said that on March 16, she had an exam for which she had gone to her grandparents’ village in Jalandhar a day before. She told the police that she was “too disturbed” after seeing the accused around her in the house. She did not take the exam on March 16 and attempted to commit suicide by consuming some poisonous substance the next day. Woman beaten up by husband for ‘not being pretty’A resident of Partap Singh Wala, Humbran Road, along with his relatives, thrashed his wife allegedly for not being pretty. According to the complainant, her husband and some male relatives also molested her.The PAU police have booked her husband, mother-in-law, sister-in-law and two others on assault and molestation charges. In her complaint, the 36-year-old woman stated that she had got married to the accused on June 26, 2019. It was her second marriage after her divorce from her first husband.The woman added that her husband, who is a DJ, had started assaulting her soon after the marriage. He complained that she was not pretty and he married her under pressure from his family. The woman added that on March 16, her husband, mother-in-law, sister-in-law and two others assaulted her, while she was molested as well. ASI Kulwinder Singh, who is investigating the case the case, said that an FIR under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on to nab him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/girl-attempts-suicide-after-uncle-rapes-her-in-ludhiana-101616528938259.html
24-03-2021||Other||Another highest daily spike in Ludhiana as Covid rages on||Amid the growing concerns of over 81% samples sent by the state for genome sequencing turning up positive for the new UK variant of Covid-19, more than 300 coronavirus cases were reported on the fourth consecutive day in Ludhiana on Tuesday.The district also saw four deaths, which took the toll to 1,089.The district logged 364 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, toppling the Saturday, Sunday, Monday’s records. The Tuesday’s figure has now become the highest single-day count of the year so far.With 28,174 recoveries so far, the district is left with 1,089 active cases. Dr Bishav Mohan, member of the Covid task force of the state, said both the vaccines currently available are effective against the new strain of virus.“We were suspecting the new strain to be the reason behind the sudden spurt in corona cases,” said Dr Mohan.Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said it was not yet known how many from Ludhiana were infected with the UK strain of the virus. “We have not yet not received any official details about it,” the doctor added.On Monday, ENT specialist Dr Arun Mitra had tested positive for the second time, triggering a debate that he was infected with the new strain of the virus. Dr Mitra was inoculated about 10 days ago.The latest fatalities in Ludhiana included a 64-year-old man from Moti Nagar, a 68-year-old woman from Railway Colony, a 34-year-old man from Shatbgarh village and a 36-year-old man from Malakpuri.Undertrials, travellers, teachers among those infectedTwo undertrials and domestic travellers, three healthcare workers, nine teachers and three students have tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana on Tuesday.All three students are from BCM School in Shastri Nagar.Among others infected are teachers from Oxford Model School in Hans Kalan, a student from Government High School, Rumi, a teacher from DPS, another teacher from GSSS, Bhaini Sahib, a teacher from GSSS, Mundian Kalan, a teacher from Dwarka School in Raikot, and one each from BSM School in Shastri Nagar and GSS Rajewal.Besides, a staffer from PAU also tested positive.5,414 people inoculatedAs many as 5,414 people turned up for Covid vaccination at various government and private health centres in Ludhiana on Tuesday. These included 1,756 senior citizens and 1,282 comorbid people. Besides, 395 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 107 received the second dose. As many as 1,570 frontline warriors received the first jab on Tuesday, while 304 got the second vaccination dose. So far, 1,15,280 people in the district have been inoculated. 39 casualties, 2,305 cases in 9 daysIn the last nine days, the district has recorded a total of 39 Covid-related deaths and 2,305 fresh infections with over 200 new cases being added to the tally every single day. However, it is for the fourth time in over five months that the single-day count has breached the 300-mark.On March 15, the week had started with 226 cases, followed by 245 infections on March 16, while 233 cases were reported on March 17. On March 18, as many as 237 cases were reported. On March 19, the positive count reached 292. Cases on March 20 were 329, on March 21, 330 and 341 infections were logged on March 22.While four people died on March 15, six deaths were witnessed on March 16. The virus had claimed five lives on March 17, while four patients died on March 18 and 19 each. Two persons died on March 20, while eight deaths were reported on March 21. After two deaths on March 22, four fatalities were reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-highest-daily-spike-in-ludhiana-as-covid-rages-on-101616528879545.html
24-03-2021||Other||Wheat procurement next week; Punjab , Centre in deadlock over land record||Punjab’s plans to start wheat procurement next week, with the traditional date being April 1, could run into a hurdle. The state government and the Centre are in a deadlock over the mandatory requirement of land records with the sale of farmers’ produce. Despite repeated requests by the state government for a change or postponement of the condition, the Centre has not yielded.Last week, in a meeting with the Food Corporation of India (FCI), state government officials were categorically told that farmers’ producing land records was a must for this year’s wheat procurement. “We will not be able to implement the Centre’s pre-condition from this rabi procurement season, which is set to begin in a few days,” said Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. The Punjab government expects arrival of 132 lakh tonne of wheat for procurement and the operation winds up in 40-45 days, as the entire state machinery gets involved. Ashu added that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has sent a written communication to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an audience. “The CM will apprise the PM of difficulties in implementing the decision taken by the Centre’s food and public distribution minister that the FCI is set to implement,” said Ashu, adding that the CMO was expecting an appointment from the PM’s office soon. On the challenges in implementing the land record rule for the first time in the history of open ended assured procurement at a minimum support price (MSP) in the state, Ashu said to get farad from the revenue department by 10-12 lakh farmers was a big exercise. He add that there was huge cost involved that individual farmers will bear in getting their land record. “There are other technicalities that will mar the process. Land division has not taken place in a large number of cases, original owners are not alive and land transfer has not been done in the name of legal heirs. At least 25% agriculture land in the state is also on theka (contract),” added Ashu. 3,500 procurement centres plannedDue to surge in covid-19 cases, the food department plans to set up 3,500 procurement centres for wheat. There are 1,850 regular mandis in the state and this is for the second time when additional centres has been created since the pandemic broke out in 2020. “We target that we can ensure a procurement centre for every 3-4 villages, so that farmers do not gather in large numbers at one place, leading to spread of the coronavirus infection,” Ashu added. On its part, the state government is yet to arrange gunny bags and cash credit limit (CCL) for procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-procurement-next-week-punjab-centre-in-deadlock-over-land-record-101616528878274.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Virus claims 4 more lives in HP; case count crosses 61K mark||There has been no let-up in coronavirus infections in Himachal Pradesh, with the state recording 157 new cases, taking the state’s case count to 61,035 while death toll mounted to 1,012 after four more patients succumbed to the infection. Of the new cases, 57 were reported in Una, 27 in Hamirpur, 22 in Kangra, 21 in Shimla, nine in Sirmaur, seven in Solan, six in Mandi, four in Bilaspur and two in Chamba. Recoveries reached 58,550 after 83 people recovered. The active caseload has climbed to 1,455. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,713 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,382 cases, and Kangra with 9,010 cases. Solan has 7,072 cases, Kullu 4,502, Sirmaur 3,767, Una 3,649, Hamirpur 3,202, Bilaspur 3,097, Chamba 2,990, Kinnaur 1,394, and Lahaul-Spiti 1,258.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-claims-4-more-lives-in-hp-case-count-crosses-61k-mark-101616528818166.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Alarm bells ring as 81% of samples Punjab sent to Pune lab for genome sequencing show UK virus strain||Eight one per cent of the 401 positive Covid-19 samples the Punjab health department had sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, showed the presence of the new UK (B.1.1.7) strain, a more infectious variant of the virus. These samples were taken randomly from containment zones in all districts of the state between March 1 and 10. The UK strain has been found in 12 Punjab districts, including Mohali, Jalandhar, Patiala, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Rupnagar, Bathinda and Taran Taran. In January, the state health department had sent 478 positive samples to the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for genome sequencing, of which the results of 90 samples were received. Only two of these 90 samples had the N440K variant, also known as ‘Kerala’ strain, which according to health experts was the mutated version of the coronavirus in India. A Union ministry of health team had visited Punjab to review the increase in positivity rate. Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between January 1 and March 10, were sent to the NCDC for genome sequencing, and worryingly, 326 showed the presence of the B.1.1.7 variant. Former PGIMER, Chandigarh, director and head of the state government’s Covid-19 management group Dr KK Talwar said, “This is worrying as the samples were taken from all districts. The new strain is 70% more infectious that the older one and that is why the rate of the spread is more during the second wave.” “Since the new strain spreads faster, more youngsters and those going out for work are getting infected now. Only ramping up of vaccination and less movement of people can help control the spread,” he added. Nearly two-thirds of Covid-19 patients in Punjab, which is witnessing a second virus wave, are aged between 20 and 60 (working-age population). The trend suggests that people in the age bracket have a high rate of mobility as they have to venture out of their homes for work or other purposes. The figures also show that those aged between 31 and 40 are the most vulnerable to contracting the virus, with 17.2% of the total cases falling in the category. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for widening the ambit of Covid-19 vaccination. All aged above 45 will now be vaccinated. Earlier in the day, he appealed to the Centre to do the needful, expressing concern over the emerging situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alarm-bells-ring-as-81-of-samples-punjab-sent-to-pune-lab-for-genome-sequencing-show-uk-virus-strain-101616528760399.html
24-03-2021||Other||Rain flattens crop in parts of Haryana, no major impact: Experts||Light to moderate rain accompanied by high-velocity winds witnessed in the past two days have left the crop flattened in parts Haryana, leaving the farmers worried ahead of the harvesting season, which is beginning next month.As per of the meteorological department, widespread rain and wind were reported in most parts of Haryana in the last 48 hours and more rain is expected in the next 24 hours.According to farmers, the untimely rain, accompanied by strong winds, have flattened the standing crops in several parts of Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Karnal districts.Farmers said that crops have been flattened and this will lead to fall in the yield, especially in the early varieties, as it is most of the crop is in milking stage and rain will affect growth of the grain.Karam Chand, deputy director of the Haryana agriculture department (Kaithal), said, “There are reports that rain and wind have flattened crops in several areas. Crops under irrigation were more affected.”However, officials of the district agriculture department in Karnal said that as of now there are no reports of crop loss as light rain was reported in parts of the district.With the department of agricultural meteorology, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, predicted more rains in next 24 hours.Agriculture experts have advised farmers to avoid irrigation till the weather returns to normal.Meanwhile, wheat crop in few pockets of Rohtak, Bhiwani, Dadri and Hisar got flattened due to rain and high-velocity winds.Dayanand Punia, a farmer from Bhiwani’s Matani village, said that flattening of crop has taken place in few pockets in district.“Gusty winds and rain are not good at this stage. It could lead to crop loss. As per farmers’ assessment, around 30% wheat crop has been damaged due to gusty winds and more damage occurred in Loharu area where hailstorm also lashed. Government should initiate crop loss assessment survey at the earliest,” Punia added.Sanjay Dangi, a resident of Madina village in Rohtak, said that wheat crop on three acre of his land suffered 25% loss due to rainfall and gusty winds.“Flattening will certainly lead to loss of yield,” he added.Agriculture experts said that if rainfall continues for more days, it can cause delay in wheat crop harvesting.“Rain is not good for the mustard crop as well because harvesting is underway and rain at this stage could delay thrashing due to moisture,” experts added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-flattens-crop-in-parts-of-haryana-no-major-impact-experts-101616528699987.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||If Pak-bound Sikh jatha given nod now, why not for Nankana massacre centenary: SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur on Tuesday said if the central government could give a go-ahead to a Sikh jatha going to Pakistan on the occasion of Baisakhi then what stopped it from approving a group of pilgrims visiting the neighbouring country to mark the Nankana Sahib massacre centenary in February. Baisakhi is also celebrated as the Khalsa foundation day. “Four jathas visit the holy shrines in Pakistan every year,. The government’s decision of giving permission to the jatha raises question on its earlier move when a special jatha was denied nod citing the pandemic and security reasons. It is clear that the government deliberately banned the jatha. The pandemic situation at that time was much better as compared to the present,” Jagir Kaur said.The Sikh community, she added, can never forget the jatha getting stopped by the government on the occasion of 100th anniversary of Saka Nankana Sahib.Questioning the closure of the Kartarpur corridor, she said, “The corridor was also closed citing Covid-19 even as the sangat visiting the holy place will return in the evening. If there is no prohibition for coronavirus elsewhere, why the corridor should remain closed. The government should seriously consider this matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-pak-bound-sikh-jatha-given-nod-now-why-not-for-nankana-massacre-centenary-sgpc-101616528698127.html
24-03-2021||Other||Fatehabad police arrest three persons for killing JBT teacher||The Fatehabad police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder of a JBT teacher, identified as Jitender Kumar, who was shot dead outside the gate of Government Primary School in Ramsara village of Fatehabad on March 1.The arrested men are Vikas Punia, of Gorakhpur village in Fatehabad, Vinod Kumar, of Rajasthan, and Kanhaiya Lal, of Sirsa.Police have also recovered two pistols and eight live cartridges from them. Police produced the trio before the court, which granted them five-day police remand.Fatehabad superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar said Vikas and Rakesh were masterminds of the crime.“We have arrested Vikas from Rajasthan. He and Rakesh had intercepted the JBT teacher outside the school and shot him dead,” the SP said.“During questioning, Vikas said they had killed Jitender because of rivalry with his family over selling liquor in Adampur and Bhattu Kalan as his family owns the contract of liquor vends in these areas. Vinod had provided the duo live cartridges and Kanhaiya helped them run away. We have launched a manhunt to nab other two accused, including mastermind Rakesh Kumar,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatehabad-police-arrest-three-persons-for-killing-jbt-teacher-101616528458031.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Now get tatkal appointment for land registration in Haryana||Starting a new feature in the registration of land deeds in tehsils across state, the Haryana government has launched tatkal appointment service.Financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal said that the provision had been made to enable an applicant to book deed registration appointment on immediate-basis.Those wanting to make use of this service can book tatkal appointments online for getting the deed registered by paying tatkal fee of ₹25,000 in the form of e-challans. Such appointments can be booked only on the day of registration from 8am onwards, he said.In each tehsil, 10 appointment slots have been reserved for tatkal service in addition to 100 normal appointment slots, Kaushal added.Applicants will have to visit the egrashry.nic.in portal, click on the link; pay tatkal appointment service charges, enter details asked by the system and generate an e-challan by paying ₹25,000 using net banking, debit card, etc.They can book the deed appointment by visiting the jamabandi.nic.in portal. This portal will ask the type of appointment i.e. normal or tatkal.The applicants will have to enter details of the property and parties to complete the appointment booking. On successful booking of appointment, the applicant will get an SMS on their mobile phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-get-tatkal-appointment-for-land-registration-in-haryana-101616528338201.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||AAP says BJP criticism of liquor policy ‘hypocrisy’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to increase the legal drinking age to 25 years in all party-ruled states, saying the Arvind Kejriwal government will increase it to 30 years if the BJP accepts the challenge.The AAP was reacting to the BJP’s criticism of the Delhi government’s move to decrease the legal drinking age in Delhi from the current 25 years to 21 years. Delhi was one of only six states or Union territories that pegged the benchmark at 25.AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj rejected BJP’s criticism as “hypocrisy”. He said the legal drinking age in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh was 21 years. “In BJP-ruled Goa, it is 18 years,” he said.Bhardwaj further said that the BJP should ask the central government to bring a law to fix the legal drinking age at 25 years. “I am surprised to see the hypocrisy of the BJP. In the BJP-ruled states, the legal age for consuming liquor is 21 years for the last so many years. I challenge Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and leader of opposition Ramvir Bidhuri to change it to 25 years in the BJP-ruled states, then we will make it 30 years in Delhi,” he said.Bhardwaj said the Delhi government’s move was aimed at putting an end to harassment of restaurant owners by the police. “When youths under 21 years go to restaurants and pubs, police extorts money from restaurant owners which then makes its way to the top. Once the police is in place, this malpractice will stop and that is why the BJP is upset,” he said.The Delhi BJP said the Delhi government move will proliferate spurious liquor, promote crime and “spoil” youngsters.“The right thing to do will be tightening the liquor policy to make Delhi safe for women and keep youngsters away from the liquor. It seems the Kejriwal government values revenue more than the safety of women or saving the youngsters from falling into this habit,” Gupta said.Gupta along with other senior leaders also staged a protest on Tuesday against the new proposed excise policy.Gupta said, “The Kejriwal government is unmindful of the fact that more liquor shops will lead to the increased crime rate in Delhi. The government instead of providing clean drinking water is focusing on equitable distribution of liquor vends.”Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of opposition in the Delhi assembly, said, “It is unfortunate that the Kejriwal government is putting revenue and money ahead of the lives and safety of the citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-bjp-criticism-of-liquor-policy-hypocrisy-101616525266022.html
24-03-2021||Chandigarh||Satlok ashram violence: Rampal’s son, two other get bail||Self-styled godman Rampal’s son and two others were granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday in an FIR registered for 2014 Satlok ashram violence.Those who were granted bail include Virender Singh, son of Rampal, and two associates Joginder Singh and Pawan Kumar, said their counsel Arjun Sheoran.In the case, Rampal and his another associate Raj Kapoor are yet to secure bail. A number of his associates and the Satlok ashram head have been sentenced varying up to life imprisonment by a Hisar trial court in two murder cases registered against him in 2014 and 2015. The FIRs were registered after large-scale violence was witnessed at his ashram in Hisar during a November 2014 operation launched by multiple agencies to nab him after he had refused to appear before the high court.In the entire operation, six lives were lost and 110 police personnel and 70 civilians had sustained injuries.He was convicted in October 2018 in two cases. The trio that was granted bail won’t come out of jail as they are yet to secure bail in another FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/satlok-ashram-violence-rampal-s-son-two-other-get-bail-101616528038043.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police steps up enforcement, 730 fined in a day for not wearing masks||With Delhi’s Covid-19 graph inching upwards, even as the entire country is experiencing a new wave of the viral infection, Delhi Police has stepped up the enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour across the city to ensure that the spread is contained.From about 130 to 160 fines a day for not wearing masks, police on Tuesday caught 730 such violators and fined them ₹2,000 each. Another 11 were fined for not adhering to social distancing measures.The penalty for violating guidelines related to Covid-19 is a fine of ₹2,000, which can be levied by a police officer or officials from the district magistrate’s office.Delhi Police officers said in the backdrop of rising cases, police teams across the city are focusing on areas that have a high footfall, especially market places. On March 18, HT had reported how prosecutions by police and the district administration for not wearing face masks across the national capital had decreased even as the city was witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 positivity rate.Until last month, Delhi was recording a very low positivity rate -- on February 16, it was just 0.17%. Since then, it has increased to 1.32%, as on Monday (March 22). For the first time in the past three months, the daily positive cases also crossed the 1,000-mark on Tuesday, with Delhi reporting 1,101 cases. On December, 20, there were 1,139 viral infections. To be sure, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said that the positivity rate, for a region with a comprehensive testing programme, should be at or below 5% in order to consider that the outbreak under control in that area. The Delhi government has said that the cases are under control as it is just a little over 1%.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “The decision to increase enforcement was discussed on Saturday, during the law-and-order meeting, which our chief (police commissioner SN Shrivastava) held with all district deputy commissioners of police. After the third wave in October-November, during the festive season, Covid cases had started reducing and police were also busy with law-and-order tasks. Enforcement had taken a back seat but not anymore. As the Covid-19 data shows, the cases are increasing once again, and so we are stepping up enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour.”In the past seven days, police issued 5,344 such fines, an average of 763 persons a day. Before that, between March 1 and 15, police had only fined 2,227 persons.For violation of social distancing norms, police issued 51 fines over the past seven days, while in the fortnight before that, police had only fined 13 persons.During the third wave of the disease in the national capital, at least 4,000-6,000 were fined daily with police ensuring that people complied with the rules in public spaces.The officer further said across many markets, police are making announcements about the mask rule. “The idea is not to collect fines but to ensure that people follow the rule for the safety of everyone. The penalty for the violation has increased from ₹500 to ₹2,000. We understand it is a big amount, so we are making announcements to ensure that people do not have to be fined.”Since last year, police have issued 426,568 masks to the underprivileged.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “We thought people have gotten into the habit of wearing masks after having to use it for so many months now. People are being callous when it comes to ensuring their own safety. I want to compare this to motorists not wearing a helmet or speeding. We know that head injuries during an accident can be fatal, as studies show, yet, people continue to ride without a helmet. We cannot be lax about Covid appropriate behaviour. Not even 60% of the population has been vaccinated yet. Until we develop herd immunity, we have to wear masks and ensure social distancing. People must realise that we have to continue wearing the mask and not be part of a gathering for at least three or four months or even more. We have to follow rules until the virus is completely gone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-steps-up-enforcement-730-fined-in-a-day-for-not-wearing-masks-101616525261069.html
24-03-2021||Other||Petitions in HC seek independent probe against ex-Mumbai top cop, Maha home min||Two petitions were filed in the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday seeking similar directions for probing the alleged malpractices purportedly directed by state home minister Anil Deshmukh to former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. While one petition has sought handing over the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) or any other independent agency, the second has sought a court-monitored probe by Maharashtra Police or any other independent agency against suspended assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze, Singh, Deshmukh and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. The first petition filed by Mumbai-based advocate Jayshri Patil has referred to the March 20 letter written by Singh to CM, in which the former top cop had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month, including ₹40-50 crore from around 1,750 bars and restaurants. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case of explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home last month. The petition also seeks directions to the police to take cognisance of a written complaint lodged by her before Malabar Hill Police station, seeking the registration of a first information report (FIR) against the alleged criminal conspiracy which Singh pointed out in his March 20 letter. It also sought directions to the investigating officers to secure CCTV footage of the places where the incidents mentioned in the letter took place. The petition claimed that Deshmukh is allegedly “abusing his powers by instructing police officers to extort money from the businessmen/ citizens, therefore, he is not trustworthy, as he is the person holding the position of the home minister of the state.” While referring to Singh’s letter, the plea stated, “The home minister has, as a regular practice, been repeatedly calling officers and giving them instructions in respect of the course to be followed by them in performance of their official duties.” The petition further elaborates Singh’s letter to highlight Deshmukh’s alleged corrupt practices and stated, “He [Deshmukh] has been instructing them [officers] to carry out official assignments and collection schemes, including financial transactions, as per instructions based on his expectations and targets to collect money. These corrupt malpractices have been brought to notice by the respondent Singh.” The petition has also targeted Singh for not bringing such heinous crime in the clutches of law while he was the police chief. “He was just sitting on it and it doesn’t show good intention. It shows that he was the superior police officer and had powers to take steps in accordance with law under section 154 of the Criminal Procedure Code, but failed to do so, for what reasons is the matter of investigation, after registration of FIR,” stated the petition. In the wake of Malabar Hill police station refusing to register an FIR based on her complaint, the petitioner has expressed apprehensions of important evidence being destroyed by Deshmukh and others, and hence she had to approach HC. The petition also sought directions to CBI, ED or any other independent agency to conduct “unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the alleged malpractices by Deshmukh, Singh and others”. The HC will hear the plea in due course. The second petition, filed by Pune-based activist Hemant Patil, has sought directions to Maharashtra Police or any other independent agency under the supervision ofHC against Vaze and his associates for offences including extortion. Patil has stated that after the director general of police and Mumbai Police commissioner said that they could not conduct any inquiry against Deshmukh and Singh under section 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person) of the Indian Penal Code, he had approached the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petitions-in-hc-seek-independent-probe-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-maha-home-min-101616527558054.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Trace rainfall, gusty winds bring some respite from heat||There was some respite from the rising temperature on Tuesday with the city receiving trace rainfall with gusty winds. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said the weather is expected to remain pleasant for the next two days but the mercury will start rising again from Friday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the city received trace rainfall and the day was largely cloudy with gusty winds.“The wind speed was high today (Tuesday); it touched 60kmph. The temperature is expected to remain comparatively lower, around 30-31 degrees Celsius over the next two days,” said Srivastava.He further said from Friday, the temperature is likely to rise again. The forecast says around Holi, which is on Monday, the maximum temperature is likely to touch 37-38 degrees Celsius.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 29.6 degrees Celsius—a notch below the season’s normal.The minimum temperature, however, was the highest so far this season at 21.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year.IMD recordings show that this month, barring Tuesday’s temperature drop, the maximum temperature has been two to three degrees higher than normal. Scientists said they are expecting the recordings to be a few degrees warmer than usual.“We are expecting this month’s mean maximum temperature recordings to be a few degrees above normal,” said Srivastava.Despite the gusty winds during the day, the air quality on Tuesday deteriorated to the ”poor” category. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 244 on Tuesday. On Monday, the AQI was 196, in the ”moderate” zone of the AQI scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/trace-rainfall-gusty-winds-bring-some-respite-from-heat-101616525255090.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||World TB Day: Cases dip; lockdown and Covid fear to blame||According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the city recorded a sharp drop in the number of diagnosed patients of tuberculosis (TB) during 2020. This is attributed to the lockdown, due to which the diagnosis of hundreds of suspected TB patients was delayed. Today is World TB day.On average, over 50,000 individuals get diagnosed with TB in Mumbai annually. When the Covid-19 pandemic started in March 2020, the city came to a standstill and as a result, TB diagnosis fell by 28.7% compared to 2019. Some could not opt for early treatment due to lack of public transport while others avoided visiting hospitals for fear of contracting Covid-19.Data shows in 2019, there were 60,597 people diagnosed with TB in the city, including 5,673 who had multiple-drug resistant (MDR) TB and 794 with extreme drug-resistant (XDR) TB. In 2020, of the 43,464 diagnosed with TB, 4,367 had MDR-TB (a drop of 23%) and the detection of XDR-TB fell by 74% with 200 patients diagnosed in 2020. However, with the lockdown being relaxed, the number of diagnosed patients has been going up. “Every month, we generally record 5,000 new TB diagnoses which got badly affected in the initial months of the lockdown. In April, we registered around 1,000 cases. But since December last year, the turnout has increased. In January, we got over 5,500 TB patients,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, in-charge of TB in BMC.Doctors said delayed diagnoses has resulted in group infections. “We are witnessing a large amount of TB infection among paediatric patients. As many patients live in overcrowded rooms, the delay in diagnosis ended up infecting those around them. Also, due to Covid-19, people avoided going out which further contributed to spreading the infection in-doors,” said Dr Bela Verma, head of paediatric medicine at Sir JJ Hospital.In 2020, a total of 2,068 MDR-TB patients were treated with the newest anti-TB drug —Bedaquiline. The number was far lesser in 2019 when the drug was only given to only 1,089 patients with MDR-TB.The BMC has taken up several initiatives to curb TB cases in the city. This year, BMC will start culture-based phenotypic drug susceptibility testing (DST) laboratories for drug resistance detection in Kasturba and King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospitals.“For faster detection of TB, we have started using Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques. We have partnered with NGO, STOP TB and an AI company, Qure.ai, for the diagnosis of TB patients within 3 minutes. This will help in reducing initial dropouts and delay in start of the treatment. In addition, another AI company, Wadhwani.AI, would help us to predict patients who have a high probability of default,” said Dr Tipre.The BMC has initiated two drug trials - the first one in collaboration with the National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis and Indian Council of Medical Research, and the second one on XDR-TB medicines with the NGO, Médecins Sans Frontières, which is also known as Doctors Without Borders.3 TB-Covid co-infection deathsAs reported earlier by HT, a total of 241 TB patients were diagnosed with Covid-19 co-infection last year. There were, however, no fatalities. According to data provided by BMC, three of the 42 people diagnosed to be suffering from TB-Covid co-infection have died this year.Data indicate that the infection rate of TB patients tested for Covid-19 has risen this year, from 1.8% last year to 2.1%.“As Mumbai is witnessing a second wave and the number of daily Covid-19 infection rate has already surpassed last year’s figure, we expect a rise in co-infection among TB patients also,” said an officer from BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/world-tb-day-cases-dip-lockdown-and-covid-fear-to-blame-101616527198155.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees over 3K Covid cases for third day in a row||With 3,514 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the city reported more than 3,000 new cases for the third consecutive day, taking the number of active cases to 26,599. Addressing this spike, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has prohibited Holi celebrations on March 28 and 29 at public places. A circular to this effect was issued by the civic body on Tuesday evening. On Tuesday, Mumbai’s Covid tally stood at 3,69,451. Eight deaths from Covid-19 were reported, taking the death toll to 11,604. The city’s case fatality rate is 3.1%. There were 3,779 and 3,262 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday and Monday respectively. Sunday’s caseload is the highest single day total since March last year. While Holi celebrations have been prohibited this year, municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday that there were no plans to impose a lockdown in Mumbai at present. BMC has increased the number of tests conducted daily from 25,000 to 50,000 tests. It has also decided to accelerate vaccination in the city. The number of hospital beds reserved for Covid-19 patients has been increased. To reach its target of vaccinating 1,00,000 people every day, BMC has directed all private hospitals to aim towards vaccinating 1,000 beneficiaries per day and take measures like operating vaccination centres from 9am to 9pm to meet the target. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of the state Covid-19 task force, said, “Considering office hours, we can extend the timings beyond 5pm, as the timing of 9am to 5pm is not practical. It is possible to change the slot altogether from 9am to 5pm to, say, 2pm to 9pm, so that people can visit vaccination centres with their parents after working hours.” BMC is awaiting the Centre’s approval to start 20 more vaccination centres at private hospitals. At present, the maximum number being vaccinated daily in the city is between 42,000 and 45,000. On Tuesday, 37,120 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 103 vaccination centres in Mumbai, of which 32,122 received the first dose and 4,998 received the second dose. Of those vaccinated on Tuesday, 20,550 were senior citizens and 4,535 were citizens above the age of 45 years who have co-morbidities. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, “There is a need to educate people that the vaccine is a good weapon which can control the disease. It will prevent complications arising from the disease. And vaccination will definitely decrease mortality due to Covid-19. People still have misconceptions about the vaccine.” So far, BMC has vaccinated a total of 9,39,188 beneficiaries, of which 8,09,276 have got their first dose, and 1,29,912 have been given their second dose. Of these, 4,40,844 are senior citizens and 70,793 are citizens above the age of 45 years with co-morbidities. From Monday, BMC has started conducting random rapid antigen tests at public places such as malls, supermarkets and markets. Each of the 24 wards have been given a target number of tests that should raise the city’s daily test count to 47,800. On Monday, 15,771 tests were conducted at public places. The highest were at K/East ward, which has jurisdiction over Andheri, where 1,600 tests were conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-over-3k-covid-cases-for-third-day-in-a-row-101616527078025.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Use of Covaxin up by 258%: Mumbai civic body||In the last four days, the usage of Covaxin has increased by 258% in the city and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also started suppling vials of Covaxin to private hospitals.Covaxin is India’s first indigenous vaccine for Covid-19 and was developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. The vaccine uses an inactivated virus paired with an adjuvant – a chemical that boosts immune response. Once Covaxin is administered, immune cells in the body recognise the dead virus and make antibodies. Till March 18, BMC’s data shows 16,106 doses of Covaxin had been used in the city for first and second-time beneficiaries. The number of Covaxin doses increased to 57,679 on March 22. On Monday, 18,041 beneficiaries were given Covaxin while Covishield shots were administered to 17,191 individuals. This was the first time since January 16, when the mass immunization programme started, that the daily count of Covaxin doses was higher than that of Covishield in Mumbai. Last week, Pune reported a shortage of Covishied following which beneficiaries were given Covaxin. “We have set a target to vaccinate 45 lakh people in 45 days. So, to avoid any major shortages which can cause a hurdle in attaining the daily target, we have decided to focus on Covaxin. We have already sought 10 lakh doses of Covaxin. We are expecting the next consignment of 3 lakh doses this week,” said a senior BMC officer. Under BMC’s vaccination extension plan, several private hospitals including Lilavati, Nanavati and Bombay Hospitals have also been provided Covaxin vials. “At present, we have Covaxin more than Covishield so we have been asked to prioritise the first. We would use the latter to inoculate beneficiaries in their second dose who have already got its first dose,” said a doctor from a private hospital requesting anonymity. Jayantilal Mehta, 69, went to the Dahisar jumbo centre on Monday expecting to be given a shot of Covishield, but was given Covaxin. “When I asked for Covishield, they said it is up to the centre and vaccinators to decide. I was quite concerned but thankfully, I didn’t develop any side effects,” said Mehta. For almost two months, the government-run Sir JJ Hospital was the only vaccination centre in Mumbai authorised to deliver Covaxin shots. Beneficiaries had to sign a consent letter as the vaccine was the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had declared the vaccine to be in “clinical trial mode”. A subject expert committee (SEC) approved the vaccine in March after Bharat Biotech submitted data from phase 3 of its clinical trial to the drug regulator. Its data showed an interim clinical efficacy of 81% and following the approval, beneficiaries no longer have to sign a consent form. Following this, the Centre instructed BMC to allow five vaccination centres — Seven Hills Hospital and the jumbo centres at Bandra Kurla Complex, NESCO in Goregaon, Dahisar and Mulund to administer Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/use-of-covaxin-up-by-258-mumbai-civic-body-101616526898006.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid surge in Mumbai: Don’t step out if not necessary, say experts||Even though the number of Covid-19 cases in the city and state continues to rise, lockdown is not being recommended as a feasible option by experts since the economy is limping back to normal. Instead, experts say Maharashtra should open up vaccinations to everyone above 18 years of age and the public must follow Covid protocol to contain the spread of the infection. Among the measures recommended by experts is curbing non-essential events with crowds, like weddings and parties, and non-essential activities such as morning and evening walks. Introducing staggered timings for offices may also help by reducing peak-hour traffic congestion on roads and public transport. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of the state government’s Covid-19 task force, said, “No one wants the economy to be hampered again due to a lockdown. But curbs can be put on non-essential activities, such as on morning and evening walks, and on those who leave homes just for an outing, such as in parks or beaches. This will not affect any businesses or those dependent on such business for their day-to-day income.” He also stressed that weddings and other social gatherings should be avoided because they pose the risk of spreading infection. Dr Pandit further said, “If office timings can be staggered for even those 50% employees who are not working from home right now, it will reduce load on local public transport. So some employees can start work at 8am, others at 10am. They can work two hours more at the end of the day. Presently, local public transport gets very crowded during office hours, around 9am and between 5pm to 7pm.” ​ Experts also said the strictest vigil must be maintained at containment zones. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid taskforce, said, “Micro-containment zones have to be created and the strictest vigil must be maintained to not allow anyone to venture out, except health workers.” Brinelle D’souza, co-convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, said, “A lockdown need not happen until we reach an extremely critical stage. However, some restrictive measures are required in a pandemic. Non-essential things can shut down. BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] can also strictly implement current restrictions and precautions on restaurants and in malls. BMC also needs to start with positive reinforcement, along the lines of awareness drives it had started like the My Family, My Responsibility campaign. This will engage local societies and local communities to take charge of this narrative to protect the health of their family, neighbourhood and community.” D’souza questioned the civic body’s decision to conduct rapid antigen tests on randomly-selected visitors at malls as citizens have no option of refusing the test, for which they must pay. She said, “We do not have compulsory testing for all. BMC cannot take action against people who refuse an antigen test, as the civic body is charging them for it.” Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the state-appointed death audit committee, stressed the need to ramp up vaccination in the state, while Dr Pandit said the state must now start vaccinating all above the age of 18. Rashmi Thackeray tests positive for coronavirusRashmi Thackeray, wife of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, tested positive for corornavirus on Tuesday. Rashmi, who is also the editor of Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, will be under home quarantine at the chief minister’s official residence Varsha. She along with Thackeray had taken the first dose of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine on March 11 in Mumbai. Their elder son and Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray had tested positive for coronavirus on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-surge-in-mumbai-don-t-step-out-if-not-necessary-say-experts-101616526778277.html
24-03-2021||Other||NYAY will be tested in Kerala if Cong returns to power: Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is on a two-day visit to the poll-bound Kerala, on Tuesday said his favourite “Nyuntam Aay Yojana” (NYAY) , a proposed scheme to ensure minimum income guarantee, will be showcased in the state if the party-led United Democratic Front returns to power.He said he was confident of the success of the NYAY scheme and wanted to test it in Kerala for the first time. “I have a selfish reason to test it in Kerala,” he said while addressing an election meeting in Puthuppally (Kottayam) constituency being represented by former chief minister Oommen Chandy for the past 52 years.“In NYAY, a sum of ₹72,000 a year will go straight into beneficiaries’ bank accounts. We know what is going to happen next. We are testing the new idea in Kerala,” said Gandhi, who took out a rally in an open vehicle before the meeting. He came up with “NYAY” during the 2019 Lok Sabha poll but the party failed to win the election and he later stepped down from the party president post.Gandhi said he wanted to “test” the scheme because if it worked in Kerala, he wanted to replicate it in all the Congress-ruled states in the country. “Kerala is going to show the rest of India how to fight poverty and end it once and for all,” he said.“Look, this is not charity. We are returning your money through NYAY. We are putting money in your pockets. So that you can spend,” he said, adding this was the only way to uplift the economy which “collapsed” due to the demonetisation brought in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his flawed GST implementation and Covid-19 pandemic.In its manifesto for the assembly polls, the Congress has promised ₹2,000 “pension” for homemakers, ₹72,000 annual dole to the poor under NYAY and five lakh homes for the underprivileged.Later in a tweet on the occasion of ‘Shaheed Diwas’, he hailed the sacrifices of soldiers at borders and farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders, and said the Centre must answer for the “insult” of their “martyrdom”.March 23 is observed as ‘Shaheed Diwas’ to pay tribute to three great sons of the country - Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru - who were executed by the British for killing a British police officer. They wanted to avenge the death of freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai.In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, “Sacrifice -- of the soldiers at the country’s borders and farmers sitting at the borders of Delhi. The central government must answer for the insult of their martyrdom.” Thousands of farmers are camping at Delh’s borders points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nyay-will-be-tested-in-kerala-if-cong-returns-to-power-gandhi-101616526657390.html
24-03-2021||Bangalore||Mob attacks 3 traffic cops over ‘death of 32-yr-old biker’||A video of a mob raining blows on three traffic police officers alleging that the cops tried to stop a motocycle that resulted in the death of a 32-year-old man on Monday night, was widely shared on social media. The attack took place after Devaraj and pillion rider Suresh fell near a traffic police checkpost on Mysuru’s Ring Road. Devaraj died on the spot.Mysuru police claimed that Devaraj died after hitting a lorry and not because of the enforcement drive. “The three police personnel who were attacked by the mob are two assistant sub-inspectors and one government driver. Three of them have filed three separate FIRs on the case,” said officials of Mysore city police station. The entire incident has triggered a conversation over police’s enforcement tactics and attacks from the public. Rohan Menezes, a graphics designer with a multinational firm said that he suffered injuries after he fell off the motorcycle near Ulsoor Lake, in January during a traffic police check. “They were on the other side of a right turn, and as soon as I took a right turn, a trafficpoliceman jumped in front of me. I lost control and fell off the bike. I got scratches on my hand. The policemen helped me, but when I asked why they had to resort to such guerrilla methods, they didn’t respond,” he said. While contactless traffic enforcement has been pitched as a solution to avoid such conflicts, cops say it came with its own problems. Bengaluru police have been using cameras to capture traffic management for a while now and issue challans.“People were ignoring the challans issued to them. So, last year we began a drive to collect these fines by going to the violator’s home. The drive didn’t give the desired results. With more than ₹390 crore worth of fines, we have no options but conduct random vehicle checking across the city,” said Ravikante Gowda, joint commissioner of police (traffic) said.A retired Director General of Police (DGP), who didn’t want to be named said that problem was not just with the traffic police. “Even though the department denies it, there are targets given for fine collections, which often results in conflicts with the public. The manpower and effort deployed for fine collection in Bengaluru, especially when traffic gridlocks are common, sends a wrong message. While three to four policemen are deployed for fine collections, some of the busiest get just lone policemen,” he said. He, however, added that problem was not limited to the police. “If you look at the road you will see so many people riding without helmets, jumping the signal etc. So, there is a need for enforcement, but it doesn’t require traffic policemen standing at vantage points and jumping in front of vehicles,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mob-attacks-3-traffic-cops-over-death-of-32-yr-old-biker-101616526657976.html
24-03-2021||Other||Residents plan to move court as BBMP decides to continue tree-cutting for underpass project||Bengaluru Residents of Bengaluru’s Surajan Das road junction were planning to move the court, as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to continue with felling of trees for the construction of an underpass. On Sunday, more than 200 residents of the area formed a human chain around the junction to prevent the felling of trees.The BBMP has marked 25 trees near the junction for felling. So far, eight trees, which residents claim are 60-80 years old, have been cut. “Once we learnt about the cutting of the trees, we decided to protest. We held a human chain around the tree, but as soon as we left, they started cutting the trees again. Because we reached on time, they couldn’t cut them completely,” said Swathi Damodaran, a resident of the area.She added that the residents were able to halt the work temporally after approaching the authorities. “There was no consent sought from residents and the move was not consulted with us either,” she said. Residents added that they keep a vigil to ensure that the tree-cutting does not continue.Ranganatha Swamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests, BBMP, said the authorities have received the required permissions to cut the trees. “We have official orders, unless we are told otherwise, we can’t stop the project. But for now, the project has been halted,” he said.The reason for authorities not consulting residents in the case of the Suranjan Das Road or other cases in the past is an amendment made to the Karnataka Tree Preservation Act, 1976. As per the 2014 amendment, the BBMP need not call for public consultation if the number of trees to be felled is less than 50.The amendment has been challenged in the high court through a public interest litigation filed in 2018. “As per Section 6 of the Amendment Act, Section 8(3)(viii) has been amended to provide for a minimum number of trees to be felled in order for there to be a requirement for the issuance of a public notice, at an arbitrary figure of 50 trees. This arbitrary provision without any legislative safeguards has allowed the provisions of the Tree Act to be completely side-lined and abused by various stakeholders to chop huge numbers of trees with no public notice,” read the petition.Suranjan Das Road is one of the many infrastructure projects that have been opposed by activists. Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL), which cut down more than 2,300 trees for road-widening projects on the outskirts of Bengaluru, was asked to stop work by the Karnataka high court on March 7. The HC direction came as the KRDCL was planning to cut nearly 7,500 more trees for infrastructure development.The HC intervention came after a committee of experts from the University of Agricultural Sciences, Gandhi Krishi Vigyana Kendra (GKVK) — formed following the high court’s order to look into the KRDCL projects — submitted a report highlighting the number of trees lost on the outskirts of Bengaluru.The committee also reduced the permission to KRDCL for cutting trees after studying the tress in the locations where infrastructure projects were underway. While the Forest department had allowed the felling of 5,297 trees, the expert committee brought the number down to 1,721.The HC halted the project to look into the claim by KRDCL that the Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act will not apply to the road-widening projects on the outskirts of Bengaluru.While the residents of Suranjan Das junction are approaching the court, the hearing in the PIL is expected to come up for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-plan-to-move-court-as-bbmp-decides-to-continue-tree-cutting-for-underpass-project-101616526597998.html
24-03-2021||Other||With 2,010 new cases, K’taka records highest spike of year||BengaluruWith 1,280 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported in 24 hours on Monday, Bengaluru’s active case count crossed the five-figure mark, adding to the growing speculation of a possible lockdown in the city. The state reported 2010 new cases on Monday, breaching the 2,000-mark for the first time since the turn of the year.On Monday, the total active Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru stood at 10,766, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru has been recording a sharp increase in cases since the beginning of March with most industries and sectors operating in full capacity. The city has also witnessed a rise in protests, rallies and other events with large gatherings without proper adherence to safety guidelines.Karnataka is looking to leverage on the new guidelines for vaccination and its own ambition of doubling inoculation for over 3 lakh persons per day as a measure to contain the crisis.The Union government on Tuesday modified its guidelines, making all persons above 45 eligible to get vaccine shot. Karnataka, however, will commence vaccinating people above 45 from April 1.Allaying fears of any shortage, Karnataka’s health minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said the state was shortly expected to receive more vaccines.“There is no shortage of vaccines in the state. We have discussed this with the Centre and they have assured that there will be no shortage of supply of vaccine,” Sudhakar said in a statement.He said the state was expected to receive 12.5 lakh doses of the vaccine in the next one week. “Before that, additional 4 lakh doses will be dispatched through flight,” he said.The state government has ruled out imposing any restrictions or relapse into a lockdown exactly a year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government ordered the “Janata Curfew” on March 22 last year. While Bengaluru accounted for the bulk of active cases in the state, Kalaburagi district — about 570 km from the India’s IT capital —reported 129 new cases taking its active case count to 545.Mysuru reported 100 new cases while Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru, Ballari, Bidar and Udupi reported 74, 40, 39, 76 and 28 new cases, respectively.With the government finally acknowledging that the second wave of infections has begun in the state, it is now looking to increase vaccination and other measures to help it contain the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-2-010-new-cases-k-taka-records-highest-spike-of-year-101616526597450.html
24-03-2021||Other||Cong using lame excuses to stall proceedings of house: k’taka cm||BengaluruKarnataka chief minister B.S Yediyurappa on Tuesday lashed out at the Congress for using “lame excuses” to disrupt the proceedings of the ongoing budget session of the state legislature.“Our Congress friends have been using lame excuses to hold a dharna yesterday during the budget session. Ramesh Jarkiholi has taken moral responsibility and resigned. We are getting it investigated. The woman is not coming forward nor saying anything clearly. Despite all this, how is it right to hold a dharna? They have no other issues to have a debate and are wasting time,” Yediyurappa told reporters outside the legislature on Tuesday.The Congress has remained steadfast about its demand for a court-monitored probe into the alleged sex-for-work scandal involving former water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.Congress legislators chanted slogans against the state government while holding Compact Discs (CD).Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minister, tried to calm the opposition benches by stating that the government has given its response to the concerns raised by the Congress.Speaking to reporters outside the assembly, Bommai said the Congress has no moral right to question the government since it had resorted to brushing away similar allegations against then excise minister H.Y Meti in 2016.Bommai said that in the Meti case, despite the woman in question coming forward and complaining against sexual harassment against the minister, no action was taken.He said the case was handed to the Central Investigation Department (CID) without even filing an FIR and a clean chit was given months before the case was even closed a year later.“When the Meti incident happened, why was there no court-monitored probe?” Bommai questioned the Congress. Meanwhile, the investigation into the sex scandal appears to have made little progress since the victim nor her family were yet to be located by the special investigation team (SIT) set up to probe the incident.Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators and ministers have stated that the woman who claims to be the victim has ‘been on the run’.During the commotion, the government tabled three bills including the supplementary budget estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-using-lame-excuses-to-stall-proceedings-of-house-k-taka-cm-101616526539150.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Metro lines 2A, 7 have potential to create 1.1 million jobs: Study||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in job losses for many, an analysis by the World Resources Institute (WRI) India, showed that the upcoming metro lines — 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) — has the potential to create an additional 1.1 million jobs in the city, if the station areas and surroundings are planned accordingly. The analysis is based on the 2014 economic census of the Central government, which maps establishments across the country. The study states that 1.4 million jobs are located within a one-km buffer of lines 1 (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar), 2A and 7. While Metro-1 and western suburban network has a job density of around 26,000 jobs per sqkm, it is relatively lower for 2A (10,500) and 7 (20,700).“If we consider the average number of jobs per kilometre, located along the western suburban railway line, and assume a similar number of jobs could be accommodated along Metro lines 2A and 7, then an additional 1.1 million more jobs can be attracted in these areas alone,” the analysis conducted by WRI India stated.While the 11.5km line-1 is already operational, line 2A and 7 is expected to be operational this year.Madhav Pai, director, WRI India Ross Centre said, “The analysis clearly indicates the massive potential to create more jobs in the city around the upcoming infrastructure by applying the principles of transit-oriented development. This needs good long-term co-ordinated planning and implementation. For instance, with three lines intersecting at Dahisar, the suburb can be developed as a jobs hub in the future.” To maximise this potential, the analysis also states that the areas around the metro stations must be developed with “a robust street network, transit-supportive land uses and housing, amenities and facilities, and cultural institutions.” The government must look at strengthening last-mile connectivity, integrated ticketing and creating vibrant public spaces near the stations, it adds further.“We are looking at transit-oriented development around metro stations. We also have a multi-modal integration plan for each of the upcoming metro stations,” a senior official from MMRDA said.Pankaj Joshi, principal director, urban centre, Mumbai, said, “While it is true that mobility is one of the most important enablers in job creation, there are several other factors that also need to work along with this enabler. This includes housing stock which is affordable, the right policy framework, job satisfaction among several other factors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/metro-lines-2a-7-have-potential-to-create-1-1-million-jobs-study-101616526538623.html
24-03-2021||Other||Lockdown, rain revive Bengaluru's groundwater level||BengaluruCovid-19 brought with it endless suffering to people world over but for Bengaluru, it also brought in some relief in the form of increased groundwater levels, according to government data.Copious rainfall in Bengaluru last year coupled with the lockdown-induced decline in demand by commercial establishments helped reverse a downward trend of dipping water levels.The four talukas of Bengaluru—North, South, East and Anekal—have seen a marginal average rise in static water levels ranging from 0.30 metre to as high as 8.75 metres between 2016 and 2020, government data shows.“Good rains last year have helped reverse the trend of declining water levels. But there is over exploitation in all four talukas of Bengaluru,” said a Karnataka government official aware of the developments.Bengaluru received 1,082 mm of rainfall in 2020, 28% more than its normal, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre.But the rise in water levels cannot be mistaken for a reversal of the downward trend in the long term as excessive commercial activities, high-rise residential buildings and lack of reusing water have weighed in on India’s IT capital, experts and officials said.The crisis in Bengaluru comes on account of over exploitation of groundwater and the lack of resources to reuse water or feed it back into the earth to help recharge water levels below the surface, experts and scientists said.The United Nations World Water Development Report 2021, themed “Valuing Water” and released on Monday, stated that there will be a global water deficit of 40% by 2030.“Humans certainly use water as if it was limitless: an estimated 80% of all industrial and municipal wastewater, for example, is released into the environment without prior treatment,” the UN report stated.The report added that over 2 billion people worldwide already live-in areas subject to water stress and around 45% of the global population (3.5 billion) lack access to safely managed sanitation facilities.Several urban centres in India face a similar crisis, but few witness problems that Bengaluru endures on account of its water shortages. The city, despite all the money it spends on lake rejuvenation and other exercises, remains firmly in the grip of water tankers that deliver the precious resource as a business model to apartments and other households in Bengaluru.“The water mafia has sucked water dry and there is no groundwater because there is no recharge. People are paying a heavy price and the water scarcity in the region is really worrying,” said T.V Ramachandra from Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science.He added that over concretisation has led to the crisis, which the decision makers are yet to acknowledge.Having lost the river Vrishabhavathi to over exploitation and several lakes to encroachments, sewage inlets and bad maintenance, Bengaluru is heavily dependent on the inflow of Cauvery water from about a 100 km away to quench its thirst, experts said.Being Karnataka’s biggest revenue generator, successive governments have followed a predictable path of diverting Cauvery water into the city even if it deprives surrounding districts of their requirements.With no river water in close proximity, people in hundreds of villages in erstwhile Bengaluru built lakes and tanks as a resource for irrigation and drinking. Out of the remaining 210 lakes, around 19 are encroached and most others are in a pitiable state that neither quench the city’s thirst nor improve the groundwater table due to over three to four decades of accumulated silt, experts said.Bengaluru also receives copious rainfall but barely a fraction of it is harvested, leaving most of this water to flood streets and then flow into drains and eventually find its way into lakes, experts said.Several other parts of Karnataka face a similar problem with water, according to the groundwater directorate in Bengaluru.“There are about 14 districts, 41 talukas and 1,199 villages in Karnataka that are over exploited,” M Raveendrappa, the project director of the groundwater directorate, said. The directorate on Monday launched a campaign in 1,199 water-stressed villages of the state as part of a nation-wide campaign.Even where groundwater level is available, almost at nearly 2,000 ft, it is of poor quality like in Peenya industrial area, a locality where several micro and small industries operate.Priyanka Jamwal of Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE) said that in Peenya, the borewell water has heavy metals, trace metals and other toxic contaminants largely since most of the used water is let out without being treated.“If you go to parts of the city where there is Cauvery water supply, groundwater is not that contaminated because there is proper recharge happening,” she said. But in the outskirts of the city, which largely depend on borewells, there are high levels of nitrate and fecal coliforms because of the soak-away pits present there with no lining and contaminating the groundwater, Jamwal added.“Where there is no sewerage system or pipe water supply, there is groundwater contamination,” Jamwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-rain-revive-groundwater-level-101616526537380.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Ex-army jawan shot dead in south-west Delhi, police launch hunt for suspects||A 43-year-old retired Indian Army jawan was shot dead by two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants in south-west Delhi’s Ujwaa village near Jarafpur Kalan on Monday evening, police said.The retired army man, identified as Mukesh, was with his friends, when the men arrived, asked them information about a person, and then opened fire at him. At least five bullets were fired, of which three hit Mukesh, killing him on the spot, the police said.Police suspect the murder to be a case of mistaken identity and the real target may have been Mukesh’s brother Rakesh, who has a criminal past. “There is a possibility that the assailants had come looking for Mukesh’s brother but ended up killing him instead,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena.The police said they were also probing the gang rivalry angle as Rakesh has some links with gangster, Manjeet Mahal, who is currently in jail. Mahal has been indulged in a turf war with the Kapil Sangwan gang and their enmity has claimed nearly half a dozen lives in the past four-five years.DCP Meena said that Monday’s incident took place around 5.30pm. Two unidentified men arrived on a motorcycle and asked the men about the whereabouts of Rakesh.“Mukesh and his friends told the duo that Rakesh was not with them. After this, one of the men suddenly whipped out a countrymade pistol, opened fire at Mukesh and fled,” said the DCP.Mukesh’s friends immediately raised the alarm, after which his nephew rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case of murder was registered on the complaint of Mukesh’s uncle Ishwar Singh,60, who was also present near the crime scene. A crime spot investigations team visited the area and collected evidence later in the day.“The statements of eyewitnesses have been recorded. Our teams are making efforts to identify and nab the suspects,” added DCP Meena.The police are also scanning the CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene and the routes that the suspects took while fleeing.No arrests have been made so far in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exarmy-jawan-shot-dead-in-south-west-delhi-police-launch-hunt-for-suspects-101616525219169.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze-Deshmukh row: MVA may announce probe today||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is likely to announce on Wednesday a probe into the allegations of a bribery ring levelled by IPS officer Param Bir Singh against home minister Anil Deshmukh. Mired in controversy over the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in Antilia bomb scare case and allegations of corruption racket in transfer of police personnel, the MVA, mainly the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena, has been planning a two-point strategy to come out of the situation – announcing a probe into the allegations and easing Deshmukh out of the home department. The probe is likely to be announced under the Commission of Inquiry Act which gives certain powers to panel and has legal weightage. “The nature of the probe is being worked out. It could be headed by a retired high court judge,” said a senior NCP functionary. NCP chief Sharad Pawar had earlier suggested a probe by a retired senior police officer and recommended the name of former Mumbai Police chief Julio Ribeiro, who denied saying he did not want to get involved in a probe at his age (91) and in such a “murky situation”. The NCP leadership, however, is yet undecided whether to shunt out Deshmukh immediately or in a minor reshuffle of the cabinet in the next few weeks. MVA leaders said all decisions related to damage control exercise are being taken at the level of NCP chief Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The three parties are likely to formally have a discussion on the ongoing crisis on Wednesday or Thursday. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has approached Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Central government, demanding dismissal of the MVA government and a Central Bureau of Investigation probe in the allegations. On Wednesday, a delegation led by the opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis will meet the Governor to press the demand. From the time the controversy broke out, the NCP leadership has been backing Deshmukh, but at the same time, it was also of the view that he needed to be replaced at an appropriate time. “The party is still deliberating the pros and cons if Deshmukh is removed from the home department immediately. Pawar saheb also discussed with a senior leaders a few probable candidates who can lead the crucial department. They were deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state NCP chief Jayant Patil, labour minister Dilip Walse Patil and health minister Rajesh Tope,” said an NCP minister, requesting anonymity. A section of NCP leaders also believes if Deshmukh was removed then the BJP’s next target would be Thackeray as they want to pull down the MVA government. The state may also announce a probe into the illegal phone tapping case as alleged by NCP minister Nawab Malik. Hinting at it, water resources minister Jayant Patil said in Sangli: “Phone tapping is a serious crime. On what grounds were phones of people tapped; on whose order was it done? All those involved will have to give an explanation. There has to be some investigation.” On Tuesday, Fadnavis alleged he has data of suspicious call records intercepted by then intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla after she received information about a racket of brokers existing in the IPS transfers and tapping was done with prior permission from the additional chief secretary of home department. Malik claimed the phones were illegally tapped as it was done without taking any permission. “It is not right as she (Rashmi Shukla) didn’t obtain permission and tapped phone records illegally, which is a crime,” he said.65 crime branch cops transferred In a major reshuffle, 86 police personnel were transferred to police stations, social branches and local arms (LA) unit on Tuesday, following the massive controversy that erupted after the role of suspended cop Sachin Vaze came to light in the Antilia explosives scare case. Of the 86, 65 are crime branch officers, including assistant police inspectors Riyazuddin Qazi and Prakash Howal. While Qazi was transferred to LA unit, Howal will be posted at Malabar Hill police station. The duo was recently questioned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for their alleged close association with Vaze. Among the 65 crime branch officers, 28 are inspectors, 17 are assistant inspectors, while 20 are sub-inspectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vazedeshmukh-row-mva-may-announce-probe-today-101616526298141.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Have left decision to CM; need to keep BJP sympathisers at bay’||Clarifying its stand of not buckling under pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Maharashtra Congress has decided to leave the decision over action related to the allegations against home minister Anil Deshmukh to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. While demanding regular meetings of the coordination committee of leaders from three parties, the Congress pressed the need to keep the BJP sympathisers in bureaucracy at “safe distance”. The Congress ministers and senior leaders met on Tuesday evening to deliberate on the ongoing row after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh levelled allegations that the police were to collect ₹100 crore in bribe from bars and restaurants. Senior leaders met after the party’s central leadership intervened and asked for a report from the state unit. Senior leaders, including Balasaheb Thorat, Prithviraj Chavan, Vijay Wadettiwar, Nitin Raut, Mumbai Congress leader Bhai Jagtap, Charan Singh Sapra and general secretary Sachin Sawant, met at Thorat’s official residence on Tuesday evening “The state unit leaders were of the opinion that there was no need for immediate resignation of the home minister until the authenticity in the allegations was scrutinised. Taking action against the minister will mean buckling under the pressure of the BJP’s ‘smear campaign’ against the government. However, the probe panel needs to be constituted at the earliest as part of the damage control. Congress leaders Ashok Chavan and Thorat have pressed for it during their meeting with the CM on Monday,” said a senior Congress leader. The leaders also expressed dismay over the secondary treatment meted out to them by other two partners in the government. One of the leaders in the meeting said the image of the coalition is damaged because of the wrongdoings of NCP leaders and it has been experienced even in the past when their governments were in power in the state. The leader said that the state leaders will send a report to the central leadership based on the deliberation. The leaders also expressed their concerns over the damaged posed by BJP sympathisers in the state government. One of the leaders said these officers need to be identified and kept distanced from. Another leader said the damage caused to the government was also because of the war between lobbies in IPS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-left-decision-to-cm-need-to-keep-bjp-sympathisers-at-bay-101616526177915.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||ATS gets Vaze’s transfer warrant||Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) chief Jaijeet Singh on Tuesday said that suspended police officer Sachin Vaze was a “prime accused” in the Mansukh Hiran murder case and the agency has procured a transfer warrant from a Thane court with which it will approach the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court to get his custody.Vaze is in NIA custody till Friday for allegedly planting an SUV with 20 loose sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home last month. Hiran, a Thane-based auto spare parts dealer who was linked to the car, was found dead at the Reti Bunder Creek on March 5.Speaking to reporters at a press conference outside the agency’s office in south Mumbai, Singh said that more arrests were likely in the case.“Vaze is in NIA’s custody till March 25. As it is necessary to thoroughly interrogate him in connection with the crime, a transfer warrant has been obtained from the chief judicial magistrate at Thane and a comprehensive application has been filed before the special NIA court at Mumbai. We are sure that after thoroughly interrogating him, the ATS will reach to the bottom of the crime and unearth the conspiracy,” Singh said.The ATS on March 21 arrested two men, Vinayak Shinde, a convicted constable on parole in an encounter case, and bookie Naresh Gor in the murder of the 48-year-old spare parts dealer. “It has come to light in the investigation that some of the 14 SIM cards obtained through accused Naresh Gor were activated and given to Shinde, who in turn had transferred the activated SIM cards to others involved in the crime and the SIM cards were used in commission of the said crime. Preliminary investigation has revealed that some of the SIM cards used in commission of the crime and some of the mobile handsets in which those SIM cards were used, were destroyed by the accused,” Singh said.ATS had also claimed to have detained a person from Ahmedabad who had allegedly provided SIM cards to the accused.ATS had interrogated Vaze on March 8, following a statement by Vimla, Hiran’s wife, accusing the suspended cop of having a hand in her husband’s death. Her statement also revealed that Vaze and Hiran knew each other well and that Vaze had borrowed the Scorpio that was later found outside Antilia, for four months between November 2020 and February 2021. Hiran had reported the car stolen on February 18. Following Vimla’s statement, ATS registered a murder case against unknown persons.“In interrogation, Vaze refuted all the allegations levelled against him. He claimed that the SUV had never been in his possession and also maintained that he had nothing to do with the victim. He denied having any involvement in the said crime and that he had no knowledge about the said crime. But ATS officials have collected evidence showing that the claims made by Vaze are false and further probe is on to find out his exact involvement in the said crime,” Singh said.The ATS chief said it was Vaze who had contacted Shinde when the latter was out on parole last year and took his help.According to ATS, Shinde contacted Hiran, posing as “Tawde sahab from Mumbai crime branch” on the evening of March 4, the day before Hiran’s body was found in a Thane creek. “Preliminary investigation suggests that Shinde along with others was involved. A Volvo car seized from Daman is suspected to have been used in the crime,” the ATS chief said. The Forensic Science Laboratory at Kalina examined the car on Tuesday.A team of forensic officers from Pune also visited Thane on Tuesday along with ATS officials. The forensic team examined the blue-coloured Volvo seized by ATS. The officials refused to talk but collected several samples from the car for over two hours. “The team did not find any documents or equipment in the car. They were collecting fingerprints, footprints and any other evidence which will help in the probe,” an official said. ATS has also obtained CCTV footage from various spots even though the accused destroyed some CCTV footage in a bid to destroy evidence of their movement, officials said. “To understand how exactly the crime was committed, a demonstration was conducted by taking the accused at the crime scene. Analysis of the information collected by raiding the residences, offices and godowns of the arrested accused is going on,” Singh said.Meanwhile, NIA is also conducting a parallel probe in the Hiran murder case as well as the explosives case. A team searched the premises of a room in Trident hotel, where Vaze reportedly stayed between February 16 and 20. According to a senior NIA officer, Vaze was captured in CCTV footage entering in the hotel carrying five bags. The bags have not been recovered as yet, the officer said. inputs from Anamika Gharat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ats-gets-vaze-s-transfer-warrant-101616526057344.html
24-03-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis on bribery ring: Maha didn’t act on evidence of corruption’||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday accused the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of not acting on “incriminating evidence” supplied as a report by former Commissioner of State Intelligence Rashmi Shukla on a “money for transfer” scam in the state police department. HT has seen a copy of the report, dated August 25, 2020, which names senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking.The report, which is based on intercepted phone calls of six people -- it was not immediately clear if this was done through proper channels -- states that they were middlemen who helped police officials seek postings of their choice, and brought up names of politicians such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh, in their alleged conversations. The report does not state that the middlemen spoke to these leaders directly. It contends states that one middlemen is an assistant in the home minister’s office. The report does not talk about any direct transfer of money to these politicians. It does, however, refer to “monetary exchange” between police officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.There was no reaction from chief minister’s office to the report. Deshmukh was not available for comments.In a press conference held in Mumbai on Tuesday, Fadnavis said Shukla submitted the report to the then Director General of Police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on August 25, 2020, who in turn forwarded the report to Sitaram Kunte, the then additional chief secretary, home, the following day. Fadnavis met the Union home secretary in Delhi and demanded a CBI probe. “The Union home secretary clearly told me that they will verify the documents and evidence and a report will be submitted to the central government. The government will take appropriate action accordingly,” he told reporters in the national capital.Fadnavis said that he had 6.3GB of data from the intercepted calls, which contained the voices of police officers and politicians closely related to the home minister and home department.While Fadnavis said Shukla had “sought proper permissions from then additional chief secretary-home and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politician”, NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday that Shukla had intercepted calls illegally.“She prepared the call records illegally hence she was transferred as a punishment,” Malik said. He added that “80% of the transfers mentioned in the report did not take place.”The State Intelligence Department (SID) is a sensitive wing of the police and it is a serious issue if communication between its chief and a DGP came out in the open, Maharashtra NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil said on Tuesday.A question also arises about how the previous BJP-led government used the SID, Patil said. “On whose directions was the phone tapping done? Who had given the right to (then Commissioner of Intelligence) Rashmi Shukla to tap the phones? Was permission to tap phones taken? All this needs to be investigated,” he said.The report names police officers who were in touch with six middlemen for transfers to desired posts.“It is a serious matter and necessitates urgent action by the state government. It is recommended that this be brought to the notice of Hon. Chief Minister at the earliest and an immediate and comprehensive enquiry by State CID (Crime), Pune be ordered to identify concerned individuals and take necessary legal action. It is also advised that the secrecy of this report be ensured, in order to prevent unnecessary scrutiny, which may bring disrepute to the government,” Jaiswal wrote in the covering letter when he submitted the report to ACS, Home.The report cited an instance of an IPS officer who wanted to be posted in Nashik. The report said that the officer met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, home minister Anil Deshmukh. He also met NCP chief Sharad Pawar along with a few local MLAs belonging to the Congress and the NCP.“Since Nashik has a sitting Shiv Sena MLA, Ajit Pawar suggested the transfer will need the approval from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. As suggested by Ajit Pawar, the DCP met Sharad Pawar at his Nariman Point office. In turn, Pawar sent a message to Thackeray on WhatsApp. The DCP will get his desired posting done for sure,” the report stated, quoting the conversation from the intercepted calls of the middleman.There was no mention in the report of any money changing hands, or an any explicit impropriety in the transfer.In the summary to the report, Shukla wrote: “The aforesaid brokers were in close contacts and embroiled in these negotiations with several influential and the police officers ranging from inspectors to several high-ranking officers are in contact with such undesirable individuals. The information obtained and evidence collected is highly incriminating and gravely implicates a number of individuals engaged in this activity.”Malik, however, said on Tuesday that the transfer of policemen was a procedural affair and did not occur as mentioned in the report.Shukla, who is on central deputation, did not respond to the phone calls or text messages.A delegation of BJP leaders including Fadnavis, state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, Sudhir Mungantiwar and Ashish Shelar will meet Maharashtra governor BS Koshyari on Wednesday. “We want governor Koshyari to seek a detailed status report from the chief secretary of Maharashtra,” said a senior BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-on-bribery-ring-maha-didn-t-act-on-evidence-of-corruption-101616525998409.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||Parking spaces to be determined by distance from Metro stations: DDA||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has proposed that all new buildings, except residential projects, coming up near Metro stations and multi-level car parking lots have 10%-30% less parking space, a move that is aimed at ending congestion by preventing parking on roads and encouraging the use of public transport.According the dynamic parking rules, approved by the DDA in a meeting last Thursday, parking space for new buildings will be defined by not only the use of the premises but also access to public transport and parking lots.“Currently, parking norms are based on the designated use of the premises. It has been observed that the surplus parking from buildings spills over to roads and results in congestion in public spaces. The new parking norms have been worked out based on the availability of the Metro network, other modes of public transport (including cab aggregators) and multi-level car parking facilities,” a senior DDA official said, requesting anonymity.The new rules, drafted by the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC), rationalises parking space for 35 categories of buildings such as commercial centres, colleges, community halls, hospitals, etc, the official said.A second DDA official said the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had asked the DUAC last year to examine the existing parking norms and suggest suitable measures. The new norms will now be put in the public domain for comments before being notified by the ministry.Once notified, the new rules will apply to all properties where construction has not begun, even if the plans have been approved by the local civic agency concerned, said a third DDA official. “In all such cases where the plans have already been approved, the properties may be developed as per the revised norms and the concerned local body may be informed in writing. No separate permission will be needed,” the official said.Proximity to Metro, parking lotsAs per the new norms, for a property (except residential) located within 500 metres of a Metro station, there will be a 30% deduction in the permissible parking space. For properties located more than 500 metres and less than 800 metres from a Metro station, there will be a 15% reduction. For properties coming up within one kilometre radius of a multi-level parking lot, 10% of the permissible parking space will be deducted.Currently, a new commercial complex within 500 metres of a Metro station has to provide three equivalent car parking spaces (ECS) for every 100 sqm of built-up area.An ECS is the parking space which has to be provided in a building, based on its built-up space (floor area), for parking vehicles, including car, scooter, light vehicles, etc.Transport experts welcomed the move, saying it is the “way forward” for planned development. They also wanted a a cap on maximum parking that can be provided for a premises. Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India, said, “It is a good move that they have reduced parking in areas where Metro or multi-level parking lots are located nearby. A lot of cities world over are moving towards parking maximum. This means that they are capping the maximum parking space. This should be done in Delhi too.”Banquet halls, commercial centresThe new norms have also reworked the existing parking norms for various ‘use categories’ such as commercial complexes, hospitals (mainly government hospitals), coaching and educational centres, community halls, social and cultural centres, district courts, government offices, etc.For banquet halls, the permissible parking limit has been doubled from three ECS per 100 sqm to 6 ECS, without any deduction for proximity to a Metro station. Officials said it has been done to cut congestion on roads around banquet halls in city, where parking on roads is a major problem, particularly during wedding season. For hotels, however, the limit has been reduced from 3 ECS per 100 sqm of built-up area to 2 ECS, plus applicable deduction for proximity to a Metro station.For commercial centres such as Connaught Place, the current limit of 3 ECS has been kept unchanged. But, deductions for proximity to Metro and parking lots will apply. (For more categories, see box)Residential projectsPermissible parking limits have only partially changed for residential areas. While norms for plotted residential areas remains the same, rules for group housing societies have been altered. However, deductions for Metro and parking lots will not apply to residential buildings or areas.For residential areas, the DDA has proposed to take the number of dwelling units as the baseline instead of the current built-up area.Currently, 2 ECS per 100 sqm of built-up area is the norm for group housing. It will now be changed to 0.5 ECS per dwelling unit for societies where each house/flat has an area of less than 40 sqm. If the dwelling units are between 40sqm and 100 sqm, 1 ECS of parking space per house/flat will have to be provided.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at Centre for Science and Environment, said, “The parking provision in housing projects should also have the deductions proposed in other categories if they fall in the influence area of Metro stations or transit-oriented development. After the entire Metro network is built in Delhi, nearly 70% of the city will be in transit-oriented development zones (near Metro stations). Therefore, if we don’t apply the Metro and multi-level parking lot deduction in residential colonies, then it will mean negating the advantage of this policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parking-spaces-to-be-determined-by-distance-from-metro-stations-101616525215023.html
24-03-2021||Other||Bharti sent to Tihar after court upholds conviction in AIIMS case||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday upheld an order sentencing AAP MLA Somnath Bharti to two years in jail for assaulting the AIIMS security staff. After the court order, Bharti was taken into custody and sent to Tihar jail, his lawyer said.In January, a magistrate court sentenced Bharti, MLA from Malviya Nagar assembly constituency, to two years in prison.Special judge Vikas Dhull partly dismissed Bharti’s appeal and convicted him for the offences under sections 147 (rioting) read with 149 (unlawful assembly) of IPC and under section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.The court, however, set aside his conviction under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) read with section 149 of IPC.After the court upheld his conviction, Bharti tweeted: “It was March 23 when people in power duly aided by Indian politicians hanged Shahid-e-azam Bhagat Singh Ji, Rajguru Ji n Sukhdev Ji n today again I failed to get justice 4m sessions court n being sent to Jail for my struggle for rights of people in a false case.Inquilab zindabad!”The Aam Aadmi Party refused to comment on the matter.A senior officer at Tihar, who did not wish to be named, confirmed that the AAP leader has been brought to the prison and lodged in jail number 2. “He was brought after a detailed medical examination. His health is stable. He has not made any demands or asked for any facilities. He has been lodged in a regular cell with other prisoners.” Prison officers said they will keep an eye on Somnath Bharti’s safety owing to his political background.Welcoming the court’s order, Delhi BJP Adesh Gupta said, “Now the Speaker of Delhi Assembly should immediately terminate Somnath Bharti’s membership, failing which Delhi BJP will approach the Election Commission of India seeking his disqualification.”According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence on a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with a JCB operator.According to Bharti, AIIMS had no authorisation to cover the ‘nallah’ (drain) between Gautam Nagar and Ring Road as it was a public property and had to be opened for general use. During the course of investigation, it came on record that the drain was given on lease to the AIIMS for covering and maintenance.The sessions court said in its order that the evidence of eye witnesses to the incident was consistent to the effect that a gathering of around 200-300 people along with Bharti were present near the boundary wall of AIIMS and they were trying to break the wall and the fence by the use of JCB machine.It added that when some of the eye witnesses resisted the bringing down of the fence, they were abused and injured due to stone pelting by the mob.“The evidence which has come on record of the eye witnesses shows that unlawful assembly was comprising of 200-300 persons of which appellant (Bharti) was the member.“It is true that only five accused persons were charged for the offence under Section 147 IPC read with Section 149 IPC and out of which four accused persons have been acquitted but still I do not find any illegality in the conviction of appellant for the offence under section 147 IPC read with Section 149 IPC as the evidence which has come on record shows that unlawful assembly was comprising of 200-300 persons and the remaining persons could not be identified or apprehended,” the judge said in his order.The judge said however that the magistrate court had committed “grave illegality” in convicting the AAP leader for the offence of voluntarily causing hurt as the evidence of the injured persons were not reliable and trustworthy.It said no explanation has been given by the prosecution as to why the injured persons were not medically examined on the date of the offence and on what basis, opinion was sought, when no injuries were observed by the doctor or reported by injured.“The opinion regarding injuries has been taken by the IO (investigating officer) on May 5, 2018, i.e. almost after two years of the incident,” it said.It further said the manner in which the persons had suffered injuries was not corroborative and was contradictory to each other which made their testimony doubtful and unreliable.The court said the prosecution has not brought any such medical record which made this court raise an adverse inference against prosecution that no such injuries were suffered by the injured.“In the light of the evidence which has come on record, the evidence of injured persons namely...was not at all reliable and trustworthy and the MLCs could not have been relied upon. “Therefore, the trial court had committed a grave illegality in convicting the appellant for the offence under section 323 IPC read with Section 149 IPC when the evidence which has come on record, was not reliable and trustworthy. Accordingly, the appellant is acquitted for the offence under Section323 IPC read with Section 149 IPC,” it said.In his appeal filed through advocate Mohd Irshad, Bharti had claimed the magistrate court’s order was based upon a totally false and fabricated story of the prosecution which failed miserably to provide even an iota of evidence to prove his guilt.The public prosecutor, appearing for the police, said there was no illegality or infirmity in the judgment for conviction and sentencing order of the magistrate court and the judgment has been delivered based upon the reliable evidence which has come on record.In January, Bharti was granted bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term.The magistrate court had acquitted Bharti’s associates and co-accused -- Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey -- citing a lack of evidence against them.The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS.Bharti had told the court that police officials and other witnesses had deposed against him in order to falsely implicate him in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bharti-sent-to-tihar-after-court-upholds-conviction-in-aiimscase-101616525218020.html
24-03-2021||Delhi||City holds events in memory of Bhagat Singh on Martyr’s Day||While the Delhi government organised cultural programmes on revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on Tuesday, to mark his death anniversary (also observed as Martyr’s Day in the country), the farmers at Delhi borders drew parallels between the current agitation and the freedom struggle, and a Delhi college invited people to attend an Urdu storytelling (dastangoi) session on the revolutionary leader, to pay homage to the iconic leader.On March 23, 1931, three freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev Thapar, and Shivaram Rajguru were executed by the British for “conspiring against the Crown”..The Delhi government also organised a Shaheed Diwas function in Connaught Place on Tuesday to commemorate the contributions of Singh to the freedom struggle. HT had earlier reported how the Delhi Archives was putting up photo galleries and a light and sound show at Central Park to mark the day.“Through this light and sound show, I want all of you to become familiar with patriots such as Shaheed Bhagat Singh. During India’s freedom movement, there were two schools of thought. One, which used to appease the British rulers for their own benefits and was against the growth of India and, two, which wanted equal rights and freedom for all,” said Delhi minister Gopal Rai.“Today, the British are gone, but there is another type of autocratic power in India. Today, we have a government that puts nails in front of farmers and is scared of students, farmers, labourers and others. We need to learn from Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru and others on how we can fight against an arrogant and autocratic power,” he said.The farmers at Delhi borders marked the day at the protest sites in Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur. “Women leaders from Haryana reminded us of how Singh had warned us that the country would not get freedom only by the British leaving the country; that this country would be truly independent only when the exploitation of farmers and labourers ends,” said Harmeet Singh Kadiyan, a member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Soil was collected from historical places associated with martyrs -- Sunam, Khatkadkalan, Shri Anandpur Sahib, Shri Fatehgarh Sahib, Sarabha, Jallianwala Bagh, Hussainiwala, Shri Chamkaur Sahib -- and brought to Singhu and Tikri borders.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ also paid homage to freedom fighters at an event organised by Delhi University. Singh was imprisoned for a day in the basement of DU’s Vice Regal Lodge.“The University of Delhi opened a library and a research centre in the same room where the writings of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and works of scholars on him are displayed,” Pokhriyal said, stressing on the need of more events that instil pride among youngsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-holds-events-in-memory-of-bhagat-singh-on-martyr-s-day-101616525217311.html
24-03-2021||Other||Daily cases surge past 1,000 as experts call for stricter enforcement of Covid norms||New Delhi The number of new Covid-19 cases in Delhi surged past the 1,000-mark on Tuesday, with the city reporting 1,101 viral infections. This is also the first time that the city has recorded a four digit tally of daily cases, since December 20 last year — when 1,091 new cases had been reported. Tuesday’s daily tally was also the highest single day surge in number of cases that the city has seen since December 19 last year, when 1,139 new infections had been detected, according to daily data released by the Delhi government. The uptick in number of cases comes even as the Delhi government is looking to expand its ongoing vaccination drive in order to prevent a new wave of the disease surging through the city. The Delhi government has increased the number of vaccination sites and directed its centres to remain open for 12 hours from March 22 (Monday) onwards. On Tuesday, the Union government also announced that the vaccination drive will now be open for anyone over the age of 45 years even without comorbidities, even as the Delhi government asked the Centre to do away with the age cut-off altogether for people getting the jabs. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet said, “The central government has allowed vaccination for everyone over the age of 45 years. The Delhi government has gone a step further and asked the Central government to allow everyone over the age of 18 years to get the vaccine. This will be an example not only for the country but for the entire world in beating Covid-19.” On Tuesday, Delhi’s positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested — dipped slightly to 1.31% as compared to 1.32% recorded a day earlier. This was largely owing to 84,237 samples being tested on Monday — reported a day later in the health bulletin — as compared to 67,418 tests conducted on Sunday. “There was euphoria among people when the number of infections in the city went down. With over 50% of the population exposed to the infection, the transmission had slowed down. But, people gathering for events, such as weddings, has again led to an increase. This is exactly what happened after Dussehra and Diwali,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital said, “I am expecting the number of cases to increase two or three times, because people are not following Covid appropriate behaviour. People became complacent as the number of cases had come down. They thought that Covid is like any other infection. And then there is the vaccine euphoria.” He added, “However, now to control the number of cases, there is a need for the government to strictly enforce certain restrictions, such as wearing masks in public. A local lockdown does not help much, as the spread inside the area continues and further it disrupts the economy and society within. Instead, there is a need for more communication with the people urging them to follow Covid appropriate measures.” He also suggested vaccinating high risk categories, such as migrant workers, to slow down the transmission of the infection. So far, the city has immunised 324,654 people over the age of 60, 54,672 over the age of 45 with comorbidities, 281336 front line workers, and 185,527 health care workers. The turnout for the vaccination drive remained low on Tuesday — the second day of the expanded vaccination drive in Delhi — with only 33477 shots being administered. District officials say it was mainly due to the rain that kept people at home. Not only the cases, the number of deaths due to the viral infection has also seen an uptick since Monday when seven deaths had been reported. On Tuesday, the city recorded four deaths due to the viral infection. Just over 3 persons died of the infection each day on an average during the last seven days. In comparison, 2.4 people died each day for the two weeks before, and 1.1 on average each day the week before that, according to government data. The increase in the number of deaths is following the trajectory of the increase in the number of infections, experts say. “We have already started seeing an increase in the number of patients being admitted with severe disease over the last one week. The patients do not usually die on the very first day of admission; the severity of the infection peaks between the eight and 12th day. This means, if there is an increase in the number of cases today, the increase in the number of deaths will be seen only after ten days,” Dr Khilnani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/daily-cases-surge-past-1-000-as-experts-call-for-stricter-enforcement-of-covid-norms-101616525158562.html
24-03-2021||Other||Parking spaces to be determined by distance from Metro stations||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has proposed that all new buildings, except residential projects, coming up near Metro stations and multi-level car parking lots have 10%-30% less parking space, a move that is aimed at ending congestion by preventing parking on roads and encouraging the use of public transport. According the dynamic parking rules, approved by the DDA in a meeting last Thursday, parking space for new buildings will be defined by not only the use of the premises but also access to public transport and parking lots. “Currently, parking norms are based on the designated use of the premises. It has been observed that the surplus parking from buildings spills over to roads and results in congestion in public spaces. The new parking norms have been worked out based on the availability of the Metro network, other modes of public transport (including cab aggregators) and multi-level car parking facilities,” a senior DDA official said, requesting anonymity. The new rules, drafted by the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC), rationalises parking space for 35 categories of buildings such as commercial centres, colleges, community halls, hospitals, etc, the official said. A second DDA official said the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had asked the DUAC last year to examine the existing parking norms and suggest suitable measures. The new norms will now be put in the public domain for comments before being notified by the ministry.Once notified, the new rules will apply to all properties where construction has not begun, even if the plans have been approved by the local civic agency concerned, said a third DDA official. “In all such cases where the plans have already been approved, the properties may be developed as per the revised norms and the concerned local body may be informed in writing. No separate permission will be needed,” the official said.Proximity to Metro, parking lotsAs per the new norms, for a property (except residential) located within 500 metres of a Metro station, there will be a 30% deduction in the permissible parking space. For properties located more than 500 metres and less than 800 metres from a Metro station, there will be a 15% reduction. For properties coming up within one kilometre radius of a multi-level parking lot, 10% of the permissible parking space will be deducted. Currently, a new commercial complex within 500 metres of a Metro station has to provide three equivalent car parking spaces (ECS) for every 100 sqm of built-up area. An ECS is the parking space which has to be provided in a building, based on its built-up space (floor area), for parking vehicles, including car, scooter, light vehicles, etc.Transport experts welcomed the move, saying it is the “way forward” for planned development. They also wanted a a cap on maximum parking that can be provided for a premises. Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India, said, “It is a good move that they have reduced parking in areas where Metro or multi-level parking lots are located nearby. A lot of cities world over are moving towards parking maximum. This means that they are capping the maximum parking space. This should be done in Delhi too.”Banquet halls, commercial centresThe new norms have also reworked the existing parking norms for various ‘use categories’ such as commercial complexes, hospitals (mainly government hospitals), coaching and educational centres, community halls, social and cultural centres, district courts, government offices, etc.For banquet halls, the permissible parking limit has been doubled from three ECS per 100 sqm to 6 ECS, without any deduction for proximity to a Metro station. Officials said it has been done to cut congestion on roads around banquet halls in city, where parking on roads is a major problem, particularly during wedding season. For hotels, however, the limit has been reduced from 3 ECS per 100 sqm of built-up area to 2 ECS, plus applicable deduction for proximity to a Metro station. For commercial centres such as Connaught Place, the current limit of 3 ECS has been kept unchanged. But, deductions for proximity to Metro and parking lots will apply. (For more categories, see box)Residental projectsPermissible parking limits have only partially changed for residential areas. While norms for plotted residential areas remains the same, rules for group housing societies have been altered. However, deductions for Metro and parking lots will not apply to residential buildings or areas. For residential areas, the DDA has proposed to take the number of dwelling units as the baseline instead of the current built-up area.Currently, 2 ECS per 100 sqm of built-up area is the norm for group housing. It will now be changed to 0.5 ECS per dwelling unit for societies where each house/flat has an area of less than 40 sqm. If the dwelling units are between 40sqm and 100 sqm, 1 ECS of parking space per house/flat will have to be provided. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at Centre for Science and Environment, said, “The parking provision in housing projects should also have the deductions proposed in other categories if they fall in the influence area of Metro stations or transit-oriented development. After the entire Metro network is built in Delhi, nearly 70% of the city will be in transit-oriented development zones (near Metro stations). Therefore, if we don’t apply the Metro and multi-level parking lot deduction in residential colonies, then it will mean negating the advantage of this policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parking-spaces-to-be-determined-by-distance-from-metro-stations-101616525037255.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Pune civic body gears up to vaccinate all aged above 45 yrs despite many challenges||Even as the central government has declared that all aged above 45, with or without comorbidities, would be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is trying to race against time and cross multiple hurdles to ensure the same. On Tuesday, Prakash Javdekar, minister of Information and Broadcasting, said that from April 1, all above 45 years of age, irrespective of their comorbidities, would be given the vaccine. An exhausted PMC staff, which has been fighting Covid-19 for more than a year now, and with increased vaccination and increased cases, is now under pressure. Civic officials also said that some of the specialty hospitals that have been designated as Covid-19 vaccination centres are now refusing to undertake vaccinations. Despite a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration as of Monday has been able to vaccinate only 3.9% of the district’s population, even as 4.03% of the population has been affected by the infection. The administration is now racing against time and with more people eligible for the vaccine, the civic body could face a shortage of manpower. As of Monday, of the 1.17 crore mid-year population estimate for 2021, a total of 4.60 lakh people have received the first dose. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “On the preparations to vaccinate all above 45, we can ramp up daily inoculations. We had started from 16 centres and yesterday we have the most number of jabs in the entire state. So we are ready to ramp up vaccination numbers, provided that there is a smooth supply of vaccine shots.” Additional municipal Commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We can increase vaccination at five more government centres and we will now collect data on how many people we have in the city aged above 45 years.”Agarwal added: “We cannot control the vaccine stock and we will distribute as per required. We will use the maximum possible hospitals at optimum capacity. We have the same manpower and infrastructure and we will use them to maximum. We are also requesting the government to give us a maximum stock and currently we are running 109 session sites. We are also going to start vaccinations 24x7 at five locations.”Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer who is in charge of vaccination sites said, “We have got proposals from 20 smaller hospitals which we will forward to the central government. However, we are getting requests from some specialty hospitals, who are refusing to vaccinate as they do not want to compromise their patients’ safety. These are the hospitals that are empanelled and were put up on the list by the central ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-gears-up-to-vaccinate-all-aged-above-45-yrs-despite-many-challenges-101616513275848.html
24-03-2021||Pune||Pune’s deaf-mute national judo champions seek sponsors for international events||Pune: Pune judo players showed their mettle by winning gold at the 9th National Blind Judo Championship at Lucknow but road for international glory looks difficult as judo players search sponsors for their trips. Renuka Salve (70kg) and Laxmi Jadhav (78kg) who earned top spots in their respective bouts have qualified to represent India at international tournaments — International Para Judo Antalya Cup, Turkey (April 5-10); IBSA Junior Grand Prix, Baku, Azerbaijan (May 20-28) and Judo Grand Prix, Walsall, England (June 16-19). The players may have to miss the events in Turkey and Baku for lack of sponsors. However, coach Rachana Dopeshwar is using her money and seeking sponsors to ensure the girls get a chance to participate in the England contest. The Pune Blind School had sponsored the girls for the England tournament in 2019. “The girls will be unable to take part in the first tournament at Turkey scheduled for the first week of April because of lack of funds and visa issue. I am trying to get sponsors for the Baku tournament (May 20-28) and will do my best to take these girls to Judo Grand Prix, Walsall, England (June 16-19),” said Dopeshwar. Dopeshwar trains judo players for free. While Salve is completely blind, Jadhav is partially blind as she cannot see in the sunlight. In her cause, Dopeshwar is supported by Vijay Barate, founder of Shyadhri National School, Warje and Jayant Pawar, founder of Solaris Club, Kothrud, who both have provided Dopeshwar space for training for free. “I am grateful to them (Vijay Brate and Jayant Pawar) for their support as these judo players are getting a chance to perform and could get a job under the sports quota,” said Dopeshwar. Jadhav and Salve won their gold bout via Ippon move under 10 seconds. Ippon is a move that gives players highest point. “I am happy with my performance, but my aim is to shine at international tournaments as well,” said Jadhav. “I want to perform consistently and win medal at the international level. I have to focus on my fitness as well,” said Salve. Six more medals for Pune players Ashita Dalvi (40kg) clinched gold while Tanishka Maske (49kg), Pallavi Kamble (52 kg), Shubham Nimbalkar (66 kg), Omkar Mokashi (73kg) and Ashutosh Korde (81kg) earned bronze medals respectively. “I am happy with their performance but my mission is to make them win top spots at international tournaments. Only Sonali Wajge did not earn a medal but she had to face a tough round bout against Kokila (Haryana player, probable for 2021 paralympic),” said Dopeshwar. Caption for pic: (Standing from left) Shubham Nimbalkar, Rachana Dopeshwar (coach), Munawar Anzar (international judo referee ), Omkar Mokashi and Ashutosh Korde. (Sitting from left) Sonali Wajge, Laxmi Jadhav, Pallavi Kamble, Ashita Dalvi, Renuka Salve and Tanishka Maske.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9th-national-blind-judo-championship-national-glory-conquered-pune-judokas-need-sponsor-support-for-international-success-101616503134988.html
24-03-2021||Other||Owners of GBP Group booked for developing illegal colony in Mohali’s Mullanpur||Police have booked the owners of GBP Group, a real estate developer, for raising a colony in Togan, Mullanpur, without permission from the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). “We are verifying names of the group’s directors. They have been booked under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act and Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act following a complaint by GMADA officials,” said Yogesh Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) of Mullanpur.He added that the group had constructed its office and was selling plots at the illegal colony without any permission, as warranted under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016. On the group’s part, Satish Gupta, MD, GBP Group said: “We vehemently deny the allegations by GMADA that led to police action without any proper investigation. As a law-abiding real estate developer, we have been working in the tricity for a decade and have also delivered multiple residential projects. We have a couple of ongoing projects on PR7 Road, Derabassi, Zirakpur, Mohali Extension and Kharar. GBP has always maintained its sanctity as a real estate developer and will continue to do so. Our request to GMADA will be to carry out a fair investigation and understand our perspective as well. We have acquired the land in joint development agreement (JDA) and built a temporary office in the location; however, no further development has been executed there for the past two years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owners-of-gbp-group-booked-for-developing-illegal-colony-in-mohali-s-mullanpur-101616377128694.html
24-03-2021||World||Chinese hackers used Facebook to target Uighurs abroad||Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it had blocked a group of hackers in China who used the platform to target Uighurs living abroad with links to malware that would infect their devices and enable surveillance.The social media company said the hackers, known as Earth Empusa or Evil Eye in the security industry, targeted activists, journalists and dissidents who were predominantly Uighurs, a largely Muslim ethnic group facing persecution in China.Facebook said there were less than 500 targets, who were largely from the Xinjiang region but were primarily living abroad in countries including Turkey, Kazakhstan, the United States, Syria, Australia and Canada.It said the majority of the hackers' activity occurred away from Facebook and that they used the site to share links to malicious websites rather than directly sharing the malware on the platform."This activity had the hallmarks of a well-resourced and persistent operation, while obfuscating who's behind it," Facebook cybersecurity investigators said in a blog post. (https://bit.ly/3lLi8wY)Facebook said the hacking group used fake Facebook accounts to pose as fictitious journalists, students, human rights advocates or members of the Uighur community to build trust with their targets and trick them into clicking malicious links.It said hackers both set up malicious websites using look-alike domains for popular Uighur and Turkish news sites and compromised legitimate websites visited by the targets. Facebook also found websites created by the group to mimic third-party Android app stores with Uighur-themed apps, like a prayer app and dictionary app, containing malware.Facebook said its investigation found two Chinese companies, Beijing Best United Technology Co Ltd (Best Lh) and Dalian 9Rush Technology Co Ltd (9Rush) had developed the Android tooling deployed by the group.The Chinese Embassy in Washington did not immediately return a message seeking comment on Facebook's report. Beijing routinely denies allegations of cyber espionage.Reuters was not immediately able to locate contact information for Dalian 9Rush Technology Co Ltd. A man who answered the number listed for Beijing Best United Technology Co Ltd hung up.Facebook said it had removed the group's accounts, which numbered less than 100, and had blocked the sharing of the malicious domains and was notifying people it believed were targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-hackers-used-facebook-to-target-uighurs-abroad-101616609605379.html
24-03-2021||World||US states ask Facebook, Twitter to do more to stop Covid-19 anti-vaxxers||Attorneys general for 12 US states on Wednesday accused Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc of doing too little to stop people from using their platforms to spread false information that coronavirus vaccines are unsafe.In a letter to Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, the Democratic attorneys general said "anti-vaxxers" lacking medical expertise and often motivated by financial gain have used the platforms to downplay the danger of Covid-19 and exaggerate the risks of vaccination.They called on both companies to enforce their own community guidelines by removing or flagging vaccine misinformation.The letter said anti-vaxxers control 65% of public anti-vaccine content on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, and have more than 59 million followers on those platforms and Google's YouTube.It also said some misinformation targets Blacks and other communities of color where vaccination rates are lagging."Given anti-vaxxers' reliance on your platforms, you are uniquely positioned to prevent the spread of misinformation about coronavirus vaccines that poses a direct threat to the health and safety of millions of Americans in our states and that will prolong our road to recovery," the letter said.Facebook spokeswoman Dani Lever said the company has removed millions of pieces of Covid-19 and vaccine misinformation, and tries to combat "vaccine hesitancy" by regularly directing users to reliable information from health authorities.Twitter said it has removed more than 22,400 tweets in connection with its policy toward Covid-19 posts, and prioritizes removing content that could cause "real-world" harm.Wednesday's letter was signed by the attorneys general of Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Virginia.Zuckerman, Dorsey and Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google parent Alphabet Inc, are scheduled to testify on Thursday before two House of Representatives subcommittees about combating online disinformation.The coronavirus pandemic has sickened more than 124 million people worldwide, and caused more than 2.7 million deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-states-ask-facebook-twitter-to-do-more-to-stop-covid-19-antivaxxers-101616609583321.html
24-03-2021||World||Following talks, India, Canada set roadmap for engagement||In a sign of thaw in bilateral ties, foreign office consultations were held on Wednesday, more than three months after they were cancelled following remarks from Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on protests over three farm laws in India.India’s vaccine diplomacy too has played a key role in achieving this breakthrough as Serum Institute of India has supplied Canada with 500,000 doses of Covishield vaccine.The consultations, held virtually, were chaired by secretary (east) in India’s ministry of external affairs (MEA) Riva Ganguly Das and Canada’s deputy minister of foreign affairs Marta Morgan.In a tweet following the discussions, India’s high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria, said they “reviewed the breadth and depth of ties, aligned visions and set roadmap for engagement”.MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also tweeted that they “reviewed cooperation across sectors and discussed steps to strengthen bilateral collaboration further”.The consultations were scheduled for December 15 last year but were cancelled after Trudeau’s comments, with the official reason given that the timing was inconvenient. During a Facebook Live event on November 30 for a virtual celebration of Gurpurab, the 551th birth anniversary of the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev, Trudeau said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protests by farmers. The situation is concerning.”He added, “Canada will always be there to defend the right to peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” That attracted a strong reaction from the MEA and Canadian high commissioner to New Delhi Nadir Patel was summoned to the ministry and a demarche, a formal diplomatic protest over Trudeau’s remarks conveyed to him.Ties, however, improved after Trudeau called Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February with a request for India-made Covid-19 vaccines. The Indian PM then took to Twitter saying he “was happy to receive a call from my friend, @JustinTrudeau” and added, “assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada”.Since then, an agreement was reached to supply 2 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield. The first tranche of the vaccine, 500,000 doses, arrived in Canada on March 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/following-talks-india-canada-set-roadmap-for-engagement-101616609358202.html
24-03-2021||World||US, Europe, NATO close ranks to counter 'aggressive' China||The United States and countries around Europe are closing ranks to respond to “aggressive and coercive” behavior by China, days after the US and its allies launched coordinated sanctions against Chinese officials accused of rights abuses in the far-western Xinjiang region.Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Wednesday that he wants to work with the US's partners on “how to advance our shared economic interests and to counter some of China's aggressive and coercive actions, as well as its failures, at least in the past, to uphold its international commitments.”Blinken spoke after talks in Brussels with NATO foreign ministers. He will also raise the tense state of relations with China in talks later Wednesday with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell.“When we are acting together, we are much stronger and much more effective than if any single one of us is doing it alone,” Blinken said. He noted that alone the US accounts for about 25% of global GDP, but up to 60% with its allies in Europe and Asia. “That's a lot harder for Beijing to ignore,” he said.On Monday, the US, EU, Britain and Canada imposed asset freezes and travel bans on a group of officials in Xinjiang. China retaliated by slapping sanctions on 10 Europeans, including lawmakers and academics, and four institutions. Beijing said they had damaged China's interests and “maliciously spread lies and disinformation.”Initially, China denied the existence of camps detaining Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang but has since described them as centers to provide job training and to re-educate those exposed to extremists. Chinese officials deny all charges of human rights abuses there.Blinken said in a speech at NATO that Beijing's retaliatory sanctions “make it all the more important that we stand firm and stand together, or risk sending the message that bullying works.”But views on the way that business and trade should play out differ across the Atlantic.The EU is China's biggest trading partner but they are also economic competitors. As Beijing has become more assertive in recent years, the 27-nation bloc has struggled to balance its commercial interests with a country that it sees as “a systemic rival” and has human rights concerns about.The two sealed a major investment agreement in December giving European businesses about the same level of market access in China as those from the United States. It was announced just weeks before President Joe Biden took office and raised some concerns that the Europeans were undercutting Biden's leverage as he looked to take a tougher line on China.But Blinken said “the United States won't force our allies into an us-or-them' choice with China." He warned of Beijing's threatening behavior, but said “that doesn't mean countries can't work with China where possible, for example on challenges like climate change and health security.”In terms of China's military aggressiveness, Blinken noted its "efforts to threaten freedom of navigation, to militarize the South China Sea, to target countries throughout the Indo-Pacific with increasingly sophisticated military capabilities. Beijing's military ambitions are growing by the year.”NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the military alliance does not “regard China as an adversary, but of course the rise of China has direct consequences for our security.” He noted that China is investing heavily in military equipment, including nuclear-capable missiles.“More importantly, China is a country that doesn't share our values. We see that in the way they deal with democratic protests in Hong Kong, how they suppress minorities in their own country, the Uyghurs, and also how they actually try to undermine the international rules-based order,” Stoltenberg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-europe-nato-close-ranks-to-counter-aggressive-china-101616607540373.html
24-03-2021||World||EU sharpens Covid vaccine export rules as third wave of infections rises||The European Union refined its rules on the export of Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday, giving it a clearer right to block shipments to countries such as Britain with higher inoculation rates and to those not exporting their own vaccine doses.The move risks stoking post-Brexit tensions with London, which has warned Brussels against "vaccine nationalism".EU trade chief Dombrovskis told a news conference the export authorisation mechanism was not targeting any specific country.The European Commission, which oversees trade policy for the 27 EU members, set out a proposal expanding existing measures that seek to ensure planned exports by drugmakers do not threaten already reduced EU supply.The granting of export licences will be based on reciprocity and "proportionality" - the epidemiological situation, vaccination rate and access to vaccines in the destination country.EU officials say export restrictions could also kick in if companies do respect quarterly contracts but backload supplies at the end of the period.Dombrovskis said the new rules did not create a detailed algorithm on authorisations and requests would be considered on a case-by-case basis.The scheme will also widen the net to include 17 neighbouring countries, including Israel, Norway and Switzerland. Previously exempted, exports to these countries will also need authorisation.ALARMING THIRD WAVEThe proposal is set to be a topic of discussion on Thursday at an online summit of EU leaders, whose countries are struggling with a third wave of infections that has prompted harder lockdowns amid a slow rollout of vaccines.EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides said the situation in many EU countries was "alarming", with increasing cases in 19 EU members and rising fatalities in eight.While France, Germany and Italy broadly support tighter export curbs on those who do not reciprocate, countries including the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland are more cautious about cutting off Britain.A French presidential adviser said the EU should be not be a sort of "useful idiot" in the battle against the virus.Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin said any EU restrictions on vaccine exports would be a "retrograde step".A UK government spokesperson said all countries were fighting the same pandemic and that Britain would continue to work with European partners to deliver the vaccine rollout.The Commission insists it is not an export ban and says priority systems set up for vaccinating citizens in other countries are de facto bans even if they are not called that.The bloc said it had exported 43 million doses to 33 countries since the end of January, including 10.9 million to Britain. Some 380 export requests were granted and only one was blocked - from Italy to Australia.The EU has so far authorised four Covid-19 vaccines. AstraZeneca doses were supposed to be the vaccination for the masses, but deliveries have and will be far lower than initially indicated.EU countries have given dose to about 10% of their adult populations and have watched Britain provide at least one vaccination to over half of all adults, suffering almost no delivery problems, despite the same plants officially supplying both.The Commission proposal will come into force unless a "qualified majority" of EU members oppose it, which is very unlikely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-sharpens-covid-vaccine-export-rules-as-third-wave-of-infections-rises-101616607009859.html
24-03-2021||World||Allies of Kremlin critic Navalny raise alarm over his health after lawyers denied prison access||Allies of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said on Wednesday they were concerned by a deterioration in his health and his lawyers said they had not been allowed to visit him in the prison camp holding him.Navalny, 44, was jailed last month for two and a half years on charges he called fabricated. He was arrested as he returned to Russia from Germany in January where he had been recovering from what doctors said was a nerve agent poisoning.Navalny began experiencing serious back pain last week, felt a numbness in his leg and was unable to stand on it, according to close ally Leonid Volkov, who said that Navalny had only been given two pills of Ibuprofen in response.Volkov said that Navalny's lawyers Olga Mikhailova and Vadim Kobzev had tried to visit him for a meeting scheduled at 1000 GMT on Wednesday, but had not been allowed in all day.Kobzev, one of the lawyers, confirmed he had been denied access which he said was unacceptable.Navalny is being held in a prison camp in the Vladimir region around 100 km (62 miles) east of Moscow.Speaking by phone from outside the camp, Kobzev told Reuters that Navalny's lawyers had visited him on a daily basis while he was in custody in the Vladimir region and that Wednesday was the first time they had not been allowed to see him.The federal prison service and the regional one in Vladimir did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Navalny's lawyers said prison officials had told them it was not possible to visit their client due to unspecified security measures.Volkov said it was possible Navalny had been moved to the prison hospital and that the facility's administration was trying to hide that fact."Given all of the circumstances known to us, the sharp deterioration of his health can only cause extreme concern," said Volkov.Navalny's allies have held protests calling for his release and on Tuesday announced plans to stage what they hope will be the biggest anti-Kremlin street protest in modern Russian history this spring, in a new push to win his freedom.The authorities say such protests are illegal.The West has demanded Russia release Navalny, something Moscow has called unacceptable interference in its internal affairs.Russian authorities say they have seen no evidence that Navalny was poisoned and have suggested he is a Western puppet sent back to try to destabilise the political situation in Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/allies-of-kremlin-critic-navalny-raise-alarm-over-his-health-after-lawyers-denied-prison-access-101616606562290.html
24-03-2021||World||Deputy US Marshal shoots, kills man while attempting arrest||Police in North Carolina say a deputy US marshal shot and killed a fugitive during an attempted arrest on outstanding warrants, prompting a vigil by mourners at the scene.The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department issued a news release saying officers with the Marshals Service's regional fugitive task force approached the man Tuesday morning to arrest him on outstanding warrants.The release said one of the officers shot him after perceiving “a lethal threat." Authorities say they found a gun where the shooting happened, at a gas station on the east side of the city.Frankie Jennings, 32, who is Black, was pronounced dead at the scene. No law enforcement members were hurt.The police department said none of its officers were involved in the attempted arrest but that its detectives are investigating what happened.Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Officer Thomas W. Hildebrand, a spokesman, referred questions about the deputy marshal who shot Jennings and the charges Jennings faced to the Marshals Service. Marshals Service officials did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment.Mourners later gathered at the scene for a candlelight vigil. News footage showed several dozen people attending. Mourners brought flowers and balloons, and noted that Jennings was shot on his birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deputy-us-marshal-shoots-kills-man-while-attempting-arrest-101616606341981.html
24-03-2021||World||Hope WHO report on virus origins 'based on science': US||The United States expects the World Health Organization (WHO) investigation into the origins of the novel coronavirus pandemic to require further study, perhaps including a return visit to China, a senior US official said on Wednesday.Marc Cassayre, charge d'affaires at the US mission to the UN in Geneva, also voiced hope that the WHO-led mission to the central city of Wuhan in Jan.-Feb. had access to the raw data and to the people required to make an independent assessment.The lengthy report by the team - composed of international experts and their Chinese counterparts - is expected to be issued this week, the WHO says."We are hopeful that it will be based on science and be a real step forward for the world understanding the origins of the virus so we can better prepare for future pandemics," Cassayre told a news briefing.US officials expected further work would be needed to identify the source of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, he said. "That would probably require, as we would presume, further studies of the team, maybe travel to China or further discussions."The probe was plagued by delays, concern over access and bickering between Beijing and Washington, which under former U.S. President Donald Trump's administration accused China of hiding the extent of the initial outbreak.Some team members have said China was reluctant to share vital data that could show the virus was circulating months earlier than first recognised in late 2019.Ben Embarek, a WHO official leading the mission, said at a press briefing marking the end of the visit that the virus probably originated in bats, although it was not certain how it reached humans. He also effectively ruled out a lab leak.WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus later said that "all hypotheses remain open" and pledged full transparency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hope-who-report-on-virus-origins-based-on-science-us-101616606376372.html
24-03-2021||World||AstraZeneca says 29 million Covid-19 doses in Italy for EU, poorer countries||AstraZeneca said on Wednesday that some 29 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines found in an inspection at a plant in Italy were destined for the EU and for donations to poorer countries via the COVAX scheme co-led by the World Health Organization.At the request of the European Commission, Italian security forces inspected a Catalent factory in Anagni, near Rome, at the weekend and found the store of vaccine doses, according to Italian newspaper La Stampa. An Italian official later confirmed the report of the inspection and said the doses were to be sent to Belgium.A flurry of reactions to the report reflected the level of mistrust in the EU towards the Anglo-Swedish firm, which slashed its supply target to the EU by the end of June to 100 million from 300 million envisaged in its contract with the 27-nation bloc. The 29 million doses found would be enough to vaccinate 14.5 million people."A stock of almost 30 million doses has been identified near Rome during an inspection we put in place. It has now been seized," French government spokesman Gabriel Attal told reporters after a cabinet meeting. "The EU won't be the fall guy of vaccinations."EU lawmaker Peter Liese, from the same party as German Chancellor Angela Merkel, said the report left him speechless, and he urged AstraZeneca to clarify the situation.Later on Wednesday, AstraZeneca said that most of the doses in the Catalent plant were for the EU, and the rest were for poorer countries supplied by the COVAX scheme co-led by the World Health Organization."There are no exports currently planned other than to COVAX countries. There are 13 million doses of vaccine waiting for quality control release to be dispatched to COVAX," the company said.The remaining 16 million will be shipped to Europe this month and in April, it said.Mario Gargiulo, Regional Biologics President for Europe at Catalent, told Reuters that having 29 million doses in the Anagni factory was in line with normal procedure and that the company often had more there.The European Commission declined to comment on the doses at the Anagni factory.Earlier on Wednesday, UNICEF said on behalf of the COVAX vaccine-sharing facility that the projected deliveries of vaccines to all countries, including Vietnam, had to be delayed due to production delays.HALIXAn EU official said some of the doses at the Catalent plant might come from a vaccine factory in the Netherlands run by AstraZeneca's subcontractor Halix.The Anagni plant is in charge of bottling AstraZeneca vaccines produced at the Halix factory and also at a plant in Belgium run by subcontractor Thermo Fisher Scientific.AstraZeneca said that the factory also bottles doses received from outside the EU and to be shipped to COVAX countries.Both vaccine-making factories in Belgium and the Netherlands are listed in the contract AstraZeneca signed with the EU in August as suppliers to the EU.However, the Halix factory has not yet been approved in the EU, as AstraZeneca did not submit sufficient data to the EU drugs regulator. It has also not been approved in Britain.Vaccines produced there cannot be used in the EU until that approval is received, which AstraZeneca and EU officials said they expected in the coming days.It is unclear why AstraZeneca did not seek earlier approval for the factory. The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker declined to comment on that point.Halix is also listed as a supplier for Britain, which is urging the EU to allow the shipment of doses produced there. Britain has so far exported no AstraZeneca vaccines to the EU, despite two UK plants being listed in the EU contract as suppliers for the bloc.Halix said it started producing vaccines for the EU in December and has a capacity to produce about 5 million doses per month. The company declined to comment on how many vaccines it had already produced or on their destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-says-29-million-covid-19-doses-in-italy-for-eu-poorer-countries-101616605953044.html
24-03-2021||World||Sundar Pichai, Mark Zuckerberg suggest ways to reform key internet law||Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg laid out steps to reform a key internet law on Wednesday, saying that companies should have immunity from liability only if they follow best practices for removing damaging material from their platforms.In testimony prepared for a joint hearing before two House Energy and Commerce subcommittees on Thursday, Zuckerberg acknowledged the calls from lawmakers for changes to a law called Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which gives companies like Facebook immunity from liability over content posted by users.The hearing titled 'Disinformation Nation: Social media's role in promoting extremism and misinformation' is designed to address concerns Democrats have had about the spread of misinformation during the coronavirus pandemic and the presidential election.It is also likely to discuss ways to hold tech platforms accountable by reforming the internet law. The chief executives of Google and Twitter will also testify at the hearing.Google's Sundar Pichai will make suggestions to reform the law but, unlike Zuckerberg, will not advocate for adoption of a set of best practices, according to his testimony. Twitter's Jack Dorsey will lay out steps the platform has taken to tackle misinformation.Zuckerberg and Pichai will also urge caution as Congress considers reforming the law."Platforms should not be held liable if a particular piece of content evades its detection -- that would be impractical for platforms with billions of posts per day," Zuckerberg wrote in his testimony.Google's Pichai also struck a similar note saying "without Section 230, platforms would either over-filter content or not be able to filter content at all."Pichai instead proposed solutions such as developing content policies that are clear and accessible, notifying people when their content is removed and giving them ways to appeal content decisions.There are several pieces of legislation from Democrats to reform Section 230 that are doing the rounds in Congress. Several Republican lawmakers have also been pushing separately to scrap the law entirely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sundar-pichai-mark-zuckerberg-suggest-ways-to-reform-key-internet-law-101616605798078.html
24-03-2021||World||Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla rents London mansion for $69,000 a week: Report||The head of the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer agreed to rent a property in Mayfair for about 50,000 pounds ($69,000) a week, a record for the exclusive London neighborhood, according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer at the Serum Institute of India Ltd., is leasing the home on one of the district’s best roads from Polish billionaire Dominika Kulczyk, the people said, asking not to be identified as the deal is confidential.The mansion is one of the largest residences in the neighborhood and measures about 25,000 square feet (2,322 square meters), the equivalent of about 24 average English homes. The property also comes with an adjoining guest house and backs onto one of Mayfair’s “secret gardens,” which are only accessible to residents.A spokesperson for the Serum Institute declined to comment on behalf of Poonawalla. A spokesperson for Kulczyk declined to comment.The deal will be a boost for the luxury homes market in central London, which has been hit by a combination of Brexit and the pandemic. Rents have fallen by 9.2% in the past five years in Mayfair, according to LonRes, a property data company.There’s been a “massive increase” in demand for staffing from wealthy clients renting properties in London and the English countryside because they are upscaling or want a home with a bigger garden, according to Elaine Braid, chief executive officer at Poppy Lane Placements, a boutique agency supplying staff to luxury private homes.Poonawalla, who is currently spearheading the production of millions of doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine, has long had links to the UK and studied at London’s University of Westminster. The businessman previously failed in a bid to buy the Grosvenor Hotel in Mayfair and turn part of it into a home.Britain is “definitely a place I would want a second home,” he told Bloomberg News in a 2016 interview.Poonawalla is part of one of the world’s richest families, which has a $15 billion fortune, the bulk of it derived from the vaccine maker, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.The stamp duty sales tax, which is higher for overseas purchasers and owners of multiple homes, may be deterring wealthy people from buying London properties, said Fred Scarlett, a director at luxury homes developer Clivedale London. An additional levy on buyers based abroad is being introduced next month.“If you are buying a house on a two- to 10-year play, then a lot of overseas buyers will scratch their heads and think why am I paying all this tax, why not just rent?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/serum-ceo-adar-poonawalla-rents-london-mansion-for-69-000-a-week-report-101616604403939.html
24-03-2021||World||Finland to resume AstraZeneca doses for people over 65 from next week||Finland will continue administering AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine to people older than 65 from March 29.No heightened risk of blood clotting disorders has been observed in people over 65 years of age following vaccination, the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare said in a statement on Wednesday, adding that such conditions are very rare.Finland had put AstraZeneca’s vaccine on hold temporarily, starting March 19, to investigate two cases of blood clots. The only Nordic member of the euro zone made the decision just one day after the European Medicines Agency declared the drug safe and effective.Finland, with a population of 5.5 million, is expecting to receive 3.7 million doses of Astra’s vaccine, equal to roughly a quarter of the approved vaccines it has ordered through the European Union’s procurement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/finland-to-resume-astrazeneca-doses-for-people-over-65-from-next-week-101616602527419.html
24-03-2021||World||Congress questions Texas officials about power grid failure||Congress is looking into last month’s massive and deadly power outages across Texas and questioning officials who oversee the state’s energy industry and electric grid.A House Energy Committee was scheduled Wednesday to hear from Bill Magness, the outgoing CEO of the grid operator, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, and Christi Craddick, chair of the Texas Railroad Commission.In written testimony submitted before the hearing, Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said the Texas grid was designed for peak summer heat, and policymakers wrongly believed that a 2011 severe winter storm that caused outages was an anomaly.Turner said state leaders assumed that a pricing system that rewards power companies for generating when electricity is in high demand would compel those companies to be prepared for the next big winter storm.“It did not happen,” he said. “The magnitude of the damages was foreseeable and preventable.”For nearly a week in mid-February, most of the state suffered through subfreezing temperatures. Millions lost power and heat. When pipes burst and water systems shut down, Texans were told to boil water for drinking — if they still had a way to boil water.An early count by state officials puts the death toll from the week at 57, but that is likely a wide undercount. Some of the largest counties, including Bexar, where San Antonio is located, and Travis, home to Austin, have not reported figures yet.Power from natural gas, coal, nuclear, wind and solar sources all dropped during the storm. Grid officials said critical gas-fired plants shut down for lack of fuel.In his written testimony, Magness repeated what he has already told the Texas Legislature: At its peak the storm took out nearly half the grid’s power-generating capacity, and ERCOT had no choice but to order rolling outages to prevent long-lasting damage to electric infrastructure. That kind of blackout might have taken weeks to repair, he said.Christi Craddick of the Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the state’s energy industry, defended her agency and the natural gas operators it oversees.Craddick said gas wells shut down simply because they didn’t have power, and she called gas producers heroes who were critical in restoring power. In her written testimony, Craddick did not mention any need for protecting wells from extreme winter weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congress-questions-texas-officials-about-power-grid-failure-101616601767711.html
24-03-2021||World||Republicans plan Senate floor 'fireworks' over surge at US-Mexico border||Republicans plan to take their opposition to President Joe Biden's border policies to the US Senate floor on Wednesday, attempting to move legislation that promises to tie up the chamber for hours, a source familiar with the matter said.At least five Senate Republicans are expected to seek unanimous consent for a series of measures targeting Biden's decision to reverse the border policies of former President Donald Trump, including a resolution labeling the current border situation a "crisis."The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the actions could lead to some rhetorical "fireworks" on the Senate floor if Democrats block the measures, as expected. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer's office was not immediately available to comment on Democratic plans.The anticipated actions are part of a mounting effort by Republicans in the Senate and the House of Representatives to pressure Biden and his fellow Democrats over a new flood of migrants, including unaccompanied children, to the US-Mexico border. Republicans see an opportunity to retaliate against Democrats, who sharply criticized Trump's border policies, ahead of the 2022 congressional elections.A sharp rise in the number of migrants fleeing violence, natural disasters and economic hardship in Central America is testing Biden's commitment to a more humane immigration policy than his predecessor's.Republicans say Biden's decision to reverse Trump's policies has given migrants an incentive to take the journey north and contend it poses health and security risks for American citizens.Republicans are moving to capitalize on what Reuters/Ipsos polling shows to be an increasingly hostile attitude toward illegal immigrants among party voters. A Morning Consult poll released on Wednesday also showed that 48% of Democrats believe the United States is facing a "problem" with illegal immigration.Details about the Republican measures to be offered on Wednesday were not immediately available. But the source said the effort could consume the Senate floor for up to three hours.Biden was due to meet with immigration advisers and top Cabinet officials on Wednesday, while dispatching White House officials to a Texas resettlement facility as pressure mounts over a recent jump in migrant arrivals at the US border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republicans-plan-senate-floor-fireworks-over-surge-at-us-mexico-border-101616600307924.html
24-03-2021||World||Colorado mass shooting suspect to make initial court appearance on Thursday||The 21-year-old suspect in this week's Colorado mass shooting will make his first court appearance on Thursday, three days after authorities say he opened fire at a supermarket and killed 10 people, including a policeman.Ahmad Al Aliwi Alissa faces 10 counts of murder and an attempted murder charge stemming from the rampage on Monday at King Soopers grocery store in the Table Mesa section of Boulder, some 28 miles (45 km) northwest of Denver. He will appear in county court in Boulder at 8:15 a.m. (1415 GMT), according to court records.The massacre was the country's second mass shooting in a week, after another gunman shot eight people to death at three Atlanta-area day spas on March 16.The twin attacks prompted President Joe Biden to call on Congress to strengthen gun restrictions. Legislation to bolster background checks and ban certain semi-automatic rifles has stalled amid Republican opposition.Police have not yet publicly identified a motive for the killings. Alissa's 34-year-old brother described him as antisocial and paranoid in an interview with the Daily Beast.The suspect's sister-in-law told police on Monday evening that he had been "playing with" a firearm she described as resembling a "machine gun" two days earlier, upsetting family members, according to an arrest affidavit filed by police in the case.The gunman arrived at the King Soopers store armed with an AR-style semi-automatic rifle and a handgun and wearing a tactical vest, according to the affidavit.The affidavit also said law enforcement databases show that six days earlier Alissa purchased a Ruger AR-556 pistol, a weapon that resembles a semi-automatic rifle.Alissa, a naturalized U.S. citizen from Syria who graduated from Arvada West High School in 2018, pleaded guilty to third-degree assault for punching a classmate in late 2017.The classmate said the attack was unprovoked, an account supported by interviews with several witnesses, according to an Arvada Police Department incident report. Alissa told an officer the classmate had called him a "terrorist" and racist names.Alissa was sentenced to probation and community service.The 10 victims on Monday included Eric Talley, an 11-year veteran of the Boulder police force who was among the first officers on the scene. Talley, 51, was a father of seven who had been looking for less dangerous work, according to his father.Also killed were Denny Stong, 20; Neven Stanisic, 23; Rikki Olds, 25; Tralona Bartkowiak, 49; Suzanne Fountain, 59; Teri Leiker, 51; Kevin Mahoney, 61; Lynn Murray, 62; and Jody Waters, 65. Stong, Olds and Leiker worked at the store.Witnesses told police the assailant killed one man in his vehicle and then gunned down another in the parking lot. The shooter stood over him, firing multiple times, before entering the store to continue the rampage.When apprehended, Alissa did not answer questions but asked to speak with his mother, according to the affidavit.Makeshift memorials of flowers, votive candles and condolence messages sprang up this week outside the supermarket and at police headquarters.Colorado has seen some of the most shocking episodes of gun violence in US history, including the 2012 mass shooting at a movie theater in Aurora and the 1999 rampage at Columbine High School, near Littleton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colorado-mass-shooting-suspect-to-make-initial-court-appearance-on-thursday-101616600320854.html
24-03-2021||World||Chinese threat to Taiwan 'closer than most think': top US admiral||China is quickly amassing weapons and systems to militarily overwhelm Taiwan, an action it could be "poised to take" within the next six years, the admiral chosen to be the next commander of US forces in the Pacific warned on Tuesday."My opinion is this problem is much closer to us than most think," Admiral John Aquilino said before the Senate Armed Services Committee, which was reviewing his nomination to lead the US military's Indo-Pacific Command, as reported by CNN.China considers establishing full control over Taiwan to be its "number one priority," added Aquilino.CNN further reported that the current head of the command, Admiral Philip Davidson, told a hearing earlier this month that China could be prepared to take Taiwan, the self-governed democratic island that Beijing claims as its sovereign territory, by force within the next six years.But Aquilino said Beijing is establishing a track record of using force to achieve Communist Party goals sooner than US planners forecast."We've seen aggressive actions earlier than we anticipated, whether it be on the Indian border or whether it be in Hong Kong or whether it be against the Uyghurs. We've seen things that I don't think we expected, and that's why I continue to talk about a sense of urgency. We ought to be prepared today," Aquilino said.According to the news outlet, Davidson, in his Senate testimony two weeks ago, said the Chinese military has built a force intended for offensive operations."I cannot for the life of me understand some of the capabilities that they're putting in the field unless it is an aggressive posture... I see them developing systems, capabilities and a posture that would indicate that they're interested in aggression," he told the Senate Armed Services Committee.Aquilino warned on Tuesday the People's Liberation Army (PLA) is sharply focused on having all it needs to bring Taiwan under Beijing's control."The military threat to Taiwan is increasing. The PLA continues to field a broad array of advanced weapons and systems as part of ongoing force modernization specifically intended to achieve decisive overmatch against Taiwan," the US admiral said in written testimony.He also said that Washington's credibility as an ally to places like Japan and the Philippines is at stake if the island were to fall to Beijing when asked by Lawmakers why the US should defend Taiwan."It would negatively impact our standing in the region if that were to happen and it would challenge the rest of our allies and partners and the US, negatively impacting our ability to operate freely in the area," he said.Aquilino also told the senators that a Chinese military presence on Taiwan would give Beijing sway over two thirds of global trade, which passes through the sea lanes near the island. "I do believe that sends a strong message that the entirety of government in the United States is focused on the challenge that we've identified as it applies to the western Pacific," Aquilino said.In a development that might irk China, United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, has referred to Taiwan as "country", the term so far avoided by US officials.He made the remark during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on earlier this month on the Biden administration's foreign policy agenda. Blinken was responding to California Republican Representative Young Kim, who called on the US to include Taiwan in the upcoming Democracy Summit.The State Department used to have an unwritten policy to avoid using the word "country" when referring to the self-ruled island as part of the US commitment to Beijing's so-called "One China Policy", according to Sputnik.Beijing claims full sovereignty over Taiwan, a democracy of almost 24 million people located off the southeastern coast of mainland China, despite the fact that the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.Taipei, on the other hand, has countered the Chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the US, which has been repeatedly opposed by Beijing.In recent months, China has increased its military activities around Taiwan. According to China, it is responding to what it calls "collusion" between Taipei and Washington, Taiwan's main international backer and weapons supplier, according to CNN.In November, the US and Taiwan signed a blueprint for closer economic ties in Washington. In February, Senator Rick Scott reintroduced the Taiwan Invasion Prevention Act, sponsored by Congressman Guy Reschenthaler in the US House of Representatives, to protect Taiwan from China's growing aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-threat-to-taiwan-closer-than-most-think-top-us-admiral-101616595609642.html
24-03-2021||World||Myanmar citizens find ways around crackdown on internet||Sidestepping a crackdown on internet use since the military seized power almost two months ago, hundreds of thousands of protesters and citizens in Myanmar are finding different ways to communicate online, downloading tools to bypass censorship restrictions and turning to alternative media sources and underground networks, according to new research.They have moved to a mirror site of Facebook on the dark web, used apps that rely on Bluetooth technology to continue messaging each other and turned to lesser known social media platforms to stay connected, according to Recorded Future Inc., a closely held cybersecurity firm based near Boston.Myanmar citizens are following the lead of protesters in Hong Kong, Belarus and elsewhere who have found creative ways around government internet restrictions. Protesters from some of those countries are now providing guidance and support to Myanmar, and online forums are offering tips on how its citizens can stay connected.“In the history of Myanmar and all the coups they’ve experienced and all this political upheaval, it looks to be the first time the people really had this type of access to alternative platforms, and have used it to reach out to international organizations and other countries for help,” said Charity Wright, cyber threat intelligence analyst at Recorded Future, who has been studying the impact of the crackdown on the internet for the past month and a half.The situation in Myanmar is evolving, as the government seeks to block different types of communication and citizens try new methods. That means what’s working now to evade government restrictions may not work in the coming weeks, said Anissa Wozencraft, a Recorded Future analyst who worked with Wright on the research.Brigadier-General Zaw Min Tun, a spokesman for the military junta, told reporters in the capital, Naypyidaw, on Monday that the military had “no plan to restore mobile data at this point because some people are using the mobile internet to instigate destructive acts.”The search for alternate ways to communicate online followed a Feb. 1 military coup and arrest of Aung San Suu Kyi and members of her civilian government. The internet was temporarily shut down entirely, and now coup leaders are cutting it off from 1 a.m. to 9 a.m., according to Recorded Future and news reports from the country.The youth-led protest movement is demanding the release of civilian leaders including Suu Kyi, recognition of the 2020 election results that her party won in a landslide and the military’s removal from politics.“The junta continues its attempts to overturn the results of a democratic election by brutally repressing peaceful protesters and killing individuals who are simply demanding a say in their country’s future,” U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement on Monday.By Feb. 13, almost two weeks after the coup, internet use in Myanmar dropped to 15% of its normal traffic, according to Recorded Future. During that time, the messaging app Bridgefy was downloaded about 600,000 times, the company said, adding that the app was widely used during the 2019 pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong. Bridgefy allows users to send offline messages to others within a certain range by using a phone’s Bluetooth.Coup leaders banned Facebook on Feb. 4, prompting a 7,200% increase in the use of virtual private networks, or VPNs, in the country that day, said Wright. Since then, only those with access to VPNs -- which encrypt internet traffic and disguise identities -- have been able to use Facebook, said a 26-year-old student, speaking to Bloomberg from Yangon. She requested anonymity for fear of being tracked and detained by the authorities.Myanmar citizens also switched to the Tor browser, which enables access to the underground internet or dark web. They scoured forums for information on how to avoid detection, Recorded Future found. When various forums indicated that the military was searching for anyone with Tor installed on their device, its usage dropped, according to the report.“Normally we don’t talk about VPN, we don’t talk about Tor, but since the coup we’ve been using them,” the student said. “I think it is partly our generation, also partly because a lot of Burmese have been to foreign countries to get educated and they were exposed to such technology.”Myanmar citizens are also getting help from beyond their own borders.Protest movements in countries including Malaysia, Thailand, Taiwan and Hong Kong coalesced under the umbrella of the Milk Tea Alliance to show their support and to share documents and tips, including how to set up anonymous web chats, Wright said. Hacktivist organizations from around the world recommended applications that bypassed censorship restrictions, including Signal, Briar, Tails operating system and the Brave Browser, according to Recorded Future.Pro-democracy conversations about Myanmar have sprung up on Reddit and other online forums, Wright said. Among the items shared online are tips and techniques about protesting, such as how to deal with tear gas, promote events, administer first aid and stay safe.Wright and Wozencraft shared images and links in their report, but hid the identities of the protesters they studied to prevent the military from being able to track them down.The movement in Myanmar “seems like the protesters are consolidated and are one voice reaching out to everyone saying: ‘We need someone to step in on our behalf because we have no control here,’” said Wright. “They were very creative in their ways of skirting around the restrictions in a way, to find the truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-citizens-find-ways-around-crackdown-on-internet-101616598698651.html
24-03-2021||World||India delays big exports of AstraZeneca vaccine as Covid-19 cases surge: Report||India has put a temporary hold on all major exports of the AstraZeneca coronavirus shot made by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine-maker, to meet domestic demand as infections rise, two sources told Reuters.The move will also affect supplies to the GAVI/WHO-backed COVAX vaccine-sharing facility through which more than 180 countries are expected to get doses, one of the sources said.COVAX has so far received 17.7 million AstraZeneca doses from the SII, of the 60.5 million doses India has shipped in total, and many countries are relying on the programme to immunise their citizens.There have been no vaccine exports from India since Thursday, the foreign ministry's website shows, as the country expands its own immunisation effort."Everything else has taken a backseat, for the time being at least," said one of the sources. Both sources had direct knowledge of the matter, but declined to be named as the discussions are not public."No exports, nothing till the time the India situation stabilises. The government won't take such a big chance at the moment when so many need to be vaccinated in India."India's foreign ministry and the SII did not immediately reply to requests for comment.SOME DELAYS ALREADY The SII has already delayed shipments of the AstraZeneca drug to Brazil, Britain, Morocco and Saudi Arabia.UNICEF, the U.N. children's agency that is procuring and distributing vaccines for COVAX, had no comment.COVAX has a deal to buy 1.1 billion doses of the AstraZeneca and Novavax shots that the SII is making in bulk, mainly for low- and middle-income countries.UNICEF in Vietnam said in a statement on Wednesday that vaccine production issues had led to delays in deliveries to all countries that were due to receive vaccines through COVAX.It did not specify the origin of those delays, although Vietnam was not expected to receive doses from the SII.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet decided this week to widen its inoculation drive by including everyone above 45 from April 1, and many states battling a surge in infections have demanded that all adults be covered.With 11.7 million cases, India has reported the highest number of coronavirus infections after the United States and Brazil.Currently, only the elderly and those over 45 with other health conditions are eligible for vaccinations in India. Health and frontline workers were first in line when India began its drive in mid-January.India has so far administered more than 51 million doses, of which 47 million are the SII's locally-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine. The rest is the COVAXIN vaccine developed in India by Bharat Biotech.The government has so far asked the SII to supply around 141 million doses. The company has also accounted for nearly all of India's vaccine exports.The SII plans to boost monthly production to 100 million doses from April/May, from up to 70 million now, Reuters reported earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-delays-big-exports-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-as-covid-19-cases-surge-report-101616599643709.html
24-03-2021||World||7 in 10 hospitalised Covid patients didn’t fully recover 5 months after discharge: Study | 10 common symptoms||The majority of individuals hospitalised with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) did not fully recover even five months after they were discharged, according to a new UK study. The researchers found that the patients continued to experience the negative impacts of the infection on their physical and mental health as well as their ability to work.The UK-wide study, led by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), analysed 1,077 Covid-19 patients who were discharged from hospitals between March and November 2020. Among the participants, 69% were white, 36% were women, with a mean age of 58, and 50% had at least two co-morbidities.According to the study, only 29% of the participants felt fully recovered at follow-up after five months and 20% reported a new disability. Those who have the most severe prolonged symptoms were middle-aged white women with two or more co-morbidities, such as asthma or diabetes. As per the study, over 25% of participants displayed clinically significant symptoms of anxiety and depression while 12% showed symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).“Our results show a large burden of symptoms, mental and physical health problems and evidence of organ damage five months after discharge with Covid-19,” Dr Rachael Evans, a respiratory consultant at Leicester’s Hospitals, said in a statement.“It is also clear that those who required mechanical ventilation and were admitted to intensive care take longer to recover,” she added.The researchers classified the types of recovery into four different groups based on the participants’ mental and physical health impairments. One of the groups showed impaired cognitive function, which has colloquially been called ‘brain fog’, the study said. The researchers suggested a different underlying mechanism for the ‘brain fog’ compared to other symptoms as the cognitive impairment, according to them, was “striking even when taking education levels into account.” Researchers also found that each participant had an average of nine persistent symptoms.Here’s the list of the 10 most common symptoms reported in the study:1. Muscle pain2. Fatigue3. Physical slowing down4. Impaired sleep quality5. Joint pain or swelling6. Limb weakness7. Breathlessness8. Pain9. Short-term memory loss10. Slowed thinking||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7-in-10-covid-19-patients-didn-t-fully-recover-5-months-after-discharge-study-101616597748290.html
24-03-2021||World||After Israel's tight election, who matters and what happens next||Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's prospects for another term looked uncertain on Wednesday after partial results from Israel's fourth national election in two years projected no clear path to victory.The right-wing bloc led by Netanyahu's Likud party had a slight edge but was in a tight race with a grouping of centre, left and right-wing parties looking to unseat him.WHO ARE THE MAIN PLAYERS?Netanyahu, 71, campaigned on Israel's world-beating Covid-19 vaccine rollout, but such is the polarisation in Israeli politics that even this could not break the stalemate.Critics accuse him of mismanaging pandemic lockdowns that have hit Israel's economy hard and also point to corruption allegations. He denies any wrongdoing.His party looks set to lose around six seats - falling to around 30 in Israel's 120-seat parliament - making him more reliant on right-wing rivals.They will demand concessions during coalition horse-trading, and will ultimately be looking to replace him as standard-bearer of the right.Yair Lapid, 57, a former finance minister and TV host who leads the centre-left party Yesh Atid - “There is a Future”.His party is predicted to come second, with around 18 seats.Lapid campaigned to "bring sanity" back to Israel with clean government and moderate leadership.But he faces an even harder task - uniting disparate parties from across the political spectrum. They all want to see Netanyahu removed, but are not obvious bedfellows.Naftali Bennett, 48, a former Netanyahu aide, defence minister and high-tech millionaire who heads the ultra-hawkish Yamina party and is vying to be the next leader of the Israeli right.Though his party is predicted to grow slightly to seven seats, Bennett has positioned himself as a king-maker, refusing to commit to Netanyahu or against him.Gideon Saar, 54, a former cabinet minister who quit Likud to set up the New Hope party, vowing to end Netanyahu’s reign.Like Likud his party opposes Palestinian statehood. Saar’s campaign centred on clean government and jump-starting the economy but is expected to land only six seats.He could help unite factions from left and right. But Netanyahu will probably urge disappointed New Hope members to defect back 'home' to Likud.Bezalel Smotrich, 41, heads the far-right Religious Zionism party, which is projected to win around six seats.It includes Itamar Ben-Gvir, a former activist with the now-outlawed Kach movement, which advocated that Israel expel Arabs. It also includes a member of the Noam movement, which opposes LGBT rights and recognition of non-Orthodox Judaism in Israel.The party includes hardline Jewish settlers among its base, and rejects any territorial concessions to the Palestinians.Mansour Abbas, 46, an Islamist forecast to win six seats, has shaken the Arab political establishment by floating the idea of working with Netanyahu's right-wing government to address violence and other social issues in Arab towns.No Arab party has ever joined a ruling Israeli coalition, and Abbas's proposal is rejected by most Arab voters, many of whom identify with their Palestinian brethren in the West Bank and Gaza.Although Netanyahu dropped past scaremongering about Arabs to reach out to them in this election, it remains an unlikely alliance of opposites.The divisions within Israel's 21% Arab minority look set to push overall Arab representation down.WHEN ARE THE RESULTS?The final tally is expected by Friday. A party must pass a threshold of 3.25% of the votes to enter parliament. Around 12 parties have a realistic chance of qualifying.WHAT HAPPENS AFTER THE RESULTS ARE PUBLISHED?Israel’s president will consult with party leaders about who they want as prime minister. By April 7 he is expected to choose the legislator with the best chance.That nominee has up to 42 days to form a government. Then the president asks others to try.If nobody succeeds, Israel goes to a fifth election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-israel-s-tight-election-who-matters-and-what-happens-next-101616590972371.html
24-03-2021||World||Angela Merkel calls proposed Easter shutdown a ‘mistake’, asks 'citizens for forgiveness'||Chancellor Angela Merkel asked the German people for forgiveness after making a rare public apology for sparking massive criticism with plans for a five-day Easter shutdown.Merkel dropped the proposal, calling it a “mistake,” after a hastily-arranged video conference with the heads of Germany’s 16 states around 33 hours after announcing the move. She defended one of Germany’s toughest steps since the start of the pandemic but said there wasn’t enough time to implement properly.“To be absolutely clear, this mistake is solely and alone my mistake as in the end I am the one who carries the final responsibility,” she said on Wednesday. “I deeply regret this and ask all citizens for forgiveness.”Wednesday’s meeting followed marathon talks between the chancellor and state leaders earlier this week, which produced no new policies to contain the disease as a third wave of infections grips Europe’s largest economy.The Easter lockdown was the only fresh initiative after more than 11 hours of tense discussions that ended early Tuesday. The plan spurred widespread criticism, caught officials off guard and created confusion over the implementation.Germany has struggled to lay out a clear plan in the face of a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases and amid a sluggish vaccination campaign. That’s causing public frustration over the government’s handling of the crisis to grow just six months before a national election.Germany earlier this week extended a lockdown until April 18, which has effectively been in place for four months. The measures are relatively mild compared to other countries and include the partial closing of non-essential stores and the shutdown of hotels, restaurants, gyms and cultural venues.Merkel is appearing before German parliament Wednesday afternoon to defend her policies.Merkel’s conservative bloc -- also struggling with a scandal over lawmakers profiting off the pandemic -- has tumbled in the polls. Its lead over the second-placed Greens narrowed to 8 percentage points this week, according to a polling average calculated by Bloomberg.Opposition lawmakers from the Free Democrats and the Left party, said that Merkel should call for a vote of confidence.Armin Laschet, the head of Merkel’s Christian Democratic party and a leading contender to be the bloc’s chancellor candidate, said backing off the Easter lockdown was the right thing to do.“You can’t just introduce a public holiday within ten days,” he told lawmakers in North Rhine-Westphalia, where he is also state premier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angela-merkel-calls-proposed-easter-shutdown-a-mistake-asks-citizens-for-forgiveness-101616590375803.html
24-03-2021||World||Pakistan orders doses of Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines||Pakistan’s top health official said Wednesday his country will purchase 1 million doses of China's Sinopharm vaccine and 60,000 doses of the vaccine made by Chinese company CanSino Biologics.Faisal Sultan, a special assistant to the prime minister, said on Twitter that an order has been placed for the purchase of Chinese-made vaccines which will be delivered to Pakistan within days.The purchases will be in addition to 1.5 million doses of vaccine which China is donating to Pakistan in phases.Without giving more details, Sultan said Pakistan will also receive several million doses of vaccines in April.Pakistan is currently facing a third wave of coronavirus infections.Also Wednesday, Education Minister Shafqat Mahmood said the government is ordering the closure of schools in the capital, Islamabad and in several high-risk cities until April 11.Pakistan has reported 637,042 virus cases and 13,965 deaths from coronavirus since last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-orders-doses-of-chinese-made-covid-19-vaccines-101616589687618.html
24-03-2021||World||Pope taps Chilean sex abuse whistleblower for Vatican panel||Pope Francis on Wednesday named a Chilean man who helped uncover a clerical sex abuse scandal to a Vatican commission that advises the pontiff on how to protect children from pedophile clergy.The Vatican said Juan Carlos Cruz is the latest member of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors. Other members of the panel include a bishop, priest, nuns and laypersons.Cruz and other survivors of a prominent Chilean predator priest were invited by the pope in 2018 to discuss their cases with him.Decades of sex abuse scandals in many countries, including many involving church hierarchy who covered up for pedophile priests, have eroded the Catholic church’s credibility among the faithful.Cruz was the main whistleblower on clerical abuse and coverup in his homeland, one of the more high-profile sex abuse scandals to stain the Catholic church's reputation.A gay man, Cruz has said he recounted to Francis how Chile's bishops used his sexual orientation to try to discredit him. He said he has spoken to the pontiff of the pain those personal attacks caused him.Whether the Vatican can convince the faithful it is sincerely committed to stopping pedophile priests and a widespread culture of coverups by high-ranking clergy is crucial to shoring up flagging trust by ordinary Catholics.In 2017, frustrated by what she described as Vatican stonewalling, an Irish woman, Marie Collins, who was sexually abused by a priest when she was an adolescent, quit her post on the commission.Collins was damning in her criticism of Vatican offices, saying some officials were refusing the pope's instructions to reply to all correspondence from abuse survivors.Last year, a long-awaited Vatican report about Theodore McCarrick, an influential US cardinal defrocked by Francis after sex abuse reports, made it plain that the Holy See needs to re-think how the church protects the faithful from bishops and other hierarchy who wield authority with often scarce accountability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-taps-chilean-sex-abuse-whistleblower-for-vatican-panel-101616589808850.html
24-03-2021||World||Sri Lanka to order 7 million doses of Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V||The Sri Lankan government on Wednesday announced that it will order 7 million doses of the Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V worth over USD 69 million.The Cabinet approved a proposal to purchase 7 million doses of the vaccine at a cost of over USD 69 million, it was announced in a Cabinet note.The National Medicines Regulatory Authority (NMRA) approved the Sputnik V vaccine for emergency use in Sri Lanka based on recommendations by a Cabinet-appointed negotiation committee, it said.The vaccine is yet to be approved by the World Health Organisation despite the fact that it has been approved by 39 countries for emergency use, according to health officials.The NMRA, meanwhile, announced that it had withdrawn the approval it had previously given for the emergency use of the China-manufactured Sinopharm COVID-19 vaccine.State Minister for Pharmaceutical Production, Supply and Regulation Prof Channa Jayasumana said that the NMRA had approved the vaccine for emergency use along with the India-manufactured Covishield and Russia's Sputnik Vaccines.Jayasumana said the 600,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine will arrive in Sri Lanka soon.“They have already confirmed the donation and we expect it to arrive in the next two weeks,” Jayasumana said.The state minister for COVID prevention Dr Sudarshani Fernandopulle said the Chinese vaccine will be provided only to the Chinese nationals following a request from the Chinese Embassy.The Chief Epidemiologist Dr Sudath Smaraweera said the Chinese vaccine will not be rolled out without the approval for emergency use.Sri Lanka rolled out its vaccination programme in late January after receiving India's gift of 500,000 doses of Covishield. Sri Lanka had by Tuesday administered the vaccines to over 840,000 people, officials said.According to Johns Hopkins University coronavirus data, Sri Lanka has reported 90,765 COVID-19 cases and 552 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-to-order-7-million-doses-of-russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-101616589112298.html
24-03-2021||World||Biden readies for first news conference, White House tradition||He'd led allied armies in the defeat of Nazi Germany only to find himself, a decade later, a tad intimidated before the cameras in an echoey room of the Old Executive Office Building, ready to make history again.“Well, I see we’re trying a new experiment this morning,” President Dwight Eisenhower told the press corps. “I hope that doesn’t prove to be a disturbing influence.” It was the first presidential news conference captured for broadcast by television. In the scratchy black and white of 1955 TV sets, Americans saw those trademark Ike grins and heard him beef about being asked a “loaded question.”With that, an enlightening, contentious and often showboating tradition came into the modern age, one President Joe Biden carries on Thursday with his first White House news conference. Stay tuned for any disturbing influences.Depending how you count, Biden is a little or a lot behind his recent predecessors in opening himself to questions in what historian Martha Joynt Kumar calls the “high-risk, high-reward” enterprise of presidential news conferences.The last four presidents, back to Bill Clinton, each held one solo White House news conference in their first 60 days, picking up the pace to varying degrees later.Adding in the joint, often very brief news conferences with visiting foreign leaders, Donald Trump held at least five news conferences by that point, Clinton at least four, and Barack Obama two. The pandemic has kept foreign leaders away from the White House this year.The Biden White House is a notably tight ship, fully aware of his history of flubs, as is Biden himself, a self-described “gaffe machine.”He went through the 2020 campaign with infrequent news conferences and often hunkered down in the pandemic. Yet he debated fellow Democrats a dozen times and Trump three times without apparent harm to his prospects or the country.In one of the president's few extended and open-ended sessions with the media before Thursday, an interview with ABC News, Americans gained insight into his thinking about Russian President Vladimir Putin — Biden called him a killer who “will pay a price” for US election interference — as well as the surge of young migrants at the border, a possibly delayed troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, and more.Eisenhower's news conference Jan. 19, 1955, was one benchmark among several in the history of presidential news conferences tracked by Kumar, an authority on White House practices.Until his administration, the news conferences were off the record, meaning presidents gave the public information about the country's affairs and the workings of government without necessarily letting their name be used.Woodrow Wilson gave the first presidential news conference in 1913. Calvin Coolidge made a habit of them, holding nearly 73 a year on average, explaining “the people should have a fairly accurate report of what the president is trying to do.”Franklin Roosevelt, a radio pioneer who mastered communications on all fronts and nearly matched Coolidge's unrivaled pace of news conferences, regularly summoned his favored reporters to his office, consigning the ones he didn't like to his “dunce club.”Off the record often meant giving the president a chance to clean up his remarks, unheard of today. At a March 1950 news conference, Harry Truman declared that Sen. Joseph McCarthy, the audacious canceler of communists real and imagined in U.S. government and society, was the Kremlin's "best asset."“When one of the reporters commented that the president’s observation would ‘hit page one tomorrow,’ Truman realized he had better soften the statement,” Kumar writes. “He ‘worked’ with reporters and allowed the following as a direct quotation: ‘The greatest asset that the Kremlin has is the partisan attempt in the Senate to sabotage the bipartisan foreign policy of the United States.’”Such manipulation became untenable when Eisenhower put the news conferences on the record and let broadcasters record them. Even so, segments were only televised later.Although wanting to take advantage of the nascent medium of TV, Eisenhower did so with a partial step. Press secretary James C. Hagerty told AP at the time that live telecasts would not be allowed.It was John F. Kennedy who ushered in the age of live, televised news conferences, and he thrived in the practice.Smooth talking, authoritative and funny, Kennedy reached living rooms about twice a month with his news conferences.But for all of JFK's charms and smarts, he encountered a more aggressive White House press corps, Kumar says. In part that was because the previous administration had been caught in a lie, at first telling Americans the Soviets had shot down a U.S. weather plane when it was a spy plane. Even so, open secrets about Kennedy's behavior with women and his health problems stayed off limits in the coverage.Through the cascade of lies about Vietnam and Watergate, the adversarial relationship between the press and power took deeper root. So did the performative nature of the exercise, with the cameras watching.Richard Nixon, like Trump after him, called the press an “enemy.” Yet Nixon was the first to hold White House news conferences in prime time. (Nixon's famous cry of grievance in 1973, “I'm not a crook,” came in a question-and-answer session with newspaper editors at an Associated Press meeting in Florida, not in a White House news conference.)Ronald Reagan also favored the big audiences and cachet of prime time, using the glamorous East Room as the backdrop just as Nixon did.Through these years news conferences became as much about watching a president think on his feet as about the policy substance, if not more.There's been preening — think Trump. Think, for example, of the haranguing, hourlong or longer theatrical, stream-of-consciousness monologues as that president searched openly for friendly questions, ridiculed tough ones and peddled theories based on things he saw on TV.There's been squirming, as when Gerald Ford was asked whether his pardon of Nixon should be taken to mean the disgraced president was guilty. “Uh, the acceptance of a pardon,” Ford said very slowly, “uh, I think can be construed by many if not all as an admission of guilt.”There have been plenty of flashes of anger.Obama in 2015 didn't take kindly to being asked why he was “content” to trumpet the newly achieved nuclear deal with Iran when that country was still holding four Americans on fabricated grounds. His face wore a smile that wasn't a smile.“The notion that I'm content, as I celebrate with American citizens languishing in Iranian jails,” he said, “that's nonsense and you should know better.”The long-ago question that Eisenhower found “loaded” in the Indian Treaty Room of the sprawling executive office building that now bears his name was innocuous by today's standards. He was merely asked if he might appraise his first two years in office and “tell us something of your hopes for the next two or maybe even the next six.”Contrast that with a Feb. 6, 1998, Clinton news conference the month after he lied in a televised speech that “I did not have sexual relations with that woman, Miss Lewinsky," as the evidence built for his impeachment that fall.He was asked in that news conference at what point he might decide the crisis was too much to put his family through anymore and resign.“Never," he said, stone-faced.Clinton was flanked by the British prime minister, Tony Blair, who smiled the smile of a man who wanted to be somewhere — anywhere — else in that moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-readies-for-first-news-conference-white-house-tradition-101616589159475.html
24-03-2021||World||South African President Ramaphosa to testify at corruption inquiry||South African President Cyril Ramaphosa will testify as a witness before a long-running corruption inquiry for four days late next month, the presidency said on Wednesday.Ramaphosa will give evidence to the inquiry, chaired by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo and established to test allegations that former President Jacob Zuma allowed three businessmen who were close to him to plunder state resources and influence government appointments while he was in power.Zuma was ousted by the governing African National Congress (ANC) in February 2018, and his successor Ramaphosa has been battling to revive investor confidence dented by widespread corruption implicating senior politicians."The presidency wishes to confirm that president Cyril Ramaphosa will appear ... on April 22, 23, 28 and 29," a statement from his office said.Ramaphosa is expected to give evidence in his capacity as president and former deputy president of the country, and as president and former deputy president of the ANC. In both instances, Ramaphosa served as deputy under Zuma's leadership.Ramaphosa has repeatedly spoken out on the need to respect the constitution and rule of law.Zuma faces possible arrest after refusing to obey a court order to appear at the same inquiry.Zuma, who denies any wrongdoing, failed to have Zondo recuse himself from the corruption inquiry and chose not to recognise its authority, saying Zondo is biased against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-african-president-ramaphosa-to-testify-at-corruption-inquiry-101616586537195.html
24-03-2021||World||US won't force allies into 'us-or-them' choice on China, Blinken to tell NATO allies||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to tell NATO allies on Wednesday that China is a threat to the West but that the United States will not force anyone to choose sides between Washington and Beijing.European allies France and Germany are looking for a strategic balance in relations with Beijing and Washington that ensures the European Union is not so closely allied with one of the world's two big powers that it alienates the other."The United States won't force allies into an 'us-or-them' choice with China," Blinken, on his maiden voyage to Europe as Washington's top diplomat, will say at NATO headquarters, according to excepts of a speech to be made at 1400 GMT."Countries can work with China where possible," he will say, noting that climate change was an area where cooperation was necessary.However, Blinken is also set to accuse Beijing of undermining the international trading order that the United States and its allies built after World War Two.China denies any such plans and says it respects global rules upheld by international institutions such as the World Trade Organisation and the International Monetary Fund."They are actively working to undercut the rules of the international system and the values we and our allies share," Blinken is expected to say of China."If we work together to make real our positive vision for the international order ... we're confident that we can outcompete China on any playing field," he is set to say.The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada imposed sanctions on Chinese officials on Monday for rights abuses in Xinjiang, in the first such coordinated Western action against Beijing under new US President Joe Biden. Beijing hit back with punitive measures against the EU.NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg warned on Wednesday that "China is a country that doesn't share our values," referring to NATO as a club of democracies favouring free speech and freedom of association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-won-t-force-allies-into-us-or-them-choice-on-china-blinken-to-tell-nato-101616585627997.html
24-03-2021||World||Multiple arrests in anti-lockdown protest in UK city of Bristol||Police in the south-west England city of Bristol said on Wednesday that 14 arrests have been made after around 200 demonstrators staged a second “Kill the Bill” anti-lockdown protest, just days after a similar protest had turned violent.The local Avon and Somerset Police said the arrests were made for offences including breaches of the Covid-19 lockdown legislation and obstruction of a highway as officers attempted to engage with the protesters to disperse the crowds, as large gatherings remain banned in order to contain the spread of coronavirus.Footage of the protest on Tuesday night showed crowds of people shouting, "our streets" and "shame on you" at lines of police – some on horseback and others with dogs.“After the scenes of violence witnessed in the city at the weekend it was necessary to bring in additional resources from our neighbouring forces to ensure the protest was safely brought to a swift conclusion,” said Chief Superintendent Claire Armes.“Officers had engaged with protestors and asked them to disperse, but tents and a sound system were set up so it was abundantly clear they were intent on remaining at the location, in spite of legislation in place to protect public health,” she said.She said that throughout the operation officers continued to urge protestors to move on and at no time were they contained, but eventually “enforcement was necessary” as gatherings remain banned.“It’s disappointing that officers needed to take this action on a day we should be remembering all those who’ve lost their lives to Covid-19 over the past year. The communities of Bristol have made too many sacrifices and worked so hard to defeat this virus, it’s unacceptable for people to insult their efforts in this way,” Armes added.The force said that highly trained public order officers from Avon and Somerset, British Transport Police, Devon and Cornwall, Dorset, Dyfed Powys, Gloucestershire, Gwent and Wiltshire were deployed to move protestors on in the night.Specialist police dog units, horses, the National Police Air Service and a police drone unit were also involved in the operation. While many left the area, a significant number gathered on Deanery Road nearby and refused to disperse.One of those arrested was in connection with the disorder in Bristol on Sunday, the force said.The so-called "Kill the Bill" protesters have been demonstrating against the government's Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Bill, which will see the police handed new powers to tackle demonstrations.Over the weekend, the protests turned into violent clashes and saw a police station attacked, 21 officers injured and vehicles set alight.UK Home Secretary Priti Patel had accused protesters of "criminality and thuggish behaviour".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-arrests-in-anti-lockdown-protest-in-uk-city-of-bristol-101616577730767.html
24-03-2021||World||Japan policymakers step up calls for higher minimum wage to boost demand||Japanese policymakers are stepping up calls to raise the country's minimum wage as part of a strategy to ensure households can boost consumption and revitalise the economy when Covid-19 curbs are removed and vaccines are rolled out.Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Wednesday it was hard to re-energize the economy with monetary easing alone, calling on companies to help out by raising salaries for employees."We have to prod companies to transfer more of their profits to households by raising salaries. Otherwise we won't see consumption fire up," Aso told parliament."We must seek to raise Japan's minimum wage to around 1,000 yen ($9/hour) from the current average of about 900 yen," he said.The remarks echo those of Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who said on Monday the government will aim to raise the average minimum wage to 1,000 yen "swiftly" to help improve living conditions for temporary workers hit hardest by the pandemic."With a pledge of higher wages, the administration may be trying to appeal to voters," said Koya Miyamae, senior economist at SMBC Nikko Securities.The call comes as major Japanese firms are set to offer the lowest wage increases in eight years, a sign the pandemic is putting an end to the benefits brought on by former premier Shinzo Abe's stimulus policies.Raising the minimum wage, particularly those for regional areas where wages are lower than bigger cities, will likely be among key topics of debate at the government's top economic council. The council will come up with an outline of its long-term economic strategy around the middle of this year.Japan's economy rebounded from the pandemic's initial hit thanks to robust exports. But it is likely to have shrunk in the current quarter due to softer consumption, even though new state of emergency curbs imposed in January have been lifted.Many policymakers expect the post-pandemic recovery to be modest in Japan, with some analysts warning of the risk of a return to deflation if the weakness in domestic demand persists.Some firms are doing fairly well. Sony will pay record bonus payments this year, reflecting brisk sales of its game consoles as the pandemic kept people home, according to Kyodo news agency. But such cases are rare.Raising the minimum wage could be controversial. While it will give wage-earners more money to spend, it will hit small, regional firms barely staying afloat from the pandemic's hit."It's tricky because raising the minimum wage could force small companies to cut jobs to make ends meet," said Miyamae of SMBC Nikko Securities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-policymakers-step-up-calls-for-higher-minimum-wage-to-boost-demand-101616584164560.html
24-03-2021||World||White headmaster ordered Black US student to kneel, apologise 'the African way’, suspended||The White headmaster of a Catholic school in New York was suspended after he allegedly told a Black student to kneel and apologise “the African way”. The student’s parent, Trisha Paul, told New York Daily News about the February 25 incident when her son, Trayson, was reprimanded by his English literature teacher for working on a wrong assignment.Paul said that the teacher ripped up the paper and marched him to the office of John Holian, the headmaster of St. Martin de Porres Marianist school on Long Island, where the sixth-grader was ordered to get on his knees and apologise, reported the local daily. Trayson’s mom called the school on March 1 and asked the headmaster whether forcing students to kneel was standard disciplinary practice.According to Paul, Holian accepted that it was not a standard practice but added that he had learned it from a Nigerian father who called it an “African way” of apologising. “Once he started mentioning this African family, that’s when it just clicked... I felt there was no relevance at all. Is he generalizing that everyone who is Black is African?” Paul, who is Haitian American, was quoted by the newspaper as saying.The school’s acting headmaster, Brother James Conway, released a statement on Tuesday, saying St. Martin neither condones nor accepts the actions of Holian. Conway added that the incident doesn’t reflect the school’s “ long, established values or the established protocols” regarding student-related issues.“We have launched an internal review of the incident and restated in the clearest terms what is the established and approved practice for student-faculty interaction. Our most important mission here at St. Martin’s is to provide our children with the spiritual and educational foundation that will allow them to lead exemplary lives,” the statement read.(With AP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-headmaster-ordered-black-student-to-apologise-the-african-way-suspended-101616583436013.html
24-03-2021||World||Poland adds 29,978 new cases, highest single- day spike since start of pandemic||Poland on Wednesday reported 29,978 coronavirus infections in the past 24 hours -- a record since the start of the pandemic -- as the government promised to toughen the current partial lockdown.There were also 575 Covid-related deaths, the health ministry said."The toughest period is ahead of us," Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki told reporters from a temporary hospital in comments broadcast on Polish television.Morawiecki said new restrictions over the Easter period would be announced on Thursday.The previous daily infection record was 27,875 on November 7 last year.The actual number of infections, including those that were not officially recorded, is believed to have been higher earlier in 2020 at the start of the pandemic.Morawiecki said there was a 75 percent occupancy rate on Covid wards and reserves from the military and fire brigade were being called in to assist medical staff.Health Minister Adam Niedzielski said the situation was acute in Mazovia, a central region that includes the capital Warsaw, and the industrial region of Silesia in the south."Unfortunately, these signals today are prompting us to think very seriously about tightening sanctions. We are considering whether to do it regionally or nationally," Niedzielski told the Wirtualna Polska network.Poland earlier this month re-imposed a series of restrictions to combat the wave of infections, including shutting schools, shopping malls and theatres.dt/amj/jxb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poland-adds-29-978-new-cases-highest-single-day-spike-since-start-of-pandemic-101616583606911.html
24-03-2021||World||Myanmar: 7-year-old girl killed after security forces open fire in Mandalay||A 7-year-old girl died of bullet wounds in Myanmar’s second city Mandalay on Tuesday, after security forces opened fire in the Chan Mya Thazi township, one of the city's several suburbs.The girl, who had been shot inside her home, succumbed to her injuries yesterday, people working for a funeral service told news agency Reuters. She became the country's youngest victim so far in a crackdown by the junta against opposition to last month's military coup.The ruling junta has accused pro-democracy protesters of arson and violence during the weeks of unrest and said it would use the least force possible to quell the daily demonstrations. Although the military has said that 164 protesters in total have so far died in the resultant clashes, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) activist group says at least 275 people have been killed in the security forces' crackdown.Soldiers shot at her father but hit the girl who was sitting on his lap inside their home, the deceased girl's sister told Myanmar Now media outlet. Two other men were also killed in the township, according to the network. The military had no immediate comment on the incident.As night fell, candle-lit vigils were held in the country's commercial capital Yangon and other cities. At least 20 children aged under 18 have reportedly been killed since the junta took charge last month, according to AAPP and aid group 'Save the Children'. Human rights organisations have also expressed concern over the "hundreds of young people" being held in detention."We are horrified that children continue to be among the targets of these fatal attacks on peaceful protestors," read a statement issued by Save the Children.The Myanmar office of the United Nations children's agency said "the continuing use of force against children, including the use of live ammunition, by security forces is taking a devastating toll on children in Myanmar." UNICEF added that since the crisis started at least 23 children had been killed and at least 11 others seriously injured.Last month, twenty people were injured and two killed in Mandalay when security forces tried to disperse protesting opponents, according to the Parahita Darhi volunteer emergency service agency.The junta has faced international condemnation for staging the coup that halted Myanmar's slow transition to democracy and for its lethal suppression of the protests that followed. It has tried to justify the takeover by saying a November 8 election won by Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) was fraudulent - an accusation the electoral commission has rejected. Military leaders have promised a new election but have not set a date and have declared a state of emergency.Many businesses in Yangon remained shut today and streets were deserted after anti-coup activists called for a silent strike, even as Myanmar's junta freed hundreds of detained demonstrators on Wednesday. Around 2,000 people have been arrested till now in the military crackdown on the protests against the February 1 coup, AAPP activists said.The demonstrators are demanding the restoration of the elected government, the release of Suu Kyi and others and the scrapping of a 2008 constitution, drawn up under military supervision, that gives the army a major role in politics.The military is pressing charges on Suu Kyi faces for allegedly violating a Natural Disaster Management Law as well as illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios.The Myanmar leader, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 for her campaign to bring democratic civilian rule to Myanmar, has been in detention since the coup and faces the charges that her lawyer says have been cooked up to discredit her. The ousted leader was due to appear for another court hearing via video conferencing on Wednesday, but the head of her legal team Khin Maung Zaw said it had been postponed until April 1, marking the second successive delay due to internet issues.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-7-year-old-girl-killed-after-security-forces-open-fire-in-mandalay-101616579766957.html
24-03-2021||World||Taiwan to help allies buy vaccines, but not from China||Taiwan will help its handful of remaining diplomatic allies buy Covid-19 vaccines but on the condition that Taiwanese money is not used to obtain Chinese vaccines, Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said on Wednesday.Chinese-claimed Taiwan has formal ties with only 15 countries, mostly poor and developing states in Latin America, the Caribbean and the Pacific, and Beijing has stepped up efforts to coax them away from Taipei.Taiwan said last week it was helping its sole diplomatic ally in South America, Paraguay, buy Covid-19 vaccines, after protests in the country over the Paraguayan government's handling of the health crisis.Wu told parliament they will help their allies buy the vaccines they need."But one of the conditions is that Chinese vaccines cannot be bought. Or, if you buy Chinese vaccines, then you cannot use our Taiwanese money," he added.China has already begun offering its vaccines to mostly developing countries.On Monday, Paraguay's Foreign Ministry said the government had been approached by people "whose legitimacy or links with the government of the People's Republic of China has not been proven" about vaccines.It said these unidentified people had suggested the precondition for getting the vaccines would be to ditch Taiwan, and denounced the "distressing humanitarian scenario" that anyone should try and use the pandemic for political or economic gains.Wu said he was confident in Taiwan's ties with Paraguay, who he said "abhorred" China."The Paraguayan government knows that there is China's shadow, Chinese funds and Chinese channels behind the turmoil there, and they abhor China," he said.In Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said it was "fake news" to suggest linking vaccine supplies to a demand for Paraguay to break ties with Taiwan."We sternly warn these people in Taiwan not to engage in political manipulation, smears and rumour mongering, because it will all be futile," she said.Beijing considers democratic Taiwan merely a Chinese province with no right to state-to-state ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-to-help-allies-buy-vaccines-but-not-from-china-101616582379299.html
24-03-2021||World||German Chancellor Merkel, state governors to meet on Covid-19 measures||German Chancellor Angela Merkel will hold talks with the 16 state governors Wednesday in a quickly arranged meeting on the coronavirus pandemic, German news agency dpa reported.The news agency reported that Merkel and the state governors will meet virtually at 11 a.m. (1000 GMT). The leaders had met for hours on Monday and into early Tuesday to discuss new measures on the pandemic as infection rates in the country are going up again.Among the most important measures decided on was a five-day lockdown on Easter to get the numbers down again. However, that decision was met with lots of criticism and many questions on how extra holidays are legally possible.Infection numbers in Germany have been rising again as the more contagious variant of the virus that was first detected in Britain has been spreading in the country.Germany has registered more than 75,000 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic a year ago. The country’s disease control center also reported 15,815 new infection cases — a week ago there were 13,435 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-chancellor-merkel-state-governors-to-meet-on-covid-19-measures-101616581370302.html
24-03-2021||World||China bashes US over racism, inequality, pandemic response||China lashed out Wednesday at the US over racism, financial inequality and the federal government’s response to the coronavirus in an annual report that seeks to counter US accusations of human rights abuses by China’s ruling Communist Party.The report issued by China’s Cabinet said the US in 2020 “saw its own epidemic situation go out of control, accompanied by political disorder, inter-ethnic conflicts, and social division.”The document released by the State Council Information Office also highlighted the Jan. 6 insurrectionist attack on the Capitol as well as gun violence and health disparities.China issues the report each year in response to US criticism of its record on issues such as abuses against minority groups in the western regions of Xinjiang and Tibet and a crackdown on opposition voices in Hong Kong."To defeat the epidemic requires mutual help, solidarity and cooperation among all countries. However, the United States, which has always considered itself an exception and superior, saw its own epidemic situation go out of control, accompanied by political disorder, inter-ethnic conflicts, and social division," the report said.“Vulnerable groups became the biggest victims of the government’s reckless response to the epidemic," it said.The Chinese report is based on open-source material, as opposed to the US document, which is largely drawn from work by diplomats, journalists and human rights activists who cannot always reveal their information because of threats of retaliation from the ruling Communist Party.The report comes after the European Union joined the US, Britain and Canada in imposing sanctions on Chinese officials over accusations they abused ethnic minorities. Beijing retaliated by announcing it would penalize four European legislators, a German researcher and European-based rights organization with bans on travelling to Chinese territories or having financial interactions with Chinese institutions.China has taken an increasingly hard line against any criticism of its domestic politics or what it sees as attempts to impede its rise as a global leader. In recent days it has placed two Canadian citizens on trial in apparent retaliation for Canada's detention of an executive of the telecoms giant Huawei, who is wanted in the US on fraud charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-bashes-us-over-racism-inequality-pandemic-response-101616580778746.html
24-03-2021||World||Joe Biden to mark 'Equal Pay Day' as women hit worse than men by pandemic||US President Joe Biden will host members of the US Women’s national soccer team at the White House on Wednesday as part of his push to secure better pay for American women, who earn 82 cents on average for every dollar earned by men.Wednesday is Equal Pay Day, which marks how much longer into a new year US women on average must work to earn what the average man earned the previous year.The pay gap is far greater when calculated for Black women, who earn 63 cents on the dollar, and Latina women, who earn just 55 cents.The soccer squad led by Megan Rapinoe, which won the Women’s World Cup for a second consecutive time in 2019, has sued US Soccer, alleging gender discrimination. Fans backed them up, shouting "equal pay" during the World Cup final match.The coronavirus pandemic and its economic fallout has exacerbated disparities, triggering what Vice President Kamala Harris has called a "national emergency" for women.Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package includes provisions aimed at getting the 2 million women who left the labor force during the Covid-19 pandemic back to work. His next legislative push, valued at some $3 trillion, will also expand child care infrastructure and create jobs, administration officials say.Rapinoe and teammate Margaret Purce will join Biden at the White House. Rapinoe is also due to testify to a US House Committee hearing on the issue."They are heroines because they champion this issue for all women," said Jennifer Klein, co-chair of the newly established White House Gender Policy Council. "This is really true in literally every country in the world – women are paid less."The team reached a settlement in December with US Soccer on certain working conditions, including team travel and accommodations, but is still fighting in the courts to achieve equal pay to the men's soccer team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-mark-equal-pay-day-as-women-hit-worse-than-men-by-pandemic-101616580640735.html
24-03-2021||World||Lawsuit filed against delay in processing of EADs for H-1B spouses and L1 visas||A top American association of immigration lawyers has filed a class-action lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security for extraordinary delays in processing employment authorisation documents (EADs) of spouses of foreign workers in the country on H-1B and L1 visas, a significantly large number of whom are technology professionals from India."The delays that H-4 and L-2 non-immigrants are facing needlessly place families in financial limbo," said Jennifer Minear, president of American Immigration Lawyers Association or AILA, which has filed the class-action lawsuit against the DHS along with Wasden Banias.The DHS has the legal tools and authority to grant work authorisation to impacted individuals whose financial security is hanging in the balance, and it should immediately begin to use those tools to provide solutions, Minear said.The DHS can and must revoke the unnecessary biometric requirements for H-4 and L-2 non-immigrants, provide automatic work authorisation while it processes EAD renewal requests, and allow EAD applicants to file their renewal applications sooner than 180 days prior to expiration to prevent gaps in work authorisation, she demanded.Jesse Bless, AILA's director of Federal Litigation said that in 2019, the Trump administration implemented a new biometric requirement for H-4 and L-2 and other dependents seeking to extend their stay in the US.These new requirements added to the already extraordinary processing delays, which were further exacerbated by Covid-19 restrictions. The process to attain work authorisation should not put families at the risk of immense loss of income and instability, he said."There are reasonable and immediate steps that the DHS can take to make certain that visa holders meet requirements without imposing needless suffering. We hope to work with the government on immediate solutions to get these individuals back to work," Bless said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lawsuit-filed-against-delay-in-processing-of-eads-for-h-1b-spouses-and-l1-visas-101616575496859.html
24-03-2021||World||Australian mom convicted of killing 4 children loses appeal in Sydney court||A woman convicted of smothering her four children over a decade lost an appeal in a Sydney court on Wednesday against an inquiry’s conclusion that her victims had not died of natural causes.A growing number of scientists say Kathleen Folbigg is the victim of a miscarriage of justice, though many others consider the series of deaths too tragic to be bad luck alone.The New South Wales state Court of Appeal dismissed her application for a review of a judge’s ruling that “makes her guilt of these offenses even more certain.”Her last hope of early release now lies with a petition for a pardon lodged this month with the state governor. Folbigg’s convictions would still stand, but she would be released.The petition carried the signatures of 91 scientists, medical practitioners and related professionals including two Nobel laureates.Folbigg, now 53, was convicted in 2003 of murdering three of her children and the manslaughter of a fourth. She has consistently denied guilt. She was sentenced to 30 years in prison with a minimum of 25 years to be served before she could be considered for parole.She raised her eyes toward the ceiling on Wednesday as she watched the three judges hand down their decision via video from prison.“Today’s decision and the pardon petition have got many more people looking at this important case than ever before, and many people are starting to ask valuable questions about how we got here,” Tracy Chapman said in a statement written in consultation with Folbigg, her friend.“Many international eyes are now on this case and there’re many more Australians rightly asking why Kath’s still in prison after 18 years when there’s mounting scientific evidence relating to her innocence,” the statement added.Her lawyers said in a statement the court loss should not impact the pardon application.None of Folbigg’s children survived to a second birthday.Her first child Caleb was born in 1989 and died 19 days later in what a court determined to be the lesser crime of manslaughter. Her second child Patrick was 8 months old when he died in 1991. Two years later, Sarah died aged 10 months. In 1999, Folbigg’s fourth child Laura died at 19 months old. Folbigg was the first on the scene of each tragedy.An autopsy found Laura had myocarditis, an inflammation of heart muscle that can be fatal. But given the deaths of her three siblings, a pathologist listed the cause of her death as “undetermined.”Patrick suffered epilepsy and his death had been attributed to an airway obstruction due to a seizure. The other two were recorded as Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, or SIDS.At her trial, Folbigg’s lawyers told the jury there were medical explanations for each death. Caleb had a floppy larynx and Sarah had a congested uvula that could have obstructed their airways.Folbigg did not testify at her trial, but she testified for almost three days at the 2019 judicial review of her convictions based on a pathologist’s findings that the children likely died of natural causes with no sign of smothering.The judge hearing the review also heard expert testimony that both girls had an inherited genetic mutation linked to abnormal heartbeats and sudden death in children and suggesting their deaths may have been triggered by infections they had at the time.Last year, the findings of 27 scientists describing the genetic mutation in the Folbigg girls and its functional validation were published by Oxford University Press in the peer-reviewed cardiology journal Europace.The case against Folbigg was circumstantial and relied on interpretations of vague entries she had made in personal diaries, one of which her estranged husband Craig Folbigg reported to police.The entries included: “Obviously, I am my father’s daughter,” a reference to her father stabbing her mother to death in 1968 when Folbigg was 18 months old.The three appeal court judges found there was ample evidence for the 2019 inquiry to conclude Folbigg was guilty.“This was not a case in which the ... conclusion was at odds with scientific evidence,” the judges wrote of the 2019 findings.But signatories of the petition for a pardon disagreed.“It is deeply concerning that there is not a mechanism to appropriately weigh up all medical and scientific evidence in a case of this nature,” Australian Academy of Science president John Shine said.“There is now an alternative explanation for the death of the Folbigg children that does not rely on circumstantial evidence,” Shine added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-mom-convicted-of-killing-4-children-loses-appeal-101616580004908.html
24-03-2021||World||Sweden to end travel ban for people travelling from Norway, Denmark on March 31||The Swedish government will on March 31 end the travel ban for people travelling from Norway and Denmark to Sweden as the measure is no longer necessary for reducing the spread of the coronavirus, it said on Wednesday.All people travelling to Sweden will still need a negative Covid-19 test to enter the country."This means, among other things, that Norwegians and Danes can travel to their holiday homes in Sweden and that families and friends across borders can meet each other," Mikael Damberg, Minister of the Interior, told a news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sweden-to-end-travel-ban-for-people-travelling-from-norway-denmark-on-march-31-101616572711470.html
24-03-2021||World||Germany's Merkel calls 'unexpected' meeting after agreeing to extend lockdown||German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called an unexpected meeting with leaders of the federal states for Wednesday morning to discuss the coronavirus pandemic after they agreed on Tuesday to extend the lockdown to April 18.At talks on Monday with the leaders of Germany's 16 states, Merkel had pushed for a tougher stance to fight the pandemic, reversing plans for a gradual re-opening of the economy agreed earlier this month after a sharp rise in the infection rate.But state premiers pushed back at the talks that ran into the early hours of Tuesday, only agreeing to call on citizens to stay at home for five days over the the Easter holidays to try to break a third wave of the pandemic.The move drew criticism from all sides, with businesses lamenting the extended lockdown and medical experts saying the new measures were not tough enough to prevent the exponential spread of more infectious variants of the virus.Armin Laschet, the leader of Merkel's Christian Democrats and the premier of Germany's most populous state, told the regional parliament he expected a very critical discussion about what had happened during the talks earlier this week.Merkel's CDU has come under increasing fire for its handling of the pandemic due to the slow pace of vaccinations and a corruption scandal over the procurement of face masks, hurting its poll ratings ahead of a national election in September.Germany reported another 15,813 infections on Wednesday, bringing the total to 2,690,523, while the death toll rose by 248 to 75,212.The number of cases per 100,000 in the last seven days, which the government has used as a key metric to decide on lockdown steps, was stable at 108.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germanys-merkel-calls-unexpected-meeting-after-agreeing-to-extend-lockdown-101616579013322.html
24-03-2021||World||Silicon valley firms in no hurry to open up offices despite easing of virus ban||Several of San Francisco Bay Area's largest technology companies including Twitter Inc and Google plan to keep their offices largely closed for months more despite the government allowing them on Tuesday to be opened in a limited capacity.Taking into account declining coronavirus infections, San Francisco and Santa Clara counties eased guidelines that had kept most office buildings closed for the last year except to crucial security and support staff.Starting Wednesday, companies are allowed to open up their offices for up to a quarter of their capacity."San Francisco is going to come alive," Mayor London Breed told reporters. "When we start to reopen, more and more people are going to want to return to work and want to be around other folks."But Silicon Valley companies that committed last year to allowing workers to stay home until this summer or indefinitely said that they stood by their timelines.They cited their own analyses of public health data, other safety considerations and workers' preferences. Adoption of vaccines, which in California are accessible to only the most vulnerable populations, is also a factor but a smaller one.Networking gear maker Cisco Systems Inc and file-storage service Dropbox Inc said their mandatory work from home policies would remain effect until June, while Box Inc said its reopening is still scheduled for September.Pinterest Inc is not eyeing a significant reopening until at least August, Alphabet Inc's Google until September and DocuSign Inc not before October.Twitter, Adobe Inc, PayPal Holdings Inc, Twilio Inc, Yelp Inc and Zoom Video Communications Inc also will stay closed despite what Breed and other local government officials described as a move to the "orange tier" from the "red tier" of California lockdown restrictions.Breed's spokesman Jeff Cretan said San Francisco officials expect smaller and mid-sized companies to be the first to return.'HIRING ADVANTAGE'Among the few companies aiming to take advantage of the easing were SAP SE, which said it is strongly considering partially reopening its Bay Area offices within weeks, and Slack Technologies, which is weighing a date to invite back some workers.San Francisco ecommerce software startup Fast will open its doors - and windows for safety - to up to 25% of its 56 Bay Area employees on Wednesday, spokesman Jason Alderman said. He said the company expects to start getting job applications from people forced to work remotely by their current employers."Companies like Fast that are allowing people to come into the office if they want to is going to be a hiring advantage," he said.A survey late last year of 9,000 knowledge workers commissioned by workplace chat software company Slack found 20% want to work remotely, 17% in the office and 63% a mix of the two.Facebook Inc, whose offices otherwise remain closed globally until July 2, said this month it is opening 10% of seats in Seattle area offices to help workers struggling at home. It did not have similar news to share about its San Francisco offices.Microsoft Corp, which announced plans on Monday to partially reopen its Redmond, Washington, headquarters next week, did not immediately comment on San Francisco locations.IBM declined to discuss Bay Area plans. But several senior executives at its New York headquarters have begun working from their offices with doors closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/silicon-valley-firms-in-no-hurry-to-open-up-offices-despite-easing-of-virus-ban-101616553634693.html
24-03-2021||World||Myanmar junta frees hundreds held for anti-coup protests||Hundreds of people imprisoned for protesting last month’s coup were released Wednesday in the first apparent gesture by the military to try to placate the protest movement.Witnesses outside Insein Prison in Yangon saw busloads of mostly young people, looking happy with some flashing the three-finger gesture of defiance adopted by the protest movement. State-run TV said a total of 628 were freed.The prisoners appear to be the hundreds of students detained in early March while demonstrating against the Feb. 1 coup that ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi.One lawyer, speaking on condition of anonymity because she doesn’t want attention from the authorities, said all those released were arrested on March 3. She said only 55 people detained in connection with the protests remained in the prison, and it is likely they will all face charges under Section 505(A) of the Penal Code, which carries a penalty of up to three years in prison.Myanmar’s Assistance Association for Political Prisoners says it has confirmed the killings of 275 people in connection with the post-coup crackdown, with additional deaths still unverified. It also says that as of Tuesday, it had verified arrest or charges against 2,812 people, of whom 2,418 remain in custody or with outstanding charges.Demonstrators on Wednesday tried a new tactic that they dubbed a silence strike, calling on people to stay home and businesses to close for the day.The extent of the strike was difficult to gauge, but social media users posted photos from cities and towns showing streets empty of activity save for the occasional stray dog.The online meme posted to publicize the action called silence “the loudest scream” and explained its purpose was to honor the movement’s fallen heroes, to recharge protesters’ energy and to contradict the junta’s claims that “everything is back to normal.”The new tactic was employed after an extended onslaught of violence from security forces.Local media reported that a 7-year-old girl in Mandalay, the country’s second-biggest city, was among the latest victims on Tuesday. The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners included her in its list of fatalities.“Khin Myo Chit was shot in the abdomen by a soldier while she sat in her father’s lap inside her home in Aung Pin Le ward,” the online news service Myanmar Now reported, quoting her sister, Aye Chan San.The report said the shooting took place when soldiers were raiding homes in her family’s neighborhood. The sister said a soldier shot at their father when he denied that any people were hiding in their home, and hit the girl.Aye Chan San said the soldiers then beat her 19-year-old brother with their rifle butts and took him away.The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners recorded three killings in Mandalay on Tuesday, though some other reports said there were five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-frees-hundreds-held-for-anti-coup-protests-101616568984573.html
24-03-2021||World||Aid workers struggle to reunite Rohingya children separated by deadly fire||Aid workers searched on Wednesday to reunite Rohingya Muslim families separated when a huge fire swept through the world's biggest refugee settlement in Bangladesh, forcing about 45,000 people from their bamboo and plastic homes.The blaze tore through the cramped camp in southeast Bangladesh's Cox's Bazar district on Monday, killing 15 people with hundreds missing, the United Nations said. Bangladesh said at least 11 people were killed."Most people scattered to other camps to stay with friends or relatives," said Snigdha Chakraborty, country manager for the Catholic Relief Services aid group."We must ensure that any children who were separated from their families during the evacuation are reunited quickly."She did not provide any estimate of how many children had been left on their own.The U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, also said children were looking for their parents, in another trauma for families that fled from their homes in western Myanmar when the military there launched an offensive against Muslim insurgents in 2017."This is a very difficult situation and our heart goes out to the thousands of refugees who have yet met another disaster," UNHCR official Ita Schuette said in a video message posted on Twitter from Cox's Bazar.Some 1 million Rohingya refugees live in camps in Cox's Bazar with little hope of returning to their homes in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, where most have been refused citizenship and face persecution.Some witnesses said that barbed wire fencing put up around the camp had trapped many people during the fire.International humanitarian agencies have called for the removal of the wire but the deputy Bangladesh government official in charge of the refugees, Mohammad Shamsud Douza, said the fencing was not a major issue."It spread so quickly that some people who could not come out instantly died," he said. "It was not the barbed wire fencing that prevented them from escaping."Citing overcrowding in the camps, Bangladesh has been trying to move 100,000 Rohingya to a remote Bay of Bengal island.Aid groups say the flood-prone, low-lying Bhasan Char island, which only emerged from the see about 20 years ago, risks being overwhelmed by storms and refugees should not be housed there.Despite that, and the reluctance of many Rohingya to move, Bangladesh has transferred more than 13,000 refugees to the island since December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aid-workers-struggle-to-reunite-rohingya-children-separated-by-deadly-fire-101616568479229.html
24-03-2021||World||Australia prepares for flood recovery as wild weather eases||Australian authorities issued fresh flood evacuation orders for parts of the east coast on Wednesday, and warned that water levels would keep rising in some areas, even as Sydney woke up to clear skies for the first time in several days.Wild weather systems have drenched the country's east, prompting tens of thousands of evacuations, especially in the hardest hit state of New South Wales (NSW) where dams continue to overflow and rivers bulge.NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said 6,000 more people were evacuated in the last 24 hours and that new evacuation orders had been issued for residents in Sydney's western regions to move to safe zones."What we still have to be aware of is the fact that thousands and thousands of people are still on evacuation warnings, that the rivers will continue to swell, that catchments will continue to experience flows of water not seen in 50 years and in some places 100 years," Berejiklian told reporters in Sydney.The Insurance Council of Australia, the peak industry body, said about 17,000 damages claims worth around A$254.2 million had been lodged by Wednesday morning across NSW and Queensland.No deaths linked to the floods have been reported but the destruction is far-reaching and more than 40,000 people in the state have been evacuated so far.Homes have been submerged, livestock swept away and crops drowned on a large scale. There have also been many animal rescues, with water craft used to move dogs, cattle, and even an emu, away from the flood waters.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Wednesday that heavy-load helicopters would be prepared to transport food to supermarkets where supplies were running short.Officials told Reuters that the Warragamba Dam, the major water supply for Sydney, would continue to spill over the next several days, although at a slowing rate."We are seeing a reduction and given the fact that rains have passed and inflows declining we anticipate that spill should cease in the coming days," Water NSW spokesman Tony Webber told Reuters.Forecasters said the weather system will shift to the island state of Tasmania on Wednesday, bringing heavy rains and localised flooding.Though conditions have eased, the weather bureau said water levels in rivers would not recede for several days."We have had phenomenal amounts of rainfall right across the state over the last week and with that rain, it's got to drain into the rivers," bureau official Victoria Dodds said in a televised news briefing.Several hundred Australian Defence Force personnel will be sent to flood-affected areas in the country's east over the next few days to help in the recovery, Australia's Emergency Management minister David Littleproud said on Wednesday."Their job will be out there cleaning up, making sure that we get rid of the debris, having boots on the ground," Littleproud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-prepares-for-flood-recovery-as-wild-weather-eases-101616556711780.html
24-03-2021||World||Hong Kong halts Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccines, cites defective packaging||Hong Kong authorities halted the use of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Germany's BioNTech on Wednesday, citing defective packaging, in a move that triggered scenes of confusion in inoculation centres across the city.The suspension comes as the Asian financial hub has faced a sluggish take-up of vaccines due to dwindling confidence in China's Sinovac vaccine and fears of adverse reactions.Inoculation centre staff turned away people booked to take the BioNTech vaccine, with many Hong Kong-ers unsure as to the reason and asking for explanations. Adding to the confusion, local media reports said one doctor was reprimanded for promoting the BioNTech vaccine over Sinovac's."As a precautionary measure BioNTech requested the suspension" for its vaccines in Hong Kong until an investigation is complete, the city's Director of Health, Constance Chan, told a news conference.The city started vaccinating residents with doses from Sinovac in February and began offering the one developed by BioNTech, in March.The BioNTech vaccine is distributed in Hong Kong and Macau via a partnership with China's Fosun Pharma, while BioNTech partners with Pfizer in markets outside greater China.The BioNTech vaccine has shown greater take-up since its launch. Over the past week, more than double the number of people have booked the BioNTech shot compared to Sinovac, according to government figures.Chan said the government had initially contacted Fosun Industrial (Hong Kong), the distributor after it found some cases of cracks in vaccine containers and stains on some bottles.She said Fosun replied on Wednesday morning stating that it needed to further investigate and would suspend vaccination until further notice."BioNTech and Fosun have not found any reason to believe that product safety is at risk," she said.Fosun's parent company, Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical, said in a filing on Wednesday it was investigating with BioNTech.BioNTech said in a statement that no other batches to other regions were affected and it was investigating the root cause.Macau said on Wednesday it was also suspending the BioNTech vaccine due to the packaging flaw.Officials said Sinovac vaccinations would continue to take place as scheduled.In a separate incident, Hong Kong's government said it shut a private clinic that administered Covid-19 vaccines after a physician, named Dr Lau, "violated an agreement" under the city's inoculation programme.Broadcaster RTHK reported that Lau recommended people take the BioNTech shot, rather than Sinovac's, due to its better international reputation.Lau did not immediately respond to requests for comment. His clinic had been providing Sinovac vaccines and not the BioNTech ones, which are only available at larger public-sector facilities.Distrust of the mainland has intensified among residents in recent years with months of anti-government and anti-China protests driven by a perception that Beijing is pushing the semi-autonomous city onto a more authoritarian path.Media reports of several deaths after vaccinations have also kept some people jittery even though the government has said there was no direct link.With low levels of infection in the city, many people are opting to wait and see before getting a shot.Only about 5% of Hong Kong's 7.5 million residents have been vaccinated, and more than one-third of them received the BioNTech shot.For one 67-year-old resident, who gave his surname as Lau, there was no question as to which vaccine he was going for on Tuesday - the BioNTech one."It has better data, there are more people getting it internationally," he said. "The other one, the data is not clear."City leader Carrie Lam has repeated called for people to get vaccinated."When many places all over the world are scrambling for vaccines, we have a pretty assured supply," she said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-halts-pfizer-biontech-covid-19-vaccines-cites-defective-packaging-101616578008486.html
24-03-2021||World||EU to extend Covid-19 vaccine export curbs to cover Britain, backloading: Report||The European Commission on Wednesday will extend EU powers to potentially block COVID-19 vaccine exports to Britain and other areas with much higher vaccination rates, and to cover instances of companies backloading contracted supplies, EU officials said.The regulation is aimed at making vaccine trade reciprocal and proportional so that other vaccine-making countries sell to Europe and the EU does not export much more than it imports, one EU official said.With no numerical targets, the change is unlikely to trigger mass export bans of EU-made vaccines, the official with insight into the announcement said on Wednesday."I just really, really don't see that happening because we have our international obligations and we want to keep supply chains going and the global system moving and flowing," the official said.The regulation will be the basis for the EU's 27 governments to decide whether to block vaccine exports or not."In practice, all this is, is a piece of paper that says please take this stuff into consideration when you're looking at approving export authorisations," the official said.The move, which EU officials said could hit AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson, are designed to avoid even limited delivery shortfalls to a region whose inoculation programme has been beset by delays and supply issues.Shipments abroad could also be withheld if vaccine-producing countries, such as Britain and the United States, disallow exports to the EU, officials said, confirming comments by commission head Ursula von der Leyen last week.As London-Brussels tensions rose on Monday over a possible export ban, Britain demanded that EU authorities allow the delivery of vaccines it has ordered.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain did not believe in imposing vaccine blockades. "I'm encouraged by some of the things I've heard from the continent in the same sense," he told a news briefing.Johnson & Johnson has announced delays in its second-quarter supplies to the EU, which a second EU official said could lead to consequences under the Commission amendment covering companies backloading contracted quarterly deliveries.All vaccine makers could be affected, added the second official, with direct knowledge of the Commission decision. Some on the EU's list of countries exempt from any vaccine export monitoring, like Israel, are likely to be removed, because of their very high inoculation rates, the first official said."It doesn't mean they won't get vaccines. It just means they're not automatically exempted anymore," the first EU official said.'WE DON'T WANT THE SAME DELAYS IN Q2'The EU this month used an export control mechanism, set up at the end of January, to block an AstraZeneca vaccine shipment to Australia.That mechanism can be activated only if companies do not meet contracted quarterly delivery targets. The block followed AstraZeneca's announcement of steep cuts in first-quarter deliveries to the EU.With the amendments to be adopted on Wednesday, the EU will be able to block exports to cover companies that respect their quarterly contracts but backload supplies to the end of the period, said the official, who asked to remain anonymous.Johnson & Johnson, which has committed to delivering 55 million doses to the EU between April and June, plans to start deliveries in the second half of April.The company told EU officials production issues might make it difficult to meet its second quarter target, but it was striving to do so.Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech also had delays in vaccine deliveries to the EU, though they are set to meet their overall first-quarter targets. "We don't want the same delays to happen in the second quarter," said the second official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-extend-covid-19-vaccine-export-curbs-to-cover-britain-backloading-report-101616576956321.html
24-03-2021||World||Silicon Valley firms in no hurry to open up offices despite easing of virus ban||Several of San Francisco Bay Area's largest technology companies including Twitter Inc and Google plan to keep their offices largely closed for months more despite the government allowing them on Tuesday to be opened in a limited capacity.Taking into account declining coronavirus infections, San Francisco and Santa Clara counties eased guidelines that had kept most office buildings closed for the last year except to crucial security and support staff.Starting Wednesday, companies are allowed to open up their offices for up to a quarter of their capacity."San Francisco is going to come alive," Mayor London Breed told reporters. "When we start to reopen, more and more people are going to want to return to work and want to be around other folks."But Silicon Valley companies that committed last year to allowing workers to stay home until this summer or indefinitely said that they stood by their timelines.They cited their own analyses of public health data, other safety considerations and workers' preferences. Adoption of vaccines, which in California are accessible to only the most vulnerable populations, is also a factor but a smaller one.Networking gear maker Cisco Systems Inc and file-storage service Dropbox Inc said their mandatory work from home policies would remain effect until June, while Box Inc said its reopening is still scheduled for September.Pinterest Inc is not eyeing a significant reopening until at least August, Alphabet Inc's Google until September and DocuSign Inc not before October.Twitter, Adobe Inc, PayPal Holdings Inc, Twilio Inc, Yelp Inc and Zoom Video Communications Inc also will stay closed despite what Breed and other local government officials described as a move to the "orange tier" from the "red tier" of California lockdown restrictions.Breed's spokesman Jeff Cretan said San Francisco officials expect smaller and mid-sized companies to be the first to return.'Hiring Advantage'Among the few companies aiming to take advantage of the easing were SAP SE, which said it is strongly considering partially reopening its Bay Area offices within weeks, and Slack Technologies, which is weighing a date to invite back some workers.San Francisco ecommerce software startup Fast will open its doors - and windows for safety - to up to 25% of its 56 Bay Area employees on Wednesday, spokesman Jason Alderman said. He said the company expects to start getting job applications from people forced to work remotely by their current employers."Companies like Fast that are allowing people to come into the office if they want to is going to be a hiring advantage," he said.A survey late last year of 9,000 knowledge workers commissioned by workplace chat software company Slack found 20% want to work remotely, 17% in the office and 63% a mix of the two.Facebook Inc, whose offices otherwise remain closed globally until July 2, said this month it is opening 10% of seats in Seattle area offices to help workers struggling at home. It did not have similar news to share about its San Francisco offices.Microsoft Corp, which announced plans on Monday to partially reopen its Redmond, Washington, headquarters next week, did not immediately comment on San Francisco locations.IBM declined to discuss Bay Area plans. But several senior executives at its New York headquarters have begun working from their offices with doors closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/silicon-valley-firms-in-no-hurry-to-open-up-offices-despite-easing-of-virus-ban-101616575780779.html
24-03-2021||World||Indian national deleted 1,200 Microsoft user accounts, jailed in US for 2 years||An Indian national has been sentenced by a US court in California to two years in prison, who after being fired by his company accessed its server and deleted over 1,200 Microsoft user accounts, according to a statement.Deepanshu Kher was arrested when he flew from India to the United States on January 11, 2021, unaware of the outstanding warrant for his arrest.“This act of sabotage was destructive for this company,” said Acting US Attorney Randy Grossman on Tuesday.In pronouncing the sentence, US District Court Judge Marilyn Huff noted that Kher perpetrated a significant and sophisticated attack on the company, an attack which was planned and clearly intended as revenge.In addition to the two years in custody, Judge Huff sentenced Kher to three years’ supervised release and restitution to the Company of USD 567,084, the amount that the Company paid to fix the problems which Kher caused.According to court documents, Kher was employed by an information technology consulting firm from 2017 through May 2018. In 2017, the consulting firm was hired by the Carlsbad Company to assist with its migration to a Microsoft Office 365 (MS O365) environment. In response, the consulting firm sent its employee, Kher, to the company’s Carlsbad headquarters to assist with the migration.The company was dissatisfied with Kher's work and relayed their dissatisfaction to the consulting firm soon after Kher’s arrival. In January 2018, the consulting firm pulled Kher from the company’s headquarters.A few months later, on May 4, 2018, the firm fired Kher, and a month after that, in June 2018, Kher returned to Delhi, India.On August 8, 2018, two months after his return to India, Kher hacked into the Carlsbad Company’s server and deleted over 1,200 of its 1,500 MS O365 user accounts.Federal prosecutors alleged that the attack affected the bulk of the company’s employees and completely shut down the company for two days.As the company’s Vice President of Information Technology (IT) explained, the impact was felt inside and outside the company.Employees’ accounts were deleted – they could not access their email, their contacts lists, their meeting calendars, their documents, corporate directories, video and audio conferences, and Virtual Teams environment necessary for them to perform their jobs, prosecutors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-national-deleted-1-200-microsoft-user-accounts-jailed-in-us-for-2-years-101616575509582.html
24-03-2021||World||World Tuberculosis Day 2021: Theme, history and significance of the day||World Tuberculosis (TB) Day is observed each year on March 24 to raise awareness amongst the public about the debilitating health, social as well as economic consequences of tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is an infectious disease that affects the lungs and spreads to people when an infected person sneezes or coughs which is the reason why timely diagnosis and medical attention is the key to fighting the disease.The day aims to increase efforts to end the global epidemic of TB, one of the world’s deadliest infectious killers which according to data by World Health Organisation (WHO) has claimed the lives of around 1,400,000 people in the year 2019. WHO also said that around 63 million lives have been saved since 2000 because of the global efforts against tuberculosis. "TB remains one of the world’s deadliest infectious killers. Each day, nearly 4000 lose their lives to TB and close to 28,000 people fall ill with this preventable and curable disease,” WHO added.History of World Tuberculosis DayMarch 24 also marks the day on which Dr Robert Koch announced in 1881 that he had made the discovery of the bacterium which causes TB. This “opened the way towards diagnosing and curing this disease,” said WHO in an official statement on their website. Other than TB, Heinrich Hermann Robert Koch, who was a German physician and microbiologist who identified the causative agents of cholera and anthrax as well. For his research work on TB, Koch received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1905.Theme of World Tuberculosis Day 2021The theme of World Tuberculosis Day 2021 is ‘The Clock is Ticking’. The theme has been chosen as it “conveys the sense that the world is running out of time to act on the commitments to end TB made by global leaders,” WHO said in its statement. The organisation also added that as the world faces the challenges posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, strides made in control of TB are at great risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-tuberculosis-day-2021-theme-history-and-significance-of-the-day-101616574988466.html
24-03-2021||World||Taliban rejects Afghan president's proposal for to hold elections this year||The Taliban on Wednesday rejected a proposal by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to hold elections later this year, after months of peace talks between the two warring sides have made little progress.Although he hasn't made details public, Ghani will announce the election plan at a stakeholder conference in Turkey next month, according to two government officials.The move is likely an attempt to undercut a US proposal -- supported by Russia -- for the formation of an interim government involving the Taliban to rule the country once the last US troops withdraw."The government will go to Turkey with a plan for an early election which is a fair plan for the future of Afghanistan," one senior official told AFP.The Taliban immediately rejected the proposal."Such processes (elections) have pushed the country to the verge of crisis in the past," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said of Ghani's plan."They are now talking about a process that has always been scandalous," he told AFP, saying any decision on the country's future must be hammered out in ongoing talks between the two sides."We will never support it"The United States is due to withdraw the last of its troops by May 1 under a deal hammered out with the Taliban last year, although President Joe Biden said earlier this month the deadline would be "tough" to meet.That deal also paved the way for the Taliban and Afghan government to negotiate a peace plan and hammer out an agreement on how the country should be ruled, but those talks -- held since September in Doha, Qatar -- have made little headway.Afghanistan has a troubled history at the polls, with elections beset by rampant fraud, low turnout and insurgent violence.The Taliban's response comes hours after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told NATO that Washington is still weighing up whether to withdraw its troops by the May 1 deadline.The Afghan government is keen to keep US forces in the country for as long as possible for the vital air cover they provide, with violence raging in recent months.The United States, Russia and other stakeholders however want to see some form of transitional government take power in Afghanistan, but Ghani has insisted leaders can only be chosen at the ballot box.Having made enormous gains on the battleground, the Taliban appear to have little to gain from either strategy.Taliban co-founder and deputy leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar told a Moscow conference last week that Afghans "should be left to decide their own fate".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-rejects-afghan-president-s-proposal-for-to-hold-elections-this-year-101616575211271.html
24-03-2021||World||Beijing district encourages residents to get Covid shots with shopping coupons||Shoppers in a district of Beijing are getting discount coupons if they have received Covid-19 vaccinations, as China tries to accelerate its Covid-19 vaccination rate.Daxing district, with a population of about 1.8 million, started handing out the coupons on Wednesday to people who have received two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine.The coupons range in value from 8 yuan ($1.23) to 30 yuan each depending on various conditions, and can be used at supermarkets in Daxing, the district said on social media.More than 200 million yuan ($30.7 million) worth of discounts will be distributed through the coupons, Beijing Daily, the official newspaper of communist party authorities in the city, said.Some people expressed concern about the coupons on social media."Inducing people into vaccination in this way will reduce people's trust in vaccines," one person wrote on Weibo.More than 73% of people in Daxing aged 18 and above have had at least one shot, Beijing Daily said.China's daily output of Covid-19 vaccines has reached about 5 million doses, more than tripling the 1.5 million-dose daily production rate on February 1, official media said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-district-encourages-residents-to-get-covid-shots-with-shopping-coupons-101616572497240.html
24-03-2021||World||Oil gets Suez blockage bounce following demand-driven sell-off||Oil climbed as investors assessed the impact on global crude flows after a ship ran aground and blocked the Suez Canal, following a sell-off that’s driven prices to the lowest level since early February.Futures in New York added 1% after news of the grounding, giving the market a reprieve amid mounting signs of weakness. Oil prices slumped below $60 a barrel on Tuesday and have tumbled more than 12% in less than two weeks on a series of factors including softening physical demand and the unwinding of long positions. The prompt timespread for global Brent crude has also flipped into a bearish structure for the first time since January.Adding to negative sentiment are indications US crude inventories continue to swell. The American Petroleum Institute reported stockpiles rose by almost 3 million barrels last week, according to people familiar with the data.The recent plunge in oil may put pressure on OPEC+ to do more to try and stem the slide, with the group meeting next week to decide on its production policy for May. Despite the decline, crude is still up almost 20% this year, and as Covid-19 vaccinations accelerate worldwide, there is confidence greater mobility will boost fuel consumption in the longer term.“Oil’s had a deep correction because of near-term demand, but the outlook that consumption will improve remains valid in the longer term,” said Will Sungchil Yun, a senior commodities analyst at VI Investment Corp. in Seoul. Price gains due to the Suez Canal blockage will be temporary, he added.The prompt timespread for global benchmark Brent crude flipped to a bearish contango structure on Tuesday -- where near-dated contracts are cheaper than later-dated ones. It was 3 cents in contango on Wednesday, compared with a bullish backwardation of 67 cents at the start of the month.The Suez Canal is frequently used by tankers transporting crude from the world’s top exporters in the Middle East to customers across Europe and the U.S., and also by ships moving cargoes from the North Sea to Asia. The 400-meter long container ship Ever Given’s hull became wedged length-ways across the canal on Tuesday, causing a gridlock of at least 100 vessels.“It could be having a bit of an impact when you consider about 10% of total seaborne oil trade goes through the Suez Canal, but I imagine any disruption would be very temporary,” said Warren Patterson, head of commodities strategy for ING Group in Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oil-gets-suez-blockage-bounce-following-demand-driven-selloff-101616570384198.html
24-03-2021||World||Canada considering warning labels for AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccines||Canadian health authorities are considering adding a warning label on vials of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, cautioning their users in the country about the rare possibility of the jab causing blood clots.During a media interaction on Tuesday, Health Canada’s chief medical adviser Dr Supriya Sharma said the agency is looking at “changes” to the “information that goes with the vaccine to say there have been reports of this type of rare clot”. She, however, said the vaccine is still considered “appropriate” for those above 18 years of age and the recommendation that it should be administered won’t change.Two iterations of the AZ vaccine were given emergency-use authorisation in Canada on February 26. Canada recently received its first batches of the AZ vaccine under the brand name Covishield, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).Sharma said that “even the most effective vaccine only works if people trust it and agree to receive it”. She added, “At this point in time, we, of course, believe that the benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine continue to outweigh the risks.”Canadian health authorities have warned that the race between Covid-19 vaccines and newly-detected variants of the coronavirus is close, especially with the mutations spreading quickly and affecting younger people.Canada’s chief public health officer, Dr Theresa Tam, pointed to the B117 variant, which appears to have originated in the UK, saying it could increase hospitalisations and provoke severe outcomes within younger demographics.In a statement released by the Public Health Agency of Canada, Tam noted the country has recorded nearly 5,500 Covid-19 cases caused by variants, with over 90% attributable to the B117 strain. “As the number of new variant cases continues to increase, they account for a greater proportion of Covid-19 cases across Canada, reminding us of how tight the vaccines-versus-variants race continues to be,” Tam said.Tam also said these variants spread more rapidly with a higher reproduction rate. Of the infections reported in Canada caused by new strains, 5,117 were caused by the B117 variant, 244 by the South African-origin B1351 one, and 124 by the P1 strain from Brazil.Over 3,600 new cases related to the pandemic were reported on Tuesday in Canada, an increase of nearly 25% over the daily figure a fortnight back. Canada has so far recorded 942,325 confirmed cases and 22,735 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-considering-warning-labels-for-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccines-101616570582615.html
24-03-2021||World||Netanyahu urges rival parties to join Likud-led coalition govt||After claiming a 'giant victory' in the parliamentary election, Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday pleaded with members of rival parties to put aside personal differences and partner with him to create a coalition government, warning of a fifth rapid-free election otherwise.Netanyahu may have recognised that he may fall short of the votes he needs to build a viable coalition after a fourth indecisive election, according to The Times of Israel."A clear majority" of the newly-elected 120 Members of Knesset (MK) share his overall policies and thus he intended to spend the next few days talking with all MKs who might be willing to help build a stable government, said the Prime Minister.The only alternative to a coalition under his leadership would be another national vote, he reiterated.As ballots were being counted through the night, updated exit polls suggested neither Netanyahu nor any of his rivals had a clear path to a Knesset majority.In the fourth election in two years, over 63 per cent votes have been counted as of Wednesday, but no clear winner has emerged so far, according to The Times of Israel.Netanyahu's right-wing religious bloc has a slim majority together with Yamina, but the results are expected to shift as more votes are counted.Due to a similar deadlock in elections held a year ago, Netanyahu had persuaded his main challenger at the time, Blue and White leader Benny Gantz, to join him in an "emergency unity government."However, Netanyahu's coalition deal with Gantz last December, when he failed to pass a state budget and the Knesset automatically dissolved for these elections. Since then, Gantz had vowed to never again partner with Netanyahu, reported The Times of Israel.After an exhausting campaign, the 71-year-old premier, hailed his Likud party's "extraordinary achievement" in winning a projected 30-plus seats in Tuesday's vote. He then highlighted his outgoing government's achievements -- notably including a world-leading C-19 vaccination campaign, a series of peace agreements, and a firm stance against Iran's aggression and nuclear weapons goals."With this majority, we have to build a stable Israeli government. I stretch out my hand to all MKs who believe in this path; I don't rule anybody out. I expect all who believe in our principles to act in a similar fashion," he said.Netanyahu, who has held power since 2009, and also served as prime minister from 1996 to 1999, is also on trial in three corruption cases, with the evidentiary stage set to start on April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netanyahu-urges-rival-parties-to-join-likud-led-coalition-govt-101616566118892.html
24-03-2021||World||Pak suffering due to imposition of rulers without people's will: Ex-President||Pakistan Peoples' Party (PPP) leader and former President Asif Ali Zardari on Tuesday said that the country has been suffering due to the imposition of rulers without the will of the people.On the occasion of Pakistan Day here, Zardari stressed the need for treating all provinces equally, while noting that feelings of hatred and vendetta have harmed the nation."We have to treat all units of Pakistan equally and this is the recipe of a strong, stable and developed Pakistan... The state will be strengthened by following the constitution," said the former president.He also paid homage to former President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto on the occasion of Pakistan Day.Meanwhile, the opposition alliance - Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) - has postponed its long march planned for later this month, amid differences within the alliance on the issue of resigning from the assemblies.The PPP, chaired by Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari, has reservations over linking the resignations with the march and had sought time to hold consultations within its Central Executive Committee (CEC) before informing the PDM of its decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-suffering-due-to-imposition-of-rulers-without-people-s-will-expresident-101616564773228.html
24-03-2021||World||Explained: Calls for gun controls in US and the politics over them||The shooting in Boulder, Colorado on Monday which left 10 people dead has started the conversation on federal action on gun control in the United States of America. The shooting was the second deadly shooting in the US in a week and has put pressure on President Joe Biden who said during his presidential campaign that he would take strict action on gun control if voted to power. “I don’t need to wait another minute – let alone an hour – to take common sense steps that will save lives in the future, and I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to act,” President Biden said on Tuesday after the shooting.The politics over gun controls in AmericaThe second amendment of the United States constitution says, "A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed." This gives rights to US citizens to bear arms but the debate around gun controls is defined by two primary ideologies: Most Republicans advocate for decreasing regulations with respect to gun ownership while most Democrats advocate for regulation over gun ownership. The former promote the idea of use of firearms for self-defense as well as for sporting activities while the latter believe that gun control would lead to safer communities.What is the history of gun control laws in America?The history of gun control laws in America began with the Gun Control Act of 1968 which established minimum age for firearms purchases. This law was amended in 1986, easing restrictions on firearm sellers by allowing the sale by licensed deals away from the location shown on their license. In 1993, through the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of 1993, a five-day waiting period was imposed on the purchase of handguns thereby giving time for background checks which was later replaced by an instant check system, which could be extended by three days. In 1994, the Federal Assault Weapons Ban was enacted which prohibited the manufacture, transfer and possession of semi-automatic assault weapons and the transfer and possession of large-capacity ammunition feeding devices. The law expired in 2004.In the wake of the December 2012 Connecticut school shooting, a bipartisan gun control bill was introduced in 2013 but failed in the Senate. After the December 2015 mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, then President Barack Obama signed executive orders designed to strengthen background checks in 2016. In February 2017, then President Donald Trump signed a measure rolling back an Obama order that made it harder for the mentally ill to buy guns and then in December 2018, the administration banned the type of high-powered gun attachments used in the Las Vegas massacre. In February 2019, another bill to expand background checks died in the Senate.What are the new bills that are being considered this time?Earlier this month, the House of Representatives passed two bills aimed at increasing background checks of gun owners and these bills will face the Senate where Republican votes will be needed for them to pass. Other than background checks, the bills also focus on closing loopholes which allow some licensed gun sales to go through before a required background check is done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-calls-for-gun-controls-in-us-and-the-politics-over-them-101616562904574.html
24-03-2021||World||Australia floods claim first fatality, more evacuations as clean-up begins||A man's body was found in a car trapped by floodwaters on Wednesday, the first death linked to wild weather across Australia in recent days that has submerged houses, swept away cars and livestock and cut off entire towns.More than 40,000 people have been forced to flee their homes as torrential rain sparked dangerous flash floods, and authorities issued new evacuation orders on Wednesday for residents in Sydney's western regions to move to safe zones.In some other areas, a massive clean-up operation began as sunny skies returned for the first time in days, and food and other emergency supplies were flown in over swamped roads.The man's body was found in Sydney's northwest by emergency services workers responding to reports of the stranded car. Officials said the man had yet to be identified and no other details were available.Gladys Berejiklian, the premier of New South Wales (NSW), the worst-hit state, warned that water levels would keep rising in some areas as major dams continued to overflow and rivers bulged."What we still have to be aware of is the fact that thousands and thousands of people are still on evacuation warnings, that the rivers will continue to swell, that catchments will continue to experience flows of water not seen in 50 years and in some places 100 years," Berejiklian told reporters in Sydney.The Insurance Council of Australia, the peak industry body, said about 17,000 damages claims worth around A$254.2 million ($193.32 million) had been lodged by Wednesday morning across NSW and Queensland.Homes have been submerged, livestock swept away and crops drowned on a large scale. There have also been many animal rescues, with water craft used to move dogs, cattle, and even an emu, away from the flood waters. In the country's arid centre, water cascaded down Uluru, a rare phenomenon described by the national park on social media as "unique and extraordinary."RECOVERY BEGINSAustralian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Wednesday that heavy-load helicopters would be prepared to transport food to supermarkets where supplies were running short."The expanse of water that went right across that region was quite devastating to see," Morrison said in parliament after he toured flood-affected areas by helicopter.Several hundred Australian Defence Force personnel will be sent to flood-affected areas in the country's east over the next few days to help in the recovery, Australia's Emergency Management minister David Littleproud said on Wednesday."Their job will be out there cleaning up, making sure that we get rid of the debris, having boots on the ground," Littleproud said.Australian Rail Track Corp (ARTC) partially reopened Hunter Valley coal rail lines to Newcastle, the world's biggest coal export port, on Wednesday.The Hunter Valley rail network serves mines run by BHP Group, Glencore Plc, New Hope Corp, Whitehaven Coal and Yancoal Australia, among others.The Port of Newcastle, which last year shipped 158 million tonnes of coal, slowed ship movements earlier in the week but said on Wednesday it was continuing to operate.Forecasters said the weather system will shift to the island state of Tasmania on Wednesday, bringing heavy rains and localised flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-floods-claim-first-fatality-more-evacuations-as-clean-up-begins-101616563101945.html
24-03-2021||World||North Korea test-fired short-range missiles, says US||North Korea tested several short-range missiles during the weekend, senior US officials said on Tuesday, in a first such military activity by Pyongyang after US President Joe Biden took office.The officials, however, played down the tests, saying they were in the “low end” of the spectrum of provocative actions Pyongyang is known to undertake to send a message to the United States. The systems used in the weekend tests were not covered by UN missile testing bans.South Korea’s defence ministry said two missiles were fired from South Pyongan province on Sunday morning and flew over the sea between the peninsula and China, according to a Bloomberg report.The Biden administration remains open to a dialogue with North Korea, the US officials said. Its North Korea policy review is in the “final stages” and a draft will be discussed next week at a meeting US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan is hosting with his counterparts from Japan and South Korea.Asked about the missile tests, Biden told reporters, “We have learned that… nothing much has changed.”The weekend tests followed warnings last week from North Korean leader Kim Jong-un’s sister Kim Yo-jong to the Biden administration in view of its North Korea policy review, and upcoming visits of US secretary of state Antony Blinken and defence secretary Lloyd Austin to South Korea and Japan for their respective 2+2 bilateral dialogues.“A word of advice to the new administration of the United States that is struggling to spread the smell of gunpowder on our land from across the ocean,” she was quoted as saying in official media. “If it wants to sleep in peace for (the) coming four years, it had better refrain from causing a stink at its first step.”Former US president Donald Trump’s two summit meetings with North Korea’s Kim Jong-un in Singapore in 2018 and in Hanoi, Vietnam in 2019 had raised hopes of an agreement over nuclear disarmament and sanctions.But, as one of the officials told reporters on Tuesday, “It’s over a year ago now - there has been actually very little dialogue or interaction between the United States and North Korea (since).”The official added, “We are on our forward foot, in terms of wanting to clearly signal that we are prepared for continuing engagement in northeast Asia with key partners and indeed with North Korea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-test-fired-short-range-missiles-says-us-101616562542131.html
24-03-2021||World||North Korea fires cruise missiles in first such test since July||North Korea fired off a pair of cruise missiles on the heels of an Asian trip by top US officials, putting a fresh spotlight on Biden administration deliberations over how to resolve a key security dilemma.The two missiles were fired from South Pyongan province Sunday morning and flew over the sea between the peninsula and China, the South Korean Defense Ministry said Wednesday. Earlier, US officials in Washington had confirmed the test of a “short-range system,” adding that the incident didn’t appear to violate a United Nations ban on ballistic missile launches by the country.While launching cruise missiles isn’t prohibited by UN resolutions, Kim Jong Un had refrained from such provocations since testing an anti-ship weapons system in July. The move came days after US officials led by Secretary of State Antony Blinken huddled with South Korean counterparts in Seoul as part of President Joe Biden’s effort to craft a strategy for rolling back North Korea’s nuclear program.The decision to withhold news of the launch until after the Washington Post reported it Tuesday was consistent with efforts under former President Donald Trump to avoid being drawn into another crisis with North Korea. Trump had often sought to play down such launches, including tests of nuclear-capable ballistic missiles that violate UN resolutions and pose a more serious threat to American troops and U.S. allies in Japan and South Korea.Asked about the launch during a trip to Ohio, Biden said only that he had learned that “nothing much has changed,” without elaborating. US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will host his counterparts from Japan and South Korea next week to discuss North Korea as part of broader administration efforts to craft a coordinated strategy toward North Korea.Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato declined to comment on the incident Wednesday. “We will continue to cooperate closely with the U.S. and South Korea to gather and analyze information on North Korea’s military activities, while doing all we can to stay on the alert,” Kato said in Tokyo.The Biden administration’s policy review has included talks with former Trump officials. Those discussions included an acknowledgment that following Trump’s second summit with Kim in February 2019, there had been very little communication with the North Korean regime, the current U.S. officials said Tuesday.Kim has continued to expand and upgrade his nuclear weapons program, despite agreeing to “work toward complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula” during his unprecedented first meeting with Trump in 2018. Since talks broke down, he has engaged in a sporadic series of provocations, blowing up a liaison office build by South Korea last year and parading a new intercontinental ballistic missile through Pyongyang in October.Pyongyang has recently stepped up its criticism of Washington, with Kim reiterating that U.S. was his “biggest main enemy” in January and a top diplomat last week calling Biden’s outreach for talks a “time-delaying trick.” Kim and Chinese President Xi Jinping in recent days reaffirmed the need to improve ties, as both neighbors face the prospect of a renewed push by American allies.North Korea needs to resume talks with the US to get out from under crushing UN sanctions that have helped push its economy toward what outside observers believe is the worst downturn in two decades. Kim appears to seeking a way to draw concessions from the administration without provoking more penalties from the international community.Blinken shrugged off North Korean criticism during his visit to Seoul last week, saying the US was focused on consulting partners to draft policy plans.“There are different kinds of pressure points that might convince North Korea to make progress,” Blinken said after meeting South Korean Foreign Minister Chung Eui-young and Defense Minister Suh Wook. “The goal is to really figure out how we have the best chance in resolving the challenges posed by North Korea to us and unfortunately to its own people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-fires-cruise-missiles-in-first-such-test-since-july-101616561160880.html
24-03-2021||World||Exit polls indicate no clear winner in Israeli elections, Netanyahu claims 'great victory'||Israeli parliamentary elections on Tuesday resulted in a virtual deadlock for a fourth time in the past two years, exit polls indicated, leaving Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu with an uncertain future and the country facing the prospect of continued political gridlock.The exit polls on Israel’s three main TV stations indicated that both Netanyahu and his religious and nationalist allies, along with an anti-Netanyahu group of parties, both fell short of the parliamentary majority required to form a new government. That raised the possibility of an unprecedented fifth consecutive election later this year.The election was seen as a referendum on Netanyahu’s polarizing leadership style, and the initial results showed that the country remains as deeply divided as ever, with an array of small sectarian parties dominating the parliament.The results also signaled a continuing shift of the Israeli electorate toward the right wing, which supports West Bank settlements and opposes concessions in peace talks with the Palestinians. That trend was highlighted by the strong showing of an ultranationalist anti-Arab religious party.After three previous inconclusive elections, Netanyahu is hoping to form a government with his traditional ultra-Orthodox and hard-line nationalist allies that will grant him immunity from corruption charges. Despite the inconclusive results, Netanyahu claimed his Likud party had claimed a “great victory” with fellow right-wing parties.“It is clear that a clear majority of Israeli citizens are right wing, and they want a strong and stable right wing government that will protect the economy of Israel, security of Israel and land of Israel. This is what we will do,” he said on Facebook.By early Wednesday, updated exit polls on two channels were forecasting an evenly divided parliament. The third station gave Netanyahu's opponents a one-seat advantage.Exit polls have often been imprecise in the past, meaning the final results, expected in the coming days, could still shift the balance of power. If the final results are in line with the exit polls, there is no guarantee that Netanyahu or his opponents will succeed in putting together a coalition.“All three options are on the table: a Netanyahu-led government, a change coalition that will leave Netanyahu in the opposition, and an interim government leading to a fifth election,” said Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute.Several right-wing parties have vowed never to sit in a government with Netanyahu. And Naftali Bennett, a former Netanyahu ally turned harsh critic, refused to endorse either side during the campaign.Bennett shares Netanyahu's hard-line nationalist ideology and would seem to be more likely to ultimately join the prime minister. But Bennett has not ruled out joining forces with Netanyahu’s opponents.In a speech to his supporters, Bennett declined to take sides. He vowed to promote right-wing values but also took several veiled swipes at the prime minister's leadership style.“Now is the time for healing,” he said. “The norms of the past will no longer be acceptable.” He said he would move the country “from leadership that is interested in itself to a professional leadership that cares.”Bennett has indicated he will drive a hard bargain with Netanyahu, demanding senior Cabinet ministries and perhaps even a power-sharing arrangement that includes a stint as prime minister.In addition, their partners would also include a pair of ultra-Orthodox religious parties and the “Religious Zionists,” a party whose leaders are openly racist and homophobic. One of its leaders, Itamir Ben-Gvir, is a disciple of the late Rabbi Meir Kahane, whose Kach party was branded a terrorist group by the U.S. for its anti-Arab racism before Kahane was assassinated in New York in 1990.Relying on the party could be deeply embarrassing for Netanyahu on the international stage, particularly as he tries to court the new Biden administration.The election campaign was largely devoid of substance and was seen instead as a referendum on Netanyahu’s divisive rule.During the campaign, Netanyahu emphasized Israel’s highly successful coronavirus vaccination campaign. He moved aggressively to secure enough vaccines for Israel’s 9.3 million people, and in three months the country has inoculated some 80% of its adult population. That has enabled the government to open restaurants, stores and the airport just in time for election day.He also tried to portray himself as a global statesman, pointing to the four diplomatic accords he reached with Arab countries last year. Those agreements were brokered by his close ally, then-President Donald Trump.Netanyahu’s opponents say the prime minister bungled many other aspects of the pandemic, particularly by allowing his ultra-Orthodox allies to ignore lockdown rules and fuel a high infection rate for much of the year.Over 6,000 Israelis have died from Covid-19, and the economy continues to struggle with double-digit unemployment.They also point to Netanyahu’s corruption trial, saying someone who is under indictment for serious crimes is not fit to lead the country. Netanyahu has been charged with fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes in a series of scandals that he dismisses as a witch hunt by a hostile media and legal system.Even Netanyahu’s reputation as a statesman has suffered in recent days. The United Arab Emirates, the most important of the four Arab nations to establish official diplomatic ties with Israel, last week made clear that it did not want to be used as part of Netanyahu’s re-election bid after he was forced to call off a visit to the country. The Biden administration also has kept its distance, a contrast to the support he received in past elections from Trump.Netanyahu’s Likud party was projected to emerge as the largest individual party, with just over 30 seats in the 120-seat parliament, followed by the centrist opposition party Yesh Atid, with some 17 seats.The remainder of the parliament would be divided between some 10 other small parties. These range from an Arab party to left-wing secular parties to a pair of secular, right-wing parties that oppose Netanyahu.Altogether, Netanyahu and his allies were projected to control 53 to 54 seats, while his opponents are expected to control some 60 or 61, with Bennett controlling the remainder.Netanyahu’s opponents included a diverse array of parties that had little in common beyond their shared animosity toward him. Even if his opponents end up controlling a majority of seats, it will be difficult for them to bridge their ideological differences on such lightning rod issues as Palestinian statehood and the role of religion in the country.They also were hurt by the disintegration of the main Arab party in parliament. A renegade member ran separately but appeared not to win enough seats to enter parliament, robbing the alliance of key votes.Tuesday’s election was sparked by the disintegration of an emergency government formed last May between Netanyahu and his chief rival at the time. The alliance was plagued by infighting, and elections were forced after they failed to agree on a budget in December.Netanyahu’s opponents have accused him of fomenting deadlock in hopes of bringing about a friendlier parliament that will grant him immunity from prosecution.After the results come in, attention will turn to the country’s figurehead president, Reuven Rivlin.He will hold a series of meetings with party leaders and then choose the one he believes has the best chance of forming a government as his prime minister-designate. That could set off weeks of horse-trading.Voting in Jerusalem on Tuesday, Rivlin said the deadlock has had a price.“Four elections in two years erode public trust in the democratic process,” he said, even as he urged Israelis to vote again. “There is no other way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exit-polls-indicate-no-clear-winner-in-israeli-elections-netanyahu-claims-great-victory-101616560904433.html
24-03-2021||World||Senators back off vow to withhold support of Biden nominees||Two Democratic senators who said they would not support President Joe Biden's nominations to fill administration posts until the White House better promoted diversity reversed their stances Tuesday after the White House said it would add an Asian American Pacific Islander liaison to its staff.Sens. Tammy of Duckworth of Illinois and Mazie Hirono of Hawaii had lashed out earlier in the day at the lack of Asian American and Pacific Islander representation in Biden's Cabinet. The only senators of Asian American heritage, they said they would withhold their support for his nominees until the diversity issue was addressed.With the announcement of the liaison Tuesday night, Duckworth's spokesman said the senator would not stand in the way of “qualified nominees — which will include more AAPI leaders.”“Senator Duckworth appreciates the Biden Administration’s assurances that it will do much more to elevate AAPI voices and perspectives at the highest levels of government, including appointing an AAPI senior White House official to represent the community, secure the confirmation of AAPI appointments and advance policy proposals that are relevant and important to the community,” spokesman Ben Garmisa said in a statement.Duckworth had said earlier that she raised the issue with top Biden advisers on Tuesday and afterward called the situation “not acceptable."“I’ve been talking to them for months and they’re still not aggressive, so I’m not going to be voting for any nominee from the White House other than diversity nominees,” Duckworth told reporters. “I’ll be a no on everyone until they figure this out.”That had prompted Hirono to join her. But Hirono later said in a statement of her own that she too welcomed the appointment of an AAPI White House liaison and was dropping her objections.“Based on the private conversation we had, I will continue voting to confirm the historic and highly qualified nominees President Biden has appointed to serve in his administration,” Hirono said.The threats to withhold support could have complicated matters for Biden as he moves forward with other high-level administration and judicial appointments that require confirmation in an evenly divided Senate where Vice President Kamala Harris holds a tie-breaking vote.Katherine Tai, who is Taiwanese American, is in the Cabinet as Biden's top trade envoy. Dr. Vivek Murthy, the son of Indian parents, was confirmed Tuesday as surgeon general, a sub-Cabinet position.“The President has made it clear that his Administration will reflect the diversity of the country," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in a statement. “That has always been, and remains our goal.”Biden had defended the makeup of his Cabinet to reporters Tuesday evening, saying, “We have the most diverse Cabinet in history.” He added, “We have a lot of Asian Americans that are in the Cabinet and in sub-Cabinet levels."Asian American and Pacific Islander elected officials and activists are hoping that last week's shootings at spas around Atlanta that killed eight people, six of them women of Asian descent, will prompt the community to demand greater representation in government."We’re not just calling for API’s. This is not about pitting one diversity group against them. So I’m happy to vote for a Hispanic or Black person and LGBTQ person and AAPI person," Hirono said in joining Duckworth. "I just like to see more diversity representation.”Duckworth is of Thai descent and was mentioned as a possible vice presidential pick for Biden before he settled on Harris, the first Black and Indian American woman to hold the vice presidency. Duckworth, who had also been under consideration for a Cabinet role, noted that presidents over the last 20 years have included AAPI people in their Cabinets.Tai, who was confirmed last week, is the first Asian American and first woman of color to serve as U.S. trade representative.Biden also nominated Neera Tanden to serve as director of the Office of Management and Budget, but she withdrew her nomination after it became clear she would have difficulty winning confirmation. Tanden faced opposition from Republicans and Sen. Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, over insulting tweets aimed at Republican lawmakers that she posted prior to her nomination.Duckworth said administration officials in her initial conversation Tuesday noted the selections of Tai and Tanden, who are both high-level picks but not part of the president’s Cabinet, when she raised her concerns.That didn’t sit well with her.“To be told that, well, you have Kamala Harris, we’re very proud of her, you don’t need anybody else, is insulting,” Duckworth said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senators-back-off-vow-to-withhold-support-of-biden-nominees-101616560562507.html
24-03-2021||World||US, Mexico discuss immigration in high level meetings||A US delegation discussed immigration and regional development in a series of meetings in Mexico Tuesday at a time when the rising number of migrants arriving at their shared border has raised concerns in both countries.The administration of President Joe Biden is worried about the number of migrant families and unaccompanied children arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border in recent months.Former U.S. ambassador Roberta Jacobson, the White House’s lead adviser on the border, and Juan González, the National Security Council’s senior director for the Western Hemisphere, were accompanied by Ricardo Zúñiga, the newly named Special Envoy for the Northern Triangle.The new U.S. administration has started to dismantle Trump-era policies that made it more difficult for asylum seekers, but have maintained some like the pandemic-related policy invoked by Trump that allowed it to continue to return the majority of border crossers to Mexico.In a meeting with Mexico Foreign Affairs Secretary Marcelo Ebrard, the two delegations discussed “humanitarian actions to spur, in the short term, an inclusive economic development in northern Central America,” according to a statement released by the Mexican government.Ebrard later emphasized the shared goal of development in the region to address migration.“If we persevere and act together ... we can achieve that these countries and southern Mexico have a different future, have other possibilities,” he said. “That no one has to migrate due to poverty, insecurity, desperation.”The so-called Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador have been the largest source of migrants arriving at the U.S. southern border in recent years. Plagued by endemic corruption and violence, and more recently devastated by two major hurricanes in November and the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, migrants continue to stream out of those countries.Confusion and misinformation over Biden’s seemingly more humane approach to immigrants and asylum seekers has been a contributing factor. Many migrants sensing a change in attitude from the heavy-handed Trump policies set out during the first months of the year to try their luck.Jacobson took the opportunity to again try to send a clear message to those thinking about migrating to the U.S. “Don’t come to the border. The border is closed,” Jacobson said in Spanish in a message released by the U.S. embassy in Mexico.She noted the danger of migrant smugglers and of traveling during the pandemic. “Stay at home, stay safe and wait for more information about the asylum process.”Mexico finds itself once again under pressure to slow the movement of migrants across its territory. Last week, the government announced it was imposing new measures at its southern border that would permit only essential crossings due to pandemic concerns. But coming a year after the start of the pandemic many observers saw it only as a cover for more immigration enforcement.At the same time, Mexico deployed more immigration agents to the south and said it would focus on intercepting unaccompanied children and families with children trying to reach the northern border. That announcement was criticized for coming on the same day that the U.S. agreed to send COVID-19 vaccine to Mexico.In 2019, Mexico deployed its newly created National Guard to bolster immigration enforcement under pressure from the Trump administration, which had threatened crippling tariffs on all Mexican imports.The Biden administration is taking a more diplomatic approach, but similarly needs Mexico’s cooperation. Mexico has faced criticism for essentially extending U.S. immigration policy to its own southern border. In return, Mexico has pushed the U.S. government to support more development projects in the region. Biden has spoken of sending $4 billion in development aid.Both sides they were focused on protecting the human rights of migrants, but ensuring a safe and orderly migration. Ultimately, they want to reduce the push factors driving migrants from their countries. The focus has been on economic factors, but yet to be seen is how the new U.S. administration will address touchier subjects like corruption in the region.Gladys McCormick, an associate professor in history at Syracuse University’s Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, said that while the Biden administration was employing a more diplomatic approach than Trump did, the U.S. delegation came in wanting “to have the Mexicans do some of their dirty work, which is yet again to stop the flow of people coming in on the southern border.”The situation is also an opportunity for Mexico President Andrés Manuel López Obrador to extract more from the United States, she said. More help in facing the pandemic is one thing López Obrador already said he asked of Biden. Additional resources to help Mexico deal with the migrants gathering at their shared border could be another, McCormick said.It is also a welcome distraction for López Obrador, McCormick said, noting that organized crime and the economic havoc caused by the pandemic weren’t mentioned in Mexico’s statement.“(López Obrador) needs this as a way sort of to deflect attention from what’s going on in Mexico now, especially in the lead up to the mid-term elections this summer,” she said.Part of the U.S. delegation was scheduled to hold meetings in Guatemala Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-mexico-discuss-immigration-in-high-level-meetings-101616549925601.html
24-03-2021||World||Myanmar set for silent strike after violence claims youngest victim||Myanmar activists plan more anti-coup protests on Wednesday, including a silent strike with many businesses due to close and calls for people to stay home, a day after a seven-year-old girl was killed in her home when security forces opened fire during a crackdown in Mandalay.Pro-democracy protesters also held more candle-lit vigils overnight including in a district of the commercial capital Yangon and in Thahton in Mon State.The vigils came after staff at a funeral service in Mandalay told Reuters on Tuesday that a seven-year-old girl had died of bullet wounds in the city - the youngest victim so far in a bloody crackdown of opposition to the Feb. 1 coup.Soldiers shot at her father but hit the girl who was sitting on his lap inside their home, her sister told the Myanmar Now media outlet. Two men were also killed in the district, it said.The military had no immediate comment on the incident.In what has now often become a deadly game of cat and mouse with security forces during street protests, pro-democracy activists switched tactics and planned to hold a silent strike on Wednesday."No going out, no shops, no working. All shut down. Just for one day," Nobel Aung, an illustrator and activist told Reuters.Social media posts and media indicated a range of businesses from ride hailers to pharmacies planned to close.The junta has faced international condemnation for staging the coup that halted Myanmar's slow transition to democracy and for its lethal suppression of the protests that followed.It has tried to justify the takeover by saying a Nov. 8 election won by Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) was fraudulent - an accusation the electoral commission has rejected. Military leaders have promised a new election but have not set a date and have declared a state of emergency.SUU KYI COURT HEARINGJunta spokesman Zaw Min Tun said on Tuesday 164 protesters had been killed and expressed sadness at the deaths, a day after the European Union and the United States imposed more sanctions on groups or individuals linked to the coup.The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) activist group says at least 275 people have been killed in the security forces' crackdown.Zaw Min Tun blamed the bloodshed on the protesters and said nine members of the security forces had been also killed.He said strikes and hospitals not fully operating had caused deaths, including from COVID-19, calling them "undutiful and unethical".Opponents of military rule have regularly called for strikes and also a civil disobedience campaign, including among civil servants, that has paralysed parts of the economy.The junta spokesman also accused media of "fake news" and fanning unrest and said reporters could be prosecuted if they were in contact with the Committee Representing the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH), as the remnants of Suu Kyi's government is known. The military has declared the CRPH an illegal organisation and said membership is punishable by death.He also gave details that he said showed how the NLD had created hundreds or even thousands of extra ballots by inventing voters, including in Suu Kyi's own constituency.The NLD has denied making any attempt to rig the election.Also shown at the junta news conference was video testimony of former Yangon chief minister Phyo Min Thein saying he visited Suu Kyi multiple times and gave her money "whenever needed".Suu Kyi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 for her campaign to bring democratic civilian rule to Myanmar, has been in detention since the coup and faces charges that her lawyer says have been cooked up to discredit her.The ousted leader is due to appear for another court hearing via video conferencing on Wednesday after a previous hearing had to be adjourned due to internet problems.(Reporting by Reuters Staff; Writing by Ed Davies; Editing by Michael Perry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-set-for-silent-strike-after-violence-claims-youngest-victim-101616552559617.html
24-03-2021||World||Colombia imposes new restrictions to avoid severe third Covid-19 wave||Colombia will impose new restrictions on movement and enact nightly curfews in municipalities with high occupancy levels in intensive care units as it tries to avoid a severe third wave of Covid-19, President Ivan Duque said on Tuesday. The South American country has reported more than 2.3 million coronavirus infections and 62,274 deaths. It has administered more than 1.23 million vaccine doses so far.From Friday to Monday and then from March 31 to April 5, people will be restricted as to when they can enter supermarkets, banks and shopping centers, depending on their national identity card numbers in all municipalities where ICU occupancy exceeds 70%."This measure is preventive and necessary so that we don't experience a severe third peak (of coronavirus) in the next few weeks, or in April or May," Duque said in his nightly broadcast on the pandemic.Restrictions on mobility will also be imposed from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. over those dates in municipalities where ICU occupancy tops 70%, Duque said.In municipalities where ICU occupancy rates exceed 50%, curfews will be imposed from midnight until 5 a.m., he added.Colombia's capital, Bogota, which has 8 million inhabitants, has an ICU occupancy rate of 61.3%, while the next two largest cities, Medellin and Cali, have occupancy rates of 84.5% and 78.8%, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colombia-imposes-new-restrictions-to-avoid-severe-third-covid-19-wave-101616549936510.html
24-03-2021||World||News media seeing 'post-Trump slump' as passions cool||Tensions have cooled between the news media and the White House after four tumultuous years -- potentially bad news for outlets struggling with a long downtrend in the industry.The so-called "Trump bump" which boosted viewers and subscriptions at outlets such as CNN and the New York Times now appears to have turned into a slump following the departure of Donald Trump from the presidency.At CNN -- which was at loggerheads with Trump for much of his tenure -- viewership in prime time has slid some 50 percent in March 2021 compared with a year ago, with smaller declines for cable news rivals Fox News Channel and MSNBC, according to Nielsen data.Online visits to the New York Times fell 30 percent from November to February and 27 percent at the Washington Post, according to the research firm ComScore.Some of the declines can be attributed to a falloff from the contentious election season, but they also underline the harsh economic realities facing the news media which predate the Trump era."This is not a new economic reality, we've seen this downtrend for years," said Adam Chiara, a communications professor at the University of Hartford.Chiara said the Trump years gave a "temporary bump" to news organizations like the New York Times, which has seen sharp gains in digital subscribers, and CNN, which had a strong following.But the long-term trend, Chiara said, is people moving away from traditional cable bundles and newspaper subscriptions, relying instead on online platforms."Almost all my students are getting their news from social media," he said.The Trump era was one of solid growth for key news outlets, especially those that served as a watchdog on the US leader. The number of CNN viewers doubled since 2014, while MSNBC's tripled.The New York Times has boosted the number of subscribers to more than seven million, but analysts warn that future growth may be limited.- Fewer eyeballs -Boston University political communications professor Tobe Berkovitz said many legacy outlets are facing a reckoning now in the on-demand digital economy after the intensity of the Trump era."Trump was the goose that laid the golden egg and that was especially true for the cable networks and dominant newspapers," Berkovitz said.The lack of drama in Washington, Berkovitz said, means "fewer eyeballs" for media outlets, which translates into declining ad revenues and subscriptions, deepening their economic woes.Mark Lukasiewicz, dean of the Hofstra University school of communications, said Americans may be ready for a break from the intense period of news over the past few years during which Trump attacked the media as scandals were unearthed about his administration."I think people were exhausted by the drama and the tension, and probably quite understandably, are turning back to some other interests in their lives, to their families, to their kids, to their work, to their lives and away from the news," Lukasiewicz said."I don't think it's simply the departure of Donald Trump. I'm sure Donald Trump would like to think that his presence alone controls the success of news media. In the United States, I just don't think that's true."Berkovitz maintained however that President Joe Biden is "a boring guy" who doesn't generate much drama, making it more difficult to attract readers and viewers.After a period in which the news was equated to drama, "viewers are saying they need a time out," Berkovitz said. "They will watch Netflix, Amazon or Apple (shows) as a break from the hysteria."New York Times chief executive Meredith Kopit Levien said in February the media group has proven its value through a variety of major news events."The news cycle will change and audience will fluctuate," she said but added that "we are well positioned to deliver continuous growth" in 2021 and beyond.Analysts said the Trump years demonstrated to many Americans the value of an independent media serving as a watchdog on political leaders, but that it is unclear if the impact will last."Their challenge is to show they have premium content whether it is analysis, reporting or investigative reporting that is worth paying the price," Berkovitz said.Chiara said more people are seeing the value of news, "but the question will be whether it translates into more subscriptions. So far there's no evidence to show that's the case."tu-rl/bgs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/news-media-seeing-post-trump-slump-as-passions-cool-101616549975560.html
24-03-2021||World||Rejecting US peace plan, Afghan president to offer election in 6 months||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani will propose a new presidential election within six months, under a peace plan he will put forward as a counter-offer to a U.S. proposal that he rejects, two senior government officials told Reuters.Ghani will unveil his proposal at an international gathering in Turkey next month, signalling his refusal to accept Washington's plan for his elected government to be replaced by an interim administration, the officials said.Washington, which agreed last year to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan by May 1 after nearly two decades, is pressing for a peace deal to end war between the government and the Taliban. Talks between the Afghan sides in Qatar have stalled.U.S. Special Envoy Zalmay Khalilzad has been circulating a proposal which would replace the Kabul government with an interim administration. But Ghani has voiced vehement opposition to any solution that requires his government to step aside for unelected successors."The counterproposal which we are going to present at the Istanbul meeting would be to call for early presidential elections if the Taliban agree on a ceasefire," one senior government official said on condition of anonymity.Another Afghan government official said: "The president would never agree to step aside and any future government should be formed through democratic process, not a political deal."A third senior official also said Ghani's proposal would include possible early elections, although he did not specify the exact time frame for the vote. The third official said Ghani had already shared his road map with Khalilzad.US SEEKING SUPPORTWith just weeks left before a deadline it agreed with Taliban last year to end the longest war in U.S. history, Washington is seeking regional backing for its approach to push the Kabul government and insurgents to share power.But diplomats and foreign officials have said it will be difficult to move forward with the U.S. plans without Ghani's support.During a visit to the region, which included stops in Doha and Islamabad, Khalilzad pushed for a conference to be hosted by Turkey with involvement from the United Nations next month.The Afghan officials said that as part of Ghani's counter-proposal, his government would ask the U.N. to closely observe the new election to ensure it is accepted by all sides.A presidential palace spokesman declined to comment.Peace negotiations between the Afghan government and insurgent Taliban in Qatar's capital Doha have made little progress, while violence has increased.The Taliban -- fighting the foreign-backed government since being ousted from power by Afghan opponents and U.S. air strikes in late 2001 -- have so far rejected a ceasefire and said they would not directly join an interim government.Ghani was sworn in as president for a second five-year term in March last year after a disputed presidential election.The new U.S. administration led by President Joe Biden is reviewing its plans before May 1, the deadline agreed last year under the Donald Trump administration for the last 2,500 U.S. troops to leave Afghanistan. Biden told broadcaster ABC last week that it would be "tough" to meet the deadline.The Taliban say there will be consequences if the United States does not meet the deadline to pull out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rejecting-us-peace-plan-afghan-president-to-offer-election-in-6-months-101616552726090.html
24-03-2021||World||4 killed, 14 injured in bomb blast in Pak's Balochistan province||At least four people were killed and 14 others injured after a powerful roadside bomb exploded on Tuesday outside the offices of Pakistani security forces in the restive Balochistan province, bordering Afghanistan, police said.No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack outside the Levies headquarters in Chaman town.Chaman Assistant Commissioner Zakaullah Durrani said at least four people were killed and around 14 others injured in the explosion.Explosives were planted in a motorcycle and the apparent target was a police mobile stationed outside the Levies headquarters, which also serves as a temporary prison, he said.Chaman town has witnessed violence in recent times. In August last year, five people were killed in a bomb blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/4-killed-14-injured-in-bomb-blast-in-pak-s-balochistan-province-101616552154394.html
24-03-2021||World||Russian President Putin gets a jab of Covid vaccine||Russian President Vladimir Putin was vaccinated against Covid-19 Tuesday out of sight of the cameras, his spokesman said, prompting questions about whether the gesture will boost comparatively low immunisation rates in Russia.Dmitry Peskov said Putin is feeling fine after getting the shot and is planning a regular workday Wednesday.He explained earlier Tuesday that the president would get the vaccine out of the public eye because “when it comes to getting vaccinated on camera, he has never supported that, he doesn't like that”.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePeskov wouldn't reveal whether Putin would go to a vaccination facility or the shot would be brought to him in his office or residence, saying only that “it will done in a way that would the least affect” Putin's working schedule.Putin announced that he would get vaccinated at a government meeting the day before. The statement came several months after widespread immunisation against COVID-19 kicked off in Russia. Kremlin critics have argued that Putin's reluctance to get vaccinated was contributing to the already existing public hesitancy about the vaccine.Only 6.3 million people, or 4.3% of Russia's 146-million population, have received at least one dose of a vaccine. It lags behind a number of other countries in terms of the vaccination rate.Surveys by Russia's top independent pollster, Levada Centre, have shown that the number of Russians reluctant to get vaccinated with the domestically developed Sputnik V shot has grown in recent months — to 62% in February from 58% in December.Pressed by reporters over whether Putin should get vaccinated on camera in order to boost slow vaccination rates, Peskov argued that Russians “will hear” about the president's vaccination and that Putin is already doing “a lot" for promoting the vaccination campaign.“The president ... dedicates a rather significant time in his working hours to events, discussions, meetings related to vaccination, production of vaccines and so on. So the president does a lot for propaganda of the vaccines,” Peskov said.The Kremlin spokesman refused to reveal which of the three vaccines authorised for use in Russia Putin will receive, saying only that all three are “absolutely good, reliable, effective.”Russian authorities have given regulatory approval to three domestically developed shots — Sputnik V, EpiVacCorona and CoviVac. All three received the authorisation before completing advanced trials experts say are necessary to ensure their safety and effectiveness in line with established scientific protocol.However, a recent study in the British medical journal the Lancet showed that Sputnik V is 91% effective and appears to prevent inoculated individuals from becoming severely ill with COVID-19, although it's still unclear whether the vaccine can prevent the spread of the disease. No data on efficacy of the two other vaccines have been released.Russia has been actively marketing Sputnik V abroad, despite the slow rollout at home and limited production capacities. Dozens of countries have approved the use of Sputnik V, and many signed deals with the Russian Direct Investment Fund that bankrolled the vaccine to get shipments of the shot.The fund said Tuesday it has submitted a request for Sputnik V to be part of the global vaccine sharing scheme COVAX. The shot first needs to be endorsed by the World Health Organisation, which is still in the process of reviewing data provided by Russia.Exporting the vaccines has not been without delays and some questioned whether Moscow had the capacity to deliver on its promises. In Russia, state media and government officials boasted about the international success of the shot that came despite initial criticism of Sputnik V's hasty introduction.Peskov said Tuesday that Sputnik V was “so sought-after" that Russia's production "can't cope with the demand from abroad”.To boost production, the Russian Direct Investment Fund has signed agreements with manufacturers in a number of countries including India, Brazil, South Korea and most recently Italy. Putin said on Monday such agreements amounted to a total of 700 million vaccines a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-president-putin-gets-a-jab-of-covid-vaccine-101616546621547.html
24-03-2021||World||Newly confirmed surgeon general Vivek M Murthy to focus on Covid-19, opioids||The Senate confirmed a soft-spoken physician as President Joe Biden's surgeon general Tuesday. While Dr. Vivek Murthy says ending the coronavirus pandemic is his top priority, he's also raised concerns over a relapsing opioid overdose crisis.The vote on Murthy was 57-43, giving him bipartisan support. Biden's coronavirus response can already count on plenty of star players, but Murthy has a particular niche. As a successful author he's addressed issues of loneliness and isolation that have been exacerbated by the pandemic.For Murthy, this will be his second tour as America's doctor, having previously served under former President Barack Obama.Covid-19 has taken the lives of several members of Murthy's extended family. He told senators during his confirmation hearing that he wants to help individuals and families protect themselves by conveying “clear, science-based guidance” to the general public. Persuading Americans to keep up such protective measures as wearing masks could well be his toughest challenge.Murthy served as co-chair of the Biden transition team’s coronavirus advisory board, and is said to enjoy a close personal relationship with the president.Murthy's family roots are in India, but as a youngster he lived in Miami. His father had a medical clinic, where both parents worked. The son spent weekends helping out and says that’s where he discovered the art of healing.“As a child, I watched them make house calls in the middle of the night and wake up early to visit patients in the hospital before heading to their office,” he told senators. “I have tried to live by the lessons they embodied: that we have an obligation to help each other whenever we can, to alleviate suffering wherever we find it, and to give back to this country that made their lives, and my life, and the lives of my children possible. ”Murthy’s style evokes the bedside manner of an empathetic physician. He “effectively conveys compassion and credibility at a time of great need for just that,” said Chris Jennings, a longtime health policy adviser to Democrats.From his previous stint as surgeon general, Murthy says he is most proud of his efforts to call attention to the opioid epidemic, the consequences of which were not fully understood at the time.After dipping slightly, opioid deaths have again risen, driven by street formulations laced with the powerful painkiller fentanyl.“We cannot neglect the other public health crises that have been exacerbated by this pandemic, particularly the opioid epidemic, mental illness and racial and geographic health inequities," Murthy told senators.Murthy has drawn opposition from gun rights advocates because of his longstanding assessment that mass shootings amount to a public health problem. But he told senators that while he supports the government studying gun violence as a problem, “my focus is not on this issue, and if I’m confirmed it will be on Covid, on mental health and substance use disorder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/newly-confirmed-surgeon-general-vivek-m-murthy-to-focus-on-covid-19-opioids-101616544227477.html
24-03-2021||World||NASA will attempt first off-world flight in early April||NASA is targeting early April for the Ingenuity Mars Helicopter to make the first attempt at powered, controlled flight on another planet, the space agency said Tuesday.Right now, the ultra-light aircraft remains fixed to the belly of the Perseverance rover, which touched down on the Red Planet on February 18.On Sunday, Perseverance dropped the debris shield that had protected Ingenuity during landing, and is currently making its way to the "airfield" where Ingenuity will attempt its flights.Once there, it will have 30 Martian sols -- equal to 31 Earth days -- to carry out its mission."The best guess we have right now is April 8," for the first flight, said Bob Balaram, Mars Helicopter chief engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, though he added it could be sooner or later by a few days.Balaram revealed for the first time that Ingenuity is carrying a small piece of cloth that covered one of the wings of the Wright brothers' first aircraft that achieved the first powered flight on Earth at Kitty Hawk in 1903, to pay tribute to the milestone.Ingenuity will be attempting to fly in an atmosphere that is one percent the density of Earth's, which makes achieving lift harder -- but will be assisted by a gravity that is one-third our planet's.The first flight will involve climbing at a rate of about three feet (one meter) per second to a height of 10 feet (three meters), hovering there for 30 seconds, then descending back to the surface.Ingenuity will be taking high resolution photography as it flies.Before any of this happens, however, Ingenuity needs to be placed at its launching site, and set upright, a process that will take a few more days.Once Perseverance drops off the helicopter, it needs to drive away about five meters within 25 hours so it doesn't cast a shadow on Ingenuity.That's the amount of time Ingenuity's batteries will be able to run a heater without needing to recharge via its solar panels.This part is critical to surviving the night time temperatures which can plunge as low as minus 130 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 90 degrees Celsius).If left unheated, the helicopter's unshielded electrical components will freeze and crack, killing the mission before it even begins.If things however go to plan, Perseverance will take up a position at a distance to record Ingenuity's exploits with its own cameras.Up to five flights of gradual difficulty are planned over the course of the month.The four-pound (1.8-kilogram) rotorcraft cost NASA around $85 million to develop, and is considered a proof of concept that could revolutionize space exploration.Future aircraft could cover ground much more quickly than rovers, and explore more rugged terrain.The next one planned is Dragonfly, a rotorcraft-lander that will launch in 2026 and arrive at Saturn's icy moon Titan in 2034.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-will-attempt-first-off-world-flight-in-early-april-101616534936334.html
24-03-2021||World||Colorado shooting victims included store workers, officer||Three were gunned down while putting in a day's work at a Colorado supermarket. Another was a police officer who raced in to try to rescue them and others from the attack that left 10 dead.A picture of the victims of Monday's shooting began to emerge as the suspect in the killings remained hospitalized Tuesday but was expected to be booked into jail on murder charges.Those who lost their lives at the King Soopers store in Boulder ranged from 20 years old to 65.They were identified as Denny Stong, 20; Neven Stanisic, 23; Rikki Olds, 25; Tralona Bartkowiak, 49; police Officer Eric Talley, 51; Suzanne Fountain, 59; Teri Leiker, 51; Kevin Mahoney, 61; Lynn Murray, 62; and Jodi Waters, 65.Leiker, Olds and Stong worked at the supermarket, said former co-worker Jordan Sailas, who never got the chance to bring his baby son into the store to meet them.Olds' grandmother choked up on the phone as she described the young woman she played a large role in raising.“She was just a very kind and loving, bubbly person who lit up the room when she walked in,” said Jeanette Olds, 71, of Lafayette, Colorado.Talley joined the police force in Boulder in 2010 with a background that included a master’s degree in computer communications, his father said.“At age 40, he decided he wanted to serve his community,” Homer “Shay" Talley, 74, told The Associated Press from his ranch in central Texas. “He left his desk job. He just wanted to serve, and that’s what he did. He just enjoyed the police family.”Officer Talley was the first to arrive after a call about shots being fired and someone carrying a rifle, Boulder Police Chief Maris Herold said.Boulder County District Attorney Michael Dougherty said Talley was “by all accounts, one of the outstanding officers" in the department.With seven children, ages 7 to 20, Talley was a devoted father who “knew the Lord,” his father said.“When everyone else in the parking lot was running away, he ran toward it,” Shay Talley said.“We know where he is,” he added. “He loved his family more than anything. He wasn’t afraid of dying. He was afraid of putting them through it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colorado-shooting-victims-included-store-workers-officer-101616534926280.html
24-03-2021||World||US, Iraq to hold talks over American troop presence next month||The Biden administration is set to resume strategic talks with Iraqi officials next month on the withdrawal of remaining US combat forces in the country and other matters related to the bilateral relationship.The talks, which began in June under the Trump administration, would be the first under Biden, who assumed office in January. The discussions are meant to shape the future of the US-Iraq relationship and will touch security, trade, climate and more, according to a senior administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The official added that the US intended to use the meetings to clarify that coalition forces remain in the country “at the invitation of the Iraqi government and solely for the purpose of training and advising Iraqi forces" and to ensure that the terror group ISIS "cannot reconstitute."Iraqi officials confirmed they had sent a formal request to President Joe Biden’s administration for a date to resume strategic talks on bilateral relations and the withdrawal of remaining US combat forces, Iraqi officials said Tuesday.Relations between the two countries have been fraught with tension, particularly following the US airstrike in January 2020 that killed Iranian Gen. Qassem Soleimani and Iraqi militia leader Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis just outside the Baghdad airport.Outraged, Iraqi lawmakers, spurred by Shiite political factions, passed a non-binding resolution to oust US-led coalition forces from the country following the attack.Relations have improved since Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi took over the helm of Iraq’s government in May. But some parties, notably parliament’s Iran-backed Fatah bloc, continue to call for the withdrawal of US forces.So far, two sessions of strategic talks have been held — in June and August. Among the issues on the agenda laid out ahead of the talks were the presence of US troops in the country, militia groups acting outside of state authority and Iraq’s dire economic crisis. The US blames Iran-backed Shiite Iraqi militias for numerous attacks targeting US personnel and interests in Iraq.According to three government officials, Iraq had recently sent an official memo to the US requesting a date for a new round of discussions on bilateral relations and specifically, the withdrawal of remaining combat forces.The memo was given to US Ambassador to Iraq Mathew Tueller earlier this month, they said, adding the Iraqis hope to have the discussion in April. The officials spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the media.Iraqi and US officials have said they support a scheduled withdrawal of forces from Iraq, but questions remain over time-frames and the scope of the threat posed by the Islamic State group.According to the Pentagon, the number of US troops in Iraq has dropped to about 2,500 over the past months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-iraq-to-hold-talks-over-american-troop-presence-next-month-101616534408452.html
24-03-2021||World||Joe Biden to outline 2022 budget priorities next week||The Biden administration will next week release its proposed discretionary budget for fiscal 2022, providing insight into the president's top priorities and laying down a marker for Congress, the White House Office of Management and Budget said.The budget proposal will include funding levels by agencies and guidance on investments, but it will exclude tax proposals and mandatory spending programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security."Our priority is to provide Congress with early information about the president's discretionary funding priorities, which is what they need to begin the appropriations process," OMB spokesman Rob Friedlander said on Tuesday.OMB will later this spring issue President Joe Biden's full budget proposal, which will include details on taxes and mandatory spending.Fiscal 2022 will be the first time in a decade without caps on discretionary spending, which went into place with the 2011 Budget Control Act that Biden helped negotiate as vice president for Barack Obama. The absence of the caps makes it easier for Biden to propose spending increases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-outline-2022-budget-priorities-next-week-101616534421324.html
24-03-2021||World||India abstains from key UNHRC vote on Sri Lanka||India on Tuesday abstained from a crucial vote at the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on Sri Lanka’s rights record, though New Delhi called on Colombo to carry forward the reconciliation process and address the aspirations of the Tamil minority.The 47-member UNHRC adopted a resolution – sponsored by a group of countries that includes the UK, Germany and Canada – which gives UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet the mandate to collect and preserve evidence of crimes related to Sri Lanka’s civil war that ended in 2009 with the defeat of Tamil Tiger rebels.Watch: India abstains from vote on Sri Lanka at UNHRC over civil war crimesA total of 22 countries voted for the resolution that was very critical of Sri Lanka’s failure to address human rights violations that occurred during the civil war. The resolution also contended the human rights situation has deteriorated under the Rajapaksa administration and that rights defenders and ethnic and religious minorities are facing problems.Eleven countries, including Bangladesh, China and Pakistan, voted against the resolution, while 14 countries, including India, Indonesia, Japan and Nepal, abstained.In a statement before the voting on the resolution on “Promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka”, Pawankumar Badhe, first secretary at India’s permanent mission in Geneva, said New Delhi believes states have the primary responsibility for protecting human rights.“We would urge the government of Sri Lanka to carry forward the process of reconciliation, address the aspirations of the Tamil community and continue to engage constructively with the international community to ensure that the fundamental freedoms and human rights of all its citizens are fully protected,” Badhe said.India’s approach to human rights in Sri Lanka, he said, was guided by “two fundamental considerations” – support to the Tamil minority for equality, justice, dignity and peace, and ensuring the unity, stability and territorial integrity of the island nation.“We have always believed that these two goals are mutually supportive and Sri Lanka’s progress is best assured by simultaneously addressing both objectives,” he added.India also supports the world community’s call for Sri Lanka to fulfil its commitments on devolution of political authority to the Tamils, including through early holding of elections to provincial councils and ensuring that these councils are able to operate effectively in line with the 13th amendment to Sri Lanka’s Constitution, Badhe said.India has traditionally shied away from backing direct UN intervention on human rights issues because of its sensitivities related to the Kashmir issue. At the same time, the Modi government has repeatedly pressed Sri Lanka to take steps to devolve powers to the Tamil minority and address their aspirations.The Tamil Nadu assembly election, to be held during April-May, is also believed to have been a factor behind India’s decision to abstain. The status of Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority is often a factor in Tamil Nadu’s politics.Though the Sri Lankan government reached out to India to vote against the resolution at the UNHRC, New Delhi has been irked with Colombo for reneging on a 2019 tripartite India-Japan-Sri Lanka agreement for developing the East Container Terminal at Colombo port.The Sri Lankan government scrapped the deal last month following pressure from labour unions and instead offered to develop the West Container Terminal with Indian and Japanese investors.Sri Lanka’s foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena made a distinction while thanking countries that voted against the resolution or abstained. In a tweet, he appreciated “the support shown at Geneva” by countries such as India and Japan that abstained, and in another tweet, he extended a “very warm Thank You for solid support” shown by countries that voted against the resolution.While presenting the resolution at the UNHRC, British ambassador Julian Braithwaite said: “Impunity has become more entrenched, progress in emblematic cases has stalled.” But Sri Lankan ambassador MCA Chandraprema rejected the document as “unhelpful and divisive”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-abstains-from-key-unhrc-vote-on-sri-lanka-101616530203136.html
24-03-2021||World||Looking at greater role for India in peace process, says Afghan foreign minister||Afghanistan envisages a greater role for India in building regional and international consensus for the country’s fraught peace process, though a decision on engaging the Taliban is entirely up to New Delhi, Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar said on Tuesday. Atmar is on a three-day visit to New Delhi, during which he held talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on security and economic cooperation and collaboration on efforts to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic. The two sides also reviewed latest developments in the peace process between the Afghan government and the Taliban. During an interaction with the media, Atmar responded to a question on the role envisaged by the Afghan government for India in the peace process by saying that New Delhi has legitimate interests in the peace and stability of the region. “There are those out there that threaten not just Afghanistan but also India. So, India is a legitimate partner in peace-making and we are seeking a greater role for India in the process,” he said. Lasting peace in Afghanistan depends on national, regional and international consensus, irrespective of the venue where talks are held by the Afghan government and the Taliban, he said. India has a key role in the process of “regional and international consensus-building”, Atmar said. The Afghan foreign minister said he had not discussed India’s approach to the Taliban with his interlocutors. “We leave it entirely to India to make that decision. We’ve asked for a greater role by India in regional and international consensus-building and the mature policies pursued by the Indian government will always place emphasis on any kind of contact with the Taliban on condition that would serve the peace process – that they will be part of a legitimate government of Afghanistan,” he said. Both Afghanistan and India as well as the region have been affected by terrorism and the two countries have the responsibility to work together to defeat such threats, he said. The Afghan government is negotiating with the Taliban to make sure that the country doesn’t become a safe haven for international terrorists who could target India or the West, he said. “The best strategy to secure the world is to separate the Taliban from the regional and international terrorists, [and] make peace on the condition that Afghanistan remains a sovereign, peaceful, unified and independent country,” he said. Responding to a question about the targeting of Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities by terrorists, he said: “The violence against Afghans didn’t spare our minorities either. So, it’s not a kind of persecution against [a] specific minority, it’s the general violence against the entire nation, in which this part of our population has been disproportionately affected.” He added it was the responsibility of the Afghan government to provide protection and security to the Hindu and Sikh minorities. Atmar also said the upcoming meeting between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Turkey on April 1 will focus on three issues – a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire, a political settlement consistent with a vision acceptable to the Afghan people, and regional and international guarantees for the settlement. “And in that political settlement, the key will be both sides agreeing to accept the free will of the Afghan people through elections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/looking-at-greater-role-for-india-in-peace-process-says-afghan-foreign-minister-101616526718159.html
24-03-2021||World||The battle against AIDS has slowed down. And UN’s new strategy won’t be enough||A new UNAIDS document, End inequalities, end AIDS: Global AIDS Strategy 2021-26, to be presented to its Board of Management on March 25, has come at a critical juncture of failing global response to AIDS. The strategy attempts to identify “where, why and for whom the HIV response is not working” and to “build back better, supporting systems for health to be more resilient and place people at the centre”.It bases rest of the strategy on ending inequalities, identified as the most important reason for failed AIDS response. It tries to identify inequalities in every setting that prevent access to services. Inequalities exacerbate the spread of not just HIV but many communicable diseases, with Covid-19 being the latest example. But basing the entire strategy on correcting inequalities as a precondition for ending AIDS runs the risk of non-performance by countries who are indifferent to addressing such imbalances and where the programmes are failing and infections are on the rise.The missing piece in the document was a bold, honest and impartial assessment of why the response has not been working. The roles played by country leadership, the joint United Nations (UN) programme, donors and civil society should have been critically analysed and lessons learnt identified to lay the foundation for a new well thought out strategy for the next five years.Also Read | IIT Madras researchers working on effective drugs against HIV/AIDSThe paper has not adequately addressed the role leadership and political commitment play in a global programme such as AIDS. The single most important reason for the response going off the track was the declining political support for AIDS programmes for various reasons. The joint UN programme should be accountable for rejuvenating this commitment, country by country.A critical requirement for successful implementation of AIDS programmes is the functioning of efficient governance structures to deliver services. Global AIDS programme was the first to advocate for dedicated structures under the “Three Ones” principle for AIDS governance. Much of the success achieved earlier was due to strong country level buy-in of the Three Ones structures — one national level coordinating authority, one national AIDS control programmes and a single monitoring and evaluation system. These served as effective platforms for a truly multisectoral response for AIDS by bringing the non-health state actors, the UN system and the civil society into a unique partnership, not seen earlier in any national programme.In the last few years, the multisectoral nature of AIDS response has all but evaporated and AIDS has been relegated to the narrow confines of the health ministries at the country level. This, in a large measure, is responsible for the lack of visibility and failed response in the last few years.Also Read | Study: Drugs that trigger alarm could lead to new HIV therapiesThe strategy paper gives a strong push for full integration of HIV services under Universal Health Coverage (UHC). It does not recognise that the health system itself has a stigmatising impact on the key marginalised populations who do not feel encouraged to access services from the heath system. While bio medical interventions like antiretroviral treatment (ART) and elimination of mother to child transmission (eMTCT) services can be progressively integrated into UHC, prevention of HIV among key populations needs to stay strongly rooted in communities.While it is essential to bring the inequality lens to evaluate the scenario, the strategy paper should have advocated for a strong public health approach to put the response back on track by re-establishing strong political commitment followed by resources, improving the governance structures, focused primary prevention among key populations, maximising treatment access through community based test and treat programmes and introduction of new technologies such as Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PreP) and HIV self testing.The joint UN programme should assume the role of being a strong and fearless advocate and activist for re-establishing AIDS response into national priorities to regain their lost importance at policy and implementation level.(JVR Prasada Rao is a former health secretary government of India and a former UN special envoy on AIDS. The views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-battle-against-aids-has-slowed-down-and-un-s-new-strategy-won-t-be-enough-101616478534076.html
24-03-2021||India||Odisha village adjacent to Chhattisgarh reports 29 positive cases of Covid-19||A village in the western Odisha district of Nuapara reported 29 positive cases of Covid-19 on a day in which the state reported 170 new cases taking the total number of active infections beyond 1000.Officials in Nuapara district said 29 people of the Brahamanpada village under Sinapali block have tested positive for the viral infection.The BDO of Sinapali said a total of 56 samples were collected from the village for testing of which 29 tested positive for Covid-19. As the village is contiguous to Chhattisgarh, where a spurt in cases has been reported, it is suspected that the villagers got the infection from there. Following the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the local sarpanch has announced the closure of the weekly market to be held tomorrow.Nabarangpur district in southern Odisha became the second district after Malkangiri to have night curfew. The Nabarangpur district administration decided to impose night curfew between 8 pm and 6 am beginning Thursday.In the state capital of Bhubaneswar, police will make attempts to ensure that people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining social distance.“In the last few days, we have observed that Covid-19 infections have recorded a slight increase in our city. We want to first sensitize people that it is of utmost importance to contain this increase in Covid-19 infections,” said Police Commissioner Soumendra Priyadarshi. “We will sensitize people on this and then enforce strictly mask wearing and social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-village-adjacent-to-chhattisgarh-reports-29-positive-cases-of-covid19-101616609180029.html
24-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha clears NCT Bill amid uproar, walkout by opposition parties||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday cleared the contentious National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to give overarching powers over Delhi’s daily functioning to the Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor, despite uproar in the Upper House and a walkout by several opposition parties.The bill was cleared following several hours of heated debate followed by a division of votes demanded by the opposition. Several parties including the Congress, BJD, YSRCP and Samajwadi Party also opposed the Bill and staged a walkout. The opposition also sought a division on votes. During voting, 83 members were in favour while 45 opposed the bill. The bill was cleared by Lok Sabha on Monday. “I would like to tell the people of Delhi and the whole country that we have full belief in the Constitution. We did not bring this bill to create problems for the Delhi govt...I request every member to support the Bill unequivocally,” MoS G Krishna Reddy said in the Rajya Sabha. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was a “sad day for Indian democracy.”“RS passes GNCTD amendment Bill. Sad day for Indian democracy. We will continue our struggle to restore power back to people. Whatever be the obstacles, we will continue doing good work. Work will neither stop nor slow down,” he tweeted.Opposition parties, including the Congress opposed the Bill stating that the proposed legislation was unconstitutional and demanded that it be referred to a select committee for scrutiny.Reddy said the amendments to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act were in no way undemocratic. “We’re making amendments to the Act brought in by Congress in 1991. These are not new. We are bringing these amendments to ensure that Delhi Government functions properly,” Reddy said.The controversial bill says the “government” in Delhi will mean the L-G in the context of all legislation passed by the city-state’s assembly. Also, it makes it mandatory for the city government to seek the L-G’s opinion before any executive action. On Tuesday too, the Rajya Sabha was adjourned following a ruckus by the Opposition as the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in the House.Amid protests by the opposition, the house witnessed two adjournments in the second half. Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge also said that the Bill should be sent to a select committee.Opposing the bill, AAP MP Sanjay Singh said that the BJP government at the Centre has brought the bill as the party had lost the Delhi assembly elections twice. He said that by opposing the bill he was seeking “justice” for the two crore people of Delhi.Explaining the rationale behind the bill, Reddy said that the amendments have been brought to remove ambiguities in the 1991 Act. He stressed that changes in the law have been sought in the spirit of what has been said in the Supreme Court judgement. He asserted there was no political angle and the amendments were on “technical” grounds.After Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh asked if the motion on the bill could be adopted, the opposition raised the demand for a division of votes. The division of votes took place manually through paper slips due to Covid-19 protocols.With 83 ‘ayes’ and 45 ‘noes’ the motion that the bill be taken up for consideration was adopted. Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge announced that the Congress too would stage a walk-out to oppose the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-clears-nct-bill-amid-uproar-walkout-by-opposition-parties-101616608158010.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Over 52 million vaccine doses administered, says health ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 5.21 crore on March 24, said Union Health Ministry on Wednesday.According to a press release, a total of 5,21,97,380 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 7 pm today.These include 79,56,925 health care workers who have taken the 1st dose and 50,47,927 health care workers who have taken the 2nd dose, 84,33,875 FLWs (1stdose), 32,02,183 3 front line workers (2nd dose), 2,26,01,622 beneficiaries more than 60 years old, and 49,54,848 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities.On the 68th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination, a total of 13,54,976 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm today. Out of which 12,14,055 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 1,40,921 health care workers and front line workers received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight.As per the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday, India reported 47,262 new Covid-19 cases, 23,907 recoveries, and 275 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-over-52-million-vaccine-doses-administered-says-health-ministry-101616606645533.html
24-03-2021||India||Airlines may ban 15 passengers for not following Covid-19 norms on flights||Fifteen passengers, who were found violating Covid-19 norms on domestic flights of three airlines this month, may be banned for three months by the carriers, senior officials of aviation regulator DGCA said on Wednesday.The DGCA had on March 13 asked airlines to de-board passengers who do not wear their masks "properly" despite repeated warnings and take action against them as per its rules.The regulator allows carriers to ban passengers (putting them on no-fly list) for three to 24 months for not following the rules.Senior DGCA officials said nine passengers of IndiGo, four of Alliance Air and two passengers of AirAsia India were found violating Covid-19 norms between March 15 and March 23.While most of these passengers refused to wear masks onboard the flights, others refused to put on PPE gowns that are compulsory for those sitting in middle seats, they added.The officials said the three airlines may put these 15 passengers on their no-fly list for a period of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-may-ban-15-passengers-for-not-following-covid-19-norms-on-flights-101616606172857.html
24-03-2021||India||All Assam Students' Union holds 11-hour dharna against JP Nadda's CAA announcement||A day after BJP national president J P Nadda announced that Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented, the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) on Wednesday staged a 11-hour dharna across Assam in protest against the law.AASU held demonstrations in dozens of towns apart from capital Guwahati and in various sub-divisions of the state.AASU general secretary Sankarjyoti Barua said, "J P Nadda yesterday insulted the sentiment of the Assamese people when he said CAA will be implemented. Even our chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is saying the same."The announcement to implement the CAA amidst the election season is "most unfortunate" for the Assamese society, its culture, language and identity, he added.The three phase assembly poll in Assam will begin on Marvh 27. Nadda had made the statement while releasing the BJP manifesto for Assam here ."Under no circumstance will we accept the burden of foreigners who came to Assam after 1971. We are for following the date set in the Assam Accord," AASU President Dipanka Kumar Nath.According to the Assam Accord names of all foreigners coming to Assam on or after March 25, 1971 will be detected and deleted from the electoral roll and steps will be taken to deport them.The objective of the CAA is to grant citizenship to persecuted minorities -- Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.People of these communities who had come to India till December 31, 2014 facing religious persecution in their respective countries will not be treated as illegal immigrants, but will be granted citizenship.Releasing the BJP manifesto for Assam election, the party's national president J P Nadda had on Tuesday asserted that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act was passed by the Parliament and would be implemented in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-assam-students-union-holds-11-hour-dharna-against-jp-nadda-s-caa-announcement-101616605254534.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid 2nd wave: Doubling time, new mutant, highest spike in Maharashtra | 10 points||On the one-year anniversary of the nationwide lockdown for Covid-19 pandemic, India on Wednesday reported the highest single-day spike of fresh infections in 2021. The health ministry reported that a new double mutant strain of the virus has been found, apart from several other mutant strains (UK, South Africa, Brazil). The uptick in the number of fresh cases continued with Maharashtra reporting the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic.Here are the top 10 developments regarding Covid-19 in India.> The doubling time of Covid-19 cases has come down from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. This means the infection is taking less time to get doubled.> Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily spike.> The situation of Maharashtra and Punjab is of grave concern, the health ministry said.> A total of 771 'variants of concerns' have been detected since December in a total of 1,07,87 positive samples. Out of these 1,07,87 positive samples, 736 samples were found positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7). About 34 samples were found positive for viruses of the South African (B.1.351) lineage. One sample was found positive for viruses of the Brazilian (P.1) lineage.> What is a double mutant strain? When two mutated strains form a third strain, it is called a double mutation. According to government data, the double mutant in India has been formed by E484Q and L452R. Thi has been found in 206 samples from Maharashtra, two samples from Punjab, nine samples from Delhi, one sample from Ladakh and Jammu each, three samples from Gujarat and one sample from Odisha.> Mutation of a virus is very common, Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul said adding that there is no reason to worry. "When a virus replicates, it does something wrong and that's why something new (a mutant) gets developed. We have to stop the virus from replicating itself. It can happen only if we wear a mask and maintain social distancing because the virus is not getting replicated in the air," he said.> The variants are there for the past six months and they have no resulted in any new symptom of the infection, National Centre for Disease Control's director Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh said.> The variants can not be held responsible for the surge of cases, the Centre said. "Wherever the pool of susceptible population is bigger and when they lower the guard by not following Covid appropriate behaviours, they are prone to infection," Dr Singh said. > Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 31,855 new Covid-19 cases, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. Mumbai reported 5,185 new infections in its highest spike ever.> Registration for vaccination of anyone above the age of 45 years will be open on April 1 on Cowin.gov.in. There is no scarcity of vaccines in the country, the Centre said. The gap between two doses of Covishield has been increased to six to eight weeks. But it should not be increased more than that, the Centre said. It also dismissed concerns of blood-clotting by the Covishield vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-2nd-wave-doubling-time-new-mutant-highest-spike-in-maharashtra-10-points-101616603449496.html
24-03-2021||India||Odisha reports 170 new Covid cases, highest spike in 45 days||Odisha's Covid-19 caseload on Wednesday went up to 3,39,246 after 170 more people tested positive for the virus, the highest daily spike in the last 45 days, a health department official said.Of the 170 new cases, 99 were reported from quarantine centres, while the remaining 71 were detected during contact tracing, the official said.The fresh cases included 27 from Nuapada district, 23 each from Cuttack and Khurda districts and 22 from Sundergarh district.The state's coronavirus death toll remained unchanged at 1,919 as no new fatalities were reported since Monday. Besides, 53 other Covid-19 patients have died due to comorbidities, he said.Currently, the number of active cases stands at 1,008, while 3,36,266 patients have recovered.The state has so far conducted over 88.61 lakh sample tests for Covid-19, including 25,829 on Tuesday.Meanwhile, keeping in view the recent spike in Covid- 19 cases in the state, the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has decided to keep the 12th-century shrine in Puri closed for a day in a week for disinfection of the premises.The exact day on which the weekly closure will be implemented is yet to be decided and the SJTA has sought the state government's permission in this regard, SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar said.The administration of Lord Jagannath's temple in Puri is under the law department of the state government and the SJTA, which is responsible for the management of the shrine, is headed by a senior IAS officer.After reopening the temple for the public after nine months in December 2020, the SJTA used to keep the temple closed for a day a week for disinfection. However, the curb was later lifted after the situation improved, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-170-new-covid-cases-highest-spike-in-45-days-101616603090760.html
24-03-2021||India||Telangana leads list of states where private hospitals contributed maximum to Covid-19 vaccination drive||Private hospitals in Telangana have contributed to almost half (49.84 per cent) of the cumulative Covid-19 vaccinations done in the state so far, data shared by the central government showed. Delhi followed closely with 46.34 per cent doses inoculated in private facilities and in Punjab the contribution is almost 38.48 per cent, according to the data.In a press briefing, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday shared a list of 13 states and Union territories along with the share of doses administered in private facilities. Data shared by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan showed that in six states or UTs over 30 per cent of the doses were administered in private facilities and the contribution was less than 20 per cent in Uttarakhand (19.76 per cent) and Puducherry (19.54 per cent).Also read | Covid-19 rise in Maharashtra, Punjab is of grave concern: CentreAccording to the list, private hospitals accounted for 35.53 per cent of vaccinations in Mizoram, 31.31 per cent in Karnataka, 30.63 per cent in Goa, 29.5 per cent in Maharashtra, 27.87 per cent in Manipur, 26.79 per cent in Madhya Pradesh, 25.96 per cent in Maharashtra, 21.24 per cent in Haryana.Meanwhile, the health secretary also said that more than 50 million vaccine doses were administered in the country as of 10am on Wednesday. He also announced that from April 1, all citizens above 45 years of age would be eligible to get the vaccine. Currently, all citizens above 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities are being inoculated along with healthcare and frontline workers in the country.Also read | Mumbai records highest single-day spike of 5,185 Covid-19 casesIndia’s Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16 and entered the second phase on March 1 when private hospitals were roped in to enhance the vaccine coverage of the program. While the vaccine would be administered free of cost in the government facilities, private Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) were asked not to charge more than ₹250 per beneficiary (Rs. 150 per dose and ₹100 operational charges).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-leads-list-of-states-where-private-hospitals-contributed-maximum-to-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101616600237640.html
24-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: MP government imposes Sunday lockdown in 4 more cities and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sunday lockdown imposed in four more cities of Madhya PradeshThe Madhya Pradesh government has imposed Sunday lockdown in four more cities –Khargone, Betul, Chhindwara and Ratlam after a surge in Covid-19 cases to more than 50, an officer of the home department said. Read more'It's just a factory': Former India batting coach Sanjay Bangar hails Team India's bench strengthIn the last six months, India's bench strength has been put to test continuously and the new-comers have put their hand up every single time. Read moreAfter Thalaivi, Ram Gopal Varma changes mind about Kangana Ranaut's 'Meryl Streep' remark: 'No one has your versatility'Filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma doesn't always agree with Kangana Ranaut but her performance in Thalaivi has stumped him for sure. Read moreKangana Ranaut exudes old Bollywood vibes in Kanjeevaram saree for ThalaiviKangana Ranaut has been out and about for the promotions of her upcoming political drama, Thalaivi, in which the Manikarnika actor plays the role of late former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa. Read moreMan cooks eggs on molten lava of live volcano, shares video on YouTubeThe Fagradalsfjall volcano, situated west of the Icelandic capital of Reykjavik, erupted last week. It was a first eruption of its kind in more than 800 years. Read more'Action against Anil Deshmukh necessary...': Analyst Surendra JondhaleProfessor Surendra Jondhale of Mumbai University said that the Uddhav Thackeray administration should take action against Home Minister Anil Deshmukh to reinforce a sense of transparency and accountability in the system. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mp-government-imposes-sunday-lockdown-in-4-more-cities-and-all-the-latest-news-101616598554254.html
24-03-2021||India||Day after IED attack on bus carrying DRG jawans, Chhattisgarh police clueless||A day after the IED attack on a bus ferrying security forces in Narayanpur by Maoists, the Chhattisgarh police is perplexed about how the IEDs were planted and triggered near a culvert on the road, when a Road Opening Party (ROP) was guarding the stretch for the safe passage of security forces.On Tuesday, special director general (Anti-Naxal operations), Ashok Juneja told the media that demining of the road was also done for the movement of security forces, which raises questions about how IEDs were not detected even after the exercise.In Maoist affected areas, a police party which is called ‘ROP’ is deployed on both sides of the road before any movement of security forces or VIPs.The ROP sanitizes around 100 meters on both sides of the road to avert any possible ambush or Maoist movement.Intelligence sources said that the IEDs were wrapped in a carbon paper and were planted just ahead of the culvert where the blasts took place, but senior police officials denied the theory.Officials also believe that a better network of human and technical intelligence would have alerted security agencies regarding the incident, but it was not properly done.Around 90 DRG jawans were returning in four buses after a two-day anti-Naxal operation which took place in the jungles of Abujhmad in Narayapur district when the blast took place on Tuesday evening on the under-construction Barsoor-Palli road which is surrounded by the dense forest of Abujhmad. The buses were moving on the road with a gap of 15 minutes and the first bus was targeted by Maoists with three IEDs.Five jawans who were sitting on the front seats of the bus, including the driver were killed since the blast took place as soon as the bus reached a culvert on the road. A total of 17 were injured and four are admitted to a hospital in Raipur.“As most of the IED incidents have happened near culverts, security forces should have been present near the culvert so that IED handlers would not have dared to trigger the IED. How is this possible that even after ROP was deployed, someone was within 100 meters near the culvert and triggered the bomb? This raises serious concerns over the ROP. What if the Maoists were in a team and ambushed the jawans? It would have led to more casualties,” a senior police official who did not wish to be named said.Officials believe that a blast could have been averted if bikes were used to bring back companies to base camps instead of buses.“As the location of the forces was revealed during the operation, the Maoists must have noticed that DRG comes back to district headquarters after every operation. Maoists must have been following the bus from the origin and thus must be doing real time monitoring,” another official said.Director General of Police, DM Awasthi, who visited the spot said that he had ordered an investigation to arrest the accused.“I have asked the concerned official to provide all necessary details about the attack,” the DGP said.When asked how the Maoists managed to trigger the IED when there was ROP guarding the road, Inspector General of Police, Bastar Range, Sunderaj P said that the cadres who triggered the explosion were in civil camouflage.“The Maoists must have used IEDs of around 30 kg. It was a command IED operated by electric wire and battery for power source. Since, the place of the incident is a dense forest and most likely the IEDs were operated by a couple of cadres in civil camouflage. After road opening was done by security forces, demining was also done but unfortunately the IED were not detected. We are examining the reasons and modus operandi,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-ied-attack-on-a-bus-carrying-security-forces-in-narayanpur-chhattisgarh-police-still-clueless-101616598077389.html
24-03-2021||India||Highest-ever spike in Maharashtra: Over 31,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 31,855 new Covid-19 cases, in the highest-ever single-day spike in the state since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year, as Mumbai for the first time recorded more than 5,000 cases in 24 hours. The spike comes at a time when the health ministry has expressed serious concerns over the present Covid-19 situation in a few districts, including Maharashtra. The state recorded 30,535 infections on March 21, 2020, which was the highest single-day spike for the state so far.Among the districts contributing to the state's sharpest spike ever is Nagpur, which on Wednesday reported 3,717 new cases. This is also the district's highest single-day figure so far.Out of the top 10 districts in the country that have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at present, nine are in the state, including Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded, Jalgaon and Akola, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.The Union health ministry has also confirmed that a new double mutant strain has been found in over 200 samples from Maharashtra. But it can not be linked to the spike, it said.The Covid-19 situation of Maharashtra is particularly worrying as the spike started just ahead of a festive season. Though the Centre has asked all states to resort to local restrictions and lockdowns during the upcoming festivals of Holi, Navratri, crowding is still taking place. Amid the ongoing strict lockdown in Nagpur, people on Wednesday were seen taking a bus in the district.Here's how Maharashtra's daily cases spiralled in MarchThe state has been witnessing a sharp spike in the number of daily infections since February. But the rate of increase tripled between February and March, according to data.Between February 14 and March 23, in the span of 37 days, 4,68,748 cases were added in the state, taking the caseload to 25,33,026. On average, 12,668 cases were added daily, PTI reported.What triggered the spikeAccording to the reports, prepared by the government's expert panel, the spike can not be attributed to any single reason. Civic body elections, pandemic fatigue which translated to flouting social distancing norms, not wearing masks in public places, crowded public transport — all contributed to the spike.Is lockdown solution?The Centre has asked district authorities to impose local lockdown after reviewing the situation, but increasing testing and the pace of vaccination is being seen as the only way out of the worsening situation, apart from a strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-31-000-new-covid-cases-95-deaths-in-maharashtra-in-24-hours-101616597605207.html
24-03-2021||India||Mumbai Covid spike: 432 buildings sealed, Andheri West emerges as hotspot||Within 24 hours, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sealed over 60 buildings in the city as Mumbai on Wednesday recorded the highest-ever spike of 5,185 this year. On Tuesday, the number of buildings sealed was 363, which within a day jumped to 432. However, there has been no increase in the number of containment zones in slums and chawls, proving that the outbreak is mostly concentrated in apartments and post areas.Mumbai records highest single-day spike of 5,185 Covid-19 cases, active caseload mounts to 30,760According to the data of the civic authorities, the KW ward which houses Andheri West has the maximum concentration of the new cases and it houses the highest number of sealed buildings. The KW ward has 2,601 active cases, according to the data of March 23, which is the highest in the city. In this ward, 121 buildings are sealed, followed by the MW ward that has 52 sealed buildings.The civic authorities are sealing buildings if a building has more than five active Covid-19 cases. High Numbers, High Alert!The number of new cases in the city has crossed the 5000 mark - highest since the start of the pandemic.Time has come to ensure we all follow COVID-19 prevention norms rigorously and not drop our guards till we achieve #MissionZero #NaToCoronaAs the number of cases in Mumbai saw an unprecedented spike on Wednesday, the civic authorities issued an alert on its social media asking everyone to not drop the guards. Unlike several other districts of Maharashtra, there is no specific restriction in Mumbai city. The civic authorities have started random antigen testing at crowded places, markets, shopping malls. Hence, the increase in the number of cases can also be attributed to the increased number of testing. There will be no public, private celebrations of Holi in Mumbai, the BMC has already ruled. As far as lockdown in Mumbai is concerned, the decision rests with the civic authorities which so far ruled out the necessity of imposing a lockdown. Whether tourist spots like Juhu beach, the Gateway of India will be closed for the time being to stop crowding was mulled, but no decision has been taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-covid-spike-432-building-sealed-list-of-hotspots-as-cases-cross-5000-mark-101616596878524.html
24-03-2021||India||Sunday lockdown imposed in four more cities of Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government has imposed Sunday lockdown in four more cities –Khargone, Betul, Chhindwara and Ratlam after a surge in Covid-19 cases to more than 50, an officer of the home department said. Earlier this month, the government had imposed Sunday lockdown in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur.The state government has also revised the timings of night curfew. Now, the curfew will be imposed from 8 pm and continue till 6 am in the morning, said the officer. Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “Apart from Sunday lockdown, schools and colleges will remain closed in these seven districts till March 31. There will be a complete ban on gatherings and programme to celebrate Holi.” The Panchayat and rural development department has asked all the officers of a district panchayat to maintain a register of visitors to the village and also ensure testing and 14-day home isolation for people suspected to have Covid-19. Active Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 10,000 on Tuesday. As many as, 1712 positive cases of the infection have been recorded in MP on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunday-lockdown-imposed-in-four-more-cities-of-madhya-pradesh-101616595917383.html
24-03-2021||India||Mumbai records highest single-day spike of 5,185 Covid-19 cases, active caseload mounts to 30,760||Mumbai on Wednesday reported 5,185 new Covid-19 cases and 2,088 recoveries in last 24 hours, as per the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The active cases tally in the metropolitan has reached 30,760. The city on Wednesday reported six deaths taking the toll to 11,606.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19This is the first time that the capital of Maharashtra reported more than 5,000 coronavirus cases in a single day. Till now the city has been reporting over 3,000 cases on a daily basis.Earlier in the day, the health ministry announced that a double mutant strain has been found in the country apart from other mutant strains. However, their link with the spike in the cases is yet to be established.The growth rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Mumbai was reported to be 0.79 per cent with an overall recovery rate of 90 per cent.As the cases in the city reported its all-time high peaks of the previous year since the start of the pandemic the civic body alerted citizens that Covid-19 norms need to followed rigorously.High Numbers, High Alert!The number of new cases in the city has crossed the 5000 mark - highest since the start of the pandemic.Time has come to ensure we all follow COVID-19 prevention norms rigorously and not drop our guards till we achieve #MissionZero #NaToCoronaThe state of Maharashtra has been the major contributor to the active caseload of the country. The BMC, earlier in the month, said that more than 90 per cent Covid-19 positive patients in the city were reported to be the residents of high-rise buildings, while 10 per cent of the positive cases came from slums and chawls. But the situation has changed as the cases in the city continue to rise.The active containment zones comprising slums and chawls stand at 39 while the number of sealed buildings in the city now stands at 432, according to the BMC health bulletin.More than 37.94 lakh tests have been conducted till date to detect the coronavirus disease cases in the city.The health ministry on Wednesday also said that Maharashtra and Punjab are the states of grave concerns. Maharashtra and its capital have reported a record number of coronavirus cases this month, surpassing their peaks in the previous year.Nine of the 10 districts with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in India are in Maharashtra, Mumbai is also one of them. According to the health ministry the top 10 districts are Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded, Jalgaon and Akola in Maharashtra and Bengaluru, Urban in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-over-5-000-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101616595708036.html
24-03-2021||India||Competition Commission of India orders probe into WhatsApp's new privacy policy||India's competition watchdog on Wednesday ordered a probe into a privacy policy update announced by Facebook-owned WhatsApp, saying the messaging service breached antitrust laws.WhatsApp said in January it was updating its privacy policy to allow it to share some user data with parent Facebook and other companies in the group, prompting a global backlash against the messaging app, including in India, its biggest market, with more than 500 million users.The antitrust order also comes as WhatsApp sets out to expand its digital payment services to millions of Indians.The Competition Commission of India (CCI) said WhatsApp had violated competition laws "through its exploitative and exclusionary conduct ... in the garb of policy update."The 21-page order also asked its investigation unit to conduct the probe and submit a report within 60 days. Such probes typically take several months.WhatsApp's conduct in sharing users' data with other Facebook firms, in a way that is "neither fully transparent nor based on voluntary and specific user consent", appears unfair to users, the watchdog added.The CCI said WhatsApp had told the antitrust body that the policy update, which becomes effective in May, raised no competition law concerns.WhatsApp did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday.In India, users concerned about privacy have downloaded rival apps such as Signal and Telegram, according to data from research firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/competition-commission-of-india-orders-probe-into-whatsapp-s-new-privacy-policy-101616594816949.html
24-03-2021||India||Joe Biden to meet with immigration advisers as delegation visits Texas facility||US President Joe Biden will meet with immigration advisers and top Cabinet officials on Wednesday while dispatching White House officials to a Texas resettlement facility as pressure mounts over a recent jump in migrant arrivals at the U.S. border.The officials, along with several members of Congress, will travel to a refugee resettlement center in Carrizo Springs, Texas, the White House said in a statement, adding that it would also allow limited media coverage of the visit.At the White House, Biden will meet with the heads of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, both of which are tasked with managing the migrants that have surged across the southern U.S. border with Mexico in recent weeks.Journalists have been pressing the Biden administration to allow the news media access to the facilities, as pictures released this week have moved to highlight the crowded conditions.U.S. officials struggle to house and process an increasing number of unaccompanied children, many of whom have been stuck in jail-like border stations for days while they await placement in overwhelmed government-run shelters. The administration has turned to convention centers and, on Tuesday, sought to shelter some at military bases in TexasU.S. Vice President Kamala Harris, who will join Biden at the White House meeting on Wednesday, on Wednesday acknowledged the overcrowding and processing delays, but said there was no quick fix."It's a huge problem," she told CBS News' "CBS This Morning" program. "This is not going to be solved overnight."She also noted the need to address the root causes driving migrants north, following talks between Mexico and the United States on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-to-meet-with-immigration-advisers-as-delegation-visits-texas-facility-101616592941178.html
24-03-2021||India||CBI books DHFL for creating over 2 lakh fake home loan accounts under PMAY||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL), promoters Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and unknown public servants for allegedly creating 2.60 lakh fake home loan accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana (PMAY) for a total loan worth ₹14,046 crore out of which ₹11,755.79 crore was routed to several fictitious firms known as Bandra Book Firms.The DHFL claimed interest subsidy worth ₹1,887 crore from the Centre on the loans disbursed under the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana.A forensic audit report by Grant Thornton revealed the irregularities of DHFL, after which the agency registered a case on March 15.DHFL, according to the CBI FIR, processed 88,651 cases under PMAY Scheme - under which loans granted to economically weaker sections, low and middle income group members of society for the purpose of buying land and construction of houses, development of dwelling units under slum development schemes, housing units are eligible for credit-linked interest subsidy.The interest subsidy varies from 3% per annum to 6.5% per annum and the subsidy is payable upfront with a cap of ₹2,30,156 to ₹2,67,280 depending on the category in which the borrower falls. The maximum loan amount eligible under the scheme is ₹24 lakh. The subsidy amount is claimed by the financing institutions from the National Housing Bank, which is reimbursed by the Centre out of the budgetary provisions in the Union Budget.DHFL is one of such housing finance companies which have granted loans under PMAY.The scam hit DHFL is already being investigated by both CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Yes Bank scandal involving its former CEO Rana Kapoor.The Reserve Bank of India superseded the board of DHFL in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-dhfl-for-creating-over-2-lakh-fake-home-loan-accounts-under-pmay-101616592758747.html
24-03-2021||India||Indian Air Force has a shortage of 405 pilots: Centre||The Indian Air Force has a shortage of 405 pilots against the authorised strength, the government told Lok Sabha on Wednesday.Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said the number of pilots in the Indian Air Force at present is 3,834 as against the sanctioned strength of 4,239."There is a shortage of 405 pilots (as on March 1) in the IAF," he said, replying to a question.He said 260 aircraft are being used for training pilots in the force.The trainer aircraft in the IAF included Pilatus PC-7 Mk-II, Kiran MkI/IA and Hawk Mk-132 advanced jet trainer.To a separate question on whether India can counter China effectively with hypersonic vehicles, the minister declined to answer saying the information sought is highly sensitive and classified."The information sought is highly sensitive and classified and cannot be divulged on the floor of the House," he said in his written reply.Replying to another question, Naik said 1,98,881 dwelling units were planned for construction through the Married Accommodation Project route and 57,875 units were already built under phase one of the project.He said 69,904 units were planned to be built under phase two of the project out of which construction of 58,062 units was completed.Naik said there was a plan to construct 71,102 units under phase three of the project but an in-principle decision has been taken to construct further married accommodation through the Annual Major Works Programme route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-has-a-shortage-of-405-pilots-centre-101616592744975.html
24-03-2021||India||Over 13,000 infants died in Gujarat's government newborn care units in 2 years: Deputy CM||Over 13,000 infants have died during treatment in the sick newborn care units (SNCUs) of government-run hospitals in Gujarat in the last two years, the state Legislative Assembly was told on Wednesday.Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel gave this information while responding to a set of questions raised by Congress MLAs during the Question Hour.He said that a total of 13,496 infants died while undergoing treatment at the SNCUs in the last two years till December 2020.The figures presented by the state government reveal that an average of 18 infants died during treatment at the SNCUs everyday in the last two years.While the maximum number of deaths - 3,134 - were reported in Ahmedabad district, no such casualties were reported in Mahisagar, Aravalli, Botad, Anand and Devbhumi- Dwarka districts, said Patel, who also handles the health portfolio.As many as 1.06 lakh infants were admitted to the SNCUs across the state for further treatment in the last two years, and of these, 69,000 were born in the state-run hospitals, while 38,000 were born in other hospitals and were referred to the SNCUs, he said.At least 13,496 of these infants could not be saved, Patel said, adding that treatment and medicines are provided free of cost at all SNCUs.He assured the House that the government was committed to stop the deaths of newborns.The state government has given priority to filling the vacant posts of doctors and nurses at the SNCUs and also providing necessary medical devices to these centres at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-13-000-infants-died-in-gujarat-s-government-newborn-care-units-in-2-years-deputy-cm-101616591123895.html
24-03-2021||India||INX case: Chidambaram, Karti summoned by Delhi Court||A Delhi court on Wednesday issued summons to Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram, and several others in the INX Media money-laundering case. The court was taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Those summoned have been asked to appear before the court on April 7, reported news agency PTI.The INX media case is about alleged irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to INX Media group for receiving overseas funds worth ₹305 crore in 2007, during Chidambaram's tenure as the finance minister of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. Chidambaram had been arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in August 2019, two years after it had registered a case on the alleged irregularities. The ED case on money laundering was lodged in May of 2018.Along with the father-son duo, Karti's chartered accountant S S Bhaskararaman has also been summoned, reported news agency PTI.On February 22, the Supreme Court allowed Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad for six months after depositing ₹2 crores in a nationalised bank and submitting his detailed itinerary beforehand. ED had accused Karti of “blatantly misusing” his court granted liberty by using it to travel abroad.Special Judge M K Nagpal who issued the summons today earlier allowed the central agency to investigate documents from authorities in Switzerland received in response to a letter rogatory (letter of request) sent by the agency. The CBI sent letters of request to the United Kingdom, Singapore, Mauritius, Bermuda and Switzerland in the course of their investigation.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inx-case-chidambaram-karti-summoned-by-delhi-court-101616591666899.html
24-03-2021||India||Centre allows retired short-service officers to use their ranks||The government has allowed retired short service commissioned (SSC) officers of the army to use their military ranks, a demand that had been pending for almost four decades, the defence ministry said on Wednesday.SCC officers serve the force for 10 to 14 years to make up for shortage of officers in units. Many of them were using their ranks after retirement even before this decision.“The SSC officers, after completion of their mandated terms and conditions of service, had not been authorised to use the military ranks. This has been causing dissatisfaction and discontentment among the SSC officers who serve under the same service conditions and face similar hardships as permanent commission officers with similar service profile,” the ministry said in a statement.The decision will not only remove dissatisfaction and discontentment among the retired SSC officers, but it will serve as a big boost to young aspirants, it said. “In addition, this decision will act as morale booster for the existing SSC officers.”According to the ministry, the demand for use of ranks by SSC officers after release from service was pending since 1983. “There have been several attempts to make the SSC attractive. Permission to allow use of military ranks by these officers has been one of their major demands,” the statement said.Several retired SSC officers Hindustan Times spoke to said they were using their military ranks after retirement and were never told that they were not authorised to do so.“I have always used my rank after retirement. Lot of my course-mates also use their rank in Civvy Street,” said a retired SSC woman officer.The SSC officers form the backbone of the support cadre of the army, the statement said. “It appears there was some ambiguity about the use of ranks by SSC officers after 10-14 years of service. The government has now made it official that they can use their ranks,” people familiar with the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allows-retired-short-service-officers-to-use-their-ranks-101616590305130.html
24-03-2021||India||Opposition parties caution government against going ahead with disinvestment amid pandemic||Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday urged the government not to go ahead with its ambitious disinvestment plan, saying it would not yield the desired results due to the coronavirus pandemic.Participating in a discussion on the Finance Bill 2021, NCP leader Praful Patel said that while disinvestment is a core theme of this Budget, the government should proceed cautiously on it, given the backdrop of the pandemic.The government on Monday budgeted ₹1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and one insurance company, in 2021-22.For 2020-21, the government had set a target of raising ₹2.1 lakh crore from privatisation and sale of minority stakes in state-owned companies. This includes ₹1.20 lakh crore from selling stake in CPSEs and ₹90,000 crore from stake sale in financial investment.So far this fiscal, the government has garnered around ₹31,000 crore through divestment in PSUs, according to the latest update on the portal of the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM).Emphasising that he is not against divestment, Patel, however, questioned the "timing" and said the exercise may not yield the best possible results that the government is hoping for."I worry because of the Covid situation, you may not be able to realise the full value, so you should go cautiously into it," he said.Patel claimed that the disinvestment process had "not been resounding success so far"."I am not against disinvestment at all. But I want to remind you that in the last 1-2 years if you see the divestment process, you have said our collection is as per target. But if you go into the fine print, proceeds have come from where? LIC or another PSU. There is hardly any money you have recovered from the market or private source," he said.On GST, he said many states were facing the problem of delay in payment. "As we speak, there is a large number of recoveries of GST to be made by states," he said.Despite a firm assurance by the Centre in the past that states will not be worse off, somewhere down the line, those assurances have been reneged on, he said and referred to the issue of guarantee of minimum collection."In Finance Committee, we have asked this question to your officers and we have been told that nothing of that sort exists, whatever is collected, you will get it. There is no guarantee of minimum collection, which would have been given to states as was promised in the House during the passage of the GST Council Bill," he said, urging the government to consider corrective action.Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) said that while the need to raise revenue is understandable, must it be done "by entering into the brazen sale of public assets.""Every third day I get representation from Vizag Steel plant...there is representation by bank employees... When you take decisions, it impacts the relations and identity of the employees of those organisations. Why not have a dialogue with them," Jha said.On the disinvestment target for 2021-22, Congress Member Rajeev Satav said it is very ambitious and the government has not met the targets in recent years."If the disinvestment target is not achieved then the deficit would grow," he added.Even the CAG in one of its reports had said some disinvestments have only resulted in the transfer of resources within the public sector and did not lead to any change in the public sector, Satav said.Citing the sale of oil PSU HPCL to another government-run ONGC, Satav said the government was merely transferring assets of one public enterprise to another.Over the government's policy on disinvestment, BJP member Jyotiraditya Scindia said some PSUs have become a liability."The government is doing disinvestment of capital assets. It is not selling the country but making efforts to develop the nation," he said alleging that the opposition is doing politics even at the time of such crisis, while the government is striving for the country's development.V. Vijayasai Reddy (YSRCP) was not in favour of disinvestment plans particularly for Vizag steel plant and also demanded special status for Andhra Pradesh.Others who spoke included Ram Gopal Yadav (SP), T K S Elangovan (DMK), Amar Patnaik (BJD) Ram Nath Thakur (JD-U), Ram Gopal Yadav (SP), and Jharna Das Baidya, (CPI-M) and Arpita Ghosh (TMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-caution-government-against-going-ahead-with-disinvestment-amid-pandemic-101616589556117.html
24-03-2021||India||NHAI to develop over 600 wayside amenities for in next 5 years||The NHAI on Wednesday said it will develop more than 600 world-class wayside amenities for commuters along national highways in the next five years.As per plan, wayside amenities will be developed every 30-50 km on current and upcoming highways and expressways, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said."In a major move to improve commuting experience on National Highways for both passengers and truckers, the NHAI will develop world class 'Wayside Amenities' at more than 600 locations across 22 states along the National Highways in the next five years, out of which 130 is targeted for development in 2021-22," NHAI said in a statement.It said it has already invited bids to develop 120 such wayside amenities.The amenities will include numerous facilities for passengers such as fuel stations, electric charging facilities, food courts, retail shops, bank ATMs, toilets with shower facility, children play areas, clinics, village haat for local handicrafts, among others."Keeping in view the specific requirements of truckers, separate ‘Truckers Blocks’ will be developed at large amenities that will include Truck and Trailer Parking, Auto Workshop, Truckers Dormitory, Cooking and Washing area, Toilets with shower, Medical Clinic, Dhaba, Retail shops etc," the statement said.The facilities such as electric charging stations will help in promoting use of electric vehicles, thus reducing pollution, it said.The amenities will also promote the local economy by generating employment opportunities and help local people to market their unique produce/ handicrafts at village haats.NHAI will develop these wayside amenities across the country with a combined area of over 3,000 hectares.These will offer huge opportunities for investors, developers, operators and retailers.Currently, NHAI is offering wayside amenities on Public Private Partnership model for development and operation on existing highways."All upcoming greenfield/brownfield National Highway projects will be provisioned to have wayside amenities and logistic parks. NHAI has started Land identification and monetization plan for development and real estate consultants have been engaged for designing of the amenities after studying the local suitability," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhai-to-develop-over-600-wayside-amenities-for-in-next-5-years-101616588811354.html
24-03-2021||India||BJP is killing democracy: Kharge on Bihar assembly ruckus||Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday slammed the BJP while condemning the incident that took place on Tuesday evening in the Bihar assembly. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is killing democracy and questioned that if this is happening with elected leaders, then the law and order situation in the state beggars descriptionOn Tuesday evening, the Bihar assembly witnessed unprecedented ruckus over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill 2021, where police personnel reached the assembly premises and evicted the MLAs from the assembly. Women MLAs of the opposition parties were also carried out of the assembly building by women security personnel. This happened after a few of the opposition leaders restricted Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha from leaving his chamber.Also Read | RJD walks out from Rajya Sabha as members not allowed to raise state issue"Incident in Bihar Assembly is condemnable. I have never seen police beating women MLAs. BJP is killing democracy. If this is happening with elected leaders, then what about the law & order situation in the state. If Bihar Police law passed, it'll give leeway to them,” said Mallikarjun Kharge, reported news agency ANI.The opposition is opposing the bill as its provision allows special armed police to conduct searches and make arrests without the requirement of a warrant.Earlier in the day, opposition party the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav threatened to boycott the assembly session if the state government of Nitish Kumar does not apologise.Attacking the BJP and the Janata Dal (United)-led government that passed the bill, Kharge said they talk about democracy but passed the bill. Citing the misuse of central agencies like the ED, CBI, I-T by the Centre, he said the same misuse will happen in Bihar and create problems in the future.“They (BJP & JDU) talk about democracy but passed the bill. We know they will misuse it. Today ED, CBI, I-T are being misused at the Centre, the same misuse will happen in Bihar & create problems in future,” ANI quoted Kharge as saying.In protest of Tuesday’s ruckus over the bill, opposition MLAs held their parallel assembly session chaired by RJD leader Bhudev Choudhary in the lawns of the assembly while the state legislative assembly proceedings were carried out on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-is-killing-democracy-kharge-on-bihar-assembly-ruckus-101616588865916.html
24-03-2021||India||Nikita Tomar murder: 2, including prime accused, found guilty by Haryana court||A fast-track court in Haryana's Faridabad on Wednesday convicted Touseef, prime accused in the Nikita Tomar murder case, and his aide Rehaan for conspiracy, kidnapping, and homicide. The quantum of sentence will be pronounced this Friday.While Touseef and Rehaan have been found guilty by the court, a third accused, Mohammad Azruddin, has been acquitted. Azruddin had allegedly supplied weapons to the other two, news agency ANI reported.21-year-old Tomar was shot dead in broad daylight by her former classmate outside her college in Faridabad on October 26 last year. The family of the woman linked the killing to the reported cases of 'love jihad'. Tomar's kins claimed that her attacker was infatuated with her while the other accused is his associate.CCTV camera footage of the incident purportedly shows Touseef and Rehaan trying to force Tomar, a BCom final-year student, into their vehicle when she exits Aggarwal College after writing an exam, the police said. The brutal murder was caught on camera, which showed that the accused, who arrived at the spot in a vehicle, tried to pull Tomar inside, in a possible bid to abduct her. But he was instead met with resistance from the woman, after which the accused shot her. After the murder, a special investigation team (SIT) was formed on October 27, led by Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime), to probe the case. On November 6, the SIT filed a 700-page charge sheet, listing as many as 60 witnesses, in the murder case. Fingerprints were also matched from three samples — from the car, the pistol, and the woman’s arm.The charges against the suspects were framed on November 23 and the trial in the case began on December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nikita-tomar-murder-2-including-prime-accused-found-guilty-by-haryana-court-101616587271122.html
24-03-2021||India||Double mutant Covid strain found in Nagpur, but not linked with surge: Centre||The Union health ministry on Wednesday clarified that the double mutant strain of the Covid-19 virus is not being directly linked to the surge in the number of infections. The surge can be attributed to the pool of susceptible population in any particular area, who are not adhering to Covid-19 appropriate norms. Such a population will be vulnerable to any strain, including the one seen in 2020, National Centre for Disease Control's director Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh said.The Union health ministry of Wednesday published a detailed report on the genome sequencing work that the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on genomics did in the past few months and said 771 variants of concerns (VOCs) have been detected in a total of 10,787 positive samples shared by states and UTs. These included the UK variant, the South African variant and the Brazil variant.Apart from these three mutants, the Centre also mentioned a double mutant variant, which is new. "Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity," it said.According to government data, the double mutant strain has also been found in two samples from Punjab, one sample from Ladakh and Jammu each, three samples from Gujarat and one sample from Odisha."...double mutant is evolving. We have seen this double mutant E484Q and L452R. This is the double mutant which has been observed in 206 samples in Maharashtra and then in a varied number in Delhi, nine samples, and so on," Dr Singh said."Now when we link we have to see from where the samples have been picked. This is very very relevant. In Nagpur, yes, we have found a substantial number of this, around 20 per cent. But correlating the surge with this 20 per cent is not possible," he added.Going further into the details of the strain found in Nagpur, Dr Singh said, "Eight wards of Nagpur saw a surge. These eight wards are those which were least affected in the earlier surge. So the pool of susceptible population in those eight wards was comparatively large."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-mutant-covid-variants-found-in-maharashtra-delhi-not-linked-to-surge-says-centre-101616587065758.html
24-03-2021||India||Why those above 45 will be inoculated from April 1? Health ministry answers||As the Centre announced on Tuesday that citizens above the age of 45-- with or without comorbidities-- will be allowed to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from April 1, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday that this decision was taken as 88 per cent of the total fatalities in the country due to the disease were taking place in the age group of 45 years.Addressing a press briefing, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan elaborated on this point by saying, “The case fatality rate for the age group of 45 and above is 2.85 per cent across India. Therefore, this is the most vulnerable population group and needs to be protected first.”Speaking on the coverage of the overall vaccination drive, Bhushan said more than 5.08 crore doses of the vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries till now. Out of this number, 2,64,52,366 doses were given to those above the age of 60 and between 45-59 with specific co-morbidities, while the health workers and the frontline workers have received the remaining doses. “Telangana, Chandigarh and Nagaland have reported low vaccination coverage of healthcare and frontline workers,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19 rise in Maharashtra, Punjab is of grave concern: CentreWith regard to the Centre asking states and Union Territories to increase the interval between two doses of Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine to 4-8 weeks instead of 4-6 weeks, the health secretary pointed out the revised time interval is only applicable to Covishield and not to Covaxin- which is being produced by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Both Covishield and Covaxin were given approval for use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on January 3.India on Wednesday registered 47,262 new Covid-19 disease cases and 275 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 1,17,34,058 and 1,60,441 respectively, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The total recoveries are more than 1.12 crores while active cases have climbed to 368,457.Wednesday’s toll in the country has been the highest since the beginning of this year. The ministry added that six states- Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu contributed 83.27 per cent towards the new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-those-above-45-will-be-inoculated-from-april-1-health-ministry-answers-101616585719287.html
24-03-2021||India||84 people held in last six months for smuggling petrol, diesel from Nepal: Nityanand Rai||Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday informed Rajya Sabha that petrol and diesel are sold secretly on a large scale in districts of Bihar that are bordering Nepal due to the price difference of Petrol and diesel in both countries and said that 84 persons were apprehended in the last six months for smuggling the same.MoS Home Nityanand Rai gave a written reply to Rajya Sabha on Wednesday on the question of Bihar BJP MP Sushil Modi which said, "Government of Bihar has informed that some such incidents have been reported in East Champaran, West Champaran and Araria districts in Bihar.""84 persons were apprehended in the last six months for smuggling of petrol and diesel in Bihar from Nepal while 245 litres of petrol and 9,834 litres of diesel were seized by security forces in the state to keep in check the smuggling of petrol and diesel from Nepal," he informed Rajya Sabha."Sashastra Seema Bal(SSB), Border Guarding Force along with Indo- Nepal border force is taking effective action to check smuggling and other illegalactivities across the border. It takes various other measures like patrolling, nakabandi, checking of persons crossing the border both randomly and on the basis of inputs received from security agencies," the written reply said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84-people-held-in-last-six-months-for-smuggling-petrol-diesel-from-nepal-nityanand-rai-101616584933162.html
24-03-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: RJD's Tejashwi Yadav threatens to boycott Assembly session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav threatens to boycott Assembly session over Special Armed Police BillA day after the ruckus in the Bihar Legislative Assembly over Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday threatened to boycott the remaining tenure of the session if the Nitish Kumar-led state government fails to apologise for the incident. Read moreCovid-19: Double mutant strain, 771 variants detected in India, says govtA double mutation found in the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra is of concern as these mutations have not been yet catalogued, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Wednesday. Read more6 UP cops injured during raid in Bihar’s Buxar to recover abducted girlA six-member Uttar Pradesh police team from Gazipur came under attack in Bihar’s Buxar district when they raided a village late Tuesday evening to find a minor girl who was allegedly abducted, police said Wednesday. Read moreVirat Kohli progresses, rapid rise for Suryakumar Yadav in ICC T20I rankingsIndia captain Virat Kohli and vice-captain Rohit Sharma progressed in the ICC T20I rankings for batsmen, released on Wednesday. Read moreWhen Karisma Kapoor shut down rumours of her wedding with Ajay Devgn: 'I don't know if he feels that way about me'Karisma Kapoor and Ajay Devgn have starred in a number of movies in the early 1990s. This includes Jigar, Suhaag and Shaktiman. While the on-screen pairing was receiving love from the audience. Read moreR Madhavan replies to Twitter user’s post on mom and dad’s RHTDM-related convoA reply by R Madhavan on a tweet related to the film Rehnaa Hai Terre Dil Mein (RHTDM) has now created a Twitter chatter. There is a possibility that the actor’s sweet reply using emojis will leave you smiling too. Read moreAditi Rao Hydari aces chic fusion wear in ₹40k Punit Balana ensembleAditi Rao Hydari has been blessing our feeds of late with pictures of herself looking like the epitome of grace and elegance. The 34-year-old actor has been playing muse to designer Punit Balana and has been posting various looks from his new collection. Read moreAverage daily FASTag collection crosses ₹100 crore-mark: Nitin GadkariThe average daily toll collection through FASTag has reached ₹100 crore daily, Parliament was informed on Monday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rjd-leader-tejashwi-yadav-threatens-to-boycott-assembly-session-over-special-armed-police-bill-and-all-the-latest-news-101616583079816.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19 rise in Maharashtra, Punjab is of grave concern: Centre||The Covid-19 spike in Maharashtra and Punjab is of grave concern, the health ministry on Wednesday said, briefing about its covid-19 preparedness at a time when the country is seeing a renewed surge in the number of daily cases. Apart from these two states, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are reporting a concentration of cases, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, adding that a meeting has been called with these states on Saturday to review their Covid-19 situation.Nine out of the top 10 districts with the highest active number of Covid-19 cases — Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded, Jalgaon and Akola — are in Maharashtra, the ministry said. Only one, Bengaluru Urban, is in Karnataka, the ministry said.Terming the situation as "concerning", Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said the solution lies in strengthening surveillance as it was done last year. He also added that vaccination must be stepped up in these states Covid-19: Double mutant strain, 771 variants detected in India, says govtExplaining the Centre's decision on opening the vaccination drive to anyone above the age of 45 years, Rajesh Bhushan said, "About 88 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in the country are taking place above the age group of 45 years. The case fatality rate above 45 years is 2.85 per cent. So this age group is vulnerable and the decision has been taken based on scientific inputs."The age-based approach towards vaccination is recognised by the World Health Organizations as well, VK Paul said. "We have enough vaccines. We have a seamless connection with the states. We take stock of the situation every day," he said."There is room for great improvement as far as the involvement of private facilities in vaccination. As of now, there are 5,425 private centre administering vaccines, while the number of government facilities is 34,481. From April, the private sector should increase their involvement more as we are opening up the vaccination drive," Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-rise-in-8-states-including-punjab-is-of-grave-concern-centre-101616584042787.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19: Double mutant strain, 771 variants detected in India, says govt||A double mutation found in the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra is of concern as these mutations have not been yet catalogued, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Wednesday.“The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E484Q and L452R mutations. Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity. These mutations have been found in about 15-20% of samples and do not match any previously catalogued variants of concern (VOCs),” said health ministry in a statement.“These have been categorised as VOCs but require the same epidemiological and public health response of ‘increased testing, comprehensive tracking of close contacts, prompt isolation of positive cases & contacts as well as treatment as per National Treatment Protocol’ by the states and Union Territories,” the statement added.Since the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) initiated its work, 771 variants of concerns (VOCs) have been detected in a total of 10,787 positive samples shared by States/UTs. These comprise 736 samples positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7) lineage, 34 samples were found positive for viruses of the South African (B.1.351) lineage, and 1 sample was found positive for viruses of the Brazilian (P.1) lineage.The samples with these VOCs have been identified in 18 states of the country.Genome sequencing and analysis have been carried out on samples from arriving international travelers, contacts of those positive for VOC and community samples from most of the states at INSACOG partner laboratories.In December, 2020, the ministry of health established INSACOG that is a group of 10 national laboratories meant to perform genome sequencing of positive samples. INSACOG has been carrying out genomic sequencing and analysis of circulating Covid-19 viruses. Also Read | 6 states which added the most to India’s highest 1-day death toll in this yearAccording to the health ministry, from Kerala 2,032 samples (from all 14 districts) have been sequenced. The N440K variant that is associated with immune escape has been found in 123 samples from 11 districts. This variant was earlier found in 33% of samples from Andhra Pradesh, and in 53 of 104 samples from Telangana. It has also been reported from 16 other countries, including UK, Denmark, Singapore, Japan, and Australia. As of now, these can be, at best, said to be variant under investigation.“Though VOCs and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish a direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states. Genomic sequencing and epidemiological studies are continuing to further analyse the situation,” the ministry statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-double-mutant-strain-771-variants-detected-in-india-says-govt-101616582043779.html
24-03-2021||India||' ₹7 lakh crore being spent on building green express highways': Nitin Gadkari||The government is spending ₹7 lakh crore on building green express highways through modern technology which in turn would provide smart transportation and reduce pollution, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday.Of these, ₹1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is likely to be completed within a year while Delhi-Meerut Expressway will be inaugurated in a month or two, the Road Transport and Highways Minister said while addressing a virtual event organised by PHD Chamber of Commerce here."We are spending ₹7 lakh crore on building green express highways. These...will reduce air pollution, traffic jam and minimise logistics and transportation cost," he said at the National Roads & Highways Summit "Focus on Green Infrastructure".He said these are being built with state-of-the-art technique with advanced engineering to provide intelligent traffic while taking care of the ecology and environment conservation with an aim to reduce green house emission.The Prime Minister has set a target of ₹111 lakh crore under the National Infrastructure Pipeline and it would be the government's effort to adopt a green approach and "development without destruction," the minister said.Of the 22 green highway corridors, Delhi-Mumbai Expressway on a new alignment would reduce the travel time between both the metropolises to 12 hours by car in comparison to 40 hours at present, he said."Sixty per cent of this 1,300 km project has been completed and we are trying to complete it within one year," the minister said adding that the first phase of Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project will have 8 lanes while the second phase will have 12.A separate electric highway lane will be constructed in it, he said and added that within a year electric trucks will be available.Gadkari said work on Delhi-Amritsar-Katra project is likely to start in two to three months and in the pipeline are ₹4,063 crore Delhi-Faridabad-Sohna express highway and ₹4,000 crore Ahmedabad-Dholera highway.As far as Delhi is concerned, Gadkari said projects worth ₹60,000 crore are being implemented to reduce air pollution in the national capital and said ₹10,000 crore Dwarka-Express Highway is an "engineering marvel".He said 50 per cent work has been completed on the 30 km project that has one tunnel and flyovers.Urban Extension Road-II (UER-II) project for Delhi has also been cleared, Gadkari said."Delhi-Meerut expressway will be inaugurated in next one to two months and it will reduce the travel time to Meerut from Delhi to 45 minutes from the present 4 hours," Gadkari said.The minister said with the completion of Delhi-Saharanpur-Dehradun project, the travel time between Delhi and Dehradun will reduce to two hours and "it is a promise not declaration.".Projects will also ensure Delhi to Chandigarh in 2 hours and Delhi to Haridwar also in 2 hours, he said.The minister said the ₹12,000 crore Chardham project to provide all-weather connectivity to Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath is nearing completion and will boost tourism in Uttarakhand.In addition, priority will also be given to the ₹12,000 crore Raipur-Visakhapatnam project and ₹10,000 crore Bengaluru Ring Road project besides Surat-Ahmedabad, Durg-Raipur, Chennai-Salem projects.The minister exuded confidence that the national highways' building pace will reach 40-km a day by March-end.He said the ministry has already exceeded the target for building 11,000 km of highways in the current fiscal year and till date it has constructed 12,205 km which translates into 34-km a day.Also, he said the Centre has signed a USD 500 million contract with the World Bank for constructing safe and green corridors in Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.He also warned the cement and steel industry to not indulge in cartelisation and said that he was "not happy with the attitude of steel and cement industry".He noted that emphasis was being laid on using innovative materials like jute, coir, plastic, rubber and other material.Asserting that toll income was likely to reach ₹1,34,000 crore in next three to four years, he said ₹10,000 crore was lost due to COVID-19 but by March-end, toll collection was likely to reach ₹31,000 crore.He said as part of automation, GPS-based tolling is being planned where toll collection will be done based on actual distance traversed by the vehicle through GPS.Smart vehicle tracking system is on the anvil, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-7-lakh-crore-being-spent-on-building-green-express-highways-nitin-gadkari-101616580321379.html
24-03-2021||India||RJD walks out from Rajya Sabha as members not allowed to raise state assembly issue||The RJD on Wednesday walked out from the Rajya Sabha after its members were not allowed to raise the issue of alleged roughing up of opposition legislators, including some women MLAs, inside the Bihar Assembly.RJD member Manoj Kumar Jha sought to raise the issue of the ruckus in the Bihar Assembly but was not allowed to do so by the Chair.Leader of Opposition and Congress member Mallikarjun Kharge supported Jha, but Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not permit them to raise the issue, saying matters of states are not allowed to be raised in the upper house.Naidu said he had disallowed some members from raising the issues concerning Maharashtra also. Jha and some other members of the RJD then staged a walkout in protest.Jha stood up to raise the issue soon after scheduled papers were laid on the table of the House, and said a "heinous crime" has taken place and even women MLAs were not spared."I have gone through your (Jha) notice. It is a matter concerning the state so I cannot take it up...You can take up the issue in the State itself," Naidu said.As Jha insisted on raising the issue, Kharge said the Rajya Sabha Chairman has the discretion to allow a discussion on an issue related to "injustice" in a state, and urged Naidu to let Jha speak.However, Naidu did not agree and suggested that a common policy be evolved on whether state related issues should be taken up or not."Next time, let us have a meeting of all parties, not in the Business Advisory Committee, but in the general purpose committee and you all people can come to a conclusion that Rajya Sabha can take up issues of states," he said.He said the other day some people wanted to take up the Maharashtra issue, but he did not permit them."Now somebody want to raise the Bihar issue and tomorrow somebody else wants to raise some other state issue. If we can discuss and have a common approach, and a common policy. If it suits me I will raise this issue otherwise I will oppose. I can't do that," Naidu said.The Bihar Assembly witnessed unprecedented turmoil on Tuesday and the police was called in to physically evict opposition legislators who had laid siege to the Speaker's chamber. They were protesting against the Police Special Powers Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-walks-out-from-rajya-sabha-as-members-not-allowed-to-raise-state-assembly-issue-101616579655021.html
24-03-2021||India||Not possible to bring petrol, diesel under GST for next 8-10 years: Sushil Modi||BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Wednesday said it is not possible to bring petrol and diesel under the GST regime for the next eight to 10 years as it would cause an annual revenue loss of ₹2 lakh crore to all states.Centre and states collectively collect over ₹5 lakh crore tax on petroleum products, Modi told the Rajya Sabha while participating in a discussion on the Finance Bill 2021.The statement assumes significance in view of the rise in petrol price for the past over one year which even touched ₹100 per litre in some states.In the first reduction in rates in over a year, petrol price on Wednesday was cut by 18 paise per litre and diesel by 17 paise a litre as international oil prices tumbled to the lowest since early February.Petrol price was cut to ₹90.99 a litre in Delhi from ₹91.17 per litre. Diesel now comes for ₹81.30 a litre in the national capital, down from ₹81.47 previously.Rates have been reduced across the country and vary from state-to-state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT).This is the first reduction in fuel prices in over a year. The prices were last reduced on March 16, 2020."It is not possible to bring petrol and diesel under GST regime in the next eight to 10 years because states would not be ready for an annual revenue loss of ₹2 lakh crore (collectively by all states)," Modi told the House."If petrol or diesel would be brought under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime then how would the loss of ₹2 lakh crore revenue to states be recovered. The Centre and states together earn over ₹5 lakh crore from tax on petroleum products," he said.He explained that if petroleum products are brought under the GST, 28 per cent tax would be collected on them as that is the highest slab in the tax regime."Presently, 60 per cent tax is being collected on petroleum products. This would result in shortfall of ₹2 lakh crore to 2.5 lakh crore (to both Centre and states)," he explained in the House."If we collect 28 per cent tax on petroleum products, then only ₹14 would be collected (per litre) against ₹60 at present," he pointed out."If petrol or diesel price is ₹100 (per litre) then the tax component is ₹60 which includes ₹35 for Centre and ₹25 for respective states. Besides out of the ₹35 tax per litre, 42 per cent goes to states," Modi added.He also stated,"It is said that tax collected on petrol, diesel goes into the pocket of government. There is no separate pocket of government. From where the money will come for providing electricity and tap water to all households. The spending of tax collection on welfare of country is being challenged."Reacting to remarks against the GST regime, he said,"Some people also said that this is Gabbar Singh Tax. No state has opposed the tax structure of GST in any GST Council meeting. You can see the proceedings of the council (to verify that)," he said.He stressed that only the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had the guts to implement the GST regime in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-possible-to-bring-petrol-diesel-under-gst-for-next-8-10-years-sushil-modi-101616573802423.html
24-03-2021||India||TN CM Palaniswami says AIADMK candidates are 'ISI certified'||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said that AIADMK candidates are ISI certified whereas Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) candidates are "duplicate"."Our AIADMK candidates are ISI certified but their candidates (DMK) are duplicate. Voters should not believe in duplicate," Palaniswami said.While campaigning for AIADMK candidate and state minister MR Vijayabhaskar in Karur, the Chief Minister said: "Vijayabhaskar is easily accessible to people. Amma (Jayalalithaa) gave him the post of transport minister. He has been working for the upliftment of people in this constituency. Karur is an AIADMK fort.""Many party leaders lived, died and have been forgotten but our leaders MGR and Jayalalitha still lives in the hearts of people because of their work and schemes," he further said.Palaniswami slammed Vijaya DMK candidate of Karur Constituency Senthil Balaji calling him a "corrupt" politician."Stalin says AIADMK did corruption but Senthil Balaji is the one who did corruptions which is why Amma (Jayalalithaa) kicked him away," he said."DMK is a family party and its a corporate company. Anybody can be shareholders of that company like Senthil Balaji," he further said."Senthil Balaji tried to topple our government. History always showed that 'Dharma' always wins. Senthil Balaji has switched to 5 parties until now MDMK, AIADMK, DMK, Ammk, now again to DMK," the Chief Minister said."Our candidates are from a normal family. It is a democratic party in which anybody can reach higher positions. Me, Vijayabaskar, our candidates or anybody can come to a higher position," he added.The assembly elections in Tamil Nadu will be held in a single phase on April 6 and the counting of votes will be done on May 2. Polls will be held for 234 seats in the state with the Congress-DMK and BJP-AIADMK alliance being the major groups contesting against each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-palaniswami-says-aiadmk-candidates-are-isi-certified-101616578490370.html
24-03-2021||India||Kerala CM Vijayan condemns 'harassment' of nuns in UP||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday strongly condemned the alleged harassment of a group of nuns by some Bajrang Dal activists in UP's Jhansi recently and urged the Centre to take action, saying such incidents tarnish the image of the nation. In his letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Vijayan sought strict action against those "who disrupt and impair the freedom of individual rights" guaranteed by the Constitution.Citing reports, he said two postulants, who had recently joined a Christian congregation were travelling for the first time to their homes accompanied by two nuns and were "harassed and intimidated" by the Bajrang Dal activists. The CM further said the nuns and the postulants were forcefully removed from the train by the police following a complaint from the Bajrang Dal members alleging that the two girls were being taken for forceful religious conversion."You would agree with me that such incidents tarnish the image of the nation and its ancient tradition of religious tolerance and practice." "Such incidents require utmost condemnation by the Union Government," Vijayan said. Earlier, addressing the media in Pathanamthitta, Vijayan said the Constitution gives freedom to everyone in the country to believe and not to believe in any religion. Everyone here has the right to live according to their faith, he added. ".. What happened yesterday was an encroachment on the freedom. Both these freedoms are fundamental rights of Indians. The nuns faced the violation of these rights during the train journey," he pointed out. What happened in Uttar Pradesh should not have happened in the country and it is a "very serious matter." Vijayan also attacked the ruling BJP in UP, saying the northern state is 'notorious' for such matters. "Violence in the name of religion is on the rise in many parts of our country. Violence against women and marginalized groups are on the rise." "Uttar Pradesh is notorious for such matters. All such illegal activities are taking place under the ruling BJP government there. It should also be taken seriously that all this is happening on an uncontrolled scale," Vijayan said. He asserted that his government would not allow Kerala to become a breeding ground for communalism andsecularism would be fully protected. According to officials in Jhansi, the nuns were detained after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two of the women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion. The police said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha. Expressing concern over the matter, Kerala Catholic Bishops Council had called for strong action against the culpritsinvolved in the incident. The Congress and BJP had taken up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-condemns-harassment-of-nuns-in-up-101616575612141.html
24-03-2021||India||NEP 2020 to be implemented after taking institutions into confidence: Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told the state Legislative Assembly that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 will be implemented in the state only after taking the concerned institutions into confidence.Opposition leaders including Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai, Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte, MGP MLA Sudin Dhavalikar and Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro expressed concerns over the implementation of the NEP.The question was raised on the floor of the House by NCP MLA Churchill Alemao.Responding to the concerns, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the NEP will be implemented after taking all institutions into confidence."We have already started a survey about infrastructure in various schools," he said.During the Question Hour, Lourenco expressed fear that the NEP will usurp the rights of institutions run by minority communities and said the state government should clarify on the issue.GFP MLA Sardesai said there is a concept of forming "clusters" of schools to implement the policy."Schools run by the Diocesan Society are worried that after formation of these clusters, their unique existence will be maintained or will it be diluted," he said, urging the state government not to implement the policy in haste.Further, Khaunte pointed out the government had not done an impact study to gauge the repercussions of the NEP."When the structure is changing, the repercussions should be studied. the chief minister should hold half a day or a day-long discussion on the policy in the Assembly," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-2020-to-be-implemented-after-taking-institutions-into-confidence-goa-cm-101616576222255.html
24-03-2021||India||Biden administration views India as important partner in countering China: Experts||With China's growing assertiveness in the Indian Ocean region, the Joe Biden administration in the US sees India as its most important partner to counter Beijing's ambitions.US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin called India an "increasingly important partner among today's rapidly shifting international dynamic", saying the bilateral relationship is a "stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region", reported The Standard.Recently, Austin met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh over the weekend on his first foreign trip in the role as the two sides concluded talks on defense cooperation. Austin also visited Japan and South Korea last week, Washington's closest military allies in Asia."It's important that the secretary of defence has made a trip to India on his first trip to Asia, along with Japan and South Korea," Dhruva Jaishankar, Executive Director at think tank Observer Research Foundation America, said on an American news channel.He also said the Biden administration's investment in the Quad -- the informal strategic alliance between the US, India, Australia and Japan -- is equally important.Beijing has significantly expanded its engagements in the Indian Ocean over the last three decades and has been especially active since 2008.A Brookings Institution report last June said American and Indian strategists are worried about China's growing naval presence as well as its use of "debt-trap diplomacy," which could provide Beijing with military advantages, reported The Standard.China set up its first overseas military base in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa in 2017 and has invested in developing, managing or acquiring strategically located ports in countries surrounding India, including Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Myanmar."There is a growing Chinese presence in the Indian Ocean region," said Arun Singh, a former Indian ambassador to the United States.According to ORFA's Jaishankar, India's navy has also increased its patrols over the last few years as New Delhi has taken a much more activist approach to humanitarian assistance and disaster relief across the Indian Ocean region.As China and India more frequently bicker over the area, there is bound to be some natural convergence between New Delhi and Washington, he said. While it is not as significant as its presence in the Pacific Ocean, the United States does have a permanent presence in the Indian Ocean region through military bases in the Middle East, Djibouti and Diego Garcia island, which is part of British Indian Ocean Territory, Jaishankar explained.The US-India relationship has developed in "significant leaps and bounds" over past years, in part driven by shared concerns about China, according to Jaishankar."We are at a stage where, while they are not allies, the US and India conduct a significant number of military exercises between themselves and with other partners involving all three military services," he said.This includes a trilateral naval exercise between the US, Japan and India called the Malabar games. Last year, India also invited Australia to participate.Under the Donald Trump administration, the US last year had also signed an agreement that grants India access to US satellite data crucial for targeting missiles and other military assets. It was the last of four foundational defence agreements that the US typically signs with close allies which allow for the exchange of sensitive and classified information.Furthermore, US is becoming a major supplier of military equipment to India, behind Russia, reported The Standard.India intends to buy 30 armed drones from the US to step up sea and land defenses as tensions with China and Pakistan persist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biden-administration-views-india-as-important-partner-in-countering-china-experts-101616575905786.html
24-03-2021||India||Congress' AK Antony slams LDF over corruption, nepotism, Sabarimala controversy||Slamming the Left Democratic Front government in Kerala, blaming it for corruption, nepotism and breaking rituals of Sabarimala Temple former Defence Minister and Congress leader AK Antony on Wednesday said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should not be allowed to continue in power as "it will be a threat to Kerala.""Kerala people should think about the last five years. We saw his arrogance, corruption and nepotism," said Antony."In the Sabarimala controversy, the Kerala CM has now changed his stance. We had requested an all-party meeting with believers but Kerala CM was adamant that women activists should enter Sabarimala. It was with the police escort that they tried to take women activists to Sannidanam to break the rituals," he further said."Keralites will not forget it nor forgive him. Pinarayi Vijayan will bear the consequences of it from voters of Kerala," he said.He said that of all states in India, Kerala has the highest unemployment rate among educated youths."In the last five years, the Left government was making backdoor appointments. Instead of recruiting through PSC, they made PSC into a party commission, to recruit party supporters," he said.Antony alleged that "Corruption is the hallmark of the LDF government", and added, "The principal secretary who was controlling the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), became an accused in a case. If the Pinarayi Vijayan government comes to power again, the corruption and nepotism in the government will increase. This government should be thrown out by the people.""Under no circumstances, Pinarayi Vijayan should be allowed to continue in power. If it happens it will be a threat to Kerala," he added.Antony said that BJP under the leadership of Narendra Modi and the Left government under Pinarayi Vijayan are birds of the same feather."BJP is not suited for Keralas soil or for Kerala culture. Last time somehow a mistake happened in Nenom where BJP won a seat. This time that mistake should be rectified by not electing a single BJP MLA to Kerala Assembly.""The prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas are skyrocketing. Will the voters, the housewives forgive the BJP government at the centre. BJP has not learned anything, they went to Assam and said they will implement CAA," he added."Congress-led UDF should be elected to power. Once we come to power we will implement all the schemes listed in our manifesto including the NYAY scheme," he further said.The election for the 140-member Kerala Assembly will be held on April 6. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ak-antony-slams-ldf-over-corruption-nepotism-sabarimala-controversy-101616574780866.html
24-03-2021||India||IndiGo pays ₹1,030 cr as refund for flight cancellations during lockdown||IndiGo announced that they have refunded 99.5% of the total amount they owed to their customers due to the complete shutdown of air services in 2020. Passengers who could not fly due to the pandemic-induced lockdown last year were to be provided full refund by order of the Supreme Court. IndiGo, the country’s largest airline by market share, said that since the resumption of complete operations in May 2020, it has been rapidly refunding amounts owed to customers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown.The airline spokesperson said, “The airline has already processed close to ₹1,030 crore in refunds, which amounts to about 99.95% of the total amount owed to its customers. The pending credit shells are mostly cash transactions wherein IndiGo is awaiting bank transfer details from the customers.”Also Read | Roll back ban on posting on social media, digital platforms: Air India pilotsAdvocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman of Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, a Mumbai-based consumer organisation, said that the situation seems to be improving as the number of complaints against airlines have decreased.Ronojoy Dutta, chief executive officer, IndiGo said, “The sudden onset of Covid-19 and the resulting lockdown, brought our operations to a complete halt by the end of March, 2020. As our incoming cash flow through ticket sales was impacted, we were unable to immediately process refunds for cancelled flights and had to create credit shells for the refunds that were due to our customers. However, with the resumption of operations and a steady increase in demand for air travel, our priority has been to refund the credit shell amounts in an expedited manner. We are pleased to share that we have disbursed 99.95% credit shell payments and will complete the remaining payments as soon as we receive requisite details from the customers.”“There are exceptionally few complaints related to refunds. We haven’t received any complaints in the past eight days. However, it needs to be checked if the airlines are paying the interest amount that the Supreme Court had asked them to,” Deshpande said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-pays-rs-1-030-cr-as-refund-for-flight-cancellations-during-lockdown-101616574902729.html
24-03-2021||India||Healthcare workers bill will give dignity to health professionals: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said paramedics and allied healthcare workers are a critical part of the medical profession and their contribution is similar to doctors, if not more.Initiating the debate on the National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill, 2021, Vardhan said the proposed legislation has the potential to bring a paradigm shift in health professionals' situation."The paramedics and allied healthcare workers are critical part of the medical profession and their contribution is similar to doctors, if not more. The group of allied professionals is large and the bill is trying to regulate this field, by providing dignity to their roles," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe bill has already been passed by the Rajya Sabha.Recalling the role played by paramedics and allied health care workers lab technicians, radiographers, dieticians during the Coronavirus pandemic, the minister said they were as much part of the people's recovery as the doctors.He said the bill aims to establish a statutory body or commission that frames policies and standards, regulate professional conduct and qualifications for allied healthcare professionals besides providing uniformity of service standards across institutions.Vardhan said all standards have been coded by international yardsticks and there will be representations from all States and Union Territories on this commission with each state having state-level commissions."A common regulator has been prepared for all allied professions. This will enable a team-based approach to patient care," he said.The bill provides for regulation and maintenance of standards of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals, assessment of institutions, maintenance of a central and a state register and creation of a system to improve research and development and adoption of latest scientific advancement.The allied and healthcare professions include a wide range of workers for diagnosis, evaluation and treatment of acute and chronic diseases. These professions also work to optimise patient outcomes and attend to overall prevention, promotion, wellness and management of diseases.As per the statement of objects and the reasons of the bill, the advancement in the health sector, changing preferences of consumers and service providers, had warranted creation of a fresh vision of healthcare delivery with a patient-centric approach and focus on moving to a multi-disciplinary team-based care."This has necessitated the need to implement new ways of deploying health workers, strengthening the workforce by task-shifting models and improving access to quality services through qualified and competent allied and healthcare professionals," it added.Earlier in December 2018, the Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill, 2018, was introduced in the Rajya Sabha and the same was referred to the Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committee, which after a detailed examination recommended certain amendments.Therefore, it was withdrawn and a new bill called the National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill incorporating the recommendations made by the panel, was introduced last year.A total of 110 recommendations were made by a parliamentary committee on it and the government accepted 102 while six recommendations were accepted with slight modifications. Only two recommendations were not incorporated.Participating in the debate, Congress member Balubhau Narayanrao Dhanorkar said his party supports the bill as allied healthcare workers are a key to providing treatment to the patients.He said the allied health workers have worked very hard, especially during the pandemic and deserve to be taken care of.Dhanorkar, however, said it is sad that the government does not have any figure about how many of these allied health workers passed away while fighting the pandemic.BJP member Subhash Bhamre said the bill reflected that the Narendra Modi government is dedicated to the service of the poor and through the bill the government wants to bring over 50 types of professionals under the regulatory network."The bill has the potential to bring path-breaking changes in the healthcare services. It is a landmark bill for the welfare of the allied healthcare professionals," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/healthcare-workers-bill-will-give-dignity-to-health-professionals-harsh-vardhan-101616574427902.html
24-03-2021||India||Maha Vikas Aghadi enjoys support of over 175 MLAs: NCP||Mumbai, Mar 24 (PTI) With the BJP questioning Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's "silence" on various issues and asking the state Governor to seek a status report from the government, NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday said the CM will speak at right time and that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has support of more than 175 MLAs.He also termed as "baseless" the BJP's allegations against the Shiv Sena-led government on several issues.Taking a swipe, Malik, who holds Minority Development portfolio, said leaders of BJP must understand that President's Rule cannot be imposed in a state "just like that".He claimed the MVA- comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress- has support of more than 175 MLAs.The state Assembly has 288 MLAs.Malik's reaction came after a BJP delegation met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday morning and requested him to send a report on current situation in the state to President Ram Nath Kovind.Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, who led the delegation, questioned Thackeray's "silence" on various issues.The BJP has been targeting the Thackeray-led government over former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh's graft charges against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and also on a purported state intelligence department report on "corruption" in police transfers in Maharashtra."The chief minister will speak at the right time. He need not speak on every issue....He will speak at appropriate time. BJP's allegations are baseless," Malik told PTI.He said people of the state have started realizing that the BJP is involved in a conspiracy to defame the state government by peddling "half-baked information".The minister alleged the BJP has adopted a strategy through which it is trying to confuse people by claiming that the state government will not last long.Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed the MVA government did not act on an "incriminating" state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of a "large scale corruption" in police transfers and postings, and sought a CBI probe into the episode.Malik on Wednesday reiterated that no due permission was sought to tap phones."The truth is that there is no substance in that report," Malik alleged.He said BJP leaders have been demanding imposition of President's Rule in the state since the last few days."However, the MVA has numbers stacked in its favour. There is a Supreme Court verdict that a government cannot be dissolved until it loses majority on the floor of the House," he said.Issuing a video statement, Malik said, "We (MVA) had support of 169 MLAs (when the government was formed). Now, we enjoy support of more than 175 MLAs. The BJP is restless, it cannot live without power. Hence, it is doing all these things". Malik added.He said the BJP's attempts to "destabilize" the government have failed."Earlier, the BJP said the government will not survive even for a month. Then it said the government won't last for three or six months. Then they said MLAs will break away. As the BJP failed not do anything, it is now bent on defaming the state government," Malik said and accused the BJP of using Central agencies to malign the image of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-vikas-aghadi-enjoys-support-of-over-175-mlas-ncp-101616572793883.html
24-03-2021||India||Banks to remain closed for 7 days from March 27 to April 4||Private and Public sector banks will remain closed from March 27 to April 4 barring two days. Banking services will be available for only two days during this period as from March 27-29, the banks would be closed on the account of second Saturday, Sunday and Holi (which falls on Monday).March 30 and April 3 are the two days on which the banks will operate between March 27 to April 4. On March 31 the services will remain suspended on account of the last day of the financial year.Here is a list of the days it will remain closed in the rest of March and start of April:March 27, 2021: Fourth SaturdayMarch 28, 2021: SundayMarch 29, 2021: HoliMarch 31, 2021: Last day of financial yearApril 1, 2021- Bank closing of accountsApril 2, 2021- Good FridayApril 4, - Sunday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-remain-closed-for-7-days-from-march-27-to-april-4-101616572990284.html
24-03-2021||India||Bank officer who allegedly staged ₹15 lakh heist arrested in Jharkhand||A sales officer at the Champua branch of ICICI bank in Odisha and four criminals were arrested late Tuesday evening three days after the former allegedly staged the loot of ₹15 lakh that he had collected from a bank customer near Rangamati in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district, police said on Wednesday.“A SIT was formed to investigate the case in which unknown assailants had looted ₹15 lakh from ICICI Bank Champua sales officer Jagmohan Polai and Shib Sahu near Rangamati on Jagannathpur-Jaintgarh main road around 12 pm noon on March 19. The team picked up Polai on the basis of scientific and technological investigation and he confessed that he planned the loot with local criminals as he needed money desperately due to the financial crisis,” Ajay Linda, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said. The SP said Champua-based 30-year-old Md Salim and Saqib Javed along with 30-year-old Rajendra Laguri from Noamundi and Kripa Sindhu Patra alias Madan Patra from Keonjhar were arrested following Polai’s interrogation.“We have recovered ₹11, 84, 500 from the looted ₹15 lakh and the Pulsar motorcycle used in the crime and mobile phones. We will also seek departmental action against the branch manager of ICICI Bank Champua branch as he did not inform the police beforehand about his staff going to collect ₹15 lakh from a customer though he was bound to inform police about such collection above ₹10 lakh,” added Linda.Police said Polai claimed that he needed the money desperately for the treatment of his mother who he said is suffering from cancer.Salim and Saqib had looted ₹15 lakh from Polai and another bank employee Shib Sahu at Rangamati by firing in the air and escaped easily on a motorcycle on March 19 when Polai and Shib were returning to ICICI Bank Champua branch after collecting the money from bank customer Biswajit Kar, a businessman in Jaintgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-officer-who-allegedly-staged-rs-15-lakh-heist-arrested-in-jharkhand-101616571722694.html
24-03-2021||India||6 states which added the most to India's highest 1-day death toll in this year||Six states cumulatively contributed to 83.27 per cent of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related deaths in the last 24 hours from across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday. Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are also among the states which added the most to the 275 Covid-related fatalities that the country reported today, the health ministry said. This was the highest one-day death toll that was registered this year.Twelve states/ union territories, however, have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Odisha, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Manipur, Dadar and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. India recorded 47,262 new Covid-9 cases between Tuesday and Wednesday morning which took the nationwide tally to 11,734,058, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. The death toll of the country stood at 160,441.Read more: Covid curbs changed the way India livesHere’s a look at the six states which contributed the most to India’s Covid-19 related deaths on Wednesday:﻿﻿MaharashtraMaharashtra, which remains the worst-affected state by the coronavirus pandemic, reported 28,699 cases on Tuesday taking the overall tally of the state to 2,533,026. The state reported the highest number of fatalities with 132 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours which pushed its death toll to 53,589.PunjabPunjab on Tuesday reported 53 more fatalities due to Covid-19 and 2,274 fresh cases which took the death toll to 6,435 and the infection count to 217,663, respectively.ChhattisgarhAs Chhattisgarh reported 1,910 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the state's highest single-day spike in around four months, leaving it with a caseload of 327,588, the state witnessed 20 covid-related deaths which took the death toll to 3,982.Read more: One year of lockdown: How country was halted due to Covid-19KeralaKerala logged 1,985 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and10 more deaths. The death toll stood at 4,517 and the recoveries outnumbered the number of cases with 2,172 people being discharged from hospitals.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu logged 1,437 infections on Tuesday, pushing the tally to 8.69 lakh, while 10 more deaths took the toll to 12,618.KarnatakaKarnataka reported 2,010 new Covid-19 cases and five fatalities on Tuesday which took the state’s tally to 973,657 and the death toll to 12,449.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-states-which-added-the-most-to-india-s-highest-1-day-death-toll-in-this-year-101616570994692.html
24-03-2021||India||SC asks Param Bir Singh to approach Bombay HC with plea against Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach the Bombay high court with his plea for a CBI probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for allegedly running a “money collection scheme” through the police department. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhas Reddy noted in its order that the issue was “serious” since it related to administration at large, but added that the high court was a more appropriate forum for deciding the issue. The bench was emphatic that Singh should have approached the high court first since his request for a CBI probe could also be allowed by the high court. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Singh, then opted to withdraw the petition and said he would approach the high court in the afternoon today, seeking a hearing on Thursday. On Rohatgi’s request, the court also included Deshmukh and National Investigation Agency (NIA) as parties to Singh’s petition. Singh, who was shunted out over the case of explosives being found in an abandoned SUV outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, and the subsequent arrest of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in the case, had filed a writ petition in the top court on Monday. In his plea, Singh claimed that he was transferred to a low-key post in Mumbai Police’s Home Guards by an order on March 17 “immediately” after he brought the corrupt practices of Deshmukh to the knowledge of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and some other senior leaders in the state government. Also Read | ‘What did Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze discuss for 3 hours before arrest?’: NCP“The petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Hon’ble Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Shri Anil Deshmukh, the Hon’ble Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidence are destroyed,” said the petition, filed through advocate Abhinay. It contended that NCP leader Deshmukh held various meetings in February 2021 at his residence with police officers, including Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai and Sanjay Patil, ACP (Social Service Branch), Mumbai, bypassing their seniors, and asked them to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments such as bars, hookah parlours, restaurants. Singh also submitted that he was being made a “scapegoat to divert attention” from the Antilla case, highlighting that while there were vertically five officers between him and Vaze, Deshmukh was the one meeting Vaze at his residence. In that case, now being investigated by the NIA, Vaze has already been arrested. The state ATS has also named Vaze the main accused in the death of Mansukh Hiran who was in possession of the SUV found with the explosives, but reported it stolen a few days before the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-param-bir-singh-to-approach-bombay-hc-with-plea-against-deshmukh-101616570702847.html
24-03-2021||India||Supreme Court reserves order on electoral bonds, but expresses concern over their possible misuse||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved its order on a plea of a non-governmental organisation seeking a stay on the sale of fresh electoral bonds ahead of state assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and the union territory of Puducherry.The three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, however, expressed concerns over the possible misuse of these bonds and asked the Centre to examine it."If a political party gets ₹100 crore worth bonds what is the control over the use of these bonds for illegal activities or purposes outside political agenda?" the bench posed a question.Attorney General KK Venugopal, representing the Centre, said that after the electoral bonds scheme was launched in 2018, black money in election funding has been kept under check as no cash is collected. Bonds can be purchased only through cheque or DD, he said.Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, who represented the Election Commission, said that the EC it is not opposed to these bonds but raised concerns over its anonymity.The petition has been filed by Association For Democratic Reforms (ADR) seeking to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on their validity.The NGO sought an urgent hearing stating that the sale of fresh electoral bonds should be stopped till the top court decides the three pending petitions challenging the electoral bond scheme 2018 which grants anonymity to donors of political parties.An electoral bond is an instrument in the nature of a promissory note or bearer bond which can be purchased by any individual, company, firm or association of persons provided the person or body is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India. The bonds are issued specifically for the purpose of contributing of funds to political parties.In its PIL, the ADR had sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act be struck down. This lack of transparency in the accounts of all political parties was cited as the ground by ADR to oppose this scheme. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added.The electoral bond scheme was notified by the central government on January 2, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-electoral-bonds-but-expresses-concern-over-their-possible-101616569964442.html
24-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: State-run fuel retailers marginally slash prices before polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.State-run fuel retailers marginally slash prices before pollsAfter keeping pump prices frozen for 25 days ahead of crucial assembly elections, state-run fuel retailers, for the first time, reduced petrol price by 18 paise per litre and diesel by 17 paise a litre on Wednesday, even as benchmark Brent crude plunged by about 13% from a peak of $69.63 per barrel since March 12, 2021. Read moreBlame game begins after ruckus in Bihar assembly over Special Armed Police BillOpposition lawmakers allegedly held state assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha hostage in his chamber for three hours amid sloganeering and a siege of the House on the penultimate day of the budget session in protest against the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill on Tuesday. Read moreFor the BJP, the battle in states — with an eye on Rajya SabhaFor the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the upcoming state assembly elections are not just an opportunity to consolidate and expand its footprint across southern and eastern India, but also ramp up its strength in the Rajya Sabha, where it is still in minority. Read moreExplained: Calls for gun controls in US and the politics over themThe shooting in Boulder, Colorado on Monday which left 10 people dead has started the conversation on federal action on gun control in the United States of America. Read more'When we picked Prasidh Krishna in IPL 2018, had no doubts that he'll play for India': Dinesh Karthik on KKR teammateAlmost three years before Prasidh Krishna’s ODI debut against England, the right-arm seamer was signed by Kolkata Knight Riders ahead of IPL 2018 as a replacement to the injured Kamlesh Nagarkoti. Read moreSamantha Akkineni calls Kangana Ranaut 'bravest, most talented actress of our generation' on watching Thalaivi trailerSamantha Akkineni is full of praise for Kangana Ranaut after the trailer release of the latter's film, Thailaivi. She called Kangana the 'bravest' actor of our generation'. Read moreHot wheels: Lamborghini Urus creates record, reaches speed of 298 kmph on iceHigh speeds and icy roads can be a tragic cocktail and driving fast in slippery conditions almost always proving to be extremely risky. Not for a Lamborghini Urus though and not in a controlled test event track. Read moreBhagyashree suggests this alternative to a spoonful of ghee for gut healthGood digestion and increased metabolism are a fantasy for most of us who relish junk food without an iota of guilt but Bollywood actor Bhagyashree recently suggested a solution to ensure gut health and we are rooting for it. Read moreWatch: Will Kangana Ranaut take political plunge? Watch the actor’s answerActor Kangana Ranaut has said that while she takes interest in matters of national importance, she has no connection with politics at all. ‘For me, the world of politics is quite unknown. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-state-run-fuel-retailers-marginally-slash-prices-before-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101616568318703.html
24-03-2021||India||'Democracy murdered in Bihar': Congress on police action against opposition MLAs||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that democracy has been murdered in Bihar after opposition legislators were allegedly roughed up by the police inside the state assembly.The Bihar Assembly witnessed unprecedented turmoil on Tuesday and the police were called in to physically evict legislators who had laid siege to the Speakers chamber.Members of the opposition Grand Alliance, comprising RJD, Congress and the Left, were agitated over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said those stripping democracy have no right to call themselves a government.He said the opposition will continue to raise issues in the public interest and do not fear anything."It is clear from the shameful events in Bihar Assembly that the chief minister is firmly under the influence of BJP and RSS.Those stripping democracy have no right to call themselves a government," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi."The opposition will continue to raise issues in the public interest. We are not afraid," he also said.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged people to raise their voice against the alleged police high handedness in Bihar where RJD and Congress MLAs were allegedly assaulted and manhandled by the police.He said they were raising their voice against the passage of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill in the state assembly, that will empower the police to put anyone behind bars."Democracy had been murdered in Bihar and if the people of the country will not raise their voice now, there will be no democracy left in the country," he told reporters.Surjewala charged that hooliganism has become the order of the day by the JDU and BJP in Bihar."Is this goes on for long, the state legislature will be destroyed as Parliamentary traditions are already compromised. How will this country run," he asked.The Congress leader alleged that if the rights of elected representatives in a democracy and the voices of people are crushed like this, then the country and its Constitution will not survive."I appeal to all citizens to raise their voice against this atrocity, dictatorship and against such hooliganism being spread across the country by the BJP and their friends. If you do not raise your voice now, you will also be held complicit in this travesty. All citizens should unite to raise their voice," Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democracy-murdered-in-bihar-congress-on-police-action-against-opposition-mlas-101616569014465.html
24-03-2021||India||Param Bir Singh, asked by SC to approach HC, withdraws plea against Deshmukh||After the Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain Param Bir Singh's plea seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and asked him to approach the High Court in the matter, the former Mumbai Police chief withdrew the petition, according to news agency PTI.Singh's petition sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh for allegedly running a 'money collection scheme' through the police department. It also demanded that his transfer to a low-key post in Maharashtra Police’s Home Guards be stayed.Ex-Mumbai CP Param Bir Singh withdraws plea from SC for CBI probe against Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh for alleged corrupt malpracticesThe SC, in its order, noted that the issue was “serious” since it related to administration at large, but added that the high court was a more appropriate forum for deciding the issue.Singh was shunted in connection with the Ambani bomb scare probe and the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze. He claimed that he was transferred to the post 'immediately' after he accused the state home minister of corruption in front of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and some other senior leaders.A two-judge bench, comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy, passed the judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-param-bir-singh-s-plea-over-allegations-against-deshmukh-101616568573464.html
24-03-2021||India||Lucknow engineer turns ‘kabadiwala’ in online avatar with app to sell scrap||Shops dealing in scrap are a common feature in Allunagar area of Faizullahganj in Old City. But one of them bearing a red-green banner — lucknowkabadiwala.com – stands out from the rest.Owned by a 29-year-old civil engineer Om Prakash Prajapati, it is a start-up. He had launched it during lockdown, after quitting his job with a construction firm, where he was working as a civil engineer on a salary of ₹30,000 a month. The USP of this outlet is that it enables smart phone users to sell scrap online in a convenient way and at decent prices. “Never in my dreams I imagined that my idea of selling scrap online will get so much appreciation from people,” said Prajapati, who is the youngest in a family of five, including his parents and two brothers. “I first thought of coming up with an online scrap shop mobile application almost a year back when I observed a scrap dealer at a construction site in Varanasi, where I was working as a civil engineer. But that was just a dream and now I am surprised how this dream became a reality,” said Prajapati. He said the idea eventually took shape during lockdown when he decided to proceed with his start-up. But as it happens in most of the success stories, Prajapati too had to face lot of opposition from people within the family. “People, especially my relatives laughed at my idea and said who will marry a kabadiwala,” he recollected. But criticism did not deter him. In July 2020, Prajapati launched his office/cum warehouse and a mobile application ‘kabadiwala’ (scrap dealer). As the name suggests, kabadiwala is a scrap-dealing mobile application through which smart-phone users can sell scrap online. He said smartphone users can download the mobile application from Playstore. “Once downloaded, the mobile user can log in to the app that is pre fed with the list of scrap material and their prices. One can select the category of scrap to be sold and book an appointment. On the given time, our boys will go there and collect the scrap after paying the due amount,” he added. Once collected, the scrap is segregated and handed over to a recycler. “As there are no middlemen involved, we are offering the highest price for the scrap,” he added. Initially, the response was poor, but it improved gradually. “In eight months, our consumer database increased to around 9,000. On an average, we collect around 5 to 8 tonnes of scrap daily and earn around ₹50,000 to 60,000 monthly. The income often increases during festive seasons like Diwali,” he said. “They offer good prices. Newspapers at ₹14 a kg, aluminum at ₹80 per kg, battery ₹50-70 per kg and brass at ₹270 per kg and so on. The prices are comparatively higher as compared to what is offered by other scrap dealers. It’s an innovative approach that is also very convenient for people,” said Sudhakar Mishra, a private employee, who is a customer of the start-up||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-engineer-turns-kabadiwala-in-online-avatar-with-app-to-sell-scrap-101616568722524.html
24-03-2021||India||Delhi designates metro, malls, religious places 'super spreader' areas||In the wake of spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the Delhi government on Tuesday declared metros, malls, movie theatres and religious places as "super spreader areas". The Delhi government also instructed the district magistrates to increase surveillance in the areas to check the spread.Along with several other states, Delhi is witnessing a spike in daily Covid-19 issues. On Tuesday, it reported more than 1,100 fresh infections in the highest single-day jump in three months. Before this, Delhi reported 888 cases on Monday. On March 20, there were 813 cases and four deaths, while on March 21, 823 cases and one death were reported.As per the state health ministry figures, Delhi's Covid-19 tally stands at 649,973. While the death toll has reached 10,967 after the addition of four deaths in the last 24 hours.Earlier, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) restricted public celebration for upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navratri. "All District Magistrates concerned authorities should ensure strict adherence to the order," it said in the statement.DDMA also ordered random testing (Rapid Antigen Test/RT-PCR) of passengers coming from other states where Covid-19 cases are increasing. The testing will be done at all airports, railway stations, inter-state bust terminals and other alighting points (for private buses).Meanwhile, the country's tally is also witnessing a steady rise On Wednesday, it reported 47,262 cases and 275 fatalities in the country. Five states, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu, are the top contributors. According to the Union health ministry, these states account for 80.90 per cent of the new cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-designates-metro-malls-religious-places-super-spreader-areas-101616567510787.html
24-03-2021||India||Domestic travel picks up as more people make trips this long weekend: Portal||More and more people are planning trips within the country for the coming long weekend, reveals data from a portal. Based on bookings from March 27 to April 4 this year, Booking.com, an online travel agency, said that Goa, New Delhi, Jaipur, Rishikesh and Mumbai are among the top domestic destinations booked by Indians from Holi to Easter.During the same period, hostels and home stays have emerged as the top booked accommodation, apart from the usual hotels, resorts, and guest houses, they said.The portal said that apart from the top destinations mentioned above, Darjeeling, Puri, Udaipur, Bengaluru and Manali also made it to the list of preferred places to visit in the country.Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia, Booking.com said, “2020 was difficult for all of us in the travel sector, but there is hope for the future. We are seeing a heightened desire to travel where travellers are utilising long weekends to make plans on our platform across the country. With travellers optimistic about making the most of long weekends, there is also an increased importance for health and safety, flexibility and diversity in experiences.”As far as mode of travel is concerned, trains are likely to see a surge in passengers this weekend. Swapnil Tripathi, chief business officer, IntrCity RailYatri, a single-window platform offering inter-city travel services by train or bus, said, “As the economy started improving, the Indian inter-city mobility sector has touched 80-85% of the pre-Covid bookings as of February 2021. Reserved trains have reached around 75% of the pre-Covid level while intercity buses have done slightly better on most of the active routes to reach 75-100% of pre-Covid bookings. However, the consumers is now looking for hygiene, sanitisation and safe travel and that is where organised players have done better than others.”“Overall, we have witnessed that bookings on all our pre-Covid operational routes are rising fast, especially on high-velocity routes like Delhi-Lucknow, Delhi-Amritsar, Bengaluru-Hyderabad, Bengaluru-Chennai, and Chennai-Madurai,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-people-making-domestic-trips-this-long-weekend-portal-101616567222692.html
24-03-2021||India||Heavy rain continues in Kashmir for third day, Jammu-Srinagar road remains shut||Heavy rain continued to lash Kashmir for the third consecutive day on Wednesday even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted improvement in the weather by late afternoon.The rainfall triggered landslides and mudslides on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway at more than 10 places which remained closed for the third day with hundreds of vehicles stranded at various places. Efforts are underway to clear the highway for traffic, officials said.“No vehicular movement shall be allowed from either side on Jammu-Srinagar highway in view of inclement weather prediction issued by MeT department,” a spokesman of the Jammu and Kashmir Traffic Police said. In Jammu, senior superintendent of police (traffic) national highway, JS Johar said that landslides at Cafeteria Morh, Digdol, Panthial, Shabanbass, Seri and Marog have blocked the highway in Ramban district.“Men and machinery have been pressed into service to clear the debris from affected stretches,” he said. Around 300 vehicles were stranded on the highway between Nashri and Chanderkote since Monday night but the traffic department and NHAI authorities worked overnight and the majority of the stranded vehicles in Ramban were cleared.“The weather has started improving and we hope to restore the affected stretches soon,” said Johar. The Mughal Road which is an alternate route to connect Kashmir with Jammu, was closed for traffic in December and is expected to be opened in the first week of April after completion of snow clearance operation. The Road connects Shopian in south Kashmir with Rajouri in Jammu. The upper reaches in Kashmir h slight snowfall that led to a fall in temperature. The continuous rain also led to water logging at many places and pushed up the water level of the Jhelum river and other big streams in south and north Kashmir.IMD officials in Srinagar said the upper reaches of Kashmir are witnessing fresh snowfall.“There will be significant decrease in the amount of rainfall today, but the system will prevail over Jammu and Kashmir till the evening,” a senior IMD official said.Schools in some areas of Kupwara district were closed for two days due to rain and snow.Srinagar recorded a maximum of 4.6 degrees Celsius during the night while Jammu recorded 15.9 degrees. Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as night temperature was recorded at minus 2.5 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-continues-in-kashmir-for-third-day-jammu-srinagar-road-remains-shut-101616566326664.html
24-03-2021||India||Fare deducted from pay of workers who flew back to rejoin work: J’khand report||Ramlal Singh, a migrant worker, took a flight to return to Bengaluru on August 8 after his employer arranged his ticket. He looked forward to re-joining work at a private firm as the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread had forced Singh to return home in Jharkhand and left him without any source of income. A month later, Singh was shocked to learn that his employer’s generosity came at a price. The employer deducted ₹3,000 from his ₹10,000 salary as airfare reimbursement.Singh’s case is not isolated. The Jharkhand government’s labour department has prepared a report highlighting the plight of migrant workers like him who faced similar deductions--between ₹3,000 to ₹10,700--from their meagre salaries. HT has reviewed a draft of the report submitted to the Centre’s policy think tank Niti Aayog.Also Read | Covid-19 migrant crisis: How they returnedEmployers flying back migrant workers to return to work hit the headlines when economic activity restarted after the easing of the lockdown in the summer of 2020. India’s estimated 100 million migrants were among the hardest hit when the hard lockdown was imposed between last March and June. The lockdown triggered an exodus of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers from cities. A large number of them walked, cycled, and hitchhiked to return to their homes before special trains and buses were arranged for them. As many as 900,000 migrant workers returned to Jharkhand alone between March and July.Also Read | “There are endless stories of neglect, apathy, and exploitation in the destination cities and states,” said Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren.The labour department, which set up a 24-hour helpline, said it has been able to track at least 100 cases where employers made deductions for flying migrants back to their workplaces in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Chennai. “We have taken a serious note of these findings and contemplating how to take action,” said Soren.Singh said he had no choice but to return to Bengaluru. “I had to work. So, I do not feel so bad that they cut my plane fare,” he said. “I have parents and a young son. So, I was glad to go back. We did ask the contractor if he can find a way of helping us.”In Singh’s case, his employer partly subsidised his plane fare. But Mohammed Irshad had to repay the full amount--- ₹4,800-- spent on him to return to work at a garment factory in Mumbai.Irshad said it made sense for him to take the flight as a bus would have cost him ₹5,000 besides additional money for meals en route. “They [employers] have taken what we owed. If we did not work, then we would not have jobs... how would I then have fed my parents.”Jharkhand’s labour commissioner, Muthu Kumar, said the deductions amounted to a violation of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936. “We will write to all those employers for immediate action. It is inhuman that people were doing this during the lockdown. We see a clear violation of laws.”Zubair Ansari, another migrant worker from Jharkhand’s Palamu, hoped the government will reimburse their airfares. “Tickets were very expensive in June when I returned.”Johnson Topno, who worked for a helpline for migrant workers during the pandemic, said the employers have taken advantage of the vulnerabilities and distress of the migrants. “While the government is pursuing this, there is at the same time, a fear of losing one’s job, and that is too risky.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fare-deducted-from-pay-of-workers-who-flew-back-to-rejoin-work-j-khand-report-101616564702356.html
24-03-2021||India||For Navy, 6 nuclear-powered submarines take priority over 3rd aircraft carrier||The Indian Navy has informed the Narendra Modi government that the induction of six nuclear-powered submarines would take priority over a third heavy aircraft carrier discussed earlier to counter the rapid expansion of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) and dominate the Indian Ocean, people familiar with the matter said.According to South Block officials, the Indian Navy told the country’s national security planners at the Combined Commanders Conference this month that the plan to build the nuclear-powered attack submarines or SSNs should take priority over the project to build a third aircraft carrier (also called indigenous aircraft carrier 2). It is understood that the Navy will seek “acceptance of necessity” or AON approval from the government on the submarine project soon as China has developed the capacity to produce 12,000-tonne Renhai class destroyers in just five years.While even Pakistan’s Agosta 90B submarine, the only one of the five that are operational, can make its way to the Bay of Bengal with an intrepid crew, the SSN class of submarines, carrying a conventional missile and weapon systems, is only limited in range by food supplies.The nuclear-powered submarines can patrol the entire Indo-Pacific without even surfacing once and remain detected on high seas and equatorial waters. China has nearly a dozen such submarines in operation. Its latest, the Type 095 attack submarine has a reduced acoustic signature as compared to the Han class of submarines.While India has a number of options to jointly design and develop the submarines with countries such as Russia, France and the US under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat rubric, India’s preferred partner appears to be Paris as it is already designed Kalvari class of diesel attack submarines for Indian Navy and is currently jointly developing a nuclear attack submarine (named Alvaro Alberto) for Brazil under a strategic partnership.Apart from being India’s closest allies in defence technology, joint development of submarines with France is free from any regulatory regimes such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR) with the US or any future sanctions in case of Russia. India already operates one Akula class SSN from Russia on lease with an agreement to get another one when the lease on the first expires.The government’s emphasis on upgrading naval assets is an attempt to counter China’s navy in the Indian Ocean and beyond. The PLA’s navy is larger than the US navy in terms of the number of ships, although the US is still ahead in terms of tonnage and capability.It is in this context that the Navy is also seriously thinking of reviving its heavy-destroyer project to counter the 12,000-tonne cruisers being built by China. The first of India’s 7,500 tonne INS Visakhapatnam class of guided-missile destroyers is expected to be commissioned within a year.Indian national security planners believe that the next threat from China will come on Indo-Pacific, particularly in the Indian Ocean with the US Navy continuously deployed in the South China Sea and ensuring that the PLAN ballistic missile submarines do not cross the first island chain. This means that PLAN will have to take a circuitous route to deploy its nuclear submarines in the Indian Ocean as it is mandatory for sub-surface vessels to surface when they cross Malacca Straits, Sunda or Lombok straits.As part of India’s effort to match China, India will commission its second aircraft carrier INS Vikrant - it is New Delhi’s first indigenously-built aircraft carrier - later this year. It will be home-based on the eastern seaboard while INS Vikramaditya, the other carrier built by Russia, will be on the western seaboard of India. INS Arighat, the second nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) will also be commissioned this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-navy-6-nuclear-powered-submarines-take-priority-over-3rd-aircraft-carrier-101616564522467.html
24-03-2021||India||CJI Bobde recommends Justice NV Ramana as his successor||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Wednesday sent a letter to the government recommending the appointment of Supreme Court Judge Justice NV Ramana as the next CJI and handed over a copy of the recommendation to Justice Ramana.CJI SA Bobde is due to retire on April 23.The development comes after the Centre asked the CJI to recommend his successor with a little less than a month before his retirement, according to news agency PTI.Now, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will put the CJI's recommendation before PM Modi, who will advice the President in the matter of appointment.Justice NV Ramana is the senior-most judge in the top court after Chief Justice Bobde and has a tenure till August 26, 2022. He is scheduled to take over charge as the 48th CJI on April 24.He hails from Andhra Pradesh and was appointed as a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in June 2000. He served as Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court before being appointed to the Supreme Court in February 2014.Justice Bobde was sworn in as the 47th CJI in November 2019, succeeding Justice (retired) Ranjan Gogoi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-bobde-recommends-justice-nv-ramana-as-his-successor-101616564020488.html
24-03-2021||India||Mistrust between China, India at all-time high, says US admiral||While the US-India military relationship is at its best level in years, the mistrust between China and India is at an all-time high, a top US admiral has said and alleged that Beijing's lack of transparency and duplicitous actions in the Indian Ocean region threaten stability and security there.Admiral John C. Aquilino also commended India's efforts to protect its northern border during a months-long standoff with China."The mistrust between China and India is at an all-time high. In addition to the rupture of bilateral relations as a result of the LAC (Line of Actual Control) skirmish, India is deeply suspicious of Chinese activities as part of the 'One Belt, One Road' initiative," Aquilino told members of the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday during the confirmation hearing for commander, US Indo-Pacific Command."China's posture initiatives in both Gwadar, Pakistan, and Hambantota, Sri Lanka, also cause India concern. As is the case across the Indo-Pacific, PRC's lack of transparency and duplicitous actions in the Indian Ocean region threaten stability and security in the region," he said in a written response to a set of questions from Senators for the confirmation hearing.Replying to a question from Senator Deb Fischer about China's actions along India's borders and the future of the India-US military cooperation, Aquilino commended the work done by India to protect its northern border. He also highlighted the need for cooperation and working with allies and partners to build deterrence.Aquilino said the US-India military relationship is at its best level in years, and the United States continues to experience growth in both bilateral and multilateral engagements and exercises, high-profile joint operations, and an increased number of senior level engagements.Recent operations by the Chinese have helped highlight the threat China's actions pose to all nations, including India. "The conclusion of enabling agreements over the past several years has allowed us to operate more closely, and we are able to work together more than ever before to secure a free and open Indo-Pacific," he said.If confirmed, the top US admiral said, his priorities would be to maintain the momentum that has been generated by his predecessor and build information sharing and security agreements, support India's defence transformation efforts through exchanges and exercises, continue to encourage India's acquisition of US equipment to promote interoperability, and increase military-to-military contacts throughout standing dialogues, senior leader contacts, and working-level exchanges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mistrust-between-china-india-at-all-time-high-says-us-admiral-101616562411618.html
24-03-2021||India||Maharashtra minister Dhananjay Munde tests Covid-19 positive for second time||Maharashtra Social Justice minister Dhananjay Munde on Tuesday informed that he has again tested positive for Covid-19. The NCP leader had detected positive for the virus last year in June as well."Today is the second time I have tested positive for corona. I request everyone who has come in contact with me in the last few days to get tested. There is nothing to worry about. Everyone should wear a mask, follow social distancing and take care of themselves," Dhananjay Munde tweeted in Marathi.This comes three days after Maharashtra cabinet minister and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's son, Aaditya Thackeray, announced that he has tested positive for Covid-19.In a tweet, he urged those who had come in contact with him to get tested for the virus."On having mild symptoms of Covid, I had myself tested and I am Covid positive. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get themselves tested. I urge everyone to realise that it is extremely important to not let your guard down. Please follow Covid protocols and stay safe," he had tweeted.Maharashtra is witnessing a huge surge in daily Covid-19 cases. The state has reported 28,699 new Covid-19 cases, 13,165 recoveries, and 132 deaths in the last 24 hours, the health department said on Tuesday.According to the department, the total count of cases has gone up to 25,33,026 including 2,30,641 active cases and 22,47,495 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-dhananjay-munde-tests-covid-19-positive-for-second-time-101616561458375.html
24-03-2021||India||Day after meeting Union home secretary over Deshmukh issue, Fadnavis meets Maharashtra governor||Amid fast-paced political developments in Maharashtra, a delegation of opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis arrived at the Raj Bhavan in Mumbai to meet Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday morning.Watch: BJP team meets Governor; slams CM Uddhav’s silence on Anil Deshmukh caseThe delegation comprising state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil and other leaders submitted a memorandum to the governor requesting him to send a report on current situation in Maharashtra to President Ram Nath Kovind.After the meeting, Fadnavis said that the governor should ask the chief minister what action has been taken on the issue of extortion and transfer racket. "CM Uddhav Thackeray has maintained silence on the entire political crisis. We have requested Governor to make him speak and seek a report from him," said the former chief minister.The BJP has been attacking the three-party ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance over the allegations against state home minister Anil Deshmukh, demanding his resignation. The NCP leader has been accused of corruption by Param Bir Singh, an IPS officer who was transferred as Mumbai police commissioner during the investigation into security threat case against billionaire Mukesh Ambani.Singh said in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh gave Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, arrested in the Ambani bomb scare case, a target to extort ₹100 crore from various establishments of Mumbai. Singh has moved the Supreme Court against his transfer and to seek a CBI probe against Deshmukh. The court will hear the petition today. The minister has, meanwhile, denied all the charges.Also Read: MVA may announce probe in Vaze-Deshmukh row todayThe NCP, part of MVA, has also backed the minister, ruling out his resignation. NCP chief Sharad Pawar - credited with stitching the three-party alliance of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - acting as the chief crisis manager, held a press conference and multiple meetings with party leaders and discussed the issue. He told reporters on Monday that Deshmukh was recuperating from Covid-19 during the period Param Bir Singh has claimed that he was indulging in "extortion activities" through police officers.But Fadnavis took a jibe at the senior politician from Maharashtra over the statement. "Deshmukh was in home quarantine from February 15-27 but met officers and was not in isolation. I feel Pawar Sahab was not briefed properly yesterday," the BJP leader said.Fadnavis claimed the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) government in the state did not act on a state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of "large scale corruption" in police transfers and postings, and said he would seek a probe by the CBI.The BJP leader met the Union home secretary in Delhi on Tuesday and submitted all the evidence. "The Union home secretary told me that they will verify documents and evidence submitted and a report will be sent to the Central government, which will take appropriate action," Fadnavis told reporters after the meeting.However, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that there is nothing serious in the documents Fadnavis gave to the home secretary. "The government will not come under threat with it," he added.Meanwhile, amid the calls for his resignation, Deshmukh met Thackeray at the latter's residence 'Varsha' in Mumbai on Tuesday. Maharashtra Cabinet is scheduled to hold a meeting on Wednesday in Mumbai and is likely to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-meets-maharashtra-governor-amid-row-over-anil-deshmukh-101616560502174.html
24-03-2021||India||Bihar police arrest 14 people for illegal sand mining in Rohtas, seize 55 trucks||Fourteen people were arrested, 55 trucks, three tractors and a heavy vehicle were seized during a crackdown against illegal sand mining in Bihar’s Rohtas district, police said on Tuesday.The raids were conducted in Dehri, Nasariganj, Indrapuri, Karakat and Darihat police station areas near Sone river.“Cases were registered against the accused with concerned police stations under Sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Bihar Minerals Rules, superintendent of police (SP),” Ashish Bharti said.Police carried out the raids after a tip-off. The vehicles were seized from the illegal mining site, police said.The arrested drivers and miners were identified as Chandan Yadav of Ramgarh, Pankaj Kumar of Dehri, Raju Kumar of Baghaila, Hiralal Paswan of Sasaram, Hareram Paswan of Dinara, Amarjeet and Vishal Yadav of Chandauli (UP), Dharmu Mallah of Durgawati, Dhananjay Chaudhary of Shivsagar, Majanu Ali and Ashok Kumar Pal of Chenari, Jitendra Kumar of Tilauthu, Manish Kumar of Obra and Chhotan Kumar of Inrapuri, said police.“We will continue the raids”, Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-arrest-14-people-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-rohtas-seize-55-trucks-101616560684236.html
24-03-2021||India||Amid row over GNCTD Bill, TMC MPs rush to Delhi||TMC MP Derek O'Brien on Wednesday said his party MPs have rushed to the national capital to stop the "bulldozing" of bill that seeks to give more power to the Delhi Lieutenant Governor, in the Rajya Sabha."Two days to go for elections in five States. Yet Trinamool's Rajya Sabha MPs air dash to Delhi to stop bulldozing of #GNCT Bill that disempowers an elected Delhi government. Another knife into the heart of democracy, the Constitution and Parliament. Worse still, Home Minister electioneering, not piloting Bill. Cruel irony," he tweeted.2 days to go for elections in 5 States.Yet Trinamool RS MPs airdash to Delhi to stop bulldozing of #GNCT Bill that disempowers an elected Delhi govt. Another knife into heart of democracy, Constitution #Parliament. Worse still Home Min electioneering not piloting Bill.Cruel ironyO'Brien had on Tuesday written to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, requesting him to postpone the consideration and passing of the bill in view of the absence of TMC members in the Upper House due to the West Bengal assembly polls.The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor (L-G)".The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-over-gnctd-bill-tmc-mps-rush-to-delhi-101616559702672.html
24-03-2021||India||Harsh summer expected as La Niña proceeds to weaken: All you need to know||The cooling effect of La Niña, a global weather pattern, has started waning and may completely turn neutral in April, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Here is all you need to know about its impact:• It is likely to result in harsh summer as La Niña is associated with the cooling of Pacific waters. • A La Niña year generally receives good rainfall and temperatures are lower than normal.• La Niña has started weakening after being at its peak in January and February. • It is often associated with lower temperatures in India. • But that is now unlikely during the rest of the summer and monsoon months. • The actual weather conditions will depend on local synoptic features.Also Read | Early onset of summer in NW India despite La Niña’s cooling effect?• The interaction of westerlies and easterlies over central India is currently causing thunderstorm activity and temperatures have dropped. But overall, La Niña will phase out gradually.• IMD’s monsoon mission coupled forecasting system has indicated the likely warming of sea surface temperatures (SSTs) over the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean in April and May, which indicates a transition of La Niña condition to El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO)-neutral condition. • This means neither El Niño nor La Niña. • El Niño is a warming of the ocean surface or above-average sea surface temperatures.• There is also a high probability that La Niña will re-emerge after or during the monsoon, according to IMD. • The weakening of La Niña conditions indicates a harsh summer is likely. • There is a 60% probability of ENSO-neutral conditions in April.• There is no chance of El Niño which makes summer even harsher in India. • Monsoon is likely to be also normal this year. • La Niña is expected to re-emerge after the monsoon so it may remain moderate during the upcoming winter.• ENSO is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperatures and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean. • It has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods, and drought. • El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite effect. • In India, El Niño is associated with drought or weak monsoon, while La Niña is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.• This winter was the third warmest since 1901 when IMD began keeping records. • It was also the second warmest in the past 120 years when minimum or early morning temperatures were considered. The warmest winter was recorded in 2016 followed by 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-summer-expected-as-la-ni-a-proceeds-to-weaken-all-you-need-to-know-101616559302171.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19 surge: MP CM launches 'Mera Mask Meri Suraksha' campaign||To curb the rising cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) in state, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday launched 'Mera Mask Meri Suraksha' campaign. In an attempt to raise awareness about Covid-19 in Bhopal, the CM urged all citizens to wear masks at all times. CM Chouhan also spoke on the importance of maintaining hygiene and drew circles in front of shops to ensure customers follow social distancing in marketplaces.  Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Those who are capable, I appeal to them to distribute face masks among the underprivileged. The government will also try to distribute masks. I have asked women self-help groups to stitch masks at war footing. I appeal to everyone to wear face masks. I am hopeful that we would not let the situation deteriorate," he said, according to news agency ANI. He also urged people to celebrate the upcoming festival of Holi at home.Coronavirus cases in India have seen a sudden spike in the last few weeks. On Wednesday, the country saw 47,262 new cases and 275 deaths, according to the health ministry dashboard. As many as 11,734,058 people have been infected with the virus in total while the death toll has reached 160,441. Meanwhile, 11,205,160 have been discharged with 23,907 recoveries being recorded on Wednesday. In Madhya Pradesh, there are currently 8,592 active Covid-19 cases. As many as 2,64,575 patients have recovered from the disease so far, while 3,908 fatalities have been reported, according to the ministry data.Meanwhile, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said that the government was considering imposing a lockdown on Sundays in two to three cities."Around 300 to 400 Covid-19 cases are being reported in Indore and Bhopal daily. If cases increase at this pace, we will soon return to the situation that prevailed earlier. With folded hands, I urge people to follow all guidelines." Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur have been put under lockdown every Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-surge-mp-cm-launches-mera-mask-meri-suraksha-campaign-101616558745846.html
24-03-2021||India||On lockdown anniversary, India records over 47K new Covid-19 infections; huge jump in active cases||India recorded 47,262 new cases of the coronavirus disease in a timespan of 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Wednesday morning. This took the nationwide tally to 11,734,058, the data showed.The country also recorded 275 related fatalities, its highest one-day toll this year. The fatality count pushed the death toll up to 1,60,441, the ministry data showed.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu - which have reported a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases - are major contributors in the nationwide tally, the health ministry has said.These states together account for 80.90 per cent of the new cases, according to the ministry.India's total active caseload is rising after touching its lowest mark in mid-February. On Wednesday morning it stood at 23,080.The government, meanwhile, announced on Tuesday that everyone above the age of 45 years can get themselves vaccinated from April 1 - heeding to the view of the experts who said that vaccination coverage has to be increased in the wake of the resurgence in the disease's numbers.India crossed a significant milestone in the fight against the global pandemic yesterday when the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed five crore. A total of 5,00,75,162 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 7 pm on Tuesday.These include 79,03,068 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 50,09,252 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 83,33,713 frontline workers (FLWs) (1st dose), 30,60,060 FLWs (2nd dose), 2,12,03,700 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 45,65,369 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities.Amid the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also issued new guidelines for effective control of the disease. The guidelines will be effective from April 1 to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47262-new-cases-take-india-s-covid-19-tally-past-11-7-million-101616556684833.html
24-03-2021||India||SC waives compound interest on loans during moratorium: Key takeaways from order||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that compound interest (interest on interest) be waived on all borrowers, irrespective of the size of the loan, that availed a six-month loan moratorium announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) between March 1, 2020, and August 31, 2020. Here is all you need to know about the order:• It will likely benefit those with loans in excess of ₹2 crore and increase the cost of the government, should it desire to pay for the waiver, by around ₹7,000 crore.• The apex court also removed a nearly seven-month-long stay on classifying loans as bad (or as non-performing assets, NPAs)• It rejected pleas seeking an extension of the moratorium, more relief, and a complete waiver of interest.• In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread, RBI, on March 27, announced a three-month moratorium on loans. • This was extended by three more months till August 31.Also Read | SC to hear plea to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds ahead of Assembly polls• But because banks treated the interest that would have otherwise been paid during the moratorium as a separate loan, and said they would charge interest on it, a public interest litigation was filed in the Supreme Court seeking waiver of this interest on interest.• In October, during a hearing of this case, the Union government told the Supreme Court that this interest on interest would be waived for eight categories of small borrowers who availed loans up to ₹2 crore.• The categories were MSME loans, education loans, housing loans, consumer durable loans, credit card dues, automobile loans, personal loans to professionals, and consumption loans.• At the time RBI told the court that banks would work with companies in sectors hit hardest by Covid-19 (hotels and power, for instance) to restructure loans under a special so-called restructuring window that would be open till December 31, 2020.• This was challenged by various industry associations, business groups and trader bodies demanding more and similar relief. • Another clutch of petitions heard by the court demanded waiver of regular interest during moratorium, the extension of moratorium beyond August 31, 2020, the extension of the period for restructuring of loans by banks beyond December 31, sector-wise relief schemes for particular industries, and further relief beyond what was already provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scwaives-compound-interest-on-loans-during-moratorium-key-takeaways-from-order-101616558281820.html
24-03-2021||India||Bihar Assembly in chaos over Special Armed Police Bill: Key points to know||The Bihar assembly was thrown into disarray on Tuesday after the opposition created a ruckus over the Special Armed Police Bill which seeks to give more teeth to the state police. The assembly saw multiple adjournments as opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leaders raised slogans demanding the Nitish Kumar-led government to withdraw the bill. The opposition later staged a walkout, while the bill was passed.What happened in the assembly?At around 4:30 pm, speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha adjourned the house but some opposition leader prevented him from leaving his chamber. They surrounded the chamber from all sides and raised slogans.Following this, the marshals rushed to the premise to prevent the agitated legislators from getting physical with those in the treasury benches. A heavy contingent of police personnel wearing riot gear also reached the premises and carried out the eviction work.RJD MLA Satish Kumar was also carried on a stretcher from the assembly; the leader claimed he was "manhandled by police and local goons" inside the premises during the protest.Responding to the ruckus, the speaker said, "Today's incident is condemnable. All members of the Assembly should respect the Constitution. This is a serious issue," ANI reported.What is the bill?The bill, which was introduced last week, seeks to rename the Bihar Military Police. It seeks to change the military police to special armed forces that can be deployed to secure industrial units in the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force. Explaining the bill, While the government terms it the need of the hour in view of growing needs to safeguard important installations, opposition alleges that it empowers the state police to arrest people without a warrant in the name of security.Amid the uproar, the bill was passed by the state Assembly on Tuesday and it will be sent to the legislative council.What opposition says?Once enacted, the bill will give such powers to the Bihar Special Armed Police that the Opposition feels would usher in ‘police raj’. "This law means that search will be conducted without a warrant and 'any policemen can arrest if they believe something is wrong'. There is no use of courts and magistrates, " news agency ANI quoted RJD leader Tejshwi Yadav as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-in-chaos-over-special-armed-police-bill-key-points-to-know-101616557346374.html
24-03-2021||India||Everyone above 45 eligible for Covid vaccine from April 1: All you need to know||The Centre on Tuesday announced everyone above 45 will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination from April 1. Here is all you need to know about the announcement:• It comes amid requests from experts as well as several states to allow more people to take shots as the country is grappling with a sharp resurgence in cases.• India recorded 47,239 cases on Tuesday, the highest since November 8. • The government’s Co-Win dashboard showed that as of 7pm on Tuesday, a little over 41.5 million people have received their first doses.• Less than 8 million have gotten both their doses.Also Read | Focus on test-track-treat protocol: MHA to states• The country targets inoculating 300 million people by the end of July.• In the 67 days since the campaign was launched, close to 50 million doses have been administered.• But the recipients have been limited to those who are at higher risk due to their age (60 and above), pre-existing health conditions (as long as they are 45 and older) or their profession (if they work as health workers or as frontline service staff).• From April 1, people above 45 will not need to present medical certificates showing that they suffer from any of the predetermined medical conditions.• The registration process for this category will begin on April 1• According to an analysis of Covid-19 infection and mortality trends in India, 62% of all infections have been among people below 45.• But people above this age account for almost 9 in 10 (87%) deaths, making targeting this age band more crucial for inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-above-45-eligible-for-covid-vaccine-from-april-1-all-you-need-to-know-101616557563020.html
24-03-2021||India||NIA files charge sheet against organisation claiming Manipur’s freedom from India||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a charge sheet against five persons in its probe related to formation of a self-styled organisation which declared Manipur’s independence from India and collected funds for its illegal activities. Those named in the charge sheet are: Narengbam Samarjit Singh, Yambem Biren, Narengbam Biswajit Singh, Elangbam Brojendro Singh, and Akoijam Deepa Anand. Officials said that the five have been charged under the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The charge sheet was filed before a special NIA court in Imphal, Manipur.According to NIA spokesperson Jaya Roy, this case pertains to the formation of Manipur State Council in London on October 29, 2019. Self-styled external affairs and defence minister of said council, Narengbam Samarjit Singh, and its chief minister, Yambem Biren, then declared Manipur independent of the Union of India.“Investigation has revealed that Narengbam Samarjit Singh was the chairman and managing director of Salai Group of Companies and SMART Society. He, along with his associates Elangbam Brojendro Singh and Akoijam Deepa Anand, illegally collected huge amounts of money by inviting deposits to his companies with the promise of 36% annual returns,” said Roy. “These illegal funds were laundered by Singh and his associates through various companies of the Salai Group of Companies/SMART Society. The illegitimate funds were utilised for unlawful activities like declaration of independence of Manipur from the Union of India and the formation of Manipur State Council at London and also for funding the army of the Manipur State Council,” she added. The agency didn’t share further details on accused persons. (With agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-organisation-claiming-manipur-s-freedom-from-india-101616557201903.html
24-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address rallies in poll-bound Assam today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Day after manifesto released, PM Modi to address rallies in poll-bound Assam todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday address election rallies in West Bengal and Assam, where assembly polls will be held in the coming weeks. Read more1,000-year old Yadadri temple in Telangana gets complete makeoverTelangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s dream to build a magnificent temple in the state that matches Tirumala, India’s richest temple in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, is going to be a reality soon. Read moreOne year of lockdown: How country was halted due to Covid-19On March 23 last year, the Centre announced the strictest measure in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic which had just started to ravage the country. India, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be put under a "lockdown" from the next day. Read moreSC to hear Param Bir Singh's plea seeking CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh todayThe Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday will hear former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh's petition seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into allegations levelled by him against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Read morePrasidh Krishna breaks 24-yr-old record to join long list of pacers shining on debutAdd Prasidh Krishna to a long and illustrious list of Karnataka fast bowlers to have turned out for India. A wiry frame belies the pace that the lanky bowler—he’s 6ft2—can generate, but Krishna, 25, was always earmarked for better things in life. Read moreKangana Ranaut parties with Ekta Kapoor, Anupam Kher on her birthday. See pics and videosActor Kangana Ranaut, who turned 34 on Tuesday, hosted a grand party at her place in Mumbai, after launching the trailer of her ambitious political biopic, Thalaivi. Anupam Kher also attended the bash and shared videos which Kangana has also re-shared on her Instagram Stories. Ekta Kapoor, Vivek Agnihotri, Pallavi Joshi, among many others, also in attendance. Read moreEijaz Khan said he 'will never go near a woman' on Bigg Boss, then he fell for Pavitra Punia: 'I have to eat my words'Actor Eijaz Khan, who found love on Bigg Boss 14, has explained how he came to eat his own words. Prior to entering the house, he'd said that he'd never fall for anyone, and had made peace with being single. But during the show, he fell in love with co-contestant Pavitra Punia. Read moreFarmers find cubs in sugarcane fields. How they were reunited with mama leopardFarmers harvesting sugarcane in a village in Maharashtra found something strange in their fields - two tiny leopard cubs. A post about how the cubs were reunited with their mother has since won netizens’ hearts. Read moreWatch: India abstains from vote on Sri Lanka at UNHRC over civil war crimes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-rallies-in-poll-bound-assam-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101616554489202.html
24-03-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear today petition seeking stay on fresh sale of electoral bonds ahead of Assembly polls||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday hear plea of a non-governmental organisation seeking a stay on the sale of fresh electoral bonds ahead of state assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and the union territory of Puducherry.The petition has been filed by Association For Democratic Reforms (ADR) seeking to stop fresh sale of electoral bonds from April 1 till the top court decides on their validity.The petition will be heard by a bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing the ADR, last week mentioned the matter before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, for an urgent listing of the case.The plea of the NGO sought an urgent hearing stating that the sale of fresh electoral bonds should be stopped till the top court decides the three pending petitions challenging the electoral bond scheme 2018 which grants anonymity to donors of political parties."There is a serious apprehension that any further sale of Electoral Bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. Thus, the petitioner seeks a direction that no further opening of the window for the sale of electoral bonds be allowed during the pendency of the instant writ petition," the petition stated.The Petitioner-NGO in it is application stated that previously, on two occasions, the government opened a special sale window of electoral bonds right before the State assembly elections, and so far more than ₹6500 crores worth of electoral bonds have been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party.An electoral bond is an instrument in the nature of a promissory note or bearer bond which can be purchased by any individual, company, firm or association of persons provided the person or body is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India. The bonds are issued specifically for the purpose of contributing of funds to political parties.In its PIL, the ADR had sought that the amendments carried out to the Finance Act be struck down. This lack of transparency in the accounts of all political parties was cited as the ground by ADR to oppose this scheme. These donations enjoy 100% tax exemption as they need not be reported to the Income Tax department either, the petition added.The electoral bond scheme was notified by the central government on January 2, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-stay-on-fresh-sale-of-electoral-bonds-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101616555938131.html
24-03-2021||India||As Covid cases rise, Odisha caps marriage gatherings at 200, funeral at 50||Amid a resurgence of Covid-19 cases in Odisha over the last three days, the state government on Tuesday issued fresh guidelines limiting the number of people at marriages and related gatherings to 200 instead of 500 while only 50 people can attend funerals.The Special Relief Commissioner’s office said police would give special attention to enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour in public places, especially in markets, religious institutions, wedding venues etc. As urban areas are more vulnerable to rapid spread of the virus, enforcement and surveillance activities would be strictly monitored there.On Tuesday, Odisha reported 113 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total active cases to 898.In view of the Covid resurgence, the Jagannath temple in Puri would be closed once a week.Meanwhile, the state government said all health facilities and community health workers would step up surveillance of ILI/SARI cases and ensure their testing. “The testing of returnees from Red Flag States would have to be ensured as per health and family welfare department guidelines. RT-PCR testing levels must be increased as per the targets communicated to districts. For all positive cases, contact tracing must be done and the guideline of Test-Track-Treat be followed,” the government order said.It also said that wherever a cluster of cases is detected, mini-containment zones can be set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-cases-rise-odisha-caps-marriage-gatherings-at-200-funeral-at-50-101616556002089.html
24-03-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 28,699 fresh Covid cases, 132 deaths||After a drop in Covid-19 cases on Monday, Maharashtra recorded more than 25,000 infections again with 28,699 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 2,533,026. It also recorded 132 deaths, taking the toll to 53,589.Mumbai also recorded 3,514 cases and eight fatalities, taking the tally to 369,451 and the toll to 11,604. There are 230,641 active cases in the state, while the positivity rate is 13.63%.However, despite the surge in cases, experts are not recommending a lockdown since the economy is limping back to normal. Instead, they say the state should start vaccinations for everyone above 18, and the public must follow the Covid-19 protocol to contain the spread of the infection.Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “No one wants the economy to be hampered again due to a lockdown. But curbs can be put on non-essential activities, such as morning and evening walks, and on those who leave homes just for an outing in the parks or beaches. This will not affect any businesses or those dependent on such businesses for their day-to-day income.”Meanwhile, the state has issued guidelines regarding celebration of Shab-e-Barat this weekend, asking organisers to hold the event online. If the religious congregation is being performed in the mosque, appropriate measures must be taken to sanitise, social distancing must be maintained and everyone should be wearing masks, the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-28-699-fresh-covid-cases-132-deaths-101616555281674.html
24-03-2021||India||Odisha sends back tigress from Satkosia reserve to Madhya Pradesh||The much-vaunted inter-state tiger translocation drive ended in a whimper after Sundari, the four-and-half year-old tigress relocated from Madhya Pradesh in 2018 to Satkoisa tiger reserve in Odisha’s Angul district was sent back to the Kanha reserve in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday evening.Angul Regional Chief Conservator of Forest Pradeep Raj Karat said the 160-kg tigress was tranquilised after several attempts to put it in a cage ended in failure. “After a tranquilising shot was given to the tigress, she took 15 minutes to lose consciousness. The forest personnel then brought her into a cage,” said Karat. The RCCF said.The tigress was then loaded in a special vehicle brought in by a team from Kanha National Park. The tigress would reach Ghorela rewilding centre of Kanha National park on Wednesday afternoon.In June 2018, Sundari was brought to Satkosia tiger reserve of Angul district from Bandhavgarh tiger reserve of Madhya Pradesh under country’s first interstate relocation exercise for tigers. Mahabir, another tiger from Madhya Pradesh which was brought in the same month as part of state government’s plan to repopulate Satkosia tiger reserve, died a few months later after being caught in metal snares laid by poachers. Sundari too was shifted to a special enclosure in Satkosia tiger reserve after it killed a 45-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man living inside the reserve in September 2018, triggering violence by locals who burnt the forest department’s boats and beat house.The ₹19-crore ambitious tiger relocation exercise conceived by the Union ministry of environment and forests, National Tiger Conservation Authority and Wildlife Institute of India was started in June 2018 under the project of “augmentation and recovery of tiger population in Satkosia tiger reserve”. Six tigers (three pairs) from different reserves of Madhya Pradesh were to be sent to Odisha under the project. The NTCA spent ₹8 crore for translocation of Sundari and Mahabir.However, after the death of Mahabir and captivity of Sundari, the National Tiger Conservation Authority in December 2019 had asked Odisha government to send back Sundari from Satkosia accusing the Odisha forest and wildlife department of making a mess out of the monitoring and management of the relocated tigress. NTCA said Sundari was not monitored and managed as per the standard operating procedure set by it.Expressing dismay over the lack of preparation for the reintroduction of tigers in Satkosia reserve, the NTCA said the Odisha forest and wildlife department could not take steps for prey augmentation, creation of inviolate space, ecodevelopment, capacity building of staff and enhancement of protection in spite of availability of sufficient funds and technical support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sends-back-tigress-from-satkosia-reserve-to-madhya-pradesh-101616554861730.html
24-03-2021||India||Dry weather likely over NW India from tomorrow: IMD||After widespread rain and thunderstorms over the western Himalayas and parts of the northwestern plains this week, dry weather is likely over the region from Thursday, according to India Meteorological Department.A Western Disturbance is lying as a cyclonic circulation over Afghanistan and an induced cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood. Moisture incursion from north Arabian Sea over northwest India is likely to reduce from today. Under the influence of all these meteorological features, scattered rain and thunderstorms are likely over northwest India today. From then on, a dry weather is predicted over the region from Thursday.Also Read | Explained: Ken-Betwa river interlinking project and environmental concerns“Maximum temperatures are likely to go up over Delhi and other parts of northwest India from March 26. The maximum temperatures are likely to be around 37-38 degrees C (°C) by end of the month,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Scattered rainfall and thunderstorm with lightning is likely over parts of central and west India during the next two days. Hailstorms are also likely over parts of Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada. Due to eastward movement of the Western Disturbance, dry weather will prevail over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan from today, according to IMD. Clear weather conditions are likely over Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh from Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dry-weather-likely-over-nw-india-from-tomorrowimd-101616554021655.html
24-03-2021||India||One year of lockdown: How country was halted due to Covid-19||On March 23 last year, the Centre announced the strictest measure in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic which had just started to ravage the country. India, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be put under a "lockdown" from the next day. Explaining what it means, PM Modi said it will be more stringent than the one-day Janta Curfew announced on March 22, 2020. "Stay wherever you are," the Prime Minister announced in a special address to the nation.Lockdown meant the entire country stopped. Offices were closed, transport services halted and flights grounded. The unprecedented measure sought to break the chain of infection and stop the further spread of the coronavirus disease.Also Read | Covid curbs changed the way India livesWednesday marks the first anniversary of the lockdown, which saw multiple extensions and eventually ended with a phased unlocking. Here's everything you need to know about it:1) When the lockdown was first announced, the country had only 500 cases and around 50 people had died due to Covid-19. Today, the infection tally has risen to 11.68 million, according to the Union health ministry figures. The death toll has reached 160,166.Also Read | The tragic lessons of Covid migrant crisis2) It was a nationwide lockdown under which all movements, except the essential ones, was restricted. All establishments, including private, commercial, educational and government, were asked to remain shut.3) According to experts, the lockdown did slow the growth of the rate of the pandemic. Before the first phase of the lockdown, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases was about 3 days, it improved to doubling every 6.2 days by April 18, 2020.4) On April 15 last year, the lockdown was extended for another 19 days. It was again extended 14 days till May 17. The final phase of the lockdown lasted for another 14 days till May 31.Also Read | One year of lockdown: Where India stands now?5) It was followed by the phased reopening of the country as the lockdown started showing an impact on the economy. The GDP growth rate fall from 8.2 per cent in January–March 2018 to 3.1 per cent in January–March 2020.6) While the lockdown came as a transformative time for many industries including health industries, OTT platforms, e-commerce, sectors related to travel, tourism and hospitality took the worst hit and still in a process of recovery. Due to the prolonged shutdown, many businesses were pushed into losses.7) The lockdown also triggered a massive exodus of migrants due to the shutdown of factories and the workplace. Millions of migrant workers walked or cycled hundreds of kilometres to go back to their native villages, triggering a countrywide outrage and criticism of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-of-lockdown-how-country-was-halted-due-to-covid19-101616552231851.html
24-03-2021||NA||LIVE: Maharashtra records highest single-day spike of 31,855 Covid-19 cases||India reported 47,262 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 275 related fatalities on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 11,734,058 and the death toll to 160,441 in the country. The active caseload was logged at 368,457 and the number of people who recovered from the viral disease stood at 11,205,160, according to the health ministry. Globally, 124,790,051 Covid-19 cases and 2,745,386 related deaths have been recorded, according to data collated by Worldometer. The United States continues to be the worst-hit nation in terms of cumulative caseload, followed by Brazil and India.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra: Over 1.89 lakh people received Covid-19 vaccine dose on TuesdayMaharashtra vaccinated 189,001 people on Tuesday, reports PTI citing government officials.Low turn-out of beneficiaries in Gadchiroli, Gondia, Jalgaon, Hingoli, Jalna, Nandurbar, Osmanabad, Bhandara and Sindhudurg districts might cause a significant drop in Wednesday numbers, officials said.Cumulative Covid-19 vaccinations cross 52 million, over 1.3 million doses administered today#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 5.21 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.13.54 lakh vaccine doses given till 7 pm today.https://t.co/JM2KDUW2cU pic.twitter.com/l32tQPISzjMore than 1.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the country today as the cumulative vaccinations reached 52,197,380, the Union health ministry said.Himachal Pradesh reports 266 new Covid-19 cases, 65 recoveries in last 24 hoursHimachal Pradesh reports 266 new #COVID19 cases and 65 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Total cases 61,301Total recoveries 58,615Death toll 1014Active cases 1654 pic.twitter.com/RQDDiQDLJSHimachal Pradesh recorded 266 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, as cumulative cases reached 61,301. Also 65 patients recovered from the diseases in the same time, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports record single-day spike with 31,855 new casesMaharashtra reports 31,855 new Covid-19 cases, the state's highest single-day spike since the pandemic, taking the tally to 2,564,881 cases so far. Also, 95 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 53,684 patients.Mumbai reports 5185 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deathsMumbai reports 5185 new #COVID19 cases, 2088 recoveries and 6 deaths today.Total cases 3,74,611Total recoveries 3,31,322Death toll 11,606Active cases 30,760 pic.twitter.com/qzwurRGbSpMumbai's Covid-19 tally reached 374,611 cases and death toll climbed to 11,606 as the city reported 5,185 new cases and six new deaths, reports ANI.Kerala reports 2,456 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths; active caseload stands at 24,268Kerala reports 2456 new #COVID19 cases, 2060 recoveries and 10 deaths today.Total recoveries 10,80,803Death toll 4527Active cases 24,268Kerala reported 2,456 new Covid-19 cases and 2,060 recoveries. With 10 new fatalities, death toll climbed to 4,527, reports ANI.Cumulative cases in Kerala stands at 110,9908, according to a bulletin from the state government.Rajasthan reports 669 new Covid-10 cases, tally climbs to 327,175Rajasthan reports 669 new #COVID19 cases, 258 recoveries and 1 death today.Total cases 3,27,175Total recoveries 3,19,695Death toll 2808Active cases 4672 pic.twitter.com/Ev1T5tN6NJRajashtan reported 669 new Covid-19 cases and one related death taking the state's tally to 327,175 cases and death toll reached 2,808, reports ANI. Active cases stands at 4,672 and 319,695 people have recovered from the disease.Manipur reports 10 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathManipur reports 10 new #COVID19 cases and 1 death today. Total cases 29,362 Total recoveries 28,935 Death toll 374Active cases 53 pic.twitter.com/azTNmOkSfzCovid-19 tally in Manipur reached 29,362 cases with 10 new cases reported on Wednesday and one new fatality pushed the death toll to 374, reports ANI.Karnataka reports 2,298 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in last 24 hoursKarnataka reports 2298 new #COVID19 cases, 995 discharges and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 9,75,955Total recoveries 9,46,589Death toll 12,461Active cases 16,886 pic.twitter.com/XzUMKtL1Q6With 2,298 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, Karnataka's tally reached 975,955 cases and death toll climbed to 12,461, reports ANI.ECI has issued guidelines for election during Covid-19 times, says health secretary"The Election Commission of India has issued detailed guidelines on how to conduct elections during Covid times. They are in public domain and there are clear-cut guidelines. Structured SOP has been issued by the Election Commission of India," says Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan when asked about risks by upcoming state assembly elections.Covid-19 vaccines in India effective against UK, Brazilian virus variants, says ICMR chief"Vaccines that are available in our country are effective against the UK and Brazilian variant. The research work against the South African variant is ongoing," says ICMR chief Balram Bharghava when asked about efficacy of vaccines against the coronavirus variants."This applies to both the vaccines. Have no doubt," Dr VK Paul added.'Please avoid such situations': Dr VK Paul on upcoming festivals, celebrations in states"Most grateful to the Delhi government for this decision (to restrict Holi celebrations). We would like to request all the state governments that please invoke these provisions by the ministry of home affairs and please avoid such situations which are known to enhance chains of transmission," Dr VK Paul on upcoming festivals in different states.No risk of blood clotting because of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine observed in India, says Dr VK Paul"Covishield is safe. Please proceed with its scale-up and uptake with the speed that is required. We would like to assure you that there is no risk of blood clotting related complications. Our own scientific community has told us that it is safe," says Dr VK Paul.Over 50 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered as of 10am on Wednesday, says health ministry#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 Coverage of #COVID19Vaccination as on 24th March, 2021 till 10:00 am☑️ Total doses administered: 5,08,41,286☑️ People above 60 years: 2,64,52,366#Unite2FightCorona #LargestVaccineDrive #We4Vaccine pic.twitter.com/lEphxF5gHbAs of 10am on Wednesday, more than 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the country, says Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.Haryana govt bans Holi celebrations in light of rising Covid-19 casesThe Haryana government has banned all Holi celebrations in the state due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, tweeted minister Anil Vij on Wednesday.Time interval between successive doses of Covishield vaccine increased to 4-8 weeksThe time interval between two doses of the Covishield vaccine revised from 4-6 weeks to 4-8 weeks to ensure better protection. #LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/yb0cSj7xy7Poland records 29,978 new cases of Covid-19, highest one-day tally till datePoland on Wednesday recorded 29,978 new cases of Covid-19, outdoing its previous peak at 27,875 recorded last year in November, reported Bloomberg. The country also reported 575 fatalities in the span of 24 hours.Aamir Khan tests positive for Covid-19Bollywood actor Aamir Khan tested positive for Covid-19, said his spokesperson, adding that the actor is currently self-quarantining and following all necessary protocols.Read MoreAndaman reports zero new cases of Covid-19 on WednesdayAndaman and Nicobar Islands did not report any fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, reported news agency PTI. The total case load in the Union territory currently stands at 5,039, with 5 active cases.India has administered over 5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses till date#IndiaFightsCorona:India’s total Vaccination Coverage has surpassed 5 cr DosesMore than 23 lakh vaccine doses given in the last 24 hours#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaWillWin pic.twitter.com/0glnLoonnPDelhi govt declares malls, theatres, metros 'super spreader areas'In wake of the increasing number of #COVID19 cases, cinema halls, malls, metro and religious place have been called 'super spreader' areas. All DMS have been instructed to increase surveillance in areas: Delhi GovernmentIn the wake of rising cases in the capital, the Delhi government has declared cinema halls, metros, malls, and religious places as 'Supreme spreader' areas. All concerned district magistrates have been asked to increase surveillance in these areas of concern, reported news agency ANI.Hong Kong suspends Pfizer- BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine over 'flawed' vialsThe government called the move preventative in nature, taken to ensure the safety and efficacy of the vaccination process.Colombia imposes new restrictions to avoid severe third coronavirus waveColombia will impose new restrictions on movement and enact nightly curfews in municipalities with high occupancy levels in intensive care units as it tries to avoid a severe third wave of Covid-19, President Ivan Duque said on Tuesday.The South American country has reported more than 2.3 million coronavirus infections and 62,274 deaths. It has administered more than 1.23 million vaccine doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-march-23-2021-101616551201295.html
24-03-2021||India||Param Bir Singh's plea challenging his transfer, seeking CBI probe against Deshmukh in SC today||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday will hear former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh's petition seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into allegations levelled by him against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.Singh, ousted in connection with the Ambani security scare and the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze that followed, has accused Deshmukh of running a 'money collection scheme' through the police department.A two-judge bench, comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy, will hear the plea in which the senior police officer also seeks a stay on his transfer to a low-key post in Maharashtra Police’s Home Guards.Singh claims that immediately after he accused the state home minister of corruption in front of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and some other senior leaders, he was transferred.“The petitioner has invoked writ jurisdiction of this Hon’ble Court to seek unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the corrupt malpractices of Shri Anil Deshmukh, the Hon’ble Home Minister of Government of Maharashtra, before the evidence are destroyed,” said Singh's petition, filed through advocate Abhinay.According to Singh, in February 2021, Deshmukh tasked police officers, including Sachin Vaze, with collecting ₹100 crore every month from bars, hookah parlours, restaurants etc. He also contended that he was being made a “scapegoat to divert attention” in the Ambani security scare case. Even though there were five officers ranked between him and Vaze, Deshmukh used to meet Vaze at his residence, he said.Vaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating the Ambani security scare probe, and has also been named prime accused in the death of Mansukh Hiran, who was linked with the SUV found with the explosives in front of the Ambani's residence Antilia in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-singh-s-plea-challenging-his-transfer-seeking-cbi-probe-against-deshmukh-in-sc-today-101616549486682.html
24-03-2021||India||Playing to no audience: How arts and culture survived the pandemic||“It felt weird,” said 37-year-old Kolkata-based guitarist Bodhisattwa Ghosh, talking about the first time he stood in front of a live audience nine months after the lockdown was first announced in March 2020 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. It was at the Bengal Music Fair, organised in South Kolkata’s Deshapriya Park in the last week of December, and Ghosh remembers it being a fairly clinical affair: each band had separate cubicles, and none lingered on stage to interact with the audience – most of who were in masks – after its performance. His own, a vernacular contemporary rock band, Lakkhichhara, played its set and left shortly afterwards. Still, it was better than playing to no audience at all, Ghosh said.The lockdown months were not fallow as they forced Ghosh and other members of his band – he is also part of The Bodhisattwa Trio, a jazz fusion band – to come up with ways of working remotely. In August, the Trio released a single, Europa Swim, though the members were in different cities: pianist Arunava Chatterjee (Shonai) in Delhi, drummer Premjit Datta and Ghosh in Kolkata. “We kept making new stuff and sending new compositions to Shonai. For the single we released in August, we recorded our parts individually in our respective places. That’s very unusual for a jazz band where we record live what we’re playing, together, in the moment,” Ghosh said. The Trio live streamed a performance from popular Kolkata jazz club Skinny Mo’s in June. It was a ticketed event but the audience heard them in a closed group on Facebook.If the timbre of performances changed in 2020, several performers were also forced to rethink the relevance of their art form as they explored digital avenues from Instagram live videos to Zoom calls. New technology came up that allowed people to watch live performances with friends, and make decisions on the video calling application. For some it worked:British singerDua Lipa broke online live stream records with her lavish Studio 2054 show, pulling in more than five million views. For several others, it wasn’t that easy. Several artistes were also forced to deal with a more precarious future as the lockdown led to cancellations of shows across the country.The big shift for 32-year-old harmonium player Zakir Dhaulpuri was turning to the web to continue to impart lessons to his students. The New Delhi-based accompanist learnt to play the instrument from his father, the famed late harmonium player Mehmood Dhaulpuri who accompanied vocalists such as Kishori Amonkar and Bhimsen Joshi. But to go on Zoom, Dhaulpuri took the help of his 22-year-old nephew, a student of Delhi University and a tabla player. In the online class, it was not difficult to teach the students where they were going wrong with the note, or how they needed to improve their technique, Dhaulpuri said. “It was good to learn something new. At least the children were occupied. But music is a prayer (ibadat) and children need to learn it, and experiment with it, in your physical presence,” he said.Theatre and film actor Danish Husain, famous for his Dastangoi performances, was in the US to give a performance and a lecture in March (both got cancelled), and was stranded there till July. “I began to wonder that if the pandemic goes on for three or four years and shoots don’t resume or theatres don’t open and I am never able to perform again, what would I do to reinvent myself,” he said.Husain, who most recently appeared in the Netflix series Bombay Begums, produced a series of 20 Instagram videos titled, A Dastango stranded in America, starting March 2020. “I had a lovely view from my room in my sister’s house. I love reciting poetry. So why not memorise poems and have a series of videos, I thought? In a conversation, friends suggested that I use the window blinds as a stage curtain,” he said.“I was not used to performing to my phone. Instead of going to a stage, we now went into a Zoom call and saw audience there. Just like theatre to film, this was a new medium for me. I needed to adjust the grammar of my performance to adjust to this medium.”The shift to the digital medium also required investment, Hindustani classical singer Shubha Mudgal pointed out. Through the lockdown, Mudgal performed in digital concerts, participated in online conversations on the arts, and even gave master classes online.“The realisation that I would have to equip myself for a long period of online events also meant investing in some semi-professional equipment for such activities. But by then, every mike, every piece of live streaming equipment that one could buy for this purpose was either unavailable, or was selling at hugely escalated prices. And by that I mean, that the prices had gone up, in some cases, by 200% or even more. Eventually, I did buy some equipment and asked colleagues and even young students to teach me how to use a sound interface. That’s how I have managed all this while, as have so many artistes. We have survived by sheer dint of our ability to adapt and move ahead,” she said.Dhaulpuri also gave two concerts online, which were streamed live on Facebook: he played from his home, street sounds notwithstanding. “These are not things you can do much about,” he said.Theatre actor and radio jockey Roshan Abbas, who co-founded arts collective Kommune, said that the “pivot” to the digital space was necessary if artists had any chance of surviving the lockdown months. Together with his team, he produced a digital play Lockdown Love ,directed by Sheena Khalid, where various actors enacted their parts over Zoom in a play that was, helpfully, about online dating. It was a ticketed event and gave Abbas an insight into how the digital space could be monetised for performances. The team at Kommune held several events over the lockdown months, trying everything from learning workshops to midnight podcasts (for the insomniacs, “a big hit”, Abbas said) and even a mehfil of Urdu poetry on August 15.“Instead of a stage manager, what we needed was a Zoom manager who knows when to cut and switch screens and a sound manager who could manage mics on the platform. It was like internet 1.0, and what we were telling performers is that technology needn’t scare you,” Abbas said.Through the lockdown, efforts were made to monetise the digital medium: the Indian Singers’ Rights Association set up a series of virtual concerts, and the funds collected went to the PM-Cares fund to help people affected by the pandemic. Together with arts consultant Rashmi Dhanwani, entrepreneur Megha Desai, lawyer Priyanka Khimani, and marketing professional Gaurav Wadhwa, Abbas helped set up StayInALive, a platform where artists’ performances contributed to a fund for those struggling under the lockdown.A report brought out by online arts repository, Sahapedia, quoted budgetary figures over the past five years to show how arts and culture in the country needed enhanced funding; the lockdown only augmented the economic crunch the industry finds itself in. When asked about the budget slash, a culture ministry spokesperson refused to comment.The Bodhisattwa Trio saw their earnings slashed by almost a fifth compared to 2019, which, Ghosh said, was a highly successful year for them. The band toured Europe and several Indian cities, performed in jazz venues like Blue Note in Poland and B Flat in Berlin, and released an album with a Croatian label. The Trio was well on its way to release its fourth album when the lockdown was imposed. The concerts that they had lined up for 2020, including one in the Jaiyede jazz festival in Denmark, were cancelled.However, as things return to normal, the rising number of Covid cases in the country remains a concern. Last month, Dhaulpuri gave his first paid performance -- a stage performance in Bhopal – after almost a year since the lockdown was imposed. He had two performances in March.As for his students, he now takes the classes with them in another flat that is not too far from his home. The students sanitise their hands before they sit down. They keep their masks on when they play the harmonium.According to Abbas, the pandemic taught performers to collaborate and think beyond physical performances. Online performances aren’t going anywhere, he said. “Like concerts have directors for DTH specials, so will live performances. Purists can continue to enjoy the live experience, but the future belongs to digital live experience creators and technologists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/playing-to-no-audience-how-arts-and-culture-survived-the-pandemic-101616531244208.html
24-03-2021||India||Mansukh Hiran death: Maha ATS yet to hand over documents to NIA despite MHA orders||Three days after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) ordered the National Investigative Agency to take over the Mansukh Hiran death case, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is yet to hand over relevant documents, the NIA informed the Special NIA Court on Tuesday.Hiran, the owner of the vehicle that was found containing explosives materials outside the house of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani, was found dead on March 5 in Thane.Investigation into his death was being probed by Maharashtra ATS, till the MHA on Saturday handed over the probe to the NIA.Sachin Waze, Assistant Police Inspector in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) who was in charge of the Hiran case, has been sent to NIA custody till March 25, for his alleged role and involvement in placing the explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani.Earlier on Tuesday, Maharashtra ATS Chief Jaijeet Singh informed that a Volvo Car had been seized from Daman in connection with the Hiran's death. The car has been sent for analysis by the Forensic Science Laboratory in Mumbai.The Maharashtra ATS late on Saturday also arrested two persons who were previously detained in connection with the case and has recorded the statements of at least 25 people.The arrested have been identified as a Mumbai Police constable Vinayak Shinde and a bookie Naresh Dhare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-hiran-death-maha-ats-yet-to-hand-over-documents-to-nia-despite-mha-orders-101616546663673.html
24-03-2021||India||Centre should withdraw NCT Bill, restore powers of Delhi govt: Mallikarjun Kharge||The Centre should withdraw the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and restore powers of the Delhi government, said Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Tuesday, a day after the bill was passed in the Lok Sabha."They should withdraw it (bill) and restore the Delhi government's power. Today it is AAP (Aam Aadmi Party), tomorrow it will be someone else. They cannot snatch the democratic rights of elected governments of states and Union Territories," Kharge said while speaking to ANI.Also Read: AAP seeks opposition support on NCT Bill ahead of discussion in Rajya SabhaHe added that we will discuss it tomorrow at 10 am in the Rajya Sabha.On Tuesday, the Rajya Sabha was adjourned following a ruckus made by the Opposition as the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in the House.The Lok Sabha on Monday passed the bill which entails that the term "government" referred to in any law made by the legislative assembly will imply Lieutenant Governor. The bill seeks to amend the National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991.The statement of objects and reasons of the bill in Lok Sabha stated that the bill seeks to clarify the expression "Government", which in the context of legislation to be passed by the Legislative Assembly of Delhi, shall mean the Lieutenant Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, consistent with the status of Delhi as a Union territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions.Leaders of the ruling AAP, including MP Sanjay Singh, have condemned the bill.Earlier last week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, along with other party MPs, MLAs and councillors, staged a protest at Jantar Mantar against the Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-withdraw-nct-bill-restore-powers-of-delhi-govt-mallikarjun-kharge-101616545522463.html
24-03-2021||India||Five jawans killed in Bastar IED blast||Five jawans of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed and 14 others were injured on Tuesday after Maoists allegedly blew up a bus ferrying them in Narayanpur district of insurgency-hit Bastar region in Chhattisgarh, the police said. The improvised explosive device (IED) blast took place between Kanhargaon and Kadenar villages under Dhaudai police station limits, they added.“The incident has also left 14 security personnel injured, including two critically, who were airlifted to Raipur,” said director general of police (Chhattisgarh) DM Awasthi. The bus carrying the personnel was passing through the under-construction Barsoor-Palli road, which is surrounded by the dense forest of Abhujmad, when the Maoists triggered a landmine blast near a culvert.The impact was such that the bus fell off the culvert, he said.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel condemned the incident. “We will increase anti-Maoist operations in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-jawans-killed-in-bastar-ied-blast-101616544760799.html
24-03-2021||India||One year of lockdown: Unlocked, and holding on to hope||On March 24, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a countrywide lockdown, starting at midnight, to contain the spread of Covid-19. The decision followed a 14-hour voluntary “janata curfew” (public curfew) on March 22.Till then, India had reported 536 infections. “There is absolutely no need to panic,” PM Modi said at the time, initially announcing a shutdown for three weeks. But a continuous surge in cases forced the Centre to extend restrictions several times, eventually extending the hard lockdown to 68 days.In addition to restrictions on movement of people, the lockdown halted all transport services — road, air and rail — with exceptions for transportation of essential goods, fire, police and emergency services. Essential services such as grocery shops, banks and ATMs, petrol pumps, among others, remained open, but the streets fell silent in a manner they had never before.By June 1, when the country had over 198,000 infections, the Centre announced a phased easing of restrictions — bringing life back to some regions. After a gap of over two months, the Indian Railways, too, announced that it was resuming operations of nearly 100 trains.Domestic flight services were resumed a little earlier, on May 25.A year later, the country is now facing a second wave of Covid-19 infections, with worst-hit states such as Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat imposing district-level partial lockdowns and restrictions.On Tuesday, India registered 47,239 new Covid-19 cases and 276 fatalities, which have taken the country’s cumulative tally to 11,733,595 and the toll to 160,497, according to the Union health ministry data.Faced with an unprecedented situation and prevailing uncertainty, here’s how the Capital’s heart stopped beating, and then slowly stuttered back to life, even as normalcy is a fair distance away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-of-lockdown-unlocked-and-holding-on-to-hope-101616542986285.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19 migrant crisis: How they returned||Millions of labourers spilled out of India’s cities in a desperate attempt to reach home during the lockdown. Their plight holds important takeaways for the country’s policymakers and development strategistsWALKING OR CYCLINGRoughly a week after the lockdown was imposed, workers started appearing on highways, bags slung on their backs, a bundle on their heads and children cradled in one arm. The most famous examples of this were Odisha resident Mahesh Jena, who pedalled 1,700km to get home, and Jyoti Kumari, who cycled with her ailing father in tow, from Gurugram to Darbhanga.BY BUSRemember the thousands-strong crowd at Delhi’s Anand Vihar bus terminus in the last week of March? Desperate migrant workers jostled with each other to get back home, often spending nights on the road so that they didn’t lose their place in the queue and eating only a small packet of biscuits. After a few days, some states organised buses to take them home.BY TRAINThe Centre started Shramik Special trains on May 1. Many of them ran from western states to northern and eastern India. Overall, 4,621 trains carried 6.3 million passengers between May 1 and August 31. The trains also ran into rows, first over fares, then delays and finally about poor facilities, especially when the image of a child trying to wake up his dead mother in Bihar went viral. The government denied the charges.BY FLIGHTStuck for months, some workers reached their home states after students and activists raised funds to charter flights. The first such flight took workers from Mumbai to Ranchi in the last week of May; after that, similar flights were funded by student groups, actors, activists and NGOs, though the overall numbers remained small.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-migrant-crisis-how-they-returned-101616542346065.html
24-03-2021||India||Editors Guild urges PM Modi to put digital media rules on hold||The Editors Guild of India has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put in abeyance the new digital media rules and criticised the three-tier mechanism to enforce the code of ethics, saying it was “regressive” and would be “adverse to the freedom of the press”.The government on February 25 announced the Information Technology (Intermediary guidelines and digital media ethics codes) Rules 2021 under the Information and Technology Act, 2000.“Part III of the Rules mandates that digital news media establish a self-regulating mechanism to resolve grievances raised by any person and empowers the government to delete, modify and block content published by digital news media.“We are conscious of the challenges posed by the digital age, and as such, we recognize the need for self-regulation Of digital news media. However, we have grave concerns regarding the rules, which can fundamentally alter how news publishers operate over the Internet and undermine the freedom of the press,” the EGI said in a letter to Prime Minister Modi. The letter has also been addressed to Union law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editors-guild-urges-pm-modi-to-put-digital-media-rules-on-hold-101616542002821.html
24-03-2021||India||After alleged threats, Hathras victim’s kin refuse to attend hearing||Family members of the Hathras gang rape and murder victim will not appear for hearing in the case in the Hathras district court on Wednesday, the family’s counsel said.“Family members of the victim and I have decided to not attend court proceedings on Wednesday due to security concerns. On my behalf, an application will be submitted in the court informing it about the decision due to security concern,” counsel for the victim’s family, Seema Khushwaha, said. Khushwaha travels to Hathras from Delhi for court proceedings on every hearing.On March 5, a group of people allegedly threatened the victim’s family and their counsel in the court room after which the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court ordered the Hathras district judge to submit a report on the incident. “During the last hearing in Lucknow high court (on March 19), the CBI had submitted an application in the court seeking transfer of the case from Hathras to any other court in the state,” said Khushwaha. “Now, the high court will decide what to do in the next hearing.”The Dalit woman was gang-raped by four men in Hathras district on September 14. She died early on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-alleged-threats-hathras-victim-s-kin-refuse-to-attend-hearing-101616540787825.html
24-03-2021||India||Congress alters campaign strategy for southern states||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s engagements with students at a school in Kochi on Monday were part of a well-calibrated campaign of the party to leverage Gandhi’s popularity in the poll-bound state, some party leaders have suggested.Visuals of the former Congress president teaching Aikido, a Japanese martial art, at St Theresa school in Kochi were widely circulated on Monday.In the two southern states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, both will vote on April 6, the Congress’s campaign strategy has shifted emphasis to local-level interactions, freewheeling sessions with targeted groups or sharing experiences with locals.“Instead of asking people to come to meet Rahul Gandhi, he is going to them,” a senior party strategist involved in the campaign in the two states said, requesting anonymity.The elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry are crucial for the Congress after the party lost power in three states in the last three years due to internal conflicts. The Congress also faced defeats in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Ahead of the assembly polls, the Congress is trying out the campaign strategy in the two states where Gandhi remains a popular figure. The former Congress president represents Kerala’s Wayanad in Lok Sabha.“90% of Gandhi’s campaign will revolve around small, roadside meetings, interactions with sub-local groups and students and roadshows. Large public rallies would be limited because we want to create images and moments which can go viral on social media. His speech might get lost in translation, but the images will remain for a long time,” said a second strategist who is currently based in Chennai, preferring anonymity.On Tuesday, Gandhi held a meeting in the corner of a street at Paruthumpara in Kerala’s Kottayam, followed by three public meetings at Manarkadu, Ponkunnam and Pala.Later in the day, receptions were held for him in Piravom and Kolencherry in Ernakulam and corner meetings at Muvattupuzha and Perumbavoor.In the early days of the campaign, Gandhi danced with the students of St Joseph’s Matriculation Hr Sec School in Kanyakumari’s Mulagumudu. He also accepted a push-ups challenge by a student at the school. In Kerala, he also dived into the sea with some fishermen and helped a group of villagers cook mushroom biryani in Tamil Nadu.“People are still talking about him cooking biryani. In the coming days, he would interact with coir mat makers and participate in their work. Lots of similar activities have been planned and a few more interaction with students will happen,” said the second strategist.The party has also roped in local marketing agencies to circulate images of Gandhi’s campaign and attract media attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-alters-campaign-strategy-for-southern-states-101616540313514.html
24-03-2021||India||Delhiwale: Glacier in a cart||Hot afternoon. Empty lane. Kamruddin enters. A young girl runs after his cart, asking the man for his signature treat, which she calls “baraf ka gola”—a ball of crushed ice on a wooden stick.Also known as chuski, the pavement speciality enters our world every year this time, though last year the successive lockdowns kept it away. The ice lolly is actually an unsung part of a vast buffet that keeps Delhi cool in summer: smoothies, gelatos, juices, kulfis, nimbu soda, roohafza sherbet, chaas, lassi, jaljeera, sugarcane juice, coconut water etc. The rendezvous with chuski, though, makes for a more intense elemental experience. You are literally eating the ice, composed of minuscule crystals, as if it was just scraped out of a Himalayan glacier.Chuski-seller Kamruddin is polite and restrained. He swiftly grates the ice on his special apparatus called “gola machine”, and addresses the little girl with the formal “aap” instead of “tum” or “tu,” inquiring about her preferred flavour — she picks kala khatta.It must be said that many chuski vendors resort to artificial flavouring. Kamruddin is one of them, he admits. It’s also true that some chuski establishments use natural flavours — a stall in Kamla Nagar serves a mango version during the mango season. There was a coffee chuski stall in Netaji Subhash Place, but alas, not many liked the combo. Pavement vendor Ashok, who hangs about Chandni Chowk’s Central Baptist Church, doles out refreshing bel-flavoured chuski. An air-conditioned Connaught Place restaurant serves chuski margarita, but the absence of the street takes away half the fun.Kamruddin’s no-fuss version is the one you are likely to find across the city alleys. The first bite is the most striking, as it sends a rush of cold waves across the body.A typical chuski cart, too, is a sight. The tall glass bottles of multicoloured syrups are lined up along both sides, while the old-fashioned ice grater is always of wood. Kamruddin has covered his block of ice in a grey handkerchief. He operates in south Delhi neighbourhoods, especially in Khirki village. “In winters, I sell peanuts,” he says, as he goes ahead pushing his cart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-glacier-in-a-cart-101616540061902.html
24-03-2021||India||No public gatherings on Holi as Covid cases spike, orders DDMA||Celebrations and gatherings at public places and religious sites in the Capital are banned for Holi, Navaratri and Shab-e-Barat, and people arriving at the airport, train stations and bus terminals will be randomly tested, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ordered on Tuesday as the resurgence in the Covid-19 outbreak continued, with the city adding the highest number of new cases in more than three months. The 1,101 cases added on Tuesday were the highest since December 19. New cases in a single day have not been more than 1,000 since December 24.“It is anticipated that gatherings, congregations and public celebrations during upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, etc. may pose a considerable threat of spread of virus and may cause setback to the appreciable gains made in the suppression of chain of transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Considering this, it has been decided that public celebrations and all gatherings/congregations during upcoming festivals should not be allowed in public places,” said the order signed by chief secretary Vijay Dev.In Delhi, the DDMA order was flagged by various district administrations for more clarity as it did not state whether celebrations inside clubs, resorts and farmhouses will be allowed. “Clarity on this will be given on Wednesday. The matter has been raised to the DDMA,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Private parties in houses and private lawns will be allowed.The chief secretary issued a second order directing district health officials to start random testing of passengers coming from states that have seen a spike in Covid-19 cases.“All district disaster management authorities shall conduct random testing (RAT/RT-PCR) of passengers coming from the states where Covid-19 cases are increasing, at all airports, railway stations, inter-state bus terminals (ISBT) and other alighting points (for private buses) in NCT of Delhi,” the order stated.In a third order issued by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar late on Tuesday night, DDMA directed all DMs to intensify vaccination and crack down on those not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.“There are several super-spreader areas like weekly markets, cinema, malls, metro services, religious places, etc. All the DMs should greatly intensify their enforcement efforts and awareness campaigns in these areas. Areas where sero surveillance is low should also be targeted with more intensive efforts,” read the order.DDMA asked the district teams to ensure samples are taken randomly at alighting points. “After collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit. However, those passengers who are found positive, shall be mandatorily quarantined or isolated,” it said.District health teams will have to ensure that records of all such passengers are maintained, and surveillance, tracking and tracing is conducted as per the State Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (State IDSP) protocols.The district magistrates and DCPs have been asked to adequately inform and sensitise the field functionaries for strict compliance in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-public-gatherings-on-holi-as-covid-cases-spike-orders-ddma-101616538839121.html
24-03-2021||India||Two sisters found dead in field day after they went missing in UP||A 20-year-old girl and her 17-year-old sister were found dead in Bilsanda area of Pilibhit district of western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, police said.The sisters went missing from their house on Monday evening. The body of the younger sister was found in a field while that of the elder sister was found hanging from a tree, police said.“Both the girls have marks on their neck. It appears that they died of hanging or strangulation. We are waiting for the detailed post-mortem report. Three police teams have been formed to investigate the case,” said Jaiprakash, superintendent of police (SP), Pilibhit.The bodies were sent for post-mortem investigations and an FIR of murder has been registered, said police.The sisters worked at a brick kiln in the area and lived in shanties nearby. They left home around 7pm to relieve themselves but when they did not return after a few hours, their family members went out to search for them. “Around midnight, they found the body of the younger sister while that of the elder sister was found in the morning,” said the SP.The body of the younger sister was found in the field some 200 metres from their home. The body of elder sister was found hanging from a tree in a sugarcane field.“The family members informed police about the incident in the morning. A team of local police inspected the area. A dog squad and team of local field unit also visited the area and collected evidence,” the SP said.According to police, the family members have neither blamed anyone for the deaths nor alleged rape. Based on their complaint, police have lodged a case of murder (section 302 IPC) against unknown people. “Additional charges will be added in the case on the basis of findings of post-mortem investigation report,” said the SP.A mobile phone was found near the body of the older girl and police are taking help of IT experts to recover data from it. Police teams also quizzed over a dozen people, including family members and relatives. “People involved in the murder of the sisters will be arrested soon,” said the SP.A number of incidents of rape and murder have been reported from the state in the last few months, with the opposition questioning the Uttar Pradesh government over safety of women. Last year in September, people in different parts of the country took to the streets after a Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and brutalised by upper caste men in Hathras district. She later died in a Delhi hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-sisters-found-dead-in-field-day-after-they-went-missing-in-up-101616538573595.html
24-03-2021||India||Expect harsher summers as La Niña weakens||The cooling effect of La Niña, a global weather pattern, has started waning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which said that it may completely turn neutral during April, resulting in a harsh summer.La Niña is associated with the cooling of Pacific waters. A La Niña year generally receives good rainfall and temperatures are lower than normal.“La Niña has started weakening. It was at its peak in January and February. La Niña is often associated with lower temperatures in India. But that is now unlikely during the rest of the summer and monsoon months. But the actual weather conditions will depend on local synoptic features. For example, the interaction of westerlies and easterlies over central India is currently causing thunderstorm activity and temperatures have dropped. But overall, we can say La Niña will phase out gradually,” said DS Pai, senior climate scientist at IMD.IMD’s monsoon mission coupled forecasting system has indicated the likely warming of sea surface temperatures (SSTs) over the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean in April and May, which indicates a transition of La Nina condition to El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO)-neutral condition. This means neither El Niño nor La Niña. El Niño is a warming of the ocean surface, or above-average sea surface temperatures.There is also a high probability that La Niña will re-emerge after or during the monsoon, according to IMD. “The weakening of La Niña conditions indicates a harsh summer is likely. There is a 60% probability of ENSO-neutral conditions in April. Thankfully, there is no chance of El Niño which makes summer even harsher in India. Monsoon is likely to be also normal this year as both the impact of El Niño or La Niña will not impact. We are also expecting La Niña to re-emerge after monsoon so it may remain moderate during upcoming winter,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, at Skymet Weather.ENSO is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperatures and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, for example, El Niño is associated with drought or weak monsoon, while La Niña is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.This winter was the third warmest since 1901, when IMD began keeping records, according to an IMD Pune analysis. It was also the second warmest in the past 120 years when minimum or early morning temperatures were considered. The warmest winter was recorded in 2016 followed by 2009.Scientists were surprised by the warming this winter despite moderate La Niña, which normally has a cooling effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-harsher-summers-as-la-ni-a-weakens-101616538396048.html
24-03-2021||India||Supreme Court waives compound, penal interests on loans during moratorium||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered banks against charging borrowers any penal interest or compound interest (interest on interest) on loans during the moratorium on repayment of loans from March to August 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It rejected a request by individuals and traders’ associations for waiver of complete interest during the moratorium. The court refused to extend the moratorium or tinker with the resolution mechanism proposed by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to waive compound interest on six categories of loans up to ₹ 2 crore.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy, and MR Shah issued the order on a clutch of petitions filed by corporate bodies, business associations, and individuals demanding extension of moratorium beyond August.At the instance of the court, the Centre agreed to waive compound interest on loans for six categories. The business associations and corporate bodies had demanded the extension of this benefit to borrowers with loans of above ₹2 crore.Also Read | Government planning crackdown on apps offering cash loans onlineThe bench said courts are not experts and such decisions lie in the realm of economic policy in which interference should be rarely made.It added the Covid-19 pandemic affected even the government. The bench said the Centre and RBI still came out with schemes and packages to reduce stress on businesses and granting any further relief would have consequences on the economy.The court clarified any penal interest or compound interest charged by banks for non-payment of any loan amount during moratorium shall be refundable. And if the bank is not in a position to refund, the same shall be adjusted in the loan amount, it added.The bench said decisions on economic policy matters should be left to the government and courts should not interfere even if a second view is possible.During the hearing of these cases, the Centre and RBI argued that compound interest on loans of up to ₹two crore was waived keeping in mind fiscal constraints and the viability of banks. Any order to further extend the benefit to other borrowers will make banks inviable, which an economy like India will be unable to sustain, the Centre and RBI argued.Some petitioners questioned the ceiling limit of ₹2 crore for waiving compound interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-waives-compound-penal-interests-on-loans-during-moratorium-101616537545361.html
24-03-2021||India||81% of samples tested in Punjab positive for UK’s B.1.1.7 variant||Eighty one per cent of the 401 positive Covid-19 samples the Punjab health department had sent for genome sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, showed the presence of the new UK (B.1.1.7) strain, a more infectious variant of the virus.These samples were taken randomly from containment zones in all districts of the state between March 1 and 10.The UK strain has been found in 12 Punjab districts, including Mohali, Jalandhar, Patiala, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Rupnagar, Bathinda and Tarn Taran.In January, the state health department had sent 478 positive samples to the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for genome sequencing, of which the results of 90 samples were received. Only two of these 90 samples had the N440K variant, also known as ‘Kerala’ strain, which according to health experts was the mutated version of the coronavirus in India.A Union ministry of health team had visited Punjab to review the increase in positivity rate. Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between January 1 and March 10, were sent to the NCDC for genome sequencing, and worryingly, 326 showed the presence of the B.1.1.7 variant.Former PGIMER, Chandigarh, director and head of the state government’s Covid-19 management group Dr KK Talwar said, “This is worrying as the samples were taken from all districts. The new strain is 70% more infectious that the older one and that is why the rate of the spread is more during the second wave.”“Since the new strain spreads faster, more youngsters and those going out for work are getting infected now. Only ramping up of vaccination and less movement of people can help control the spread,” he added.Nearly two-thirds of Covid-19 patients in Punjab, which is witnessing a second virus wave, are aged between 20 and 60 (working-age population). The trend suggests that people in the age bracket have a high rate of mobility as they have to venture out of their homes for work or other purposes. The figures also show that those aged between 31 and 40 are the most vulnerable to contracting the virus, with 17.2% of the total cases falling in the category.Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for widening the ambit of Covid-19 vaccination.All aged above 45 will now be vaccinated. Earlier in the day, he appealed to the Centre to do the needful, expressing concern over the emerging situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/81-of-samples-tested-in-punjab-positive-for-uk-s-b-1-1-7-variant-101616536308386.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines for all above 45 in India||Everyone above the age of 45 will be eligible to seek a coronavirus vaccine from April 1, the Union government announced on Tuesday, heeding to requests from experts as well as several states to allow more people to take shots at a time when the country is grappling with a sharp resurgence in cases.India recorded 47,239 cases on Tuesday, according to HT’s dashboard of data reported by states, the highest since November 8. The government’s Co-WIN dashboard showed that as of 7pm on Tuesday, a little over 41.5 million people have received their first doses, leaving less than 8 million who have gotten both their doses. The country targets inoculating 300 million people by the end of July.“Our appeal is that all above 45 should take vaccine as early as possible,” Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said following a Cabinet meeting, adding that the decision was based on scientific evidence and recommendations of experts in India’s Covid-19 Task Force. “There is no scarcity, and supply chains and supply lines are intact,” Javadekar said.In the 67 days since the campaign was launched, close to 50 million doses have been administered to people, but the recipients have been limited to those who are at higher risk due to their age (60 and above), pre-existing health conditions (as long as they are 45 and older) or their profession (if they work as health workers or as front line service staff).Javadekar said that from April 1, people above the age of 45 will not need to present medical certificates showing that they suffer from any of the predetermined medical conditions.“The registration process for this category will begin from April 1,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary. The Co-WIN platform is being tweaked to allow this.According to an analysis of Covid-19 infection and mortality trends in India, 62% of all infections have been among people below the age of 45. However, people above this age account for almost 9 in 10 (87%) deaths, making targeting this age band more crucial for inoculation.At least three states — Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala — urged the government in recent days to allow more people to seek doses and expedite deliveries. The latest of these appeals was by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who said the urgency deepened after the variant B.1.1.7 (first identified in UK) was detected in 81% of samples taken from the state at random for genomic sequencing.B.1.1.7, first found in UK’s Kent, has been established to spread more readily and has been connected to new waves in several countries. The variant has not been established to reduce the efficacy of vaccines in a significant manner, unlike the B.1.351 and P.1 variants first found in South Africa and Brazil.Experts welcomed the decision to allow more people to be covered. “There is no other way but to vaccinate as many as possible, and quickly, to cut the cycle of Covid-19 transmission,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology department, New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Government data showed that in February, when only health and front-line workers were eligible, around 300,000 doses were being administered on average. This number has increased to at least 1.5 million in March, when the government allowed the first of the general public to come forward.A second expert said the country should now target higher numbers. “Covering about 10 million a day will ensure that India covers the entire vulnerable population within a month or so, as it will help prevent any sort of second waves in the country,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, professor and head, epidemiology division, Indian Institute of Public Health.“It is a wise thing that the government has done as in our country vulnerability does extend to younger population as well, especially in urban areas,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.Last week, the government placed orders for 120 million more doses of Covishield and Covaxin – the two coronavirus vaccines approved in the country at present.During the media briefing, Javadekar added that the Cabinet endorsed Union health ministry’s decision to increase the interval for administering the second dose of Covishield to a maximum of eight weeks, compared to six before, in order to gain better efficacy.Some states have also given doses to a few outside the priority groups to avoid vaccine wastage. About 6.5% of India’s vaccine doses go to waste, the health ministry said last week, making it vital for health workers to coordinate the flow.India is also expected to soon approve Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine for emergency use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-for-all-above-45-in-india-101616536031715.html
24-03-2021||India||The role of language and religion in Assam battle||Assam is the only major Indian state which had a Congress government for three consecutive terms in the post-2000 period. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led alliance first inflicted an upset in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in the state and then captured power in 2016.The BJP had the second-highest seat share to vote share ratio among major states in Assam (Bihar tops the list) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In a first-past-the-post (FPTP) system, this ratio is a useful indicator of a party’s ability to convert popular support into seats. Among the major states where the Congress contested on its own or as the senior alliance partner, it had a much better seat share to vote share ratio in Assam than places such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, where it actually defeated the BJP in assembly elections held in 2018.These are not random statistics, and understanding their origins is crucial to understanding the multi-layered political fault lines in Assam, which encompass caste, religion, linguistic nationality, migration and deprivation. While the state’s politics is driven by many factors, the larger issue is the dynamic between language and religion.1) Assam’s political geography has been shaped by historical migrationIf there is one state in India where migration is a big issue, it is Assam. The state has seen two distinct waves of migrations. There are Bengalis, both Hindus and Muslims, who largely came from what was East Bengal before Independence and is Bangladesh today. This migration existed in both the pre- and post-Independence period. Then there was large-scale migration of what are today referred to as Tea and Ex-Tea Garden Tribes, who are recognised as Other Backward Classes by the Assam government. Even the government acknowledges that “economically, they are quite backward and (the) literacy level among these communities is extremely low”.To be sure, Assam also has a large share of Scheduled Tribes (ST) in the population; they have always lived in the region and, culturally, are very different from the tea-tribes. These factors are best understood by looking at diversity across sub-regions in the state’s population by religion, language and social group. Assam is broadly classified into five sub-regions: Upper Assam, Lower Assam, North Assam, Central Assam and Barak Valley.MUSLIMS HAVE A ONE-THIRD SHARE IN THE STATE’S POPULATION, BUT THEY ARE CONCENTRATED IN A FEW POCKETSAfter the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two union territories, Assam has the highest share of Muslims in the population among Indian states. This figure was 34.2%, according to the 2011 census. As is often the case in India, the headline population share at the state level does not mean an equal distribution across districts. Fifteen out of the 27 districts in the state have a share of Muslims which is lower than the state average, whereas Muslims constitute a majority of the population in nine districts. The Muslim-dominated districts in the state border Bangladesh, which before Independence, was just a neighbouring state. It is this proximity to present-day Bangladesh, and a history of political conflict – historians such as Amalendu Guha have described in detail how the issue dominated the Assam legislature even before independence – over migration of Bengali Muslim peasants to capture what were then Assam’s wastelands, which sowed the roots of an Assamese backlash against what were earlier Bengali migrants and are today seen as Bangladeshi migrants. Things only became worse when the Bengali Hindu elite tried to undermine the linguistic aspirations of the newly emerging Assamese elite, a contradiction which also existed both before and after Independence.2) Not all Bengalis in Assam are MuslimsThe 2011 Census puts the share of Bengali speakers – who reported the language as their mother tongue – at 28.9%. Once again, the headline number does not capture the intra-state diversity. While there is some overlap between the Bengali-dominated and Muslim-dominated districts, they are not a perfect match. Assam also has a large number of Bengali Hindus. For example, in the Barak valley region, which comprises three districts and 15 out of the 126 assembly constituencies (ACs) in the state, the share of Bengali speakers was 80.8%. Muslims have a population share of 48.1% in the sub-region.This means that there are a lot of Bengali Hindus in the state as well. Similarly, the state also has Muslims who speak Assamese. Because the census does not allow a religious segregation of languages spoken, it is difficult to arrive at official estimates of a religious-linguistic matrix for the state.3) The intersection of linguistic and religious identity matters a lot in Assam politicsThe BJP’s politics thrives on building a rainbow coalition of Hindus across India. While it has had success on this count in Assam (this is what explains the party’s current dominance in the state), it is still not as stable as it would like it to be. To be sure, this is not an easy task given the historical animosity between Assamese-speaking Hindus and Bengali Hindus who are largely migrants. Data from the CSDS-Lokniti surveys shows that the BJP has consolidated almost the entire Bengali Hindu vote bank between 2011 and 2019. However, its support among Assamese Hindus has gone down after having peaked in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. To be sure, a majority of the Assamese Hindus supported the BJP in the 2019 polls. The Congress, when it won the 2011 elections, had a more broad-based support in the state. But Assamese-speaking Muslims were its most loyal supporters. Its support among the Bengali-speaking Muslims was significantly lower.The Bengali Muslim community in Assam has been known to support the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) led by Badruddin Ajmal; 20% of the AIUDF’s vote share and 31% of its seats were concentrated within the Barak Valley region in the state in the 2016 elections, when it recorded its best ever performance in terms of vote share in the assembly elections, although the region only accounts for 12% of ACs in the state. With the rise of the BJP, the Congress’s support among the Muslims has increased and also transcended the linguistic divide which existed earlier.It is this development which explains Ajmal’s accommodative posture towards the party in the current elections. With the Congress being seen as the biggest anti-BJP force in the state, the AIUDF’s support base would have gravitated towards it, alliance or no alliance. As is obvious from the numbers above, the Congress needs to increase its support among the Hindus, either Assamese or Bengali speaking, in order to recapture power in the state. By making the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act plank an important part of its election campaign, the Congress seems to have consciously decided to try and win back the Assamese-speaking Hindus, a community it has had better support from compared to the Bengali Hindus. Because CAA talks about retrospective grant of citizenship rights to Hindus from neighbouring Bangladesh, a section of the Assamese-speaking population is apprehensive about its de jure impact on the state’s demographic profile.The BJP, on the other hand, is hoping to spoil the Congress’s effort by attacking the latter’s alliance with the AIUDF, a party which is seen to champion the interests of primarily Bengali speaking Muslims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-role-of-language-and-religion-in-assam-battle-101616533256395.html
24-03-2021||India||Focus on test-track-treat protocol: MHA to states||Amid a spike in coronavirus cases, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday issued fresh guidelines, directing all states and Union territories to enhance RT-PCR tests, ensure strict enforcement of test-track-treat protocol and increase the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups.While the Centre did not consider imposing another fresh lockdown to keep the economy running, it is important that citizens follow coronavirus-related appropriate behavior such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and hand hygiene, people familiar with the developments said.“…to ensure that the resumption of activities is successful and to fully overcome the pandemic, there is need to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, and strictly observe the guideline issued by MHA and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MOHFW) and other ministries/departments of the central government and state/ UT governments,” the guidelines released by the ministry said.In its latest guidelines, the ministry announced that all fresh cases will require to be isolated or quarantined at the earliest and provided timely treatment. All contacts of the infected cases will also have to be traced quickly and isolated, it added.Considering a surge in Covid-19 cases (over 40,000 cases were reported on Tuesday), the new guidelines made it mandatory for states and UTs to strictly enforce the ‘test-track-treat’ protocol, emphasizing that the proportion of RT-PCR tests should be increased to prescribed level of 70% or more.Based on the positive cases and tracking of their contacts, containment zones shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities at the micro level, the ministry said.Expressing concerns over the uneven vaccination in several states, the ministry said: “The vaccination against Covid-19, in the present scenario, is critical to break the chain of transmission and hence all state and union territory governments should rapidly step up the pace of vaccination to cover all priority groups in an expeditious manner.”The Centre allowed states to impose their own local restrictions like night curfew or weekend restrictions in the district, sub-district or city level, based on the situation, but added that there won’t be restriction on any inter-state and intra-state movement.It also directed states to impose appropriate fines on those not wearing masks in public as well as work spaces.All activities have been permitted outside containment zones and standard operating procedures (SOPs) have been prescribed for various activities. These include movement by passenger trains, air travel, metro trains, schools, higher educational institutions, hotels and restaurants, shopping malls, multiplexes and entertainment parks, yoga centres and gymnasiums, exhibitions, assemblies and congregations, the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-test-track-treat-protocol-mha-to-states-101616531223194.html
24-03-2021||India||Nuns’ detention in Uttar Pradesh fans Kerala poll furore||The brief detention of a group of nuns by Government Railway Police (GRP) following complaints of alleged forced conversion by Bajrang Dal activists in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi district has generated a political firestorm in Kerala ahead of the crucial assembly elections next month.The nuns’ congregation belongs to Syro-Malabar Church which is based in Kerala.While the Kerala Catholic Bishops Conference (KCBC) and Syro-Malabar Church have sought action against the activists, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala rushed a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding immediate action in the case.The incident occurred at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is wooing Christian minorities who form 16 per cent of the votebank to get a foothold in the central Travancore area.In a detailed statement, the church media commission said that the nuns and a group of girls were on their way from Delhi to Odisha in a train on March 19 for Easter celebrations when they were confronted by the Bajrang Dal activists in Jhansi. The church claimed that the nuns were verbally abused and activists tried to attack the girls, whom they believed, were being taken away for religious conversion.“They did not believe nuns’ words that all were born Christians and continued to question them. Later, the nuns were taken into police custody at Jhansi after they alerted the railway police. They were threatened and terrorised by the right wing workers,” Father Jerry Joseph, spokesperson of the commission, said. He added that the nuns were released after three hours of questioning and transferred to the Bishop’s House in Jhansi.“It was a terrifying incident. They were not even considerate towards the women. Around 150 Bajrang Dal activists surrounded us and behaved as though we were criminals,” one of the nuns said, preferring anonymity.“It is totally unacceptable. Thousands of nuns and priests are engaged in humanitarian activities across the country. We want a high-level intervention,” KCBC said.Sunil Singh, SHO and GRP, Jhansi, said the nuns and girls were deboarded after the activists suspected that the girls were being taken away for religious conversion. “The police investigated and found no such thing. The nuns and students were later sent with a reverend,” he said.The leaders from the church also plan to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is arriving in the state on Wednesday for campaigning, in this regard.In his letter to Modi, Chennithala said: “It is a serious incident. Poor nuns were terrorised and attacked. The government will have to ensure speedy justice to them.”The ruling CPI(M) also condemned the incident. “It exposes intolerance towards minority communities in north India,” the party said in a statement.The state BJP sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the matter.“The party condemns the incident. It seems the police also took hasty action without verifying the facts. We want action against the perpetrators and police officials who detained the nuns,” party vice president George Kurian said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nuns-detention-in-uttar-pradesh-fans-kerala-poll-furore-101616531211204.html
24-03-2021||India||MVA didn’t act on evidence of scam in police dept: Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday accused the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of not acting on “incriminating evidence” supplied as a report by former Commissioner of State Intelligence Rashmi Shukla on a “money for transfer” scam in the state police department.HT has seen a copy of the report, dated August 25, 2020, which names senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking.The report, which is based on intercepted phone calls of six people -- it was not immediately clear if this was done through proper channels -- states that they were middlemen who helped police officials seek postings of their choice, and brought up names of politicians such as Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh, in their alleged conversations.The report does not state that the middlemen spoke to these leaders directly. It contends that one middlemen is an assistant in the home minister’s office.The report does not talk about any direct transfer of money to these politicians. It does, however, refer to “monetary exchange” between police officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.There was no reaction from chief minister’s office to the report. Deshmukh was not available for comments.In a press conference held in Mumbai on Tuesday, Fadnavis said Shukla submitted the report to the then Director General of Police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on August 25, 2020, who in turn forwarded the report to Sitaram Kunte, the then additional chief secretary, home, the following day.Fadnavis met the Union home secretary in Delhi and demanded a CBI probe. “The Union home secretary clearly told me that they will verify the documents and evidence and a report will be submitted to the central government. The government will take appropriate action accordingly,” he told reporters in the national capital.Fadnavis said that he had 6.3GB of data from the intercepted calls, which contained the voices of police officers and politicians closely related to the home minister and home department.While Fadnavis said Shukla had “sought proper permissions from then additional chief secretary-home and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politician”, NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday that Shukla had intercepted calls illegally.“She prepared the call records illegally hence she was transferred as a punishment,” Malik said. He added that “80% of the transfers mentioned in the report did not take place.”The State Intelligence Department (SID) is a sensitive wing of the police and it is a serious issue if communication between its chief and a DGP came out in the open, Maharashtra NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil said on Tuesday.A question also arises about how the previous BJP-led government used the SID, Patil said. “On whose directions was the phone tapping done? Who had given the right to (then Commissioner of Intelligence) Rashmi Shukla to tap the phones? Was permission to tap phones taken? All this needs to be investigated,” he said.The report names police officers who were in touch with six middlemen for transfers to desired posts.“It is a serious matter and necessitates urgent action by the state government. It is recommended that this be brought to the notice of Hon. Chief Minister at the earliest and an immediate and comprehensive enquiry by State CID (Crime), Pune be ordered to identify concerned individuals and take necessary legal action. It is also advised that the secrecy of this report be ensured, in order to prevent unnecessary scrutiny, which may bring disrepute to the government,” Jaiswal wrote in the covering letter when he submitted the report to ACS, Home.The report cited an instance of an IPS officer who wanted to be posted in Nashik. The report said that the officer met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, home minister Anil Deshmukh. He also met NCP chief Sharad Pawar along with a few local MLAs belonging to the Congress and the NCP.“Since Nashik has a sitting Shiv Sena MLA, Ajit Pawar suggested the transfer will need the approval from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. As suggested by Ajit Pawar, the DCP met Sharad Pawar at his Nariman Point office. In turn, Pawar sent a message to Thackeray on WhatsApp. The DCP will get his desired posting done for sure,” the report stated, quoting the conversation from the intercepted calls of the middleman.There was no mention in the report of any money changing hands, or an any explicit impropriety in the transfer.In the summary to the report, Shukla wrote: “The aforesaid brokers were in close contacts and embroiled in these negotiations with several influential and the police officers ranging from inspectors to several high-ranking officers are in contact with such undesirable individuals. The information obtained and evidence collected is highly incriminating and gravely implicates a number of individuals engaged in this activity.”Malik, however, said on Tuesday that the transfer of policemen was a procedural affair and did not occur as mentioned in the report.Shukla, who is on central deputation, did not respond to the phone calls or text messages.A delegation of BJP leaders including Fadnavis, state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, Sudhir Mungantiwar and Ashish Shelar will meet Maharashtra governor BS Koshyari on Wednesday. “We want governor Koshyari to seek a detailed status report from the chief secretary of Maharashtra,” said a senior BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-didn-t-act-on-evidence-of-scam-in-police-dept-devendra-fadnavis-101616530216145.html
24-03-2021||India||Indian Army signs contract for 1.7 million medals||Soldiers will no longer have to buy replicas of medals from the market, with the Indian Army on Tuesday announcing that it has concluded a contract for procuring 1.7 million medals.Soldiers are awarded medals for gallantry and distinguished service among other key landmarks in their military careers.Resolving a decade-old problem, the army said it has signed a contract for 17 different types of medals. “Integrated Headquarters of Ministry of Defence (Army) has concluded a contract for procurement of a total of 17.27 lakh service medals of 17 different types,” it said on Twitter.“The procurement has enabled Indian Army to meet all outstanding demands of service medals in respect of soldiers who have served and are serving in the Indian Army,” the army added.In contrast to original medals, the replica medals do not have the names of the soldiers and their service numbers engraved on them. For almost 10 years, soldiers have been purchasing medals from the market as the army grappled with the shortage.Soldiers could just approach shops selling service medals and buy them as per their requirement, an official familiar with the matter said. There was no need to produce any certificate to make the purchase.Gopinath Bazar in Delhi Cantt is a popular place for soldiers to buy replica medals. Other cantonments in the country also have shops that sell medals and other military items such as uniforms and boots. Soldiers and veterans wear these medals only during ceremonial functions.While there was no shortage of medals awarded to soldiers for gallantry, the defence ministry’s department of medals had failed to issue other varieties of medals, another official said on condition of anonymity.In 2016-17, the medals department was saddled with more than 1.4 million medals of various types.The soldiers, by default, are entitled to a variety of medals after completing a certain number of years in service, serving in difficult areas or taking part in various operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-signs-contract-for-1-7-million-medals-101616530209175.html
24-03-2021||India||Bihar’s new police bill explained and why it has evoked protests||The Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021 has triggered strong protest from the Opposition, which is demanding its withdrawal due to “unbridled powers to the police to carry out raids and arrests without warrant”, while the government terms it the need of the hour in view of growing needs to safeguard important installations. Once enacted, the Bihar Military Police will be called Bihar Special Armed Police and it will give such powers to the Bihar Special Armed Police that the Opposition feels would usher in ‘police raj’. There have been widespread protests against it both within the House and outside. Police had to resort to lathi-charge to rein in protesting RJD workers in the state capital. However, the Opposition has declared that it would not accept anything less than the withdrawal of the ‘black law’. Here are the highlights of the bill: Why is the bill necessary? As per the preamble says, the Bihar Police Act 2007 was published in the official gazette on March 30 2007. Prior to that police services of the state were governed by the Police Act, 1861 and the rules framed there under and Bihar Military Police in the State was governed by Bengal Military Police Act, 1892. Bihar, being a rapidly developing state, requires an armed police force with multi-domain expertise to meet requirements of industrial security, security of vital installations, airports, metro rail etc in larger interest of the State. The internal security of Bihar needs to be strengthened through a dedicated, well trained and fully equipped armed police force of the state. Keeping in view the role of Bihar Military Police and its distinct organizational structure, it is necessary that its separate identity should continue to be maintained as a Special Armed Police to achieve the above objectives; Therefore, it is expedient to make provision for the constitution, organized development and better regulation of a multi-domain Special Armed Police Force. What will it do? The bill says it will be for maintenance of public order, combating extremism, ensuring the better protection and security of specified establishments in such manner as may be notified and perform such other duties, as may be notified. The Special Armed Police shall be constituted into one or more Battalions in such manner and for such period as may be prescribed. The general superintendence of the Special Armed Police shall vest in and be exercised by the Government. The command, supervision and administration 19 of the Special Armed Police shall vest in the Director General of Police, Bihar. The Government shall appoint to the Special Armed Police such number of Inspectors General, Deputy Inspectors General, Commandants and such other rank police officers, as may be notified. Power to arrest without warrant Any Special Armed Police Officer, while being entrusted with the security of specified establishment may without any order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person who voluntarily causes hurt to, or attempts voluntarily to cause hurt to, or wrongfully restrains or attempts wrongfully to restrain or assaults, threatens to assault, or uses, or threatens or attempts to use, criminal force to any employee of such specified establishment, or to him or any Special Armed Police Officer, in discharge of his duty as such employee or in execution of his duty as such Special Armed Police Officer, as the case may be, or with intent to prevent or to deter him from discharging his duty as such Special Armed Police Officer, or in 20 consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by him in the lawful discharge of his duty as such Special Armed Police Officer Arrests on suspicion The officer can arrest any person who has been concerned in, or against whom a reasonable suspicion exists of his having been concerned in, or who is found taking precautions to conceal his presence under circumstances which afford reason to believe that he is taking such precautions with a view to committing, a cognizable offence which relates to property belonging to, or in the premises of, any such specified establishment. Arrests can also take place if any person who commits or attempts to commit a cognizable offence which involves or which is likely to involve danger to the life of any person engaged in carrying on any work relating to any specified establishment. If any person is found trespassing on the premises of any specified establishment, he may, without prejudice to any other proceedings which may be taken against him, be removed from such premises by any Special Armed Police Officer. Power to search without warrant Whenever any Special Armed Police Officer, not below the notified rank, has reason to believe that any offence has been or is being committed and that a search warrant cannot be obtained without affording the offender an opportunity of escaping or of concealing evidence of the offence, he may detain the offender and search his person and belongings forthwith and, if he thinks proper, arrest any person whom he has reason to believe to have committed the offence. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 relating to searches under that Code shall, so far as may be, apply to searches under this section. Procedure to be followed after arrest Any Special Armed Police Officer making an arrest under this Act, shall, without unnecessary delay, make over the person so arrested to a police officer, or, in the absence of a police officer, take such person or cause him to be taken to the nearest police station together with a report of the circumstances occasioning the arrest. Privileges of Senior Officers of Special Armed Police The Director General/Additional Director General/such other rank police officer appointed as head of the Special Armed Police and other police officers including Inspectors General, Deputy Inspectors General, Commandants and Deputy Commandants of the Special Armed Police shall be entitled to all the privileges which a police officer has under the Bihar Police Act, 2007, the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and any other enactment for the time being in force. Procedure for court taking cognizance of offence No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act when the accused person is a special armed police officer except on a report in writing of the facts constituting such offence and with the previous sanction of an officer authorised by the Government in this behalf. Protection of Special Armed Police In any suit or proceedings against any member of the Special Armed Police for any act done by him in pursuance of an order of a competent authority, it shall be lawful for him to plead that such act was done by him under the authority of such order. Rules to be laid before the House Every rule framed under this Act shall be published in the Gazette. (b) All rules made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after they are made, before each house of the State Legislature while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in one session or more successive sessions. If the State Legislature agrees to modify the rule or the legislature agrees that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; So however that, any such modification or annulment shall be, without prejudice to the validity of anything done under that rule. Provisions of this Act to override other laws The provisions of this Act shall have overriding effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law. References in any Act, rule, notification or order to the Bengal Military Police Act, 1892 shall, on the commencement of this Act, be construed as reference to the Bihar Special Armed Police Act, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihars-new-police-bill-explained-and-why-it-has-evoked-protests-101616530858499.html
24-03-2021||India||Atmosphere devoid of terror must for cordial ties, PM Modi writes to Imran Khan||An atmosphere of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is “imperative” for better relations between India and Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan on Tuesday.The message was part of a letter of greetings send by Modi to Khan on the occasion of Pakistan Day. People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, described the letter as a routine message sent to heads of government or state on national days.“As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan. For this, an atmosphere of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is imperative,” said the letter.The letter also referred to the impact of Covid-19 as a “difficult time for humanity”, and conveyed Modi’s best wishes to Khan and the people of Pakistan “for dealing with the challenges” of the pandemic.A separate message was sent by President Ram Nath Kovind to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi, the people cited above said.After it emerged on Saturday that Khan had tested positive for Covid-19 and was self-isolating at home, Modi had tweeted: “Best wishes to Prime Minister @ImranKhanPTI for a speedy recovery from COVID-19.”Earlier on Tuesday, Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires Aftab Hasan Khan said his country desires friendly relations with all nations, including India, and the two sides should resolve all outstanding issues through dialogue.The diplomat made the remarks while addressing an event organised at the Pakistan high commission to mark Pakistan Day. The comments came against the backdrop of a thaw in bilateral relations after the armies of the two countries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) last month.“Pakistan wants to have friendly relations with all countries including India,” Aftab Hasan Khan said, according to a statement issued by the Pakistani mission.“To achieve peace between Pakistan and India, both countries shall resolve all outstanding issues including [Jammu and Kashmir] through dialogue,” he said. Peace within South Asia is “inevitable” for the larger interest of the region, he added.The chargé d’affaires spoke after raising the Pakistani flag at the brief ceremony with limited participation in view of the pandemic. Messages from the president and prime minister of Pakistan were also read out at the ceremony.Noting that Muslims under the leadership of Muhammad Ali Jinnah had made a resolve to create a separate homeland on March 23, 1940, the chargé d’affaires said the day is observed as Pakistan Day every year.The Indian and Pakistani high comissions in Islamabad and New Delhi are currently headed by the deputy chiefs of mission as Pakistan decided not to post an envoy in the Indian capital after Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was scrapped in August 2019. Pakistan also expelled the Indian envoy and downgraded diplomatic ties.The Indian and Pakistani armies began strictly adhering to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – the apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between senior security officials of the two countries.Last week, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa said the time has come for India and Pakistan to “bury the past and move forward”, though he cautioned that any peace process would be susceptible to disruption without the resolution of the Kashmir issue.Bajwa’s conciliatory remarks came a day after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations.The foreign ministers of India and Pakistan are set to participate in the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on March 30. However, it is still not clear whether they will hold a bilateral meeting in Dushanbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmosphere-devoid-of-terror-must-for-cordial-ties-pm-modi-writes-to-imran-khan-101616530192152.html
24-03-2021||India||Early lockdown helped shore up infra: Experts||On March 25, India entered one of the world’s strictest lockdowns aimed at slashing the transmission of the coronavirus disease. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced it (first as a 21-day period), the country had 536 reported infections. The most stringent phase of the restriction would eventually be extended several times, lasting 68 days. By June 1, when the first of the measures were eased the country had over 198,000 infections.India thus became possibly the only large country that locked down even before it was hit by a surge of cases. The country’s first wave began building progressively as the country “unlocked” – rising steadily through the months between July and October, and peaking right around the festival season in November.The variation in the strategy from the rest of the world – which mostly rolled out restrictions only when cases surged – has divided experts, although they mostly see it to have helped.“If we had a situation where everybody follows the government instructions, then there would have been no need for a lockdown. Countries like Vietnam, Thailand, and Japan have all shown that it is possible to manage without the lockdown as long as you have the resources, the ability and the commitment,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.“If your life is so desperate that you cannot follow the government instructions, then you won’t. In that sense, I think the lockdown was necessary because it conveyed to the people that it is a serious issue and it stopped the movement of people,” said Dr Kang.The lockdown, she added, had significant consequences for livelihoods, especially among migrant workers. “It also created a fear in the minds of people, leading to stigmatisation. I was really worried about the government controlled testing of Sars-Cov-2. When they set up testing in January, it was only NIV (National Institute of Virology, Pune) doing the testing, only NIV confirming it. And, that is impossible for a country the size of India.”The lockdown helped buy time for India to at least improve its testing capacity. “Fortunately for us, when we had the lockdown, it slowed things down. If the lockdown had been a lockdown where imports were still allowed, it would have been better.”A second expert said the early lockdown was also crucial for India’s stressed health infrastructure to prepare itself. “The lockdown was important at that point of time. One, it slowed the spread of the infection as there was less interaction among people, less movement of people. If it hadn’t been done, the curve would be sharper, and it would have been sooner. Two, it gave the states time to build their infrastructure. There weren’t adequate oxygen or ICU beds then,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad.“Whether it could have been implemented in a better manner to avoid the difficulty of people, maybe. In hindsight, we can say anything but at that time, there was a lot of panic in the European countries, we did not know anything about the disease. It was an unprecedented situation,” he added.At present, with cases rising again, the country could be in a better position to avoid such harsh suppression measures. “Now, we are much better placed. We have the infrastructure, we know how the disease can be managed. And, we have a vaccine. For the current increase in the number of cases – assuming that states are conducting enough tests and the more accurate RT-PCR – we should have local restrictions based on local data,” Dr Mishra added.“In places where there isn’t a surge in cases, people should still remember to mask up at all times. And, in places where the numbers are going up, there have to be some restrictions put in place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-lockdown-helped-shore-up-infra-experts-101616530187207.html
24-03-2021||India||The tragic lessons of Covid migrant crisis||In August last year, Bamda Paharia finally gave up.The 48-year-old worker had migrated from Jharkhand in February that year to work at a construction site for ₹7,000 a month – the first time he was stepping out of his remote tribal hamlet, ravaged by acute unemployment.Weeks later, the government locked down the country to arrest the spread of Covid-19. Public transport went off the roads, trains stopped, and industry ground to a halt. Overnight, Paharia was thrown out of his rented accommodation after his contractor refused to pay his wages.No job in hand or penny in his pocket, Paharia started scrounging the Capital’s deserted streets for food and shelter. He sometimes slept on the streets, sometimes in homes started by the government and social organisations, and ate at community kitchens started across the city.When his fellow labourers started pouring out of Delhi into the highways, Paharia kept put. A frail man hailing from an impoverished tribe, he had neither the physical strength nor the networks required to undertake the 1,400km journey.With his meagre savings dwindling, Paharia took to begging when the city started opening up from May. He spoke only Santhali, had few friends and didn’t own a phone, so no one told him when the government started special trains to ferry workers like him back to their homes.In the last week of August, Paharia suddenly found himself at the New Delhi railway station. He had never been there before, having been brought in a bus from Jharkhand’s Sahibganj to Delhi.He looked up, and other groups of workers were leaving for their home states. “But I had no money to buy a ticket, and anyway, no one understood my language,” he said. Paharia stood at station for a long time, trying to talk to people. From broken conversations, he inferred the direction and tracks taken by Jharkhand-bound trains.“I decided to start walking along the railway track to reach home. I had no idea how far it was and how many days it could take,” he said.PAINFUL JOURNEYWith a pair of fraying rubber chappals, Paharia started walking. The Jharkhand administration later estimated that he quickly got lost as he strayed from the railway track in search of food and shelter.For weeks, he walked through forests, villages, fields – often on an empty stomach. He made do with green leaves or fruits that had fallen from trees along the tracks. Sometimes, he begged for food and water in villages that fell along the route.He slept near tracks, railway stations or adjoining villages. Many people offered him food on the way, thinking he was a beggar or mentally ill. “But I just walked, thinking I will reach home one day,” he said.On March 11, members of a local NGO found an exhausted man wandering along a railway crossing in Mahuda town, 1,200km from Delhi. “He said he did not eat for many days. We provided him food and clothes, and raised fund for his transportation to Sahebganj,” said Suraj Kumar, a member of the NGO Roti Bank.On March 13, he reached his home village of Amarbitha to the shock and surprise of his wife, Nandri Paharia, and three daughters. “We did not know about his journey. We thought he was earning in Delhi. I could not contact him for past eight months, as he had no phone with him,” said his wife.The local administration has started a probe into the middleman, identified as Rajesh Thakur, who sent Paharia to Delhi and later duped him of his wages. “Thakur is absconding since Paharia reached his village. We have lodged a complaint with police,” said block development officer Suman Sourabh.The government is now providing Paharia with free ration, monthly pension of ₹1,000 and signed them up for housing scheme. At any rate, Paharia is determined to never leave his two-room thatched house in the scenic foothills of the Rajmahal range. He never wants to go back to Delhi.TRAGIC ICONSThe pandemic threw up many such Paharias.There is Mohammad Saiyub, whose photo cradling his dying best friend Amrit Kumar, on the side of a highway in the middle of the lockdown, went viral. Saiyub, a 23-year-old resident of Uttar Pradesh and Kumar were childhood friends who moved away for better fortunes. They shared a tenement at a textile unit in Surat and were on their way back home when Kumar fell sick and died in Madhya Pradesh. Saiyub returned home to Basti district but he finds it difficult to sustain with his local business, and cannot fulfil his one wish: help his best friend’s family.There is Rampukar Pandit, who broke down near Delhi’s Nizamuddin bridge while talking to his wife on the phone. Pandit, a construction worker, had moved to the Capital from Bihar’s Begusarai district and was stuck in the city after March 25. But in early May, his wife told him that their youngest son was grievously ill and could die. Desperate to reach home, Pandit tried to dodge restrictions, get some money for a ticket, but failed. By the time he reached home in the second week of May, his son was dead.And, there was Jyoti Kumari, a 17-year-old girl who pedalled her purple bicycle from Gurugram to Darbhanga district in Bihar with her injured father in tow. With help from other migrant workers, short lifts from truck drivers and food from local people, they reached their village nine days later.A tweet from Ivanka Trump and national media attention brought her accolades, an offer of a biopic, and a trial at the cycling federation of India. It also improved their social status in the village as upper-caste families suddenly wanted to bask in the glory of their Dalit neighbour.Together, they became the face of the plight of millions of workers who brought home the horrors and pain of India’s deeply unequal development process that spawned the internal migration crisis.“The migrant crisis exposed and made visible the brutal spatial pattern of India’s economy: that there is a spatial rift between the regions of surplus labor and regions where work is available,” said Sai Balakrishnan, a professor at the University of Berkeley.IMPLICATIONS ON PUBLIC HEALTHAt the time, experts and government officers worried about the public health implications of migrant workers carrying back the virus from cities to the countryside, where poverty was widespread and medical infrastructure thin.But with the exception of some districts – Ganjam in Odisha that saw the second-highest virus deaths in the state – there was no major correlation between migrants returning and massive infection spikes.“It turned out better than we thought, and indeed, better than anyone else might have predicted. Some states saw a rise in cases but not all and it’s not specifically clear whether migrants were responsible for the increase in numbers or simply some travel from cities, where the disease was well entrenched initially, to more rural areas,” said Gautam Menon, a professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University.According to him, the migrant crisis was tackled differently in different states.In rural Karnataka, stringent control measures and targeted testing appeared to have checked the disease spread. In Odisha, some districts saw a spike that was directly correlated to the return of migrants. In Bihar, there didn’t seem to be any correlation between migrant return and increase in cases, he said.Uttar Pradesh and Bihar – two highly populous states with the largest number of migrant workers – consistently reported a relatively smaller numbers of cases and deaths relative to their population. Their test positivity rates were also low, suggesting that this isn’t just a fallout of inadequate testing. “This is a priori surprising, but suggestive of the fact that the influx of migrants returning from the cities might not have been a key contributor to the spread across these states,” said Menon.Scientists now estimate that the relatively young age of the local population in the migrant’s home states and measures taken by district administration to quarantine them may have worked. “There’s little doubt that many of those who returned carried the infection with them… but as far as we can see, the impact was reduced compared to what was feared initially,” said Menon.LESSONS LEARNTExperts and policymakers are still learning from the crisis that is considered the biggest incident of internal movement of people since the Partition.The government says it swiftly moved to help migrants.The ‘one nation, one ration card’ programme to enable countrywide access to subsidised grain for 20.4 million migrant workers is now operational in all states.The Union government announced relief under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), which includes a one-time ex gratia payment of ₹500 per month for three months, hiked rates under the rural jobs scheme, and instituted the ₹50,000 crore Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to boost employment and livelihood opportunities for returnee migrant workers in India’s most backward districts.“More than 50 crore man-days of employment was created under the abhiyaan with an expenditure of Rs. 39292.81 crore,” rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar told Parliament last week.The government ordered last September a nationwide survey of internal migrants to plug data gaps. The Union labour ministry told Lok Sabha last week that the number of internal migrants was currently estimated at around 100 million.The government also ran 4,621 Shramik special trains between May 1 and August 31, carrying 6.3 million passengers. But workers said these trains were packed, had no water or food and were poorly scheduled. At least 97 people died while travelling in these trains. This didn’t include 16 people who were run over by a freight train while sleeping on the tracks.“These migrant deaths raise urgent questions on public infrastructure, who was allowed to remain mobile and who was made immobile, why was capital allowed to circulate but not labour, and how these decisions around public infrastructure make visible the differentiated rights amongst India’s publics,” said Balakrishnan.RETHINKING STRATEGY Experts urge more robust responses that fundamentally re-imagine the country’s development strategy. They identify three main challenges.One, reorient the country’s development strategy that has spurred internal migration in the belief that it was labour’s business to reach capital, wherever it is. This resulted in labour sinks in the east and north that provide workers to the industrial powerhouses of the south and west.“How, for instance, can India develop thriving economic clusters in the lower Gangetic plain? The lower Gangetic plain is now a peripheral location that exports surplus labour that creates value in the core regions of western India; how can these unequal core-periphery relations be dismantled?” asked Balakrishnan.Two, imagine new labour relations in the wake of the pandemic.Usually, contractors in rural districts act as middlemen to aggregate workers and send them to big cities. Workers often migrate with the help of a friend or relative in the same city. “But this system has no time for formal training and can only work for low-skilled jobs. So workers are trapped in a low-income, low-skilled jobs cycle,” said Narender Pani, a professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies in Bengaluru.Pani said even the one nation, one ration scheme may not help because it doesn’t change labour relations. “The ration card is used by the entire household, and migrants come individually. Plus, the system is digital so there can be many gaps,” he said.Three, make cities more habitable and accessible for poor migrant workers. This is especially tricky given that migration patterns are based on workers finding cities too expensive to live in long-term. “Moreover, many contractors lost credibility last year when they failed to get workers back home. So that system is also collapsing,” said Pani.When workers got back to their villages, many found no source of income and poor agricultural returns forced them to go back to cities after a few months. “At the root of the crisis was an intertwined agrarian and urban crisis. Our cities are becoming more and more exclusionary…one response is to think about rental housing and other urban social-welfare programs that can provide some safety nets for informal workers in cities,” said Balakrishnan.Of course, this doesn’t even touch the strain put on workers who spend months away from their families, the mental health impact of being poorly paid and working in inhospitable conditions and the growing desperation of vulnerable labourers who are women or come from marginalised castes, and are now pitted against each other for meagre rural resources in a ravaged rural economy.“There are pressure points emerging all over. We cannot get back to the old system,” said Pani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-tragic-lessons-of-covid-migrant-crisis-101616529601176.html
24-03-2021||India||Days later, four more held with second elephant tusk in Uttarakhand||A joint team of special task force (STF), wildlife crime control bureau and forest department officials on Tuesday arrested four people and recovered an elephant tusk from their possession in Rudrapur area in US Nagar district. This second tusk belongs to the same elephant whose first tusk was recovered from four people held on March 17. Later after questioning the four accused, the carcass of the elephant was spotted at Peepal Parao forest range of Terai Central forest division said officials. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer of Terai Central forest division said acting on a tip-off, a joint team of STF and forest department officials conducted an operation on Rampur road at UP border in Rudrapur area on Tuesday and arrested the four men. “We recovered an elephant’s tusk from them. We also seized a vehicle in which the accused were travelling. The tusk can fetch up to ₹1 crore in the international market,” she said. Abhilasha Singh further said, “This tusk belongs to the same elephant whose tusk was recovered from the four people arrested last week. After the elephant’s carcass was recovered from the Peepal Parao forest range, its second tusk was found to be missing. Since then, we were looking for it.” She said the accused have been identified as Karnail Singh—a resident of Gadarpur, Raju, a resident of Rampur, Ravindra Singh—a resident of Swar Rampur and Kishan Singh, a resident of Lalkuan, Nainital. The four accused are being questioned on how they got this tusk and where they were going to sell it. They are also being questioned on whether they are a part of any wildlife racket, she added. “We have registered a case against the accused under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-later-four-more-held-with-second-elephant-tusk-in-uttarakhand-101616529899264.html
24-03-2021||India||Covid curbs changed the way India lives||It has now been a year since India announced the start of a hard lockdown to slow the rate of Covid-19 infections. For many across the country, March 24 marks the one-year anniversary of the start of an entirely new way of life. A year that will likely go down as the toughest in the lives of many, and one that will mark lifestyle changes that may even end up being permanent.To understand how a nationwide lockdown changed behavioural patterns across the country, Google in April 2020 started publishing Covid-19 “Community Mobility Reports” to provide insights into what has changed in the lives of people with new policies in place for work from home, shelter in place, and shutdown of recreation centres such as malls and cinema halls. The reports used aggregated data to chart movement trends over time across different categories of places such as retail and recreation, groceries and pharmacies, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and residential areas, spread across a wide variety of geographies.This data, shared publicly by Google, enables us to understand how a year of lockdown may have permanently altered recurring aspects of our daily lives, such as going to office five days a week, that have been commonplace since as far back as the Industrial Revolution.To calculate each day’s baseline of activity/mobility, Google took the median day-value from the five-week period in January 2020 (January 3 to February 6). The data must be looked at keeping in mind local events and seasonal changes that might bias the findings, such as public holidays or drop in daytime activity during peak summer.To be sure, Google’s calculations are based on data from users who have opted in for “location history” to be shared for their Google accounts, so that the data represents a sample of people using devices that have Google’s Andriod OS. As with all samples, this may or may not represent the exact behaviour of a wider population, but tends to serve as a good example of larger trends of movement in a country such as India with millions of Android users.WORST HIT: SHOPPING AND RECREATIONThe retail and recreation category refers to mobility data at places such as restaurants, cafés, shopping centres, theme parks, museums, libraries, and cinemas. This category was not only the sector that was most affected by the lockdown in the country initially; it is also the sector that has seen the least activity even in recent weeks. At its worst, activity and mobility in this category dropped 87% (towards the middle of April). Even though restrictions have largely been lifted at restaurants, cinemas, malls etc., this sector remains the one that has recovered the least from the lockdown. In the past week, activity at retail and recreation centres remained 21% below baseline levels.The lockdown impact gets further emphasised when looking only at metros. Mumbai and Chennai, in particular, appear to have recovered the least. The mobility trend in Mumbai dropped by 94% during peak lockdown, while in Chennai it fell 97%. In the past week, activity has far from resumed to normal levels – in Mumbai, activity remains 41.6% below baseline, while in Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru, it is around 30% below baseline. In Delhi, the fall is 27%.LEAST HIT: GROCERY AND PHARMACYAt the other end of the spectrum, the least affected category from the lockdown was grocery and pharmacy. At its worst, when the nationwide lockdown was kicked off in the final week of March, activity in the field dropped 64% from baseline. Since then, this essential sector was not only the one with the fastest recovery, but also the one that saw a significant improvement over baseline levels. In the past week, activity at supermarket and pharmacy outlets across India was nearly 20% above levels considered normal.In terms of metros though, this recovery appears to have been rather sedated – in the past week, mobility at shops has increased around 5% above baseline in Mumbai and Chennai, while it is only 3.5% in Delhi and 1.4% in Bengaluru. Kolkata, meanwhile, is yet to even recover in this field – the city remains 9.4% below baseline levels.WORKPLACE SHIFT PERMANENT? Another interesting sector to look at is workplaces and offices, as it is possibly the one that has suffered the most long-lasting changes due to the lockdown, both in India and globally. Work from home, commonly abbreviated as WFH, has become common parlance across the globe since lockdowns forced most organisations to shift their employees to work remotely. This was also, unsurprisingly, the second quickest sector to start its recovery (it was rising fast by mid-April), behind only grocery and pharmacy. During peak lockdown, movement at offices across India dropped as low as 72% from baseline, but as of last week, it has remains only 15% below baseline nationally.There are two interesting points to note from this sector, however.First, while recovery was fast in this field initially, it tapered off towards October, and has been inching relatively slowly since. Several sectors that were behind, such as transit stations and parks, are now ahead. This may be a sign that the WFH shift may have moved the baseline permanently (or at least for the near future) to significantly lower than what it was in 2020.Second, Bengaluru remains the city with the largest drop from baseline – the city is still nearly 40% below the January 2020 baseline, while other metros are in the 20% drop range (the national average is higher still at -15%). This may be because the city is home to the Silicon Valley of India, and the IT firms in the city could implement remote working far more effectively than non-IT sector companies located in other metros.OTHER SECTORS The category of transit stations includes movement at places that are public transport hubs, such as Metro rail, bus and train stations. This was the field that saw the second fastest recovery across the country – in the past week, activity at transit hubs is only 5% below normal levels across India. This is a crucial indicator of how mobility, in a wider sense of the word, is nearly back to normal. This field has made a steady recovery since March last year.Residential movement, meanwhile, was the only category which understandably saw a positive reaction to the lockdown as more people were confined to their homes than usual. Starting with the lockdown, activity levels at homes remained in the +30% zone till mid-May (the period that saw the hardest level of lockdown in the country). Even in the last week, activity remains slightly above baseline levels in all metros, as well as the national average, which may be a knock-on effect of the WFH impact on activity at workplaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-changed-the-way-india-lives-101616529595314.html
24-03-2021||India||Caution not the keyword at Chandni Chowk market||Covid caution was thrown to the wind, as thousands flocked Chandni Chowk market on Monday ahead of Holi festivities, disregarding all social distancing norms and triggering fears of another outbreak of the virus in the city.A spot check by HT at the popular market in Old Delhi on Monday, found a majority of shoppers not wearing masks or wearing one improperly. Rampant violations of social distancing norms was also visible with the market being absolutely chock-a-block and no thermal screening happening at any of the entry points of the shopping hub, which is surrounded by congested residential neighbourhoods of Chandni Mahal, Ballimaran and Dariba Kalan, making it vulnerable to a “super-spreading” event. There were no announcements being made to caution people about Covid appropriate behaviour or asking them to follow social distancing norms and wear masks.There were only two civil defence volunteers deployed near Fountain Chowk, who were seen telling people to wear masks but their efforts clearly fell on mostly deaf ears.“We cannot challan everyone because of the excessive crowd. We can only advice them to wear masks and maintain a distance of two metres. However, maintaining social distancing in such a busy and crowded market is almost impossible,” one the civil defence volunteers said, requesting anonymity.Chandni Chowk is one of the busiest markets in the city and is a popular shopping hub for wedding clothes, readymade garments, wholesale trade of medicines and is also dotted with a number of famous eating joints.. According to traders, on any normal day, the market witnesses a footfall of around two to three lakh people per day. Chandni ChowkPriya Mishra (28), a shopper said, “Hassle-free shopping is a dream here. No social distancing is being followed anywhere. Since the wedding season is going to start, more people are thronging the market as this is a hub for wedding clothes. The authorities should at least make announcements to remind visitors about wearing masks and maintain necessary distance between themselves, while shopping.”Unauthorised hawkers and cycle rickshaws on the stretch were seen occupying road space and had a rush of visitors around them.Market associations in Chandni Chowk have issued directions to shopkeepers to not allow anyone without masks inside their shops and also to sanitise their hands before entering their establishments. Representatives of market association said they would write to the district administration to enhance vigil in the market area to ensure safety of shoppers as well as traders.“The crowd has increased in the market because of Holi, but we have to be careful about the virus. So we have issued strict guidelines to shopkeepers stating no one without a mask be allowed inside shops and they should be thermal screened. In a day or two, we are going to write to the district magistrate about violations of Covid-19 in the market by shoppers and request an increase in vigil and deployment of more teams to strictly enforce social distancing norms,” Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarva Vyapar Mandal, said.He also said that “unauthorised vendors” on streets and lanes in the busy market were adding to the virus spread scare.Similar concerns were echoed by other traders of the market.Puneet Chadha, who owns a garment store in Chandni Chowk, said that the number of hawkers have increased because Holi is round the corner.“We conduct thermal screening of every visitor and sanitise their hands at the entrance of our shops. But these rules are not being followed by roadside vendors. The authorities should ensure that they also follow Covid-19 guidelines,” Chadha said.Similar chaotic situation prevailed at Bhagirath Place Market, which is a part of Chandni Chowk market and is known for wholesale business of medicines.Ashish Grover, general secretary Delhi Drug Traders Association Bhagirath Place, said that along with authorities, the public should also act responsibly and adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “We have distributed nearly 6,000 kits containing sanitisers, disinfectants, masks and gloves to traders in Chandni Chowk and instructed them to not allow anyone without masks including their own staff. People should not wait for authorities to issue challans to wear masks.They should understand the gravity of the situation and follow social distancing,” Grover said.District administration authorities, however, said that all necessary steps were being taken to check spread of Covid-19 in the area.Akriti Sagar, district magistrate (central) said that continuous monitoring was happening in the entire district, including the Chandni Chowk market. “Every day we are issuing 100-150 challans against violators. We have recently conducted meetings with market associations in Chandni Chowk and appealed them to ensure that their staff and shoppers follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Sagar said.Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of the PSRI institute of Pulmonary, Critical care and Sleep medicine, said that that there was a definite surge in Delhi. He said that there is need to follow Covid-19 guidelines. “There has been an uptick in cases in the last 15-20 days. People should not be complacent,” he said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said, “Our teams are imposing fine on those found loitering without mask, spitting, or not adhering to government’s COVID safety protocols. We have also placed barricades to keep distance between the crowds visiting the market. Regular announcements are also being made asking people to wear masks at all times when they are out in public,” Alphonse said.The DCP said they have also held meetings with market welfare associations to make sure that every shopkeeper ensures that the norms are also being followed by visitors to their shops. “Watch is being kept through CCTV footages and wherever overcrowding is noticed, staff I sent to disperse people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caution-not-the-keyword-at-chandni-chowk-market-101616525233405.html
24-03-2021||India||81% of samples in Punjab confirm UK variant||Chandigarh: Of the 401 samples sent for genome sequencing from across Punjab, 81% turned up positive for the new UK Covid variant B.1.1.7 in the state on Monday. These random samples were collected from various containment zones with high Covid-19 cases from all districts of Punjab between March 1 and 10. They were sent to a virology lab in Pune. In January, the state health department sent 478 Covid-19 positive samples to National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), for genome sequencing, of which results of 90 samples were received. Of those, only two samples were positive for N440K variant, also known as ‘Kerala’ strain. State health experts said ‘Kerala’ strain was the mutated strain of the virus spread in India. In last week of February, a team from the ministry of health and family welfare, Government of India, visited Punjab to review the increase in positivity. The team was informed about the pending results of genome sequencing. Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between March 1and March 10, 2021, were sent to NCDC for genome sequencing. The results on Monday were worrying as they showed the presence of the B.1.1.7 variant in 326 samples. The presence of UK strain was found in 12 districts of Punjab, including SAS Nagar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Ropar, Bathinda and Taran Taran. What does presence of UK variant mean? “Such a high presence of UK strain is worrying as these samples were taken from all districts. This new strain is 70% more infectious than the older virus and that is why the speed of the spread is more in the second wave,” said Dr K.K Talwar, former director, PGIMER Chandigarh, and head of the state government’s Covid management group. Stating that the new strain spread faster, Dr Talwar said that is why more young population and those going out for the job were getting infected in the second wave. Notably, health department’s internal analysis, already reported by HT, has found that nearly two-thirds of Covid-19 patients in Punjab are aged between 20 and 60 (working-age population). The trend suggests that people in the age bracket have a high rate of mobility as they have to venture out of their homes for work or other purposes. The figures also show that those aged between 31 and 40 are the most vulnerable to contracting the virus, with 17.2% of the total cases falling in the category. Punjab’s active cases on Tuesday reached 19,423 with new infections in the last one week growing at an average of 1.1% every day. In September last year, when the state witnessed peak in the first wave, maximum active cases in the state was 22,778, as reported on September 22. Talwar said in such a scenario only increase in vaccination and less movement of people can control the situation. CM appeals PM to widen vaccination ambit While disclosing the news about presence of the UK strain in large number of samples in Punjab, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60. However, later in the day when the Centre issued new guidelines making everyone above 45 eligible for vaccination, the chief minister took to Twitter to thank the Centre for responding to his request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/81-of-samples-in-punjab-confirm-ukvariant-101616525937795.html
24-03-2021||India||Nuns’ detention in UP fans Kerala poll furore||Thiruvananthapuram: The brief detention of a group of nuns by Government Railway Police (GRP) following complaints of alleged forced conversion by Bajrang Dal activists in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi district has generated a political firestorm in Kerala ahead of the crucial assembly elections next month.The nuns’ congregation belongs to Syro-Malabar Church which is based in Kerala. While the Kerala Catholic Bishops Conference (KCBC) and Syro-Malabar Church have sought action against the activists, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala rushed a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding immediate action in the case. The incident occurred at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is wooing Christian minorities who form 16 per cent of the votebank to get a foothold in the central Travancore area. In a detailed statement, the church media commission said that the nuns and a group of girls were on their way from Delhi to Odisha in a train on March 19 for Easter celebrations when they were confronted by the Bajrang Dal activists in Jhansi. The church claimed that the nuns were verbally abused and activists tried to attack the girls, whom they believed, were being taken away for religious conversion.“They did not believe nuns’ words that all were born Christians and continued to question them. Later, the nuns were taken into police custody at Jhansi after they alerted the railway police. They were threatened and terrorised by the right wing workers,” Father Jerry Joseph, spokesperson of the commission, said. He added that the nuns were released after three hours of questioning and transferred to the Bishop’s House in Jhansi.“It was a terrifying incident. They were not even considerate towards the women. Around 150 Bajrang Dal activists surrounded us and behaved as though we were criminals,” one of the nuns said, preferring anonymity.“It is totally unacceptable. Thousands of nuns and priests are engaged in humanitarian activities across the country. We want a high-level intervention,” KCBC said.Sunil Singh, SHO and GRP, Jhansi, said the nuns and girls were deboarded after the activists suspected that the girls were being taken away for religious conversion. “The police investigated and found no such thing. The nuns and students were later sent with a reverend,” he said.The leaders from the church also plan to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is arriving in the state on Wednesday for campaigning, in this regard. In his letter to Modi, Chennithala said: “It is a serious incident. Poor nuns were terrorised and attacked. The government will have to ensure speedy justice to them.” The ruling CPI(M) also condemned the incident. “It exposes intolerance towards minority communities in north India,” the party said in a statement. The state BJP sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the matter. “The party condemns the incident. It seems the police also took hasty action without verifying the facts. We want action against the perpetrators and police officials who detained the nuns,” party vice president George Kurian said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nuns-detention-in-up-fans-kerala-poll-furore-101616525877951.html
24-03-2021||India||BJP fields ex-CEA from another seat after row||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday fielded former chief economic advisor Ashok Lahiri as its Balurghat candidate for the upcoming West Bengal assembly polls after party workers protested his candidature from Alipurduar constituency seeking the nomination of a local leader.Actor Mithun Chakraborty, who recently joined the BJP, has not been fielded for the elections.The party named 11 candidates in its final list for the elections and changed its nominees in two other constituencies. The BJP has now named all 294 candidates for the eight-phase polls, set to begin on March 27. In a list released last week, the BJP named Lahiri as its Alipurduar candidate. After protests, he was replaced with Suman Kanjilal. Speaking to news agency PTI on Tuesday, the former CEA said, “I had left West Bengal in 1971 (when the Naxal movement was at its peak in the state) as the situation here was not conducive for studies, but I was always mentally present in Bengal... I always had the feeling that I needed to get back to my roots and do some work here.”The party also named retired Lt Gen Subrata Saha, former deputy chief of army staff, from Rashbehari in South Kolkata. The list put an end to speculations that Mithun Chakraborty, a former superstar in Bollywood and an icon in Bengal, might be the BJP’s chief ministerial face in the assembly polls. While he registered himself as a voter in North Kolkata on Monday, he was not named a candidate for the polls.“If the BJP wants it can field Chakraborty in a by-election later on. In 2011 when the TMC came to power Mamata Banerjee did the same thing. She won the Bhowanipore constituency in a by-election,” said Amal Mukhopadhyay, political commentator. The BJP also fielded new candidates from Chowranghee and Kashipur-Belgachia seats, after the initial nominees – Sikha Mitra and Tarun Saha—refused to contest polls last week.From Chowranghee, the BJP has fielded Debabrata Majhi, replacing Sikha, wife of former state Congress chief Somen Mitra. The party’s district unit president Shibaji Singha Roy has replaced Saha, husband of TMC MLA Mala Saha, in Kashipur-Belgachia. “Mitra and Saha had refused to contest the polls and hence had to be replaced. Later the party’s central election committee decided to field separate candidates. There may have been some communication gap and the party is looking into it,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity.The party namedtwo Matua community candidates -- Subrata Thakur from Gaighata and Ashok Kirtonia from Bangaon Uttar, both in North 24 Parganas. Thakur is the grandson of Matua leader Binapani Devi and the son of former TMC leader Manjul Krishna Thakur. The Matua population is estimated at 50 million, of which about 30 million are in West Bengal alone and 15 million are listed as voters. The state’s Matua strongholds including parts of 24 North Parganas, Nadia, Cooch Behar, Dinajpur and Burdwan, have become the centre of a struggle for control between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the BJP. After the BJP’s announcement, the ruling TMC said that the party was politically bankrupt. “The BJP may field anyone from anywhere, but their defeat is imminent. Infighting has broken out within the party over selection of candidates. That the BJP is politically bankrupt and has no proper leaders in Bengal, has been proved as it had to bring in its central leaders and MPs to fight assembly polls,” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-fields-ex-cea-from-another-seat-after-row-101616525877287.html
24-03-2021||India||BJP promises corrected NRC to protect ‘genuine’ Indian citizens||GUWAHATIThe Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday promised to initiate the process of correcting the National Register of Citizens (NRC) to “protect genuine Indian citizens and exclude all illegal immigrants” as part of its manifesto for the poll-bound Assam. Releasing the party’s manifesto, BJP president JP Nadda announced 10 commitments for an ‘Atmanirbhar Assam’ in the presence of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and other party leaders. “Assam was full of problems five years ago, but our government has been able to address some of them by providing inclusive development. We have gained momentum and are now ready to take a big leap in coming years. Besides the 10 commitments, we will work on improving connectivity, health, education, women empowerment etc and take Assam to newer heights,” Nadda said. The BJP is committed to protect and preserve the “identity and culture” of Assam, keeping the “natural process of cultural change intact”, Nadda said. The updated NRC for Assam, released in August 2019, excluded 1.9 million of the nearly 33 million applicants. Calling the list faulty, the BJP said that the names of many genuine citizens were left out. The NRC is yet to be notified. The document comes days after the release of Congress’s manifesto, which included five guarantees such as ₹2,000 monthly to housewives, 200 units of free electricity to all households, an increase in daily wages of tea garden workers to ₹365, and the creation of 500,000 government jobs. The Congress has said that if voted to power, it will not implement the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) passed in 2019 to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan.The CAA triggered protests in Assam amid fears that it could dilute the 1985 Assam Accord and lead to a fresh influx of Bangladeshi Hindus. The accord provided for the deportation of all refugees and migrants, who have entered Assam after March 25, 1971. The CAA extends the deadline until December 31, 2014.The BJP has promised to implement CAA in poll-bound West Bengal but has not included the issue in its commitments to Assam’s voters.“CAA has been passed by parliament and it will be implemented. I should not question Congress’s ideology or intellect, but how can central legislation passed by parliament get changed by a state legislation? Either Congress leaders are ignorant about it or they are cheating people of Assam and both of it are detrimental to the state,” Nadda told mediapersons. On the implementation of the clause six of the Assam Accord, Nadda said, “it is under process and we are committed to it”. The party also promised to speed up the process of delimitation in the state to protect the rights of the people indigenous to the state. The BJP president said the party is committed to strengthening and scientific management of international borders. “Border management is a continuous process and we will continue to improve it,” he said.Under the state government’s Orunudoi scheme, the BJP has committed to enhance payments to women to ₹3,000 a month from the existing ₹830 for economic empowerment and extend the scheme to cover 3 million families in the state.“As part of Mission Shishu Unnayan we will aim to provide quality education to children. This commitment includes free education in all government schools and free bicycles to all girl students from Class 8 and above,” said Nadda. The party also promised that Assam will be freed from the vagaries of flood by launching “Mission Brahmaputra” with a multi-pronged strategy involving the dredging of rivers and building reservoirs to store excess water from Brahmaputra and its tributaries.The party announced setting up of a task force to recover lands of Sattras (Vaishnav monastery) and places of worship from illegal encroachment and strengthen all Namghars (prayer halls) and places of worship of the tribals in the state by providing grants of up to ₹2.5 lakh each.The BJP president again targeted the Congress for forming an alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). Assam’s identity is inextricably linked to Vaishanav saint Srimanta Sankardeva, Bharat Ratnas Dr Bhupen Hazarika and Gopinath Bordoloi and “now can we allow it to be linked with Badruddin Ajmal”, Nadda said.The party also stated that if voted to power again, it would introduce legislation to curb love jihad and land jihad. The manifesto did not give any details on what these legislations would entail. Love jihad is a term used by Hindu outfits to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh recently enacted laws to check conversion for marriage through fraud, coercion or enticement.Last month, Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the BJP manifesto for Assam would include action against land jihad, alleging that plots of land, including those belonging to monasteries, were being grabbed by a certain section of people. He said that the party would also bring in a policy mandating a prospective groom to disclose information like religion, employment details, income etc, before marriage.Reacting to the announcements, Congress media committee chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said: “The BJP has failed miserably in giving the people of Assam a fool-proof NRC. Their sincerity in solving the illegal migrants’ issue is questionable. If they could not do in it the last five years, what is the guarantee that they will be able to do it in the next five years.” Political analysts said the BJP was trying to polarize voters through its election manifesto.“BJP’s manifesto for 2016 included substantive issues like doubling of farm output and implementation of Assam Accord in letter and spirit. Subsequently, when the party was in power, it shifted to launching many beneficiary schemes. From that they have now switched to talking about clash of civilisations and ways to protect Assam’s ‘sanskriti’. Perhaps, the party is not confident that it will win election with its work in the past five years. That’s why they are trying to polarize voters as a key strategy,” said Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science at Gauhati University. Assam goes to polls in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6; the votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-promises-corrected-nrc-to-protect-genuine-indian-citizens-101616525817385.html
24-03-2021||India||Army signs contract for 1.7 million medals||New DelhiSoldiers will no longer have to buy replicas of medals from the market, with the Indian Army on Tuesday announcing that it has concluded a contract for procuring 1.7 million medals.Soldiers are awarded medals for gallantry and distinguished service among other key landmarks in their military careers.Resolving a decade-old problem, the army said it has signed a contract for 17 different types of medals. “Integrated Headquarters of Ministry of Defence (Army) has concluded a contract for procurement of a total of 17.27 lakh service medals of 17 different types,” it said on Twitter.“The procurement has enabled Indian Army to meet all outstanding demands of service medals in respect of soldiers who have served and are serving in the Indian Army,” the army added. In contrast to original medals, the replica medals do not have the names of the soldiers and their service numbers engraved on them. For almost 10 years, soldiers have been purchasing medals from the market as the army grappled with the shortage.Soldiers could just approach shops selling service medals and buy them as per their requirement, an official familiar with the matter said. There was no need to produce any certificate to make the purchase.Gopinath Bazar in Delhi Cantt is a popular place for soldiers to buy replica medals. Other cantonments in the country also have shops that sell medals and other military items such as uniforms and boots. Soldiers and veterans wear these medals only during ceremonial functions. While there was no shortage of medals awarded to soldiers for gallantry, the defence ministry’s department of medals had failed to issue other varieties of medals, another official said on condition of anonymity.In 2016-17, the medals department was saddled with more than 1.4 million medals of various types. The soldiers, by default, are entitled to a variety of medals after completing a certain number of years in service, serving in difficult areas or taking part in various operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-signs-contract-for-1-7-million-medals-101616525757265.html
24-03-2021||India||India abstains from key UNHRC vote on Lanka||New Delhi India on Tuesday abstained from a crucial vote at the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on Sri Lanka’s rights record, though New Delhi called on Colombo to carry forward the reconciliation process and address the aspirations of the Tamil minority. The 47-member UNHRC adopted a resolution – sponsored by a group of countries that includes the UK, Germany and Canada – which gives UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet the mandate to collect and preserve evidence of crimes related to Sri Lanka’s civil war that ended in 2009 with the defeat of Tamil Tiger rebels. A total of 22 countries voted for the resolution that was very critical of Sri Lanka’s failure to address human rights violations that occurred during the civil war. The resolution also contended the human rights situation has deteriorated under the Rajapaksa administration and that rights defenders and ethnic and religious minorities are facing problems. Eleven countries, including Bangladesh, China and Pakistan, voted against the resolution, while 14 countries, including India, Indonesia, Japan and Nepal, abstained. In a statement before the voting on the resolution on “Promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka”, Pawankumar Badhe, first secretary at India’s permanent mission in Geneva, said New Delhi believes states have the primary responsibility for protecting human rights. “We would urge the government of Sri Lanka to carry forward the process of reconciliation, address the aspirations of the Tamil community and continue to engage constructively with the international community to ensure that the fundamental freedoms and human rights of all its citizens are fully protected,” Badhe said. India’s approach to human rights in Sri Lanka, he said, was guided by “two fundamental considerations” – support to the Tamil minority for equality, justice, dignity and peace, and ensuring the unity, stability and territorial integrity of the island nation. “We have always believed that these two goals are mutually supportive and Sri Lanka’s progress is best assured by simultaneously addressing both objectives,” he added. India also supports the world community’s call for Sri Lanka to fulfil its commitments on devolution of political authority to the Tamils, including through early holding of elections to provincial councils and ensuring that these councils are able to operate effectively in line with the 13th amendment to Sri Lanka’s Constitution, Badhe said. India has traditionally shied away from backing direct UN intervention on human rights issues because of its sensitivities related to the Kashmir issue. At the same time, the Modi government has repeatedly pressed Sri Lanka to take steps to devolve powers to the Tamil minority and address their aspirations. The Tamil Nadu assembly election, to be held during April-May, is also believed to have been a factor behind India’s decision to abstain. The status of Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority is often a factor in Tamil Nadu’s politics. Though the Sri Lankan government reached out to India to vote against the resolution at the UNHRC, New Delhi has been irked with Colombo for reneging on a 2019 tripartite India-Japan-Sri Lanka agreement for developing the East Container Terminal at Colombo port. The Sri Lankan government scrapped the deal last month following pressure from labour unions and instead offered to develop the West Container Terminal with Indian and Japanese investors. Sri Lanka’s foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena made a distinction while thanking countries that voted against the resolution or abstained. In a tweet, he appreciated “the support shown at Geneva” by countries such as India and Japan that abstained, and in another tweet, he extended a “very warm Thank You for solid support” shown by countries that voted against the resolution. While presenting the resolution at the UNHRC, British ambassador Julian Braithwaite said: “Impunity has become more entrenched, progress in emblematic cases has stalled.” But Sri Lankan ambassador MCA Chandraprema rejected the document as “unhelpful and divisive”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-abstains-from-key-unhrc-vote-on-lanka-101616525697868.html
24-03-2021||India||India legitimate partner in peace process: Afghan min||New Delhi Afghanistan envisages a greater role for India in building regional and international consensus for the country’s fraught peace process, though a decision on engaging the Taliban is entirely up to New Delhi, Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar said on Tuesday. Atmar is on a three-day visit to New Delhi, during which he held talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on security and economic cooperation and collaboration on efforts to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic. The two sides also reviewed latest developments in the peace process between the Afghan government and the Taliban. During an interaction with the media, Atmar responded to a question on the role envisaged by the Afghan government for India in the peace process by saying that New Delhi has legitimate interests in the peace and stability of the region. “There are those out there that threaten not just Afghanistan but also India. So, India is a legitimate partner in peace-making and we are seeking a greater role for India in the process,” he said. Lasting peace in Afghanistan depends on national, regional and international consensus, irrespective of the venue where talks are held by the Afghan government and the Taliban, he said. India has a key role in the process of “regional and international consensus-building”, Atmar said. Atmar said he had not discussed India’s approach to the Taliban with his interlocutors. “We leave it entirely to India to make that decision. We’ve asked for a greater role by India in regional and international consensus-building and the mature policies pursued by the Indian government will always place emphasis on any kind of contact with the Taliban on condition that would serve the peace process – that they will be part of a legitimate government of Afghanistan,” he said. Both Afghanistan and India as well as the region have been affected by terrorism and the two countries have the responsibility to work together to defeat such threats, he said. The Afghan government is negotiating with the Taliban to make sure that the country doesn’t become a safe haven for international terrorists who could target India or the West, he said. “The best strategy to secure the world is to separate the Taliban from the regional and international terrorists, [and] make peace on the condition that Afghanistan remains a sovereign, peaceful, unified and independent country,” he said. Responding to a question about the targeting of Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities by terrorists, he said: “The violence against Afghans didn’t spare our minorities either. So, it’s not a kind of persecution against [a] specific minority, it’s the general violence against the entire nation, in which this part of our population has been disproportionately affected.” He added it was the responsibility of the Afghan government to provide protection and security to the Hindu and Sikh minorities. Atmar also said the upcoming meeting between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Turkey on April 1 will focus on three issues – a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire, a political settlement consistent with a vision acceptable to the Afghan people, and regional and international guarantees for the settlement. “And in that political settlement, the key will be both sides agreeing to accept the free will of the Afghan people through elections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-legitimate-partner-in-peace-process-afghan-min-101616525697278.html
24-03-2021||India||Atmosphere devoid of terror must for cordial ties, PM writes to Imran||New Delhi An atmosphere of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is “imperative” for better relations between India and Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan on Tuesday. The message was part of a letter of greetings send by Modi to Khan on the occasion of Pakistan Day. People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, described the letter as a routine message sent to heads of government or state on national days. “As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan. For this, an atmosphere of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is imperative,” said the letter. The letter also referred to the impact of Covid-19 as a “difficult time for humanity”, and conveyed Modi’s best wishes to Khan and the people of Pakistan “for dealing with the challenges” of the pandemic. A separate message was sent by President Ram Nath Kovind to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi, the people cited above said. After it emerged on Saturday that Khan had tested positive for Covid-19 and was self-isolating at home, Modi had tweeted: “Best wishes to Prime Minister @ImranKhanPTI for a speedy recovery from COVID-19.” Earlier on Tuesday, Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires Aftab Hasan Khan said his country desires friendly relations with all nations, including India, and the two sides should resolve all outstanding issues through dialogue. The diplomat made the remarks while addressing an event organised at the Pakistan high commission to mark Pakistan Day. The comments came against the backdrop of a thaw in bilateral relations after the armies of the two countries recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) last month. “Pakistan wants to have friendly relations with all countries including India,” Aftab Hasan Khan said, according to a statement issued by the Pakistani mission. “To achieve peace between Pakistan and India, both countries shall resolve all outstanding issues including [Jammu and Kashmir] through dialogue,” he said. Peace within South Asia is “inevitable” for the larger interest of the region, he added. The chargé d’affaires spoke after raising the Pakistani flag at the brief ceremony with limited participation in view of the pandemic. Messages from the president and prime minister of Pakistan were also read out at the ceremony. Noting that Muslims under the leadership of Muhammad Ali Jinnah had made a resolve to create a separate homeland on March 23, 1940, the chargé d’affaires said the day is observed as Pakistan Day every year. The Indian and Pakistani high comissions in Islamabad and New Delhi are currently headed by the deputy chiefs of mission as Pakistan decided not to post an envoy in the Indian capital after Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was scrapped in August 2019. Pakistan also expelled the Indian envoy and downgraded diplomatic ties. The Indian and Pakistani armies began strictly adhering to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – the apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between senior security officials of the two countries. Last week, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa said the time has come for India and Pakistan to “bury the past and move forward”, though he cautioned that any peace process would be susceptible to disruption without the resolution of the Kashmir issue. Bajwa’s conciliatory remarks came a day after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations. The foreign ministers of India and Pakistan are set to participate in the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on March 30. However, it is still not clear whether they will hold a bilateral meeting in Dushanbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmosphere-devoid-of-terror-must-for-cordial-ties-pm-writes-to-imran-101616525637261.html
24-03-2021||India||IMD launches new climate data portal||A steep rise in mean temperatures have been recorded across all seasons since 1996 onwards over India with the sharpest rising trend recorded in the pre-monsoon season, shows India Meteorological Department’s latest offering—Climate Data Service Portal.The data highlights the impact of climate change on India’s mean temperature trends.The portal launched on Tuesday on the occasion of World Meteorological Day has real time visualisation of meteorological data from across the country; climatological tables; visualisation of historical meteorological data including of monsoon rainfall pattern; mean temperature rise; frequency of cyclones etc.According to IMD, the CDSP will help researchers and the government in climate change studies; planning and mitigation strategies; early warning to people etc. Statistical analysis of meteorological data in the portal is still under development.CDSP also offers climatological data for each station. For example, for Safdarjung station, the mean maximum temperature from 1981 to 2010 has been 35.3 degree C and the highest temperature recorded in March at the station was 40.6 degree C on March 31, 1945. The mean wet bulb temperature recorded in June at 5.30 PM is 25.4 degree C; 27 degree C in July and 26.9 degree C in August—the three monsoon months.Wet bulb temperature is the lowest temperature to which air can be cooled by the evaporation of water into the air at a constant pressure. It is therefore measured by wrapping a wet wick around the bulb of a thermometer and the measured temperature corresponds to the wet bulb temperature according to a paper in Science Direct.A paper titled “The emergence of heat and humidity too severe for human tolerance” published in May 2020 said when it’s very hot and humidity is also extremely high, evaporation slows down and eventually stops. That point comes when the so-called the wet-bulb temperature reaches 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit).IMD’s theme for World Meteorological Day was “Oceans, Our Climate and Weather’ with scientists highlighting the Ocean’s impact on weather and climate especially during the El-Nino and La-Nina phases. The Ocean is also a major driver of the global economy, carrying more than 90% of world trade and sustaining the 40% of humanity that lives within 100 km of the coast.“Oceans absorb the greatest amount of solar radiation over 90%, the earth’s surface absorbs on 2.3% rest is absorbed by glaciers and other surfaces. So, you can imagine the impact of oceans on meteorology. ENSO episodes for example have a profound impact on weather conditions in US, India and many parts of the world,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdlaunches-new-climate-data-portal-101616524956129.html
24-03-2021||India||SC restrains HCs from hearing petitions over OTT content regulation||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Tuesday restrained high courts from hearing petitions to regulate content of releases on over-the-top platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hotstar and Zee5, saying it will hear the pleas pending before it on the issue in the second week of April.OTT platforms such as Amazon Prime have come under fire for airing content that some claimed “hurt religious sentiments”. On Tuesday, a three-judge bench headed by justice DY Chandrachud stayed proceedings in separate petitions pending in this regard before the Punjab and Haryana high court, Madhya Pradesh high court and Allahabad high court. The bench, also comprising justices MR Shah and Sanjiv Khanna, pointed out that about 20 petitions are pending in other high courts. The apex court applied the stay order to all such high courts where similar issues are pending. The order was passed on a petition moved by the Centre, seeking transfer of all petitions to regulate OTTs from various high courts to the Supreme Court. Last month, the apex court issued notice on this petition moved jointly by the ministries of information and broadcasting, electronics and information technology, and law and justice.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, pointed out that despite a notice on the transfer petition, the Punjab and Haryana high court was continuing to hear a petition on the matter. He requested the court to stay the proceedings before the high courts.Along with Centre’s plea, the bench took up two PILs filed separately by NGO Justice for Rights Foundation and advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha. The petitions demanded an autonomous body on the lines of the censor board to screen and regulate content shown on OTT platforms.In response to one of the petitions, the Centre submitted an affidavit, indicating the legal position governing OTT platforms. “There is a mechanism for regulation of the OTT Platforms under the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the newly framed Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 notified on February 25, 2021.”The Centre informed the court that it received complaints of members of civil society, parliamentarians and chief ministers on the content streamed by OTT platforms and the need to regulate them. IT Rules 2021 provide for an oversight mechanism and a self-regulatory body, the affidavit filed by the information technology ministry said. With the mechanism already put in place, the Centre demanded the dismissal of the petitions which were filed prior to the 2021 rules.The Centre recently notified the rules that mention the setting up of a three-tier self-regulatory framework for OTT platforms.The 2021 rules are also under scrutiny in a separate case before the Supreme Court. Early this month, the Supreme Court termed the IT Rules 2021 on OTT Platforms to “lack teeth” as they contained no penal provision. The matter is pending consideration as the Centre expressed its willingness to revise the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-restrains-hcs-from-hearing-petitions-over-ott-content-regulation-101616524857157.html
24-03-2021||India||In the BJP’s universe, the space of intellectuals and lateral entrants||On Saturday, senior journalist Swapan Dasgupta filed his nomination as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate in the West Bengal assembly polls, after stepping down as a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha.While Dasgupta has been a prominent supporter of the party for three decades, he isn’t the only career professional without direct roots in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to switch to the saffron outfit. In the central government, union ministers S Jaishankar, Hardeep Puri and RK Singh are among the former bureaucrats who have joined the party.The party has had a longer history of association with journalists who may or may not have joined it but are aligned with its world view and have assumed formal positions — Surya Prakash was appointed the chair of Prasar Bharti, Ashok Malik is now a policy advisor with the ministry of external affairs after having served a stint as press secretary to the President of India, and Chandan Mitra, before he switched to the Trinamool Congress, was a BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP.These are just some representative names, but they point to a larger story — even as the BJP has drawn criticism from intellectuals of Left and liberal persuasions, the party has also, over the decades, engaged with intellectuals and professionals and sought to bring them within the party fold.The roots of the engagement Party veterans recall that this initiative was often led by LK Advani, who, with his articulate English-speaking skills and ability to communicate to elite audiences and engage with ideas, had opened doors for newer professionals; — indeed, Dasgupta was considered close to Advani in the 1990s. Atal Bihari Vajpayee too worked with talent from outside the party fold, with his prime minister’s office home to three former journalists — Sudheendra Kulkarni, Kanchan Guptà and Ashok Tandon. Both the towering leaders of the BJP enjoyed the company of those who were a part of the larger intellectual and media ecosystem of Delhi.Over the years, said a Rajya Sabha MP from the ruling party on the condition of anonymity, the BJP has steadfastly worked to expand its footprint in the intellectual circles with two objectives — to expand its legitimacy and to gain experience that helps in governance.Also Read | In TN manifesto, BJP vows laws on prohibition and forceful conversionA second BJP leader said that the party’s push to bring the intelligentsia gained momentum in the 1990s. “The party created cells back then, like the economic cell, the intellectual cell and the media cell,” the BJP leader said. “The aim was to bring the professionals sympathetic to the BJP closer to it.” This got momentum after the party formed the government in the wake of the 1998 polls. “After the BJP came to power, during the coalition era, a lot of talent joined the party. It comprised a number of professionals, including government officers,” he added.“This is a calculated approach that has been continued by the Prime Minister,” said the MP. “When the Congress took power in 1947 under the leadership of Jawahar Lal Nehru, the party had a whole crop of experienced professionals to choose from who became members of it. Indira Gandhi emulated the same model.” The MP added that while BJP has a mass base and cadre on the grassroots, the elites have traditionally been opposed to the BJP’s core ideology. “So, the idea is to make a dent in that segment. It also draws from a need for governance experience and add legitimacy to the party,” the MP said.The MP further added that the party is consistently trying to expand its base among the liberal elite, while keeping its Hindutva ideology intact. “People who are active, intelligent and futuristic, and most importantly aligned to the party’s core ideology, have been made ministers, others have been made MPs,” he said.The challenge for the new entrants While the BJP is home to leaders and activists who have not come from the RSS, there is often more than a direct connection between the rise in the party and the roots in the Sangh — from Vajpayee to Advani, Narendra Modi to Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari to Manohar Lal Khattar, Devendra Fadnavis to Jairam Thakur, Murali Manohar Joshi to JP Nadda, top leaders proudly trace their roots to the Sangh or one of its affiliate organisations.In this backdrop, how do lateral entrants from professional backgrounds navigate the party?Also Read | Lok Sabha clears contentious bill on Delhi governance after heated debateBJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said that the party was formed as an outfit that is not limited to the RSS. “The party has attracted a lot of talent. Many people, including some like me, who do not have a formal background with the Sangh, have been given responsibility in the party,” Kohli said.A senior government official working in a BJP-ruled state, who is closely affiliated with the Sangh, said that whoever joins the party from outside the RSS fold has to work extra hard rise in the party. “The party considers the individual very carefully,” the BJP member said. “Only after the loyalty to the party has been proven, does the individual rise in the organisation.” Giving the example of AK Sharma, a bureaucrat who worked closely with PM Modi and has now been inducted in the party fold as a member of the legislative council in Uttar Pradesh, the official said, “If people can reach the prime minister and the home minister, and have their confidence, it helps them rise even if they are from a non-RSS background.” the official added.The rise, and limits of the rise According to political analyst Suhas Palshikar, as the party grows, it requires intellectuals and experts to join it. “But these intellectuals and experts will have a limited brief,” he said. “They wouldn’t cross the line. Otherwise, they will not have the same leeway in the party.”He added that the leaders would have to uphold the cultural vision of the party. “Dasgupta has culturally upheld the vision in a different manner. There will hardly be anyone who directly contradicts the culture of the Sangh. Also, because it is not just the culture of the Sangh, it also the vision that the prime minister puts forth. Vajpayee did not necessarily do that.”Also Read | Row over Maharashtra minister rocks ParliamentThere have also been long standing differences between the RSS and the BJP on questions of organising the economy, he added. “To talk about the RSS as a single organisation would not be adequate. There is a larger network of organisations not directly controlled by the RSS. Post the 1970s, the RSS tasked several people with the intention of preparing for statecraft for when it came to power,” he said. “So, they have a primer on foreign policy, security and economy.”He added that now that the BJP is in power, the Sangh will want its share of the power. “Intellectuals are often enamored by power, so it is easy for organisations such as the Sangh and the BJP to attract persons with intellectual pretensions now that the BJP is in power. However, at this moment if you’re an intellectual without the backing of the RSS, it is highly likely that there will be a limit to which you will rise and you will either stagnate or be set aside,” Palshikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-bjp-s-universe-the-space-of-intellectuals-and-lateral-entrants-101616480634180.html
24-03-2021||India||The story of IAF’s tryst with MiG-21 fighter planes||The March 17 crash of a MiG-21 Bison in Gwalior — the second this year — has turned the spotlight on India’s longest-serving fighter plane, its safety record and the Indian Air Force (IAF)’s plans to replace the ageing jets with newer ones in the coming years.The air force got its first single-engine MiG-21 in 1963, and it progressively inducted 874 variants of the Soviet-origin supersonic fighters to bolster its combat potential, said officials familiar with the MiG-21 fleet. But more than 400 MiG-21s have been involved in accidents that have claimed the lives of 200 pilots during the last six decades, earning the fighters ominous epithets such as “Flying Coffin” and “Widow Maker”.The two Bisons that crashed this year — the first accident took place near Suratgarh in Rajasthan on January 5 — are the most advanced variants of the MiG-21 fighter planes. The MiG-21 Bis (an upgraded variant of the plane flown for the first time in 1976) was further upgraded to MiG-21 Bison in India in 2000.IAF operates four squadrons of MiG-21 Bison aircraft — a squadron has 16 to 18 fighter jets. The last of these upgraded MiG-21s are set to be phased out in the next three to four years. Of the 874 variants inducted by the IAF, more than 60% were licence-produced in India.IAF’s overwhelming dependence Experts say that more MiG-21s have crashed than any other fighter because they formed the bulk of the fighter aircraft in the IAF’s inventory for a long time. IAF had to keep its MiG-21 fleet flying longer than it would have liked because of delay in the induction of new fighters.“Was there a choice? You have to have a certain number of fighter planes to guard your skies. The induction of multi-role fighters was delayed, only 36 Rafales came instead of the projected requirement of 126 jets, the light combat aircraft (LCA) programme is behind schedule and fighters such as Sukhoi-30 have had serviceability issues. IAF had to make do with its MiG-21 fleet,” said Air Vice Marshal Sunil Nanodkar (retired), a former assistant chief of air staff.Also Read | A woman pilot to join MiG-29 squadron after Bison, Sukhoi, RafaleDelay in the induction of advanced jet trainers led to supersonic MiG-21 fighters being used for training pilots in the 1980s, 1990s and early 2000s. This period witnessed an increase in the accident rate of these fighters, said one of the officials cited above. The accident rate of the MiG-21s in the 1990s was 2.89 per 10,000 flying hours, which came down to 0.27 per 10,000 hours after the induction of Hawk-132 advanced jet trainers in late 2000s, official data accessed by Hindustan Times shows.Before the induction of the British-origin Hawks, MiG-21s accounted for half of the total flying hours of the IAF. The Hawks were inducted in 2008 to meet a long-standing need of the IAF. The planes are crucial for the training of combat pilots as they serve as a bridge between subsonic trainers and supersonic fighters.IAF trained its pilots on the MiG-21s for a long time before the Hawks were inducted, Nanodkar said.“That added to the MiG-21 losses. Pilots went straight from subsonic Kiran trainers to supersonic MiG-21s. The requirement for servicing and spares also went up as the MiG-21s were flying a lot in the training role. Maintenance became a nightmare after the end of the Soviet Union in 1991,” said Nanodkar.The leap from Kiran trainers to MiG-21 was daunting as the pilots faced a huge variation in aircraft speed, performance and technology. The MiG-21 has a takeoff and landing speed of more than 330 kmph compared to 200 kmph for the Kiran tainers.An operational assetThe Bison is not the same aircraft as the one inducted in the 1960s and has been modernised to meet the IAF’s requirements, said a senior official.The Bison was involved in IAF operations after the unprecedented, peacetime, cross-border strike against terror targets in Pakistan’s Balakot two years ago.Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman scripted military aviation history by downing a Pakistan Air Force (PAF) F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject on February 27, 2019. He was later awarded the Vir Chakra, India’s third-highest wartime gallantry award. The citation, published in the Gazette of India in December 2019, said his aggressive manoeuvres forced enemy fighters into tactical chaos and he courageously engaged the hostile aircraft package despite its numerical and technological superiority.The aerial combat with PAF took place a day after IAF’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Balakot in response to the Pakistan-backed Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force men were killed on February 14.Also Read | IAF group captain killed in MiG-21 Bison crash in GwaliorExperts said the Bison was an extremely capable platform that the IAF will stretch to the end of its service life — 2024.“The (Bison) upgrade was significant and essentially on avionics, radar, electronic warfare suite and weapons. The aircraft is very safe to fly, has had a good safety record and will see IAF through till 2023-24,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), who was the team leader of the MiG-21 upgrade programme, on March 17.The modernisation plansIAF will induct different variants of Tejas LCA in the coming years to replace the ageing aircraft. The defence ministry last month awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for IAF. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force in three years, with the rest being supplied by 2030. The deal involves the supply of 73 Mk-1A fighter jets and 10 LCA Mk-1 trainer aircraft.The deal for the 83 Mk-1A jets took the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far.IAF is also looking at building 114 fighter jets in the country in partnership with a foreign manufacturer under the government’s Make in India plan. IAF is among the last air forces to be flying the MiG-21 variants and even Jaguars, said Chopra.Also Read | Second Rafale squadron to be raised in Bengal’s Hasimara in April“Even smaller air forces retired MiG-21s long ago. Every crash of an old aircraft is a reminder for IAF to replace older fleets. Modernisation of IAF is behind schedule. Two things are needed immediately. Accelerate the development of LCA variants, increase their rates of production and speed up the advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) project. Secondly, send out the request for proposal for 114 new fighters,” Chopra said.The government is likely to approve India’s homegrown fifth-generation fighter programme - the AMCA - by mid-year, with design, development and first prototypes set to cost around ₹15,000 crore. The IAF’s modernisation map envisages the deployment of around 120 AMCA (six squadrons) 2032 onwards, with the stealth planes forming an important element of future air combat.Quality and quantity should top the IAF’s modernisation priorities, Nanodkar said.The count of IAF’s fighter squadrons has shrunk to 31 compared to an optimum strength of 42-plus. Five years ago, IAF’s then vice chief BS Dhanoa (who went on to become the IAF chief) admitted that the air force did not have sufficient number of warplanes to fight a two-front war with China and Pakistan.“Our numbers are not adequate to fully execute an air campaign in a two-front scenario,” Dhanoa said in March 2016, drawing attention to the sharp drawdown of India’s fighter fleet. IAF then had 33 fighter squadrons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-story-of-iaf-s-tryst-with-mig-21-fighter-planes-101616475053938.html
24-03-2021||Today's||March 25, 1971: When the Indian subcontinent changed||On March 25, 50 years ago, the Pakistan army led a genocidal crackdown in Dhaka, which changed the course of the history of the Indian subcontinent. It led to the Liberation War, the division of Pakistan, and the creation of Bangladesh.President Yahya Khan asked the Commander of the Pakistan Army’s Eastern Command and the governor of East Pakistan, General Tikka Khan, to “sort out” the Bengali population seeking greater autonomy. “Operation Searchlight” was unleashed as darkness descended on Dhaka on March 25. That night, the Pakistan army launched murderous assaults on the police lines, Dhaka University’s Jagannath Hall, Iqbal Hall, and girls hostel, Rokeya Hall, as well as in the Hindu-dominated areas of old Dhaka. By the morning of March 26, some 7,000 Dhaka residents lay dead. From then on, the independence of Bangladesh became inevitable.Pakistan’s Hamoodur Rehman Commission conveniently pinned the blame for the Pakistan army’s defeat in erstwhile East Pakistan to atrocities, corruption, and cowardice. The moral turpitude of the officers of the Pakistan army might have precipitated Bangladesh’s Liberation War, but it was not the main reason for the Pakistan army’s defeat. General Tikka Khan, who ordered and supervised the crackdown and killings of March 25, 1971, had none of President Khan’s vices. The failures attributed to the Pakistan army trivialise the magnitude of oppression and alienation of the people of Bangladesh; their constant humiliation ever since the time they opted to be a part of Pakistan. They also absolve the Pakistan political class of the stigma of defeat.The genocide in Bangladesh started even before the March 25 crackdown. Upon the postponement of the session of the National Assembly of Pakistan on March 1, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for civil disobedience. In response, in Rangpur, the Awami League brought out a procession, which was fired upon by pro-Pakistan Biharis encouraged by the local administration. From then on, and until the liberation of Bangladesh, nearly 20,000 houses were demolished and approximately 50,000 people killed in genocidal attacks on Rangpur’s population. Researchers have so far identified 35-40 mass execution fields at Rangpur. In the nine months until the liberation of Bangladesh, an estimated three million people died, and 200,000 women suffered sexual violence by the Pakistan army and its accomplices.Pakistan was created on imperfect foundations, made possible by Mohammad Ali Jinnah’s guile, popular mobilisation, mistakes made by contemporary politicians, and the feeling among a large section of India’s population that they constituted two nations. The British, Jinnah, and leaders of the Congress all contributed to India’s Partition.Once created, Pakistan needed nurturing and a common purpose. Unfortunately, its leaders were not equal to the task. The country was a geographic anomaly. The binding element between its two wings was not sufficient to hold it together without an inspirational effort. This was never attempted.The remarkable success that Jinnah had in mobilising public opinion in favour of the idea of Pakistan and in selling the two-nation theory, blinded Pakistan’s political elite to the pull of the linguistic factor as a binding force among the peoples constituting erstwhile East Pakistan. The political leaders there indeed felt that Islam was an important imperative in deciding their political future, which is why they had supported the creation of Pakistan. That did not mean, however, that the Bengali leaders were committed to Urdu as the national language of Pakistan. Yahya Khan’s decision to postpone the Constituent Assembly indefinitely, notwithstanding the sweeping Awami League electoral victory, created conditions for a showdown. Accounts of what happened in Dhaka in March 1971 indicate that after the Pakistan Army retreated to within the cantonment, a non-cooperation movement involving the whole of the civilian population took hold of East Pakistan. General Tikka Khan arrived in Dhaka on March 7. The chief justice of East Pakistan, Badruddin Ahmad Siddiki, refused to swear him in as the new governor. The administration, judiciary, and police all refused to obey the orders of the Pakistan establishment, and effectively began reporting to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, whose call for the creation of a new nation came on March 7 in a speech at the Ramna Race Course in Dhaka. Public expectation was that he would declare Bangladesh’s independence. What he said was somewhat short of that. He declared the start of a liberation struggle. The die was cast. Independence was then only a matter of time. The Mukti Bahini was a decisive factor in India’s quick victory and the liberation of Bangladesh: The Pakistan army surrendered on December 16, 1971, less than two weeks after the war broke out. The brilliant Indian campaign benefited from the support of the people of Bangladesh, but its victory was also hastened by the mistakes of Pakistan’s ruling elite.What is the foremost lesson of the March 25 massacre? Nation-building needs inclusiveness. It is important never to alienate the people, for discontent can change quickly to anger, and then to hatred. What happened to Pakistan is an object lesson of how not to ruin a nation. The fractured psyche of the people of Bangladesh created a fractured Pakistan, transforming the map of South Asia.Jayant Prasad is a retired diplomatThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/march-25-1971-when-the-indian-subcontinent-changed-101616593040387.html
24-03-2021||Today's||Reducing the cost of Covid-19 vaccines is desirable and possible||There was finally light at the end of the Covid-19 tunnel in November 2020 when the world saw the emergence of the first vaccines. With India home to a vibrant vaccine industry, major vaccine developers contracted Indian vaccine players.Based on the interim results on safety and efficacy, Indian health authorities gave emergency use approvals even before large-scale trials were completed. The government embarked on the vaccination programme in a calibrated manner, and even roped in the private health care providers. By taking upon itself the task of supplying vaccines, black marketing, which would otherwise have happened in a grossly supply-deficient situation, has been avoided.India now has to vaccinate a large percentage of the population, even as the next wave of infection is looming large. The country needs about 2 billion doses to achieve herd immunity by vaccinating at least 70% of its 1.39 billion people. But current prices will pose a huge burden of over ₹30,000 crore just for procurement of vaccines — any reduction will not only help the budget of health authorities, but also be a stimulus to encourage vaccination further.With only two brands approved for emergency use to date, the government had to negotiate prices. Starting at ₹200 per dose for Covishield and ₹295 for Covaxin, the prices for both have now been fixed at ₹150 per dose. An additional ₹100 is compensated to private service providers. The price of ₹250 per dose is indeed affordable for those who wish to avail of private facilities, even as the jab continues to be given free at public hospitals and dispensaries.But any reduction in the vaccine cost will further boost the vaccination drive.For the Covishield vaccine, the research and development (R&D) costs have mostly been incurred by the developers, Oxford University/AstraZeneca, and technology has been transferred with the intent of securing large quantities for the Covax facility. Clinical trial costs have not been significant as it has been only phase 3 bridging studies with a smaller number of participants, based on phase 1/2 results of AstraZeneca. On the other hand, Covaxin has had to bear the full cost of their Phase 1, 2 and 3 studies by including the required number of participants. Incidentally, the clinical trial costs in India are much lower than in Western countries.The manufacturing process of the live adeno virus vectored vaccine, Covishield, is relatively simple and the virus grows well in cell culture giving good yields. The process for the inactivated vaccine, Covaxin, is a bit longer since there are several downstream unit operations. The vaccine business is largely a fixed cost business with higher volumes driving costs down. For Covid-19 vaccines, the high requirement is both an incentive for the industry and a major factor for cost reduction.The vaccine presentation is in 10-dose and 20-dose vials which, when compared to single-dose vials, further reduces costs, both in manufacturing and distribution. The expenditure is only till the first leg — from the company to the warehouses. Thereafter, the costs are mostly incurred by states. There are also no major marketing costs since the supplies are made directly to the government.The prices of vaccines supplied by the Indian industry to Unicef for quantities far lower than Covid-19 requirements are in the sub half-a-US dollar range. Therefore, why must the cost for the government be in the $2-3 range? It is reasonable for the vaccine industry to price the vaccine at ₹60-70 per dose as against the existing ₹150 per dose. This would cover all costs, including capital loading for additional investments made for ramping up the manufacturing capacities.The vaccine industry must rise to this challenge. As a trade-off, companies could be allowed exports after meeting in-country commitments, and this would fetch them much higher prices. That will be a win-win.K V Balasubramaniam is former managing director, Indian Immunologicals Ltd. NK Mehra is an ICMR emeritus scientist and former Dean of AIIMS, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reducing-the-cost-of-covid-19-vaccines-is-desirable-and-possible-101616593038616.html
24-03-2021||Today's||India’s true self-reliant entrepreneurs||Atmanirbharata is India’s new economic policy. Nirbharata means reliance, and atma means the self. The Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, following the lockdown announced on March 24, 2020, calls for India’s economic mission to be based on self-reliance. Recently, the PM extolled the virtues of the private sector over the public sector, emphasising the services it provides, the employment it generates and its contribution to reducing poverty.Atmanirbharta rests on a particular idea of entrepreneurship. The notion of entrepreneurship goes back to classical political economy: Economists Richard Cantillon and Jean-Baptiste Say emphasised risk-taking and initiative to exploit opportunities with an eye to financial gain. The word “entrepreneur” in French means “to grab” or “take control” but it also has elements of “adventurer” in English and “self-motivated” from the Sanskrit atmaprerna.So the classic vision of an entrepreneur is an individual actor who is able to take risks, weigh pros and cons, make quick decisions and staying afloat while riding out the highs and lows of market forces. They should be tenacious and play the long game and build businesses that not only make them richer but benefit employees and others too. In more recent times, the economist Joseph Schumpeter emphasised the need for the entrepreneur to be innovative, able to think of a new way of doing things. Today, many economists consider such innovation needs a whole micro-climate to thrive, of angel investments, bank loans, regulatory mechanisms, bankruptcy laws, and basic infrastructure.In the PM’s vision, Atmanirbhar Bharat would be based on five pillars: Economy, infrastructure, technology, demography and demand. This seemed an acknowledgement that the self in self-reliance was not an atomised self-maximising individual, but one engaged in complex relationships, aiming to grow and fly high among the dense network of community, market and State, and given a safety net if the risk-taking failed.On the same day that the PM promised benefits of Atmanirbharta, Vinod Kumar, a young man from Uttar Pradesh, was found walking home, a journey of 1,500 kms. He had left Mumbai to return to his village after the lockdown because, as he told journalist Barkha Dutt, if he was going to die anyway, he may as well die at home. He had a BSc degree, but finding no prospects in his state had migrated to Mumbai, where he worked as a street hawker. In other words, Vinod Kumar was an entrepreneur. But Vinod and millions of other Indians, who take risks and travel far looking for work and opportunity, are not called entrepreneurs but only the less glamorous “migrant worker”. The pandemic should force us to rethink these distinctions.India’s migrant workers, part of the broader vast group of informal workers, are a key component in the engine that keeps India’s economy growing. They construct new buildings, repair cars, drive taxis, manufacture tools, clean homes, make products and take on almost any work that will pay a wage. They live on daily earnings, have a small stock of rations, and try and save enough to invest in a better future. They travel to India’s cities but return regularly to rural homes to help with harvests, vote and maintain social bonds. The scholar Jan Breman calls them “footloose labour”, constantly on the move in search of opportunities. And it is just as well they do, for, without them, there would be no Indian economy.This demographic of 100 million citizens are estimated to make up about one-fifth of India’s total workforce have no security of income, employment, or benefits of paid leave or health care. Their abundant numbers make their supply seemingly inexhaustible. No wonder little thought was given how they would cope when the country was locked down at a notice of four hours. No transport, no emergency rations, not even drinking water was made available. Footloose labour was simply cut loose.But this absence of any support from the three pillars on which our lives rest — State, community and market — revealed the real essence of India’s migrant entrepreneurs. Remarkably few blamed the government or their employers, despite the complete mismanagement of trains and transport. Instead, the risks and benefits of undertaking an arduous journey were carefully weighed and decisions, quickly and boldly taken. Their only reliable assets were their own two feet; so they took control of their situation by walking home, surviving by remarkable ingenuity in the face of the toughest odds. As their own accounts during the journey reveal, they supported each other, travelling in groups, sharing food and information, creating solidarity and their own safety nets.Oxford Languages, in recognition of the PM’s use of the term, announced Atmanirbharta as the Hindi Word of the Year 2020 because it “validated the day-to-day achievement of the countless Indians who dealt with and survived the perils of a pandemic”. Yet recent reports of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced with fanfare the arrival of Apple, Amazon and Tesla to help India’s recovery. If there is one lesson from lockdown, it is that the entrepreneurial spirit dwells not just in corporate corridors but on the dusty roads trodden by the millions who have atmanirbharata and atmaprerna at the core of their atma. They are among our most valuable of resources and should be nourished and supported, not used and discarded at will or just paid lip service to in speeches.Maitreesh Ghatak is professor of economics at the London School of Economics (LSE). Mukulika Banerjee is an associate professor of anthropology at LSEThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-true-self-reliant-entrepreneurs-101616593037356.html
24-03-2021||Today's||Proposing a new climate agenda for India||In the first part of this article, I argued that India needs to define its climate policies in ways that meet diplomatic, developmental and climate interest simultaneously. Current proposals for a pledge of net-zero emissions by 2050, particularly if bound in law, would likely win us diplomatic credit, but risk our development future, and ironically, may not, in practice, accelerate our transition to a low-carbon future. India has an opportunity to claim leadership by being ambitious, by shifting the spotlight to concrete immediate actions, backed by credible institutions, with long-term pledges, net-zero or otherwise, as a supporting element.Our starting point for what India should do lies in two observations. India’s greenhouse gas emissions are growing, and, because complex energy and economic systems take time to turn around, will grow for some time. The trick for countries with growing economies is to shorten that turnaround time and lower the level at which our emissions will peak. To do so, we have to focus on squeezing more development out of less carbon. In addition, India’s domestic political choices are, invariably, going to be driven by our development future, and not by mitigation objectives alone; Indian citizens are unlikely to be willing to sacrifice development for mitigation. But the good news is that, in many cases, we don’t have to. We have to bring together development and mitigation through our development choices — how we urbanise and how we industrialise. While net-zero may be useful for a country where emissions are on the downward slope, a focus on development pathways is more helpful for a growing country like India with a choice between development futures.To operationalise this focus on development pathways requires three steps. First, identify and build a future pledge around sectoral transition plans for key areas of the economy in order to achieve a low-carbon future. These plans will require emphasising different aspects depending on the specifics of the sector. For example, to accelerate the electricity sector transition requires fixing distribution companies, transitioning from coal while protecting coal communities, and enhancing investment in renewable energy investments. In transport and buildings, attention to urbanisation patterns, behavioural choices such as public transport, and incentives for more electric vehicles in transport will bear fruit. Limiting emissions from industry is a longer-term prospect because technologies are nascent, and will require international collaboration for new technology and approaches. Notably, attention to sectoral transitions likely sends a clearer and more direct signal to the private sector on the need to shift investment patterns than does a broad and diffuse economy-wide net-zero target.Second, build and strengthen India’s domestic institutions for climate governance. While this may seem boring and bureaucratic, India’s governance, like most other countries, is designed for silo-based decisions. The climate crisis requires both looking across boundaries — electricity decisions may be tied to decisions on urban policy, transport systems, and building design, for example — and a strategic focus on future pathways and possibilities. Here a climate law can be useful, but it should be one tied to identifying linkages between development needs and low carbon opportunities, and harnessing all levels of government toward realising these opportunities.Notably, institutions for low-carbon development pathways are not the same as those designed to maximise mitigation. Net-zero-oriented institutions are built around setting and tracking compliance with carbon budgets. Development pathway focused institutions are aimed at identifying opportunities for low-carbon development, ensuring cross-sectoral collaboration, and enabling shifts by smoothening obstacles. India needs to focus on building a State capable of addressing this challenge. Cutting and pasting from net-zero-focused legislations of other countries will not get us there.Third, because ultimately we do face finite global limits on carbon emissions, India also needs to develop economy-wide targets that signals how much we will contribute globally. But these should be built on top of the first two steps, not the cart that purports to lead the horse. And our economy-wide targets should emphasise near-term actions, in the next five to 10 years. A growing global chorus of critics is pointing out that net-zero emissions targets are not as ambitious as they seem, because they rely on future promises rather than current action, and on uncertain technologies to remove greenhouse gas emissions from the atmosphere. Indeed, their main merit is political — they create the appearance of dramatic change, while allowing flexibility for governments to avoid being pinned down to more important immediate actions. The Indian road to leadership should be based on specific near-term actions, institutional strengthening, and a combination of mid- and long-term targets. Longer-term targets, including net-zero, can, and should, be clarified and strengthened as we learn by doing over time, as part of our transition to a low carbon future. This three-part agenda is a more complicated vision of a climate ambitious India than one simply built around a net-zero target. But it is one that is more consistent with the long-term welfare and prospects of India’s citizens. This is a complexity worth embracing and arguing for in this year’s fraught context of climate diplomacy.Navroz K Dubash is a professor at the Centre for Policy Research, and the editor of India in a Warming World: Integrating Climate Change and Development. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/proposing-a-new-climate-agenda-for-india-101616509257944.html
24-03-2021||Today's||Net-zero emission targets are a hollow pledge||The year 2021 promises to be a blockbuster for global climate politics. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will release its report this year, updated national pledges on emission limits are expected, and all this is on the table at a climate Conference of Parties in the United Kingdom (UK) in November. Not least, a re-invigorated Joe Biden-led United States (US) has placed the climate crisis near the top of its foreign policy agenda.There is plenty at stake for India, including diplomatic, economic and climate outcomes. There is global pressure on India to telegraph its intentions as early as the US-hosted Climate Leaders Summit in April, or a UK-hosted G-7 Summit in June.What should India say and do?The options are nicely framed in recent articles. In one corner are those such as parliamentarian Jayant Sinha, who writing in the Economic Times, calls for India to project climate leadership by boldly pledging to reduce its “net” emissions (emissions minus uptake of emissions) to zero by 2050, backed by a climate law. Sinha argues this will make India “hypercompetitive”, attract investment and create jobs. Others advocate net-zero through softer statements of intent.In the other corner are former Indian climate negotiators Manjeev Singh Puri (in The Hindu) and C Dasgupta (in the Business Standard), who remind us of the long-standing principle of “common but differentiated responsibility” that requires richer countries to lead and argue against any pledge that risks prematurely limiting Indian energy use for development. Puri also flags the threat of future carbon taxes imposed by the European Union on countries such as India.Both arguments seem compelling, but can they both be correct in their identification of India’s key interests? What is India’s way forward? The answer lies in a close look at India’s diplomatic, developmental, and climate interests.Calls for an Indian “net-zero” announcement are aimed at signalling boldness and, thereby, reaping diplomatic gains. What counts as bold? US climate envoy John Kerry has stated that nothing less than “net-zero” emissions pledges from all the major emitting economies would suffice and the UK has also called for net-zero targets. This call comes from an important IPCC-defined aspirational benchmark of global net-zero global emissions by 2050, but notably this does not imply net-zero by 2050 for each country, eroding any differences across nations.Clearly, an Indian pledge of net-zero by 2050 would confer brownie points on India. And allow us to cock a snook at China, by being 10 years ahead of their net-zero by 2060 pledge. Net-zero legislation would be icing on the cake, transporting India into the rarefied territory of climate champions.However, could these diplomatic gains come at the cost of domestic developmental objectives? We simply do not know conclusively if achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 will cost India developmentally. But we can say that current models uniformly show Indian emissions rising, in many cases through 2050. Without dramatic changes in policy and technology, India, at least, needs the option of increasing emissions to develop.Analysis by the International Energy Agency illustrates the scale of change — an immediate and dramatic shift is required to shift Indian emissions from stated policies to sustainable development, much more than is true with other regions. And this dramatic shift would still only get us to net zero by 2065; 2050 would be even harder. Moreover, although Indian per capita emissions are an eighth of those in the US and less than a third of those of China, Indian emissions would have to decline starting now, and never again reach levels achieved in 2019.These considerations lead India’s negotiators to remind us that it would be deeply unfair to expect equivalently stringent pledges from all countries. Undoubtedly, the emergence of new economic opportunities and technologies could dramatically change the landscape, and there may be space for an aspirational statement toward net zero. But, given the information we have today, it would be gambling with the developmental future of India to lock ourselves into a hard net-zero deadline.Which brings us to India’s climate interests. Given India’s vulnerability to the climate crisis, it is strongly in our interests to support enhanced climate action. And to be credible, we also have to do our part, and not only sit back and wait for wealthier countries to act. But ironically, it is not clear that advocating a hard net-zero pledge is the right answer. A recent article in Nature argues that to be more than “mere announcements”, they need content on scope, fairness and detailed plans. There is a real risk net-zero by 2050 will be a hollow pledge that will only serve diplomatic needs, but do little to actually shift India’s emissions future.Instead, India needs a path that shows how a focus on opportunities for low-carbon development is more likely, in practice, to deliver emissions reductions than abstract future 2050 pledges. In the second part of this series, tomorrow, I will outline an Indian approach that meets our diplomatic, developmental and climate interests simultaneously.This is the first of a two-part series on India and climate policy.Navroz K Dubash is a professor at the Centre for Policy Research, and the editor of India in a Warming World: Integrating Climate Change and Development.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/netzero-emission-targets-are-a-hollow-pledge-101616423931009.html
24-03-2021||Editorials||In Bihar, a blot on democracy | HT Editorial||In theory, a legislature is the most sacred space in a democracy. It is the ultimate body of the expression of popular will. It is a space for deliberation, for debate, for careful scrutiny of laws, and for law-making. And despite being on different sides, it is a space for the government and the Opposition to fight each other — on issues, but within the norms of parliamentary conduct. It was this idea of the legislature, and by extension, the idea of democracy and democratic processes that received a severe jolt in the Bihar assembly on Tuesday. As the government tabled, and sought to pass, the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021 — based on the rationale that the state’s growing security needs, including protection of vital installations, required a special empowered force — the opposition demanded its withdrawal, based on what it saw as draconian provisions giving this force the power to search and arrest without warrant. Given the track record of the Bihar Police, especially during prohibition, this concern was legitimate.The opposition, however, then turned aggressive — gheraoing the Speaker’s chamber, obstructing house proceedings when other presiding officers took the chair, and crowding the well of the House. This was wrong. But what was even more wrong was the government’s failure to politically resolve the issue — either by engaging with the opposition or sending the bill to a legislative committee — and instead calling on security forces to clear the House; the police engaged in a scuffle with legislators, including women leaders. The opposition walked out, the government passed the bill, but Bihar, and Indian democracy, were left poorer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-bihar-a-blot-on-democracy-hteditorial-101616593042901.html
24-03-2021||Editorials||India’s Sri Lanka dilemma | HT Editorial||The Tamil question in Sri Lanka has posed an almost intractable dilemma for Indian foreign policy for decades. During the three-decade long civil war between Colombo and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), New Delhi moved from covert support to Tamil militants in the early 1980s to sending a peacekeeping force in the late 1980s to taking a strong position against LTTE in the 1990s after it assassinated former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. It finally, quietly, supported Mahinda Rajapaksa’s final offensive against LTTE in 2009 — quietly, because New Delhi did not want to alienate the Tamil street at home. But this support was based on the expectation that once it defeated terrorism, Sri Lanka would be more sensitive to both Tamil aspirations and India’s strategic interests.Over the past decade, both assumptions have been tested. Under Mr Rajapaksa’s earlier term, the military victory translated into institutionalised Sinhalese chauvinism, and the promise of devolution to Tamil minorities in the north and the east remained unmet. The fact that the Sri Lankan forces had allegedly committed mass human rights violations only led to further Tamil alienation. There were sporadic attempts during the Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe rule to address Tamil discontent — but since they were insecure about the Sinhala vote consolidating behind Mr Rajapaksa, they did not deliver justice. Mr Rajapaksa returned anyway, and has neither addressed war time atrocities nor given a sense of political belonging to Tamils. New Delhi’s second assumption — of a friendly Colombo — hasn’t translated to reality either. While the Rajapaksa regime makes the right noises, its revocation of a port contract to India (and Japan) in the island’s east, even as it continues to deepen ties with China, including giving it projects in the north, has shown that Colombo is not a strategically reliable partner.Sri Lanka’s continued ethnic exclusivism internally (which has repercussions in Tamil Nadu, a state about to go to polls), and shift towards China externally have led India to abstain from a vote at a top UN human rights body asking Sri Lanka to do more. But the move has neither pleased Colombo, which wanted India to vote against the resolution, nor Tamil Nadu’s parties, which wanted India to vote for the resolution. Between an insensitive Colombo and an angry Chennai, New Delhi’s classic dilemma on Sri Lanka is playing out again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-sri-lanka-dilemma-hteditorial-101616593041558.html
