30-03-2021||Noida||Covid crisis: GB Nagar increases surveillance, may go for pocket-level curbs||: Taking serious note of the sudden spike in fresh Covid-19 cases being reported daily, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has asked the surveillance teams to identify critical pockets. The administration will take a call on whether to impose partial lockdown in the areas reporting maximum new cases based on the reports of the surveillance teams. District magistrate Suhas L Y said it is not easy to put restrictions in place, especially when all commercial activities are open. “The district being an industrial hub has a floating population. We cannot permit any callous approach that may facilitate the spread of the infection. Since many Covid-19 cases have emerged in the last 15 days, we have asked the surveillance teams to find the pockets with maximum caseload. We’ll ask the residents’ associations of those areas to restrict the movement of people and commercial activities,” he said. Suhas added health officials have been asked to increase surveillance at public places and also enhance contact tracing of patients. “We are aware that the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has a direct impact on the neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. We don’t have any option apart from proper surveillance and taking all precautionary measures to check the further spread of Covid-19,” he said. Attributing massive vehicular movement on the Delhi-Noida border for the surge in Covid-19 cases, the district magistrate said, “In the meeting with the officials of different departments today (Tuesday), I have asked them to make provisions for Covid-19 helpdesk at their establishments and not allow entry to any employee having influenza-like symptoms, like high fever and cough. Health officials have been asked to conduct up to 7,000 tests daily and enhance contact tracing in the district. They have also been asked to keep a vigil in the crowded areas. If the situation does not improve, the administration will have no option but to impose restrictions and chalk out containment zones in the critical areas,” said Suhas. Echoing similar views, Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), said after the first Covid-19 case was detected on March 8 last year, it took 386 days for the overall case tally to cross the 26,000-mark in the district on March 28 this year. “After January 2, when the overall case tally reached the 25,000-mark, the infection rate was comparatively slow with 73 active cases in the district as on March 15. After March 15, the district recorded 387 cases in 14 days, which means the last 1,000 Covid-19 cases have been added in 85 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-crisis-gb-nagar-increases-surveillance-may-go-for-pocket-level-curbs-101617128809439.html
30-03-2021||Noida||40k to be vaccinated per week in Gautam Budh Nagar from April 1||As phase four of the vaccination drive from April will see an almost triple the target in terms of required vaccinations, the Gautam Budh Nagar adminstration has chalked out plans that will involve at least 120 vaccination booths, up from the 75 in the last phase, and 40,500 weekly vaccinations, up from 16,000 in March.The district is to vaccinate 162,000 in this phase and all over 45 years of age would be eligible for it.”There will be no need for the co-morbidity certificate this time,” said district magistrate Suhas LY. In phase 3, apart from those over 60 years of age, only those who had a co-morbidity certificate and were above 45 years, could get the vaccine. “On Mondays, Thursdays and Friday, we will vaccinate 10,000 people, and 3,500 for Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays.”Till March 30, the district had inoculated over 73,000 people in March, crossing the government’s 65,048 target for the month. Overall, the vaccination coverage for the district was 112%. “If our performance in March is any indication, we are sure to achieve the stipulated target for April on time. Our officials are repeatedly making appeals to all eligible citizens to get themselves registered to get their shots,” said Suhas.District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said they were listing vaccination booths based on the requests they were getting at the Covid-19 integrated control room in sector 59. “We get an average of 250 calls a day. Analysing their location, we are trying our best to allot vaccination booths in their nearest hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/40k-to-be-vaccinated-per-week-in-gautam-budh-nagar-from-april-1-101617128689520.html
30-03-2021||Noida||26-year-old shot by man to whom he offered a lift||Ghaziabad: A 26-year-old man was allegedly shot at by an unidentified person, to whom the victim offered a lift on his two-wheeler, near Tila Morh in Sahibabad on late Monday night. According to police, Sajid Saifi, a resident of Dasna, was on his way home from Loni around 10:30pm on Monday when the unidentified man asked for a lift on his two-wheeler. As per Saifi’s initial statement, the suspect got down from the two-wheeler after being driven for about 500 metres and shot at him, said police. Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said, “The victim told us the man said ‘thank you’ for the lift and then fired at him. Somehow, Saifi drove his scooter for about 7-8 kilometres to Nagdwar near Karhera and told the cops there about the incident. He was rushed to a hospital at Mohan Nagar, from where he was referred to another private hospital in Kavi Nagar.” He is currently undergoing treatment in the ICU, said police. Saifi is a contractor who runs a business of polishing bathroom accessories “He got married last year in May and has no rivalry with anyone. There is no robbery motive here as neither his two-wheeler, his mobile or cash was stolen. After sustaining the gunshot, he called home and informed us about the incident. We have registered a complaint,” said Rashid Saifi, the victim’s brother. “The gunshot hit him below the shoulder. His condition is said to be stable. We have an idea about the sequence of events based on the victim’s initial statement.Since he is under treatment, we will wait for him to recover and thereafter get more details about the case. There was no intention of robbery. We have registered an FIR based on the complaint filed by Saifi’s family members,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/26yearold-shot-by-man-to-whom-he-offered-a-lift-101617128629467.html
30-03-2021||Noida||Man, sister die as bus hits motorcycle in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 45-year-old man and his sister died while two children riding a motorcycle with them were injured when a speeding state-run bus hit their vehicle in the Badalpur area on Monday evening. The deceased were identified as Rajeev, a resident of Chapraula in Badalpur and his sister Vandana, 35, a resident of Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad. Vandana’s two children – 13-year-old daughter Mehak and 10-year-old son Krishna Dev – are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Ghaziabad, police said, adding that passengers in the bus escaped unhurt. Dinesh Kumar, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said that the UP roadways bus was going to Ghaziabad from Bulandshahr while the four persons were coming from Ghaziabad to Badalpur on Holi evening. “Rajeev was riding the motorcycle while Vandana was riding pillion with the two children. The two vehicles collided with each other at a crossing near Badalpur industrial area,” he said. Local people informed police and the four victims were rushed to a private hospital in Ghaziabad, where Rajeev and Vandana were declared brought dead, the SHO said. Police said the bus driver fled the spot after the incident, leaving the vehicle. The bus has been seized, police said, adding that there were some passengers in the bus who were evacuated and sent in another bus. “A case has been registered against unknown driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), and 304-A (death due to negligence) of IPC. We have launched a search for the driver,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-sister-die-as-bus-hits-motorcycle-in-greater-noida-101617128389473.html
30-03-2021||Other||With 672 Covid cases in 2 days, Ludhiana’s tally crosses 34k-mark||As many as 11 persons died of Covid-19 on Monday, making it the highest single-day fatality count of year so far. In all, the district recorded 18 deaths over the last two days even as 672 fresh infections came to the fore from various parts of the district, health officials said on Tuesday.On Monday, the district logged 343 cases while 329 cases were added to the tally on Tuesday. The district has been logging over 300 cases every day for the last 11 days. The fresh cases have taken the district’s cumulative tally to 34, 082. With 30, 098 recoveries and 1,136 deaths, the district is left with 2, 848 active cases.Among the fresh infections are 13 teachers and a student. These include three teachers from Government School in Dadhahoor village, three from Government Senior Secondary School, Khanna, two teachers from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), two from AS College, Khanna, and one each from Government School, Dholewal, BCM Arya School, Shastri Nagar and GHS School, Jamalpur area. The student is from AS College, Khanna. A staff member from BCM School, Shastri Nagar, has also tested positive for the virus.Eleven patients who succumbed to the disease on Monday include a 78-year-old female from Salem Tabri, a 72-year-old female from BRS Nagar, a 68-year-old male from Kakowal road, a 75-year-old male from Amarpura, a 72-year-old female from Prince Colony in Samrala, a 64-year-old male from Budhel village, an 88-year-old male from Dugri, a 63-year-old female from Fatehganj, a 65-year-old male from Doraha, a 52-year-old male from BRS Nagar and a 63-year-old male from MIG flats.The fatalities reported on Tuesday include a 65-year-old female from Bhagaur village, a 72-year- old female from Ludhiana city, a 54-year-old male from Khanna, a 62-year-old male from Dugri, a 61-year-old male from Jagraon, a 64-year-old male from Model Gram and a 70-year-old female from Shimlapuri area.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “The number of cases is on the rise. Residents are requested to avoid all kinds of gatherings and take proper precautions. The department has sent 2, 633 more samples for testing on Tuesday.”13 micro containment zones declared in city, one near minister Ashu’s residenceWith a large number of cases being reported, the administration has established 13 micro containment zones in the district. These zones have been established in Omaxe flats, Pakhoal road, Durgapuri area, Cemetary road, Maharaj Nagar near circuit house, Guru Angad Dev Nagar in Khanna, Kitchlu Nagar- Block F, BRS Nagar -Block B, Koom Kalan village, Model Gram, Doraha, Rampur village, Dugri Phase 1 and 2.The micro containment zone established in Model Gram area is situated at a distance of around 100 metres from the residence of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Health department officials said micro containment zones are established in the area where five or more cases are reported at once.Authorities appeal to residents to take precautions, step forward for vaccination:Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “Residents should step forward for vaccination as this gives a chance to break the chain of virus. Camps are being organised where vaccination is provided free of cost at people’s doorsteps. Residents should take the benefit of the opportunity. Further, residents should not drop the guard and should take all precautions while stepping out. Residents should avoid gatherings and follow the guidelines issued by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-672-covid-cases-in-2-days-ludhiana-s-tally-crosses-34kmark-101617128330680.html
30-03-2021||Noida||Registry of flats resumes in Amrapali projects||Apartment owners are upbeat as the registry of flats in Amrapali housing projects resumed last week with Supreme Court-appointed receiver R Venkatramani at the helm.On March 26, 27 flats were registered in Amrapali Eden Park in sector 50.“The document verification is underway in multiple projects,” said Venkatramani. Officials said that these projects include Amrapali’s Sapphire, Silicon City and Princely Estate, among others. A team from the NBCC was assisting the court receiver’s team with the verification of allotment letters, payment slips, no dues certificates, possession certificates, among others.According to the Noida authority, in all, 9,476 Amrapali units are up for registration.“We are happy because the court receiver and NBCC is doing the needful for flat registration. We hope that the registry of remaining units will be executed soon,” said Rajat Agarwal apartment owner of Eden Park sector 50.On July 23, 2019, the Supreme Court had appointed the court receiver to control the housing projects and carry out further activities, including the registration of ready flats, accepting money from buyers, selling unsold flats and dealing with the state-owned NBCC that has been directed to complete the remaining construction. Following orders from the Supreme Court the court receiver started documents verification of over 5000 apartment owners in housing projects including Sapphire-I in sector 45, II in sector 45, Princely Estate in sector 76, Silicon City in sector 76 and Platinum City in sector 119 before Covid 19 pandemic started last year. The flat registration that was started in January, 2020 had to halt due to pandemic restrictions.“Now we have resumed the flat registry once again. Apartment owners can contact NBCC office set up at respective project site to seek any information about registry,” said court receiver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/registry-of-flats-resumes-in-amrapali-projects-101617128329417.html
30-03-2021||Noida||Noida engineer loses ₹1.8L in online fraud||Noida: A 30-year-old engineer allegedly lost ₹1.8 lakh in a fraud in which the suspect promised to facilitate his friendship with a woman in lieu of payments in the form of registration amount, security deposit and a host of other such transactions. In his complaint, the man, a resident of a high-rise in Noida’s sector 120, stated that on March 22, he received a text message and then a call from a woman, who identified herself as Tina and claimed to be an executive of a dating website. “She informed me that my number has been shortlisted for friendship with a woman and explained various schemes. First, she asked me to pay a registration fee of ₹2,100, which, after I paid, she claimed to have found a suitable match for me,” said the complainant. “She sent some fake photos and also facilitated a conference call with a woman. She then asked me to pay ₹10,500 as security deposit, and ₹16,800 for booking a hotel room,” he said.The complainant added the suspect kept on demanding money on one or the other context but did not facilitate his friendship. “When I asked to arrange for a personal meeting, the woman refused. When I realized that it is a fraud, I started demanding refund of my payment. The suspect asked me to pay more money, following which the whole amount will be refunded,” he said adding that he had borrowed from friends and relatives to make the payment and now, he had no money. The man then filed a complaint at Phase 3 police station. Jitendra Deekhit, station-house officer of Phase 3 police station, said a case has been registered against the suspect under section 66-D of the Information Technology Act. “We are investigating the matter from all angles,” said Deekhit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-engineer-loses-1-8l-in-online-fraud-101617128269426.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid fast gaining momentum in Haryana, Panchkula enters critical category||Haryana saw an increase of 3,200 coronavirus infections last week (March 22-28) as compared to the week before, registering 7,891 fresh cases.The last time a near-similar number of weekly infections were reported during a surge was in mid-August when 7,233 cases were reported during August 17-23.As of Monday, Gurugram with 1,895 active cases, Karnal 1,427, Ambala 1,064, Panchkula 939 and Kurukshetra with 839 cases were the leading districts in terms of active cases, as per the health department statistics. There were about 9,300 active cases across Haryana till Monday.“Analysis of per week infections shows that the number of cases is increasing with each passing week. Between February 8-14, 615 new cases were reported. The number of per week cases increased to 684 between February 15-21, rose to 1,054 between February 22-28, escalated to 1,736 between March 1-7, crossed 2,600 during March 8-14, and reached 4,891 between March 15-21,” said an official.Sampling, vaccination ramped upHealth officials said the sample positivity rate stays at 4.6% as the sampling rate has been consistent. As per the health department data, about 1.60 lakh persons were tested last week as compared to about 1.33 lakh the week before.“Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing and rapid antigen testing ratio in the past 30 days is 98:2 which indicates that we are heavily focused on RT-PCR testing, which is considered the gold standard for Covid diagnosis,” said additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora.Arora said that more than 1.63 lakh individuals were vaccinated on Tuesday during the mega-vaccination drive. “We are close to vaccinating 15 lakh people,” the ACS said.Ambala with over 25,000 inoculations led the way followed by Sonepat with 20,042, Gurugram 15,036, Faridabad 11,507, Bhiwani 9,316, and Sirsa 9,007.However, certain districts with higher number of active cases seem to be lagging in inoculating its population. While only 794 individuals were vaccinated in Kurukshetra during the mega vaccination drive, Panchkula vaccinators gave jabs to 4,038 people, and 6,312 people got the shots in Karnal.Panchkula returns to critical categoryAfter making an exit from the critical category in the first week of March, Panchkula made a return after its sample positivity rate increased to 6%.Districts having a sample positivity rate of more than 6% are classified in the critical category.Panchkula, which had 964 active cases till Sunday, also has the highest 172 active cases per lakh population which is the highest in Haryana.Three more districts - Faridabad (8.4%), Gurugram (6.7%) and Rewari (6.5%) continue to have a critical positivity rate of more than 6%.Fifteen districts still have a positivity rate in the range of 2.6% to 5.3%. This means it is lower than the critical positivity rate of more than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.Three districts - Nuh (0.8%), Charkhi Dadri (1.1%) and Jhajjar (1.8%) continue to have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the last several weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-fast-gaining-momentum-in-haryana-panchkula-enters-critical-category-101617126595338.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||Cong slams Haryana govt over electricity deposits||The Congress on Tuesday slammed the BJP-JJP government in Haryana for asking electricity consumers of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) to deposit advance consumption deposit (ACD).The DHBVN had recently decided that all active consumers will pay advance security amount equal to two average billing cycles in a financial year as per instructions of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission.Due to the pandemic, the power distribution corporation had postponed review of the ACD last fiscal.Former Haryana minister and Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision. Surjewala said that the Khattar-Chautala government is constantly trying to invent new ways of harassing the common man.“Due to this new decision, electricity consumers are getting exorbitantly inflated bills on account of which there is a widespread resentment among power consumers,” Surjewala added.Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT, Neeraj Sharma said that imposition of ACD will put a big financial burden on the consumers.“The best way will be to raise a bill every month instead of a two-month billing cycle. Also, the line losses of DHBVN are lower than UHBVN and the cost of service of DHBVN was lower by 0.59 paisa as compared to UHBVN,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-slams-haryana-govt-over-electricity-deposits-101617126349892.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||Govt can restrict right of an employee to apply elsewhere: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court held that an employer has a right to restrict its employee from applying elsewhere to defeat the practice of those in public employment hopping from one job to another.The HC bench of justice Anil Kshetrapal said that selection of a public servant consumes a lot of time and involves a lot of expenditure for the employer. And contract conditions that are unlawful or forbidden by the law cannot be imposed. But to stop job-hoppers, certain conditions can be imposed.In the case in hand, Yogesh Kumar Vashisht was an assistant professor with the department of forensic medicine at the Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat.In 2019, he had applied for the post of assistant professor at Pandit BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.However, he was denied no-objection certificate (NOC) by the institute. He had challenged this decision in the HC, arguing that the contract signed at the time of employment with the clause as in given case is “unconscionable” and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India as it deprives a person the right to equality before law.At the time of employment, the bargaining power between an employee and the state is unequal and thus, the employee has no other option but to sign on the dotted line, the petitioner had argued.The court found that at the time of employment, Vashisht had signed a contract according to which he was not to get NOC till completion of five years of service. If he was to resign, he was to submit three-month advance notice or deposit three months’ salary.Another condition was that the resignation will be accepted only after arrangement of a suitable substitute in his place so that studies of students and patient care do not get affected.The court observed that the restrictions imposed are only for a period of five years and that the petitioner could not have applied for the same post. There is no restriction on applying for a higher post.“By now, it is well known that sometimes qualified persons indulge in job-hopping. Such clause has been incorporated to curb such practices,” the bench said, adding that selection of a public servant consumes a lot of time and involves a lot of expenditure for the employer.“If the teacher, who has been appointed after following a long process, is allowed to hop from one job to another immediately after joining, then students are likely to suffer,” it added, dismissing the plea.The court said that the clause is not in violation of Article 14 and the Indian Contract Act. Rule 21 of the Haryana Medical Education Service Rules, 1988, enables an employer to impose special terms and conditions in the order of appointment. If the petitioner wants to resign, he has to comply with the rules and terms of the appointment letter, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-can-restrict-right-of-an-employee-to-apply-elsewhere-hc-101617126118943.html
30-03-2021||Lucknow||Unaided private schools in UP to reopen from April 1||The Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) of Uttar Pradesh has decided to reopen schools from April 1 as the state government has not announced further closure of educational institutions beyond March 31.However, a few schools like La Martiniere Girls’ College said it will continue online classes till summer vacation break.Director general school education, Vijay Kiran Anand said, “The government has not taken any taken any call over extension of school closure. As of now, schools are closed till March 31.”A meeting of the general body of the Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) was convened online.Member schools pan Uttar Pradesh attended the same. It was unanimously decided that schools will reopen from Montessori to class 12 from April 1, said president of the association, Anil Agarwal.He said keeping Covid protocols and Standard Operating Procedures arrangements will be made by individual schools to ensure safety of students.Agarwal said recently deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma had announced that the government would arrange for vaccinations for Covid 19 for all school teachers and staff.Agarwal said, “Keeping in mind this announcement, it was further decided that lists be given to government for member school teachers and staff above and below the age of 45 to be vaccinated for Covid-19 on April 2 and 3, 2021.”Agarwal assured all that complete care would be taken for the safety of all students and parents’ consent will be sought prior to reopening of schools.“We are happy with online classes and there is no plan to resume physical classes,” said Aashrita Dass, principal, La Martiniere Girls’ College.“We will comply with the UP government order. Left over exams will be held as per schedule,” said Rishi Khanna, spokesperson, City Montessori School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unaided-private-schools-in-up-to-reopen-from-april-1-101617124669329.html
30-03-2021||Lucknow||For UP government departments, all roads lead to treasuries on closing day||With the state government allowing them to submit bills up to March 31, the last day of current financial year, various departments are making last minute rush to the treasuries to get payments for works.The decision to allow the departments to submit their bills till the last day of financial year has been taken in view of increased work pressure on drawing and disbursing officers in the month of March.“Keeping in view the problems of the departments, I have been asked to convey that all the drawing and disbursing officers may submit their bills to the treasuries in time by March 31. This will ensure that treasuries make e-payment for the bills passed in the current financial year,” said additional chief secretary (ACS) finance S Radha Chauhan in an order dated March 26 and sent to all the ACSs, heads of department, divisional commissioners and district magistrates. ACS finance, in her order, has also noted that the decision to allow submission of bills up to March 31 was taken as the departments may not have been able to submit their bills by the deadline (March 25).The state government, in its orders issued on March 8, had asked the departments to issue all the financial sanctions by March 15 and ensure that the bills were submitted to treasuries for payment by March 25.A close analysis of the functioning of various departments indicates that the departments were issuing financial sanctions for various works after March 15.The state government’s departments have issued more than 1,330 government orders (mostly financial sanctions) from March 15 to March 30 against nearly 1,230 government orders issued during the same period in 2020. These include sanctions issued for buying land for the defence corridor in Aligarh and Lucknow, shifting of utilities for Ganga Expressway (Prayagraj to Meerut), remodeling of Ram-ki-Pedi project and carry out various works for development of Maryada Purusottam Sriram Airport, Ayodhya and NOIDA International Airport (Jewar), Gautam Buddha Nagar. While the ACS finance and other senior officers of the state government were not available for comments those aware with the development said this was not for the first time that departments were are issuing sanctions in the last month of any financial year or making last minute rush to submit their bills to the treasuries. The state government’s departments have been doing so in recent years to ensure that the funds allocated to them do not lapse. Yes, there is a pattern to issue sanctions at the last minute. Ideally, this last-minute rush should be avoided to ensure greater transparency and better utilization of funds. But the departments may have some compulsions after decision to scrap the public ledger accounts. The departments obviously want to ensure that the funds allocated to them are used,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/for-up-government-departments-all-roads-lead-to-treasuries-on-closing-day-101617124489287.html
30-03-2021||Ranchi||BJP seeks action against Cong MLA for ‘violating’ Covid-19 protocol on Holi||Even as Jharkhand celebrated Holi in a guarded manner on Monday following the state government prohibiting celebration at public places due to rising number of coronavirus cases, the BJP has demanded action against Congress Barkagaon legislator for allegedly participating in a public gathering on the occasion.Major political parties and leaders dropped their public events in light of the government order. However, Congress MLA Amba Prasad allegedly took part in ‘Matka Phod’ (breaking a suspended earthen pot ) event at her native village of Pahragaon. “We demanded relaxation on celebrations of Holi and Ram Navami from the government but it ordered a blanket ban on these celebrations. Violation of the order invites action under the Pandemic Act. Now, when a legislator from the ruling party violated government’s order, police took no action even after 24 hours,” alleged state BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.The government in its order issued last Friday directed all district administrations and concerned authorities that , celebrations and congregations at public places during festivals such as Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri, Ram Navami Easter etc shall not be allowed in the state. People may celebrate Holi with family members inside their respective houses only, the order said. Shahdeo said, “All rules for social distancing and wearing masks were violated at the event in which the Congress MLA took part. Was this ban effective only for common people and not legislators of ruling parties?”However, when contacted, the Congress MLA said the gathering at the event was a limited one. “I am a public representative. So, I have to keep their sentiments in mind. In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the programme was organized for a very short duration. There is not a single positive case in my village. Besides, it was a gathering of very few villagers,” said Prasad.The Congress MLA hit back at the BJP, saying that the party should take note of its leaders’s actions before targeting her. “Everyone can see the way in which Covid-19 protocols are being violated by top BJP leaders during Bengal elections.”Meanwhile, the charm of the festival was missing across the state this Holi in view of the pandemic. Most people preferred to celebrate indoors or in colonies. Very few Holi revelers were seen on streets.“I was in a double mind whether or not to play Holi in view of Covid-19. Finally, I played with my family at home and not outside with my friends,” said one Amit Mahto, a resident of Kokar in Ranchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-seeks-action-against-cong-mla-for-violating-covid-19-protocol-on-holi-101617121789177.html
30-03-2021||Patna||Patna records hottest March day in 10 years||Bihar is bracing for sweltering heat as the maximum temperature in the state touched the 40°C mark on Tuesday, for this first time this summer season.Meteorologists forecast respite from scorching heat in a couple of days as change in wind direction likely on Wednesday.As per the daily bulletin issued, Gaya and Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 41.4°C and 39.6 °C respectively, six notches above the normal at both places. Bhagalpur and Valmikinagar recorded a maximum temperature of 36°C each and Purnia 32°C.As per Patna Meteorological Centre, Patna witnessed the highest maximum temperature recorded in March in past 10 years. As per records, the state capital recorded a maximum temperature of 41.4°C on March 27 in 2010. Besides, maximum temperature in Gaya has also set a new record for March, breaking the past three-year record. The city registered a maximum temperature of 41.6°C in 2017.Sudhanshu Kumar, weatherman at Patna Meteorological Centre said, “Southern districts have recorded lower humidity. As per numerical model, meteorological conditions are favouring change in wind direction. Presently, easterly and south-easterly winds are blowing in north Bihar region. After 24 hours, high velocity westerly and north-westerly winds are likely to blow in Bihar. These winds will set favourable condition for pre-monsoon and also bring down the rising temperature.”However, the state is unlikely to receive rain in coming days. As per the five-day forecast, the state will witness dry weather with no significant change in day and night temperature.Meanwhile, the state experienced improved air quality. As per the national bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board, Patna and Gaya recorded ‘moderate’ air quality where air quality index (AQI) stood at 195 and 150 respectively while Muzaffarpur recorded ‘poor’ AQI with an index value of 210.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-records-hottest-march-day-in-10-years-101617121549143.html
30-03-2021||Patna||BSEB likely to declare Class 10 results in April first week||After announcing intermediate results, the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has geared up to declare Class 10 results in April first week.Around 16.84 lakh students appeared in the matric board exam, conducted across 1,525 exam centres across Bihar. BSEB held matric exams from February 17 to 24 while re-exam of cancelled social science (first sitting paper) was held on March 8.BSEB chairman Anand Kishor has not announced the official date for result announcement but has assured the same in early-April.“As preparations are in the final stage, result announcement will be made soon. Students can expect result announcement in the first week of April. Our speedy evaluation process and computerised result processing minimises time required for result preparation. Our IT team has designed software which is 16 times faster than previously used software. Besides, OMR sheets are digitally evaluated,” he said.“No other education board provides answer sheets with pre-printed students’ details and tagged with barcode and litho code. These measures have brought transparency in exam conduct. Altogether 208 examinees were expelled for using unfair means while 53 impersonators were detained during the matric exam,”he added.Board officials said that preparation of toppers’ list and verification will be done after March 31. “Evaluation of copies were completed from March 12 to 24. However, final stage preparation and verification is yet to be done which will take five to seven days more. Due to Holi vacation, the result announcement may get slightly delayed by April 7 to 10,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bseb-likely-to-declare-class-10-results-in-april-first-week-101617121489228.html
30-03-2021||Patna||Over 40 killed, 38 injured across Bihar during Holi celebrations||At least 41 people including three children were killed and over 38 others were injured as violence and accidents marred Holi celebrations in Bihar in the past two days, police said.Several violent incidents were reported from many places as groups clashed with each other. Seven people were murdered in Patna alone in group clashes while four persons died in two road accidents in Samastipur because of drunken driving.Reports from Rohtas, a middle-aged man was killed and five were critically injured during clashes between two groups at Jigna village under Dinara police station limits in Rohtas district, said police on Tuesday. People of both groups were under the influence of liquor and were partying, said police sources. The situation suddenly turned violent and led to altercation between the two groups, during which one group started firing killing a man and injuring several people. A case for murder and attempt to murder under provisions of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered against both groups and 11 people have been arrested in this connection. Reports from Buxar, a woman at Pandeypatti village under Muffasil police station was shot at and injured on Monday when she opposed the playing of obscene songs by a group of youths near her house. One of the revelers whipped out a pistol and shot her.Buxar’s SDPO Gorakh Ram said, “The firing happened during a dispute over the playing of songs. The woman has suffered a bullet injury in her leg. We are investigating the matter.”In Nalanda, miscreants set on fire three huts at Miya-Bigha village and injured four persons when they opposed the playing of obscene Bhojpuri songs.In Bhagalpur, at least six people were injured in a clash between two communities at Barari police station area. The clash took place after a group of people sprinkled colour on another group which was on its way to play cricket. The clash escalated quickly with both communities attacking each other and setting several shops on fire. Bhagalpur SSP Nitasa Guriya said the situation is normal and police were registering FIRs against the culprits.Earlier, on Sunday evening, a speeding truck rammed into a sweet and snacks shop near Telhara police station in Nalanda killing six people and injuring more than 10 others. The locals, angered over the incident, attacked the Telhara police station and torched eight vehicles parked on its campus.In Gaya, three Dalit children were charred to death and another was seriously injured during Holika Dahan in Rahul Nagar village. SHO of Bodh Gaya police station Mitesh Kumar said, “The villagers cremated the bodies on Monday morning. They have not lodged any complaint so far.”On Monday, two groups of people clashed over a land dispute in Madhubani’s Benipatti police station area. Three persons including two brothers were shot dead while three others injured in a firing between the two groups.Probationer DSP and SHO of Benipatti police station Rakesh Kumar Ranjan said five persons received gunshot injuries, of which, two brothers identified as Ranvijay Singh and Viru and their uncle Rudra Narayan Singh died on the spot while the fourth victim died in the course of treatment on Tuesday.The SHO said that old enmity between the groups could be the reason behind the incident. However, exact details could be known only after filing of a formal complaint by victims’ families.According to reports from Sitamarhi, two persons were killed and three others injured near Mushahri village on Holi after their motorcycles collided with each other. Similar incidents reported from Katihar where three motorcyclists died and two were injured in accidents. Two persons each from Vaishali, Gopalganj, Buxar and Jehanabad districts killed in road mishap while one person died and 10 injured in Lakhisarai when a pickup van overturned. In Kaimur, three persons including a two-year-old died and three others were injured in two separate road accidents.An official in the police headquarters said that a farmer was shot dead in Khagaria while two persons were killed in Buxar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/over-40-killed-38-injured-across-bihar-during-holi-celebrations-101617121429208.html
30-03-2021||Other||Six minors among nine charred to death in separate incidents||Nine children died in separate fire incidents in the state on Tuesday, said police.In the first incident, six children were cooking inside the house and it caught fire at Kabaiya village under Palasi police station in Araria district. The deceased were identified as five-year-old Asraf and three-year-old Gulnaz (brother and sister), six-year-old Dilwar, four-year-old Barkas, five-year-old Ali Hasan and five-year-old Khush Nihar.An eyewitness said the incident took place when the children were baking maize corn and the thatched roof of the house caught fire. The fire spread within seconds giving no chance to children to escape. “We are daily wagers and often go to other areas for work to support our families,” said Yunus whose son and daughter died in the fire. Araria sub-divisional officer (SDO) Shailesh Chandra Diwakar has directed the block administration officials to prepare the list of the bereaved families. “On the basis of the report, the families will be given ₹4 lakh ex gratia to each victim family.” Palasi police station SHO Ezaz Hafiz Mani said all the bodies have been sent to Araria district hospital for postmortem.In another incident, two minor sisters and their brother were charred to death when a hut in which they were sleeping caught fire at Parsurampur village under Pirpaiti police station in Bhagalpur district. The deceased were identified as Preeti Kumari (8), Naina Kumari (6) and Suraj Kumar (1) all children of Lalmuni Mandal, a migrant labourer. Police said the hut caught fire after a live wire fell down due to strong wind. The victim’s parents were sleeping in same hut with the three children when the fire broke out. After the blaze died out, the children were taken to the Pirpaiti referral hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. “The fire had engulfed the hut before anyone could help,” the SSP Nitasa Guriya said. Police said Mandal and his wife Rita Devi also sustained grievous burn injuries and are stated to be critical. A case has been registered under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on the direction of the SSP. Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar mourned the loss of lives in the two mishaps . “Deeply saddened by the tragic loss of lives. My thoughts and prayers are with the family,” said CM while assuring all possible support to the fire victims. He has announced ex-gratia relief of ₹4 lakh each for the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-minors-among-nine-charred-to-death-in-separate-incidents-101617121369188.html
30-03-2021||Pune||Chinese company executive booked for cheating Indian company||A Chinese company executive was booked for allegedly cheating an Indian company into paying 15,765.50 U.S dollars ( ₹1153849.28) to a bank account that did not belong to the company who was doing business with the complainant company. A complaint in the matter was lodged by an employee of the company based out of Shindewadi in Bhor area of Pune. “The Indian company sources raw material from the Chinese company and used them to make electronic products. The complaint and the case are both against the executive of sales, marketing, export of the company. She created an email ID that is similar to the original company email ID,” said police inspector Sandeep Ghorpade of Rajgad police station who is investigating the case. The complainant has claimed that the email exchange started on January 11. The complainant Indian company’s employee sent a purchase order worth $15,765.50 to the Chinese company. The complainant then received an email from an email address that was similar to that of the executive’s email ID. The complainant has alleged that the Chinese executive herself made the misleading email ID. The complaint received an email from the misleading email ID that said that the Chinese company is changing its banking operation to another bank and provided replacement bank account details to make payment for the purchase order placed by the Indian company, according to the complaint. The payment was made to the new bank account on March 12, but the Chinese company refused to deliver the products claiming that the payment never reached them, according to the police. Meanwhile, the Bhor-based company had received a confirmation of payment from the false email ID. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act registered at Rajgad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chinese-company-executive-booked-for-cheating-indian-company-101617119209168.html
30-03-2021||Pune||MSRTC sees major drop in passengers||From the last one month, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is facing several issues in running the bus service, as the daily passengers count has reduced drastically. On the Pune - Mumbai route the daily passenger number has reduced to half. Now, on a daily basis most of the buses go vacant or with very few passengers on major routes from Pune. The drivers and workers are demanding to reduce the bus schedule to avoid further losses. “As the number of Covid cases are increasing from the last one month, it is impacting the overall bus operations across the state. Before lockdown, daily around 65 lakhs passengers would travel by around 16,000 buses running on the road. The daily income which was upto ₹10 crore after September last year which has again started going down in the last one month. Currently, ₹1.5 crore is spent on diesel for buses unnecessarily,” said Sandeep Shinde, state president of MSRTC workers’ registered union. The three major ST stands in the Pune division, Swargate, Shivajinagar and Pune railway station are connected to the entire state by various routes, however, very few passengers have been using them.“The Pune to Mumbai bus service has impacted the most and it’s ridership has gone down by more than half. Our demand is that the organization should not make their own losses and then blame drivers and staff for not getting the passengers on board.” added Shinde. Talking on anonymity, one of the drivers on the Pune to Sangli route said, “Daily I wait more than half an hour than the scheduled departure time to get passengers from Swargate stand but there has been a major drop in people travelling and we hardly get five to ten passengers, sometimes even the bus goes empty.” Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune division controller said, “There is certainly a drop in passengers from the last few weeks due to the increase in Covid cases. If any route has a major drop then we take a call and cancel that bus than to send it empty and waste diesel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-sees-major-drop-in-passengers-101617119029088.html
30-03-2021||Pune||Former Pune top cop Dhananjay Jadhav passes away||Dhananjay Jadhav (73), retired IPS officer who former served as the commissioner of Pune police passed away at a hospital in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday. Jadhav, a 1973-batch IPS officer, served as the commissioner of Pune between 2004 and 2007 after which he was posted as the commissioner of Mumbai police. Jadhav’s mortal remains were taken to NRI Complex in Navi Mumbai after which it was taken to Pusegaon region in Satara. Last rites were performed in Pusegaon, he is survived by a son and two daughters. Jadhav was suffering from a heart ailment and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Navi Mumbai for it. He died while under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-pune-top-cop-dhananjay-jadhav-passes-away-101617118969053.html
30-03-2021||Pune||Shell of British-era hand grenade found in IISER||The shell of a hand grenade was found during the excavation for metro-related work inside the boundary walls of the Indian Institute of Science and Research (IISER) on Baner road in Pune on Tuesday morning. There is a 2.25-acre land inside the IISER boundary wall which is used for erecting an electric substation. For this purpose, an excavation was going on at the spot for the metro line, according to police officials. “When we say grenade, it was just the shell. Usually there is a plunger and a pin. After the pin is removed and the plunger is released, it bursts. In this case, both were missing,” said deputy commissioner of police Pankaj Deshmukh of Zone-4 of Pune police. IISER is close to several military establishments including the Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE). The grounds where it was found was also in possession of the military in the past and was used for various purposes. The police have informed the officials at the ordnance factory in Khadki to determine and identify the make and model of the grenade. The grenade had an inscription “hand grenade 36” on it. “We have secured it and after the court order it will be disposed. That process will take another three to four days, I assume. The BDDS has a safe location for storage of such material. It will remain in that facility until the court order is secured. Since, it has been there for so many years, it is safe to assume that it won’t burst until we charge and burst it,” said Milind Patil, assistant commissioner of police, Special Branch-1. The grenade is suspected to be British-era due to the rusty and old look of the grenade. However, the ordnance factory officials are yet to confirm the ammunition’s timeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shell-of-british-era-hand-grenade-found-in-iiser-101617118849086.html
30-03-2021||Pune||Man dies by suicide at workplace; colleague booked for abetment||A case of abetment to suicide was registered by Pune police against a worker at a doctor’s clinic in Shukrawar peth. The man died by suicide inside the clinic allegedly due to pressure built by a person who had taken ₹15 lakh from him. His body was found in the clinic located on Gadikhana road in Shukrawar peth on March 24 at 10:50 am. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s 24-year-old son based on a suicide note his father had left. He claimed that the accused man had coaxed his father to give him a cheque for ₹15,50,000. He had also allegedly started spreading allegedly false rumours about the now-deceased man’s illicit relation. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadak police station. Police sub inspector Sanjay Pandhare of Khadak police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-dies-by-suicide-at-workplace-colleague-booked-for-abetment-101617118789065.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Retired Bombay HC judge to probe corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday appointed a one-member judicial commission to probe allegations of corruption against home minister Anil Deshmukh levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who was removed amid investigations into the explosives-laden car found near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house in February. The retired judge of Bombay High Court, Kailas Chandiwal, has been given six months to submit his report to the state government. Chandiwal has been directed to probe whether Singh's letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, has any proof to establish whether Deshmukh or any official from his office committed any offence or misconduct.The panel will also investigate whether the allegations levelled by the former city police chief, who was shunted to a low-key post on March 17, have any truth and if there is a need for an investigation into it by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) or any other investigating agency. It has also been asked to make any other recommendations that it deems fit to do.The development comes a day before Singh's plea, seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Deshmukh, as well as a stay on his transfer, will be taken up by Bombay High Court. Last week, the Supreme Court dismissed his petition seeking a CBI probe, directing him to first approach the high court.Also Read | Bombay High Court to hear Param Bir Singh's PIL against Deshmukh on Mar 31Singh has accused Deshmukh of tasking police personnel, including suspended assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze, with collecting ₹100 crore per month from bars, hotels and restaurants in Mumbai. The home minister and his party, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have repeatedly denied the allegations, with Deshmukh even threatening to file a defamation case against Singh, currently the commandant general of the Home Guards.The NCP leader has also said that he will welcome any probe ordered against him by CM Thackeray. Last Sunday, he said that a retired HC judge will probe the matter. Also Read | Retired HC judge will probe graft allegations: DeshmukhSingh was transferred from his post as the Mumbai Police commissioner for mishandling the probe into an explosive-laden SUV which was found near Ambani's residence in Mumbai on February 25. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is investigating the case and Vaze, who has emerged as the key accused, is in the NIA's custody till April 3. He was arrested on March 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-govt-appoints-retired-judge-to-probe-allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-101617118419668.html
30-03-2021||Pune||68-year-old booked for sexual assault of minor||A 68-year-old man was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl in MIDC Bhosari area on Sunday afternoon. The arrested man was identified as Savan Gangaram Dolas (68), a resident of Phulenagar in Bhosari. The incident happened in an open spot near a slum area in Bhosari industrial area. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the mother of the 10-year-old girl. The man allegedly lured the girl to a spot behind an old tree under the guise of giving her money and candies. The girl followed him at the secluded spot after which he forced himself on her and touched her inappropriately. When the girl started raising an alarm, the man allegedly threatened to hit her, according to the complaint in the matter. A case under Sections 376(ab), 376(3), and 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 5(m), 6, 7, and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act 2012 was registered at Bhosari MIDC police station. Assistant police inspector Somnath Panchal is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/68yearold-booked-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101617118669231.html
30-03-2021||Other||6,282 fresh Covid cases, 11 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE Pune district reported 6,282 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours on Tuesday, as per the state health department.Eleven deaths were reported in the district, with five in Pune rural, four in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and two deaths in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 2,72,716 Covid cases and 4,710 deaths, till Tuesday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,33,460 cases so far and a total of ,1371 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,21,533 total cases so far and 2,213 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 5,27,709 Covid cases. Of this, 4,61,672 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,343 deaths in the district. At present, there are 57,694 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 23,820 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 23,77,127 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 85.71%.Across Maharashtra, 27,918 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 139 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The Case fatality rate in the state is 1.96%.Currently, 16,56,697 people are in home quarantine and 17,649 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6282-fresh-covid-cases-11-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101617118069030.html
30-03-2021||Other||Lucknow scorches at 40.4°, sees hottest March day in 4 yrs||LUCKNOW It’s March, but it feels like May! The mercury rose to 40.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday with Lucknow recording its hottest day in March in four years. The temperature was 5.4 degrees above normal, said Met department officials. The mercury level came close to Lucknow’s all-time highest day temperature for the month (41.1 degrees) recorded on March 30, 2017, according to the IMD website. Many other cities across UP experienced a ‘heat wave’ with Banda emerging as the hottest at 42.4 degrees Celsius (5.1 degrees above normal). Jhansi also recorded its hottest day (42.1 degrees) in March in a decade and Varanasi sizzled at 41.6 degrees.Hamirpur saw a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees followed by Sultanpur 41, Agra 40.6 and Fursatganj 40. The day temperatures in most cities were above normal, according to the IMD bulletin.“But from here on, a drop in temperature is expected as western disturbances active in North India are getting weak,” said JP Gupta, Met director on Tuesday.Gupta said, “With western disturbances centred over North India and clear sky, the maximum temperature is going north gradually. But expect a drop in day temperature from Thursday.”Gaurav, 22, an IT professional, said: “I never experienced such weather during Holi in Lucknow. We had to put on the ceiling fan. Now, we are about to get our air conditioner serviced because it is just a matter of few days when day temperature will rise.”“It is getting hotter by the day,” said Vineet Gupta, a shopkeeper in Aminabad market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-scorches-at-40-4-sees-hottest-march-day-in-4-yrs-101617117469082.html
30-03-2021||Other||FYJC admissions completed; 35K seats vacant||PUNE After completing a special extended round of admissions, apart from three regular rounds, two special rounds and two rounds of the first-come-first-served, the first year junior college (FYJC) admissions closed on March 30.At least 35,000 seats have remained vacant in the Pune division. The Deputy director of education (DyDE), Pune released the data on Tuesday.As many as 169 seats were filled in the extended round of FYJC admissions. Of the total vacant seats, 8,007 seats are from the Arts stream, 12,813 seats from the Commerce stream, 12,571 seats from the Science stream and 2,168 seats from the vocational stream. This year due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the FYJC admission process got delayed and it is the first time it has gone till March. Now the admissions are completed the college administration is worried about completing the syllabus of newly admitted students for their exams.“The admission process of FYJC admissions is completed after the two FCFS rounds and in Pune division 35,000 seats have remained vacant. Despite Covid-19 outbreak and the entire online admission process, our staff has worked hard to do this admission process. As of now, the admission process is completed for our directorate,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-admissions-completed-35k-seats-vacant-101617117289007.html
30-03-2021||Other||UP law minister gives ‘mahurat’ clap for biopic on PM||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s law minister Brijesh Pathak gave the ‘mahurat’ clap for ‘India in My Veins’, a biopic on the life and times of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Tuesday. The ceremony was held at a five-star hotel in Lucknow. Major portion of the film would be shot in UP, Haryana and Punjab. “The biopic is an attempt to thank PM Modi for the work he has done for the country,” said Subhash Malik, producer-director of the film.The minister said: “Subhash Malik ji has been in the film industry for 27 years and is the one who this year started a Ramlila in Ayodhya, featuring film stars. He had been planning a biopic on PM Modi for few years.” He added: “The film will showcase Modi’s achievements since he became Prime Minister in 2014.” The film features Captain (retd) Raj Mathur, Raza Murad, Surendra Pal (of ‘Dronacharya’ fame in tele serial Mahabharat), Vindu Dara Singh, Amita Nangia and others.“The film also focuses on the Kashmir issue and how well it was addressed.” said Raza Murad. Actor Amita Nangia said: “My role is full of suspense and can’t be revealed right now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-law-minister-gives-mahurat-clap-for-biopic-on-pm-101617117228993.html
30-03-2021||Other||Of the 9,873 Covid-19 deaths reported from Pune district, 69% have been men||PUNE Of the 9,873 Covid-19 deaths reported from Pune district as of Monday, 69% have been men and the remaining, women. An analysis of the data shows that 82% had an underlying disease, or comorbidity, in addition to the infection. A higher fatality rate among men has been a mystery to healthcare workers. The highest number of deaths continued to be reported in the 61-70-year group, which has seen 2,936 deaths so far. Of the 9,873 deaths, 6,815 deaths, or 6,9% were men, while 3,057 were women. Of these deaths, 8,104 or 82.1% of those who died reported having comorbidities and 1,768 or 17.9% had no comorbidities. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer said, “It might be possible that more men are getting infected and so proportionally, deaths among men is rising. However, no medical or biological analysis has been done as to why men are the most affected.”Since mid-February, the district has been reporting a rise in the number of new Covid19 cases, which is now also resulting in an increase in the number of absolute deaths. Although the CFR has gone down from 0.26% as of March 1-7, to 0.19% as of March 22-28, the absolute numbers for the same period have gone from 30 deaths, to 85 deaths. The district has been able to audit only 2,132 of its 9,842 total deaths. A death audit helps to get more information, including period of hospital stay, medication used and the type of comorbidities. Of the 13,954 currently active patients who are hospitalised in the district, 298 are on ventilators, which is 9.2% of the critical patients; while 2,910 are on oxygen. The rest are on isolation beds without oxygen. As of Monday, the district has a total of 59,003 active patients, of which 23.64% are in hospitals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-the-9-873-covid-19-deaths-reported-from-pune-district-69-have-been-men-101617116029079.html
30-03-2021||Pune||Tale of two markets: Fund shortage hits relief, restoration of Shivaji Market and Fashion Street||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) does have funds to repair, reconstruct and restore the historic Shivaji Market and Fashion Street in Camp that was destroyed in fire recently. The estimated total loss to property according to officials is around ₹25 crore. The board has written to the district collector seeking release of ₹5 crore for repair and reconstruction of Shivaji Market citing non-availability of funds due to non-release of GST (goods and services tax) revenue by the government since 2017. PCB is facing a financial crisis with the administration struggling to pay the staff’s monthly salary. Many development projects are affected as the administration is facing fund shortage of around ₹200 crore. Fashion Street trader association has pegged the loss at ₹20 crore and the cantonment police have completed the panchnamas. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has directed the Collector Rajesh Deshmukh to examine the Shivaji Market and Fashion Street cases and submit a report on Friday. PCB president Brigadier Kuljeet Singh said, “We are still deliberating on the losses and compensation. Currently, the board is not in place, but will take the issue ahead. We don’t have funds is a known fact and are seeking financial assistance from disaster relief. The board chief executive officer has also written to the civil administration for help.” Shivaji Market vendor association president Manzoor Shaikh said, “The market needs immediate restoration and release of funds for repair and other related development. The vendors have sustained huge loss and since the board is facing bankruptcy, the elected representatives and ministers have been approached for funds.” MG Road Hawkers and Pathari Seva Santha president MV Akolkar said, “Necessary petitions have been sent to the state government and the board seeking immediate restoration and repair work at the spot. The stall holders have lost their livelihood and efforts must be made towards compensation and allowing them to restart their businesses at the earliest.” In September 2019, the then General Officer Commanding (GOC), south Maharashtra and Goa sub-area, Major General Navneet Kumar, had said, “PCB is going through a financial crisis and developmental works cannot be carried out in absence of funds. Our share, that is ₹150 crore is due from the state government. PCB is one of the high-value cantonments in the country and has been contributing towards the GST revenue through its acclaimed eateries and business establishments. The residents of the cantonment area are expecting the administration to develop the area, but the lack of GST funds is hampering the development. If the situation persists, it may lead to crisis in the governance, which is a big worry.” Key projects hit Construction of commercial complex at Dobhi ghat: ₹16 crore Construction of footover bridge on Shankarsheth road: ₹2.50 crore Multi-level car parking: ₹24 crore Cleaning and beautification of Bhairoba nullah project: ₹84 crore Construction of multi-level parking and podium garden at JJ Garden: ₹10 crore Replacement of old water pipeline: Rs10 crore Fashion Street reconstruction: ₹20 crores Shivaji Market restoration: ₹5 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tale-of-two-markets-fund-shortage-hits-relief-restoration-at-shivaji-market-and-fashion-street-101617115848952.html
30-03-2021||Other||Curfew, no-mask violations net PMC Rs1,52,500 in fines in 2 days||Pune is under a curfew from 8pm to 7 am, after orders from the municipal commissioner. All public places (except for essential services), are ordered closed before 8 pm. The orders are in place from the midnight of March 27. Pune police have taken action against 271 people on March 28 and March 29, for breaking the curfew time and not wearing masks. The police have collected fines of Rs1,52,500 from these violators. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials have also been conducting inspections to check on adherence to Covid norms. PMC has taken action against 24 restaurants in the last two days. A total of 207 citizens have been fined by PMC officials for not wearing masks.“On Monday, action has been taken against 19 shop- owners for not wearing masks and a lack of social distancing, on the Pune-Satara road. The area is under the Dhankawadi-Sahakar nagar ward office,” said senior health inspector Raju Dullam. PMC has also acted against shopping malls and retail outlets for not following norms. Action has been taken against 46 such establishments between March 28 and March 29. Most of these violations have taken place in the Ahmednagar road ward office area. Despite the restrictions the number of Covid patients in the city has been surging. According to the PMC health report, 3,226 tested positive on March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/curfew-no-mask-violations-net-pmc-rs1-52-500-in-fines-in-2-days-101617113868857.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi to increase normal, ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday his government will increase the number of normal and intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the national capital, adding they are “keeping a close watch and will take all necessary steps”. “In view of Covid situation developing in Delhi, no of normal and ICU beds reserved for Covid is being increased in a few hospitals. This will improve bed availability. We are keeping close watch and will take all steps necessary. There is nothing to worry. But please follow all precautions,” Kejriwal tweeted.The decision comes after Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday that a review will be done after he was asked about the shortage of ICU beds of private hospitals in the Capital. Jain also said that several ICU beds and ventilators are available in all government-based hospitals in Delhi.In view of COVID situation developing in Del, no of normal n ICU beds reserved for COVID is being increased in a few hospitals. This will improve bed availabilityWe r keeping close watch and will take all steps necessary. There is nothing to worry. But pl follow all precautionsThe Capital has so far registered 660,611 coronavirus disease cases and 11,016 related deaths, according to the health department’s bulletin. On Tuesday, there was a slight fall in the daily tally as 992 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The fall in infections came because of the lower number of tests, 36,757, conducted on the occasion of Holi. The recoveries are over 642,000 while active cases are nearing 7,500, the bulletin also showed.Delhi is among nine other districts such as Pune, Mumbai, Bengaluru Urban etc which have the most number of active cases in the country, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing a press briefing, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that Delhi’s positivity rate stood at 2.04 per cent last week. Citing the progress of the nationwide vaccination drive, he told reporters that Delhi secures the second spot with 43.11 per cent vaccinations in private facilities. Telangana currently tops the list of states with the highest doses administered at private facilities at 48.39 per cent.Close to 1.2 million beneficiaries in Delhi have been inoculated against Covid-19 till now, according to the health ministry’s update at 7am. As many as 960,057 beneficiaries have received the first dose while 237,170 have received both vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-increase-normal-icu-beds-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-cm-kejriwal-101617112020310.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Switch Delhi EV awareness campaign enters final week; focus on sensitising youth||The final week of the Switch Delhi EV (electric vehicle) awareness campaign will focus on sensitising the youth of Delhi on the benefits of e-vehicles and the city government's EV policy, an official statement said on Tuesday.Calling Delhi's EV policy the "most progressive policy around the globe", Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said the campaign, which has entered its eighth and final week, was aimed at sensitising, informing and encouraging Delhi's youth to adopt electric vehicles."The youth of Delhi can play a huge role in making the EV movement in Delhi a mass movement."They can drive change and be the torchbearers of this movement. The Delhi government will engage with the youth via the Switch Delhi campaign to motivate them to adopt EVs and contribute to a cleaner and greener Delhi," the minister said.Appealing to the youth of the city to pledge that the first vehicle they purchase would be an electric one, he said they must "come forward and own the ongoing EV movement in Delhi".Gahlot also noted the range of financial and non-financial incentives offered under Delhi's EV policy."By switching to electric two-wheelers, which have very low operating costs, an individual can make an annual saving of approximately ₹22,000 as compared to using a petrol scooter and ₹20,000 as compared to a petrol bike," the minister said."An average electric two-wheeler provides a lifetime savings of 1.98 tonnes of carbon emissions as compared to an average petrol two-wheeler which is equivalent to planting 11 trees," he added.Switch Delhi is a mass awareness campaign by the city government to sensitise every Delhiite about the benefits of switching to EVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/switch-delhi-ev-awareness-campaign-enters-final-week-focus-on-sensitising-youth-101617108585253.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi among top 10 worst-hit districts, says Union health ministry||Delhi is among the 10 districts in the country with the most active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, a senior government official said on Tuesday, even as the Capital reported nearly 1000 infections in the last 24 hours. “There are 10 districts across the country which have the most number of active cases. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Bengaluru Urban, Nanded, Delhi and Ahmednagar are among them,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a press briefing.Bhushan said 47 districts of these states were briefed by officials of the health ministry and they were asked to ramp up testing with a focus on RT-PCR tests, implement effective and prompt isolation of those infected and tracing of their close contacts, strengthen public and private health care resources and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. The government also asked them to saturate vaccination for priority age groups in districts reporting a surge in cases.Also read | 6 states reported 78.56% of India's daily Covid-19 cases: GovtThe health ministry said there was a five times-rise in cases and that without effective tracing and isolating “we let the virus go out of control”.Also watch | Another Covid-19 wave in Delhi? Health minister Satyendar Jain answersDelhi recorded 992 infections in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin, a sharp fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease, with fewer tests conducted on the occasion of Holi. Tuesday’s figures have been the lowest since March 22, when 888 Covid-19 cases were recorded and fresh Covid-19 cases are lower than those reported on Monday when 1,904 tested positive for the disease. Monday’s figures were the highest in more than three months. The active cases are nearing 7,500 in the Capital, the health bulletin showed.According to the bulletin, four more people died of the coronavirus disease and which have taken the death toll of the national capital to 11,016. There have been 1,591 recoveries on Tuesday pushing recoveries to 642,166, the bulletin also showed.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday dismissed indications of the second wave of infections and said it would take another week to ascertain it. “We are conducting an average of 80,000-90,000 tests on a daily basis and I urge everyone to continue wearing masks as it provides protection against Covid-19,” Jain said while speaking to reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-among-top-10-worst-hit-districts-says-union-health-ministry-101617108431797.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar admitted to Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was admitted to Mumbai's Breach Candy Hospital on Tuesday after he complained of pain in his abdomen, state minister and party spokesperson Nawab Malik said.Also Read | NCP chief Sharad Pawar to undergo surgery for gallbladder stones"Attention please. Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was supposed to be admitted in hospital for endoscopy and surgery procedure tomorrow, but since he is experiencing some pain again in the abdomen, he is admitted in Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai today,” Malik tweeted.Attention please,Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was supposed to be admitted in hospital for endoscopy and surgery procedure tomorrow, but since he is experiencing some pain again in the abdomen, he is admitted in Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai today.On Monday, Malik, who is the Mumbai president of Pawar's party, said that the former Maharashtra chief minister felt a little uneasy on Sunday, evening due to pain in his abdomen, and, hence, was taken to the Breach Candy Hospital for a check-up.A problem was detected in Pawar's gall bladder, Malik had announced, adding that the NCP chief would be hospitalised on March 31 for an endoscopy and surgery.He is on Blood Thinning Medication which is now being stopped due to this issue.He will be admitted in hospital on the 31st of March 2021 and an Endoscopy and Surgery will be conducted.Hence all his programmes stand cancelled until further notice.@PTI_News @ANIBefore his diagnosis, Pawar was scheduled to go on a three-day visit to West Bengal, starting April 1, to campaign for chief minister Mamata Banerjee, for the ongoing eight-phase assembly elections in the eastern state. However, all his appointments were put on hold after the detection of the problem in his gall bladder.The former Union minister is considered as the architect of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition in Maharashtra, comprising his party, the Shiv Sena and the Congress. However, in recent days, he has found himself defending party colleague and state home minister Anil Deshmukh, who has been accused by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh of running an “extortion racket” in Mumbai.Last Saturday, Pawar reportedly met Union home minister Amit Shah, along with fellow NCP leader, Praful Patel, in Ahmedabad, triggering speculations that Shah’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Pawar’s NCP could come together to form the government in Maharashtra. In a media interaction on Sunday, Shah didn’t deny meeting Pawar, remarking that “everything can’t be made public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-admitted-to-mumbai-s-breach-candy-hospital-101617108734598.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||8 of 10 districts with highest active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, says Centre||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday once again expressed concern over the pandemic situation in Maharashtra, highlighting that of the 10 districts with the highest number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country, eight are from the western state.“There are 10 districts across the country which have the most number of active cases-Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Bengaluru Urban, Nanded, Delhi and Ahmednagar,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a briefing on the Covid-19 situation in the country.Except for Bengaluru Urban in Karnataka, and Delhi, all the other districts are in Maharashtra. Pune’s active Covid-19 caseload is at 59,475, while Mumbai has 46,248 such cases. Nagpur has an active caseload of 38,298, while the corresponding figure for Thane is 35,264, according to the state health department’s data. Overall, Maharashtra contributes 336,584 active cases of the viral disease to the national figure of 540,720. This is 62.24% of the total active infections across the country.Also Read | Pune’s 8pm to 7am curfew timings kick in; violators being penalised, claim PMCBhushan further said that Maharashtra has a weekly average positivity of 23%, as against the weekly national average positivity of 5.65%. “Punjab has a weekly average of 8.82%, Chhattisgarh 8%, Madhya Pradesh 7.28%, Tamil Nadu 2.50%, Karnataka 2.45%, Gujarat 2.20% and Delhi 2.04%,” he added.The weekly national average positivity rate is 5.65%. Maharashtra has a weekly average of 23%, Punjab has a weekly average of 8.82%, Chhattisgarh 8%, Madhya Pradesh 7.82%, Tamil Nadu 2.50%, Karnataka 2.45%, Gujarat 2.2% & Delhi 2.04%: Union Health Secy Rajesh Bhushan#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/6rpygMIvbeOn reports that the Union government has rejected the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) request to conduct door-to-door vaccinations, Bhushan clarified, “Till date, we haven’t received any specific request from the Maharashtra government. In India, we do universal immunisation, but even there, we’ve not done door-to-door vaccination.”Till date, we haven't received any specific request from Maharashtra Govt. In India, we do Universal Immunisation but even there we've not done door to door vaccination: Secy,Health Ministry on being asked if Maharashtra Govt has said that it wants to do door to door vaccination pic.twitter.com/FnrWffjg85Maharashtra’s infection tally of 2,745,518 is higher than that of other states and Union territories and also includes 54,283 related fatalities. Its tally rose by 31,643 infections on Monday, a day after 40,414 cases were detected in the state in what was its highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic.Also Read | Maharashtra records close to 600k Covid-19 cases in MarchAmid indications that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is leaning towards another lockdown, minister Nawab Malik on Monday said that the state “cannot afford another lockdown.” The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, has said that it is opposed to any possible shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10-districts-have-highest-active-covid-19-cases-in-india-8-from-maharashtra-101617107617816.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||New Covid strain more lethal, follow protocol strictly: CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday urged people of Himachal Pradesh to strictly follow the safety protocol and stay alert against the new Covid-19 variant that is more lethal. Presiding over a review meeting at Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, the chief minister said health experts have observed that common symptoms such as cough and fever were not detected in patients infected with the mutant virus and instead they were suffering from joint pain, weakness and loss of appetite besides pneumonia. The new strain of the virus is not found in the nasopharyngeal region, rather it directly affects the lungs, which means the window period is shortened. Thakur asked the health department to encourage people to take the vaccine to reduce chances of infection. He directed the health authorities and the local administration to keep a close watch on people in isolation. Panchayat representatives should be involved in monitoring and encouraging people to take precautionary measures, he said, adding nobody will be allowed in public places without a mask. “The safety protocol should be followed so that economic activities are not hampered again,” he said, directing the health authorities to increase testing. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurudarshan Gupta said the new strain has hit across the country. “There are no symptoms such as fever or cough, but X-ray scan shows moderate chest pneumonia. The virus spreads directly to the lungs, causing acute respiratory distress due to pneumonia. That’s why the new strain has become acute and more fatal,” he said. Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana, Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati and superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan besides Tanda medical college principal Dr Bhanu Awasthi attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-covid-strain-more-lethal-follow-protocol-strictly-cm-101617105349196.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||NIA detains Ahmedabad coal trader in Mansukh Hiran case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has detained a coal trader from Ahmedabad in connection with the death of auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiren, who was linked to the explosive-laden car parked near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, people aware of the matter said.The people said Kishore Thakkar, the trader, allegedly provided SIM cards to Naresh Gor, who has been arrested in the case. Gor handed over the cards to Vinayak Shinde, a former constable, and Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested for his alleged involvement in parking the car outside Ambani’s residence.The NIA is probing both the car and Hiran’s cases. Vaze has been accused of masterminding Hiran’s murder.Also Read | NIA divers fish out Vaze’s hardware from riverbedThe Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which earlier investigated Hiran’s case, arrested Shinde and Gor on March 21 for their alleged involvement in the case.ATS detained Thakkar last week and made him a witness in the case. “He said he provided the SIM card as a friend and that he was unaware of the serious crime. Thakkar was made the witness and NIA too had detained him to record his statement,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/niadetains-ahmedabad-coal-trader-in-mansukh-hiran-case-101617103609211.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Fire at Delhi government office near Kashmere Gate bus terminal; no casualty||A fire broke out in the office of the Delhi government’s family and child welfare department office near the Kashmere Gate bus terminal in North Delhi on Tuesday afternoon, the fire department said.Atul Garg, director of Delhi Fire Services, said the fire was controlled within an hour and prima facie, there were no casualties.Also Read | 4 of family charred to death in PalgharWhile the circumstances in which the blaze broke out were not known immediately, Garg said a call about the fire was received at 2.36pm. “The fire was in a hall and cabin of the family and child welfare department located on the sixth floor of the building,” said Garg. “So far there is no casualty,” Garg said an hour after the fire call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-at-delhi-government-office-near-kashmere-gate-bus-terminal-no-casualty-101617102168427.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||‘They make fuss on lynchings’: Punjab BJP slams ‘silence’ over assault on MLA||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Punjab unit president Ashwani Kumar Sharma on Tuesday questioned the silence of “those who make a fuss over mob lynchings,” days after party legislator Arun Narang was beaten up and had his clothes torn off allegedly by farmers protesting against the contentious central agricultural laws.Also Read | BJP MLA thrashed by protesting farmers in Punjab, Amarinder Singh condemns incident“What happened with BJP MLA Arun Narang in Malout amounts to lynching. Many people were making a fuss over mob lynching. Why are they silent today? We have met and briefed the Governor about the deteriorating law and order situation in Punjab,” Sharma told news agency ANI.What happened with BJP MLA (Arun Narang) in Malout amounts to lynching. Many people were making a fuss over mob lynching. Why are they silent today? We have met & briefed the Governor about the deteriorating law & order situation in Punjab: State BJP chief Ashwani Kumar Sharma pic.twitter.com/6s0JZrOSyVOn Saturday, Narang was scheduled to address a press conference in Malout when he was surrounded by a mob, which threw black ink at him. The MLA was taken away from the protesting mob to a local shop by police officials, but when he came out, he was assaulted and also had his clothes torn off.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh condemned the incident and directed the police to take action against the culprits. Four members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Sidhupur) have been arrested and its Muktsar unit president Sukhdev Singh and 26 others have been booked in connection with the assault.Also Read | Muktsar BKU chief among 27 booked, 4 arrested for murder bid on BJP MLAThe BJP has staged state-wide protests against the chief minister. Narang, on his part, has said he would discuss the matter with the party high command before taking any legal action. Rakesh Tikait, one of the farmers’ leaders spearheading the agitation in Delhi, has, however, alleged that the assault was “staged” by the BJP itself to defame the farmers.Also Read | BJP stages protests in Punjab against attack on Abohar MLALeaders of the Punjab unit of the BJP, whose government at the Centre passed the three laws last September, have found themselves at the receiving end of the ire of farmers from both Punjab and Haryana, two states which have contributed the maximum number of farmers protesting against the legislations in Delhi since November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/they-make-fuss-on-lynchings-punjab-bjp-slams-silence-over-assault-on-mla-101617101316011.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees a dip in Covid-19 cases with fewer tests on Holi||With fewer tests conducted on the occasion of Holi, Delhi reported just 992 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, which is the lowest number of infections in a week. There were 36,757 tests conducted on Monday – reported a day later in Tuesday’s bulletin – in comparison to over 83,000 tests conducted daily on average during the last seven days. The positivity rate—the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested —remained high at 2.70% on Tuesday. The average positivity rate for the last seven days stood at 1.8%, up from 0.9% the week before, and 0.56% the week before that. The positivity rate, which is indicative of the ongoing spread of the infection, had remained below 1% consecutively for 82 days between December 28 and March 19. Delhi has been focussing on increasing the number of tests and thorough contact tracing to check the spread of the infection. “In order to stop the increase in the number of cases, we have increased the rate of testing with around 85,000 to 90,000 tests being conducted each day. This is five times more than the country’s average. Isolation and contact tracing is also being done. For every positive case, over 30 contacts are traced and asked to remain in quarantine in order to contain it as fast as possible," Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday. The number of tests has crossed the 90,000-mark twice this month, which has been the highest number of tests conducted in Delhi ever since the first case was detected on March 2 last year. The city has also ramped up the number of more accurate RT PCR test. Over 68% of all the tests conducted in Delhi over the last seven days were using the RT PCR method. The Centre had asked the 12 states and Union territories, including Delhi, that have been reporting a surge in the number of cases to scale up the number of tests being conducted and ensure that 70% of the tests are conducted using the more accurate RT PCR methods. Delhi’s South District is one of the 46 districts the Centre has identified as “most affected”; it is the only one from Delhi so far. With four people dying of the viral infection on Tuesday, the number remained lower than the seven deaths reported each day on average during the last seven days. The hospitalisations due to the infection have also been on the rise, crossing the 1,500-mark on Tuesday. There were 1,584 persons admitted to city hospitals with Covid-19 as of Monday night. With fewer cases reported on Tuesday, the number of active cases or those currently living with the infection saw a dip to 7,429 from Monday’s 8,032. The city currently has about 5,700 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19, with the health minister on Saturday saying that more beds weren’t required as of now. “Hospitals have a sufficient number of beds. Currently, the occupancy is around 20%. For instance, there are 500 beds in Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital, but only around 20 to 25 people are admitted. The rate of occupancy for ICU beds too is 20%; in Lok Nayak hospital we have 300 ICU beds and in Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital also 300 of the 500 beds are ICU beds. So a large number of ICU beds being provided and we would increase them if required," Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-a-dip-in-covid-19-cases-with-fewer-tests-on-holi-101617101114589.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Dust-laden winds from Rajasthan blow over Delhi, air quality deteriorates||Dust-laden winds from Rajasthan have started blowing over Delhi, leading to a deterioration in air quality and visibility. The air quality index at 3pm on Tuesday was 221 in “poor” category. Scientists from India Meteorological Department (IMD) said air quality is likely to deteriorate further as strong, westerly winds are likely to blow over the city till April 1.“The change in the colour of sky is mainly due to dust. Dust particles from Rajasthan are affecting air quality. Westerly winds are blowing at about 40 kmph. These conditions will continue till April 1 following which temperature will rise further. There may be minor reduction in the maximum temperature today compared to yesterday because of strong winds,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read | Delhi sees hottest March day in 76 years, temperature set to drop from todayHeatwave conditions are likely in some parts of central, west and northwest India with severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan, according to IMD.Heatwave conditions are likely in pockets over Himachal Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Kutch and Madhya Pradesh on March 29 and 30; Vidarbha and Odisha on March 30, 31 and 1.Severe heat wave affected Delhi on Sunday as maximum temperature was 40.1 degree C (°C), 8°C above normal which is also the highest March temperature after March 31, 1945 .Dust raising strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely over Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh between March 30 and April 1.According to IMD, heatwave is recorded when departure of the maximum temperature from normal is + 4°C to + 5°C or more for the regions where the normal maximum temperature is more than 40°C. Another criterion for IMD to declare heat wave is when departure of maximum temperature from normal is + 5°C to + 6°C for regions where the normal maximum temperature is 40°C or less. (Heatwave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C for plains and at least 30°C for hilly regions).Heatwave can also declared when actual maximum temperature remains 45°C or more for a day, irrespective of the normal maximum temperature, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dustladen-winds-from-rajasthan-blow-over-delhi-air-quality-deteriorates-101617100308967.html
30-03-2021||Dehradun||Now U'khand makes negative RT-PCR test report must for visitors from 12 states||People, especially from states where cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are increasing, will be required to produce a negative Covid test report before they can enter Uttarakhand, chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said on Tuesday. Amid the rising Covid-19 cases, Rawat also directed authorities to ramp up coronavirus testing and the vaccination drive to combat the pandemic in the state, a statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said, according to news agency ANI.Rawat added that all regions in Uttarakhand witnessing a sharp rise in cases should be designated as containment and micro-containment zones and special attention should be paid towards administering vaccine doses. With just two days left for the Kumbh Mela, the chief minister ordered that special campaigns for vaccination and RT-PCR testing should be organised at the bathing ghats in Haridwar.The decisions were made in a review meeting attended by Rawat, state chief secretary Om Prakash and other officials. Prakash said on Monday that people from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan will be required to show a negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 24 hours before enteting the state. Also Read| Vaccines are safe, stay away from WhatsApp university: Harsh Vardhan allays fearDehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar are the worst affected districts and are adding the maximum number of cases towards the hill state’s daily Covid-19 tally. A five-star hotel in Rishikesh has emerged as a new Covid-19 cluster. Seventy-six people in the Taj Rishikesh Resort and Spa tested positive for the coronavirus disease and the hotel has been closed for three days, as per an order of the Tehri Garhwal administration.The Dehradun district administration on Monday declared the Nehru Colony area of Dehradun city and the Gumaniwala area in Rishikesh as containment zones. District magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava told PTI on Monday that all commercial establishments in these two regions including shops, banks and offices would remain shut until further orders.Uttarakhand has so far reported nearly 100,000 Covid-19 cases and 1711 related fatalities, according to the state health department’s bulletin. On Sunday, 366 cases were recorded which have been the highest since January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/now-uttarakhand-makes-negative-rt-pcr-test-report-must-for-visitors-101617099283934.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Diljaan dies in road accident near Amritsar||Punjabi singer Diljaan Singh, 31, was killed when his car rammed into a truck on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway near Jandiala Guru, 20 km from Amritsar, on Tuesday. Police said Diljaan was on his way from Kartarpur town near Jalandhar to Amritsar in his Mahindra KUV 100 car when the accident took place at 2.30am. The singer, who belongs to Kartarpur, was found severely injured by passers-by and taken to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police sources said Diljaan’s car hit the truck parked near a bridge on the highway but some suspect it hit the divider, too. Jandiala station house officer (SHO) Yadwinder Singh said a probe was on and the body was sent for post-mortem. Diljaan’s wife and children are in Canada. Singers and actors from the Punjabi music and film industry took to social media to mourn the Diljaan’s death. The singer rose to fame in 2012 when he took part in Sur Kshetra, a singing talent show between teams of India and Pakistan. Diljaan was the runner-up in the show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-singer-diljaan-dies-in-road-accident-near-amritsar-101617095208806.html
30-03-2021||Kolkata||Bengal coal scam: CBI questions key accused Anup Majhi||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday questioned Anup Majhi alias Lala, the main accused in the multi-crore rupees coal smuggling scam in West Bengal. The accused, who had been 'absconding' until now, appeared before the CBI at the agency's Kolkata office at 11 am for the interrogation.Majhi is the alleged mastermind behind illegal mining operations at the Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in West Bengal's Asansol, and the CBI is questioning him in connection with a coal pilferage scam in the Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The Supreme Court had restrained the agency from arresting Majhi till April 6.For a while now, the investigating officers had been in close pursuit of Majhi. In addition to issuing a look-out circular, the CBI had raided several of the accused's premises in the city and in the coal-bearing belt of Asansol and Ranigunj.Sleuths believe that the scam runs into several thousands of crores of rupees and part of the crime proceeds had been transacted through the hawala route. The case is being jointly probed by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), while the West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has also formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT).On March 13, the West Bengal CID made the first arrest in connection with the case — Randhir Singh, who is said to have been involved in the scam and working for Majhi, was arrested from the Paschim Bardhaman district. Moreover, Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira and his sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir were also questioned by the CBI in connection with the case.ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai, and Kajora area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee had also been named in the FIR registered by the CBI in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-coal-scam-cbi-questions-key-accused-anup-majhi-101617093315833.html
30-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP struggles to quell rebellion in Himachal MC elections||With the April 7 municipal corporation (MC) elections drawing closer in Himachal Pradesh, the rebellion in the ruling BJP has grown intense with the party suspending 25 rebel candidates in Mandi, Palampur and Dharamshala. The party faces its toughest challenge in Dharamshala, where it faces rebellion in 12 of the 17 MC wards. The party has put its troubleshooter and state forest minister Rakesh Pathania at the forefront of its campaign. “We have quelled rebellion in some wards but there are still many who have refused to withdraw from the fray. The party is trying its best,” Pathania said. Rift between Gaddi community leaders Infighting threatens to hit the party’s prospects with the rift between first-time legislator Vishal Neharia and Lok Sabha member Kishan Kapoor out in the open. Kapoor, a four-time legislator from Dharamshala, has been lying low since his election to the Lok Sabha in 2019. The party sidelined Kapoor, who belongs to the dominant Gaddi community that constitutes 50% of the 37,000-strong Dharamshala MC electorate. Neheria is from the Gaddi community too but Kapoor holds considerable influence. With the rebels refusing to budge, the BJP suspended 14 party workers for contesting against the party nominees in Dharamshala, four in Palampur and six in Mandi, where local BJP MLA Anil Sharma has also refused to campaign for being sidelined after the last assembly elections. Those suspended from the BJP in Dharamshala include Sujata Aggarwal (ward 1), Nisha Nehariya (ward 2), Dinesh Kapoor, Rajender Kumar and Mahender Singh (all from ward 3), Asha Baloria (ward 5), Vijay Kaul (ward 6), Bhagwan Singh (ward 9), Champa Devi (ward 10), Sanjeev (ward 13), Rajni Devi (ward 12), Sarvachand Galgotia (ward 16) and Dimple Kumari ward 17. Battle of prestige for BJP, Congress It’s for the first time that the MC elections in Mandi, Palampur, Solan and Dharamshala are being held on the party symbol, making it a battle of prestige for both the Congress and the BJP. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has been campaigning in Dharamshala, while Union minister of state for corporate affairs Anurag Thakur canvasses on April 3. Jai Ram Thakur will visit Dharamshala again on April 5. On the other hand, the Congress is hoping to gain from the BJP infighting. “The BJP always describes the Congress as a divided house, facing rebellion. But the Congress is contesting these elections unitedly,” said Nadaun Congress legislator Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, who is the party in-charge for the election in Dharamshala. Issues that matter on the ground According to Sukhu, inflation, lack of development and rising unemployment are the main poll issues. Lack of development, particularly in the rural areas, has put the BJP on the backfoot, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-struggles-to-quell-rebellion-in-himachal-mc-elections-101617080568294.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||3,282 people fined in Delhi for violating traffic rules on Holi||The Delhi Police fined 3,282 people for violating traffic rules during the Holi celebrations on Monday. A majority of those penalised were two-wheeler riders riding without helmets even as no fatal road accident was reported.Till 4pm on Monday, 730 tickets were issued for the violation of mandatory mask-wearing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and nine for that of social distancing violations. Another three were fined for spitting in public places, according to the Delhi Police data. A total of 5,73,457 people were fined for violating mask, social distancing, and spitting rules.Also Read | Petrol and diesel prices cut again today, check rates hereAs many as 3,282 tickets were issued. They included 1,255 to two-wheeler riders riding their vehicles without helmets. A total of 170 were ticketed for triple riding on two-wheelers. As many as 100 were caught for riding or driving under the influence of alcohol while 121 people were ticketed for dangerous driving. There were 1,636 tickets issued for other violations.Traffic disturbances continued at farmer protest sites of Ghazipur, Singhu, and Tikri. The carriageways to Delhi from Ghaziabad remained closed at the inter-state border, where farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been camping for over four months. One carriageway to Ghaziabad from Delhi is open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3282-people-fined-in-delhi-for-violating-traffic-rules-on-holi-101617075228164.html
30-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees hottest March day in 76 years, temperature set to drop from today||Delhi recorded its hottest day in of March since 1945 on the festival of Holi on Monday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. Scientists, however, said that the temperature will come down on Tuesday as wind speeds are expected to pick up.Met officials said that a severe heatwave gripped Delhi on Monday as the mercury level at the Safdarjung observatory rose to 40.1 degrees Celsius. This was 8 degrees above the season’s normal.The maximum temperature recorded on Monday was also the highest in 76 years, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said.Also Read | Heatwave in Odisha; Titlagarh sizzles at 42.2 degrees Celsius“It is the hottest day in March since March 31, 1945, when the national capital recorded a maximum of 40.5 degrees Celsius,” he said.The city’s minimum temperature settled at 20.6 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.The weather stations at Najafgarh, Narela, Pitampura and Pusa recorded maximum temperatures of 41.8 degrees Celsius, 41.7 degrees Celsius, 41.6 degrees Celsius, and 41.5 degrees Celsius, the IMD said.“From Tuesday, the maximum temperature will come down because of strong winds that are expected to blow in the city. The pollution levels are also likely to improve drastically because of the winds,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-hottest-march-day-in-76-years-temp-to-come-down-from-today-101617073368132.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records close to 600k Covid-19 cases in March||As the fear of another lockdown looms over Maharashtra, March, 2021, with two days still to go, is on its way to being the state’s worst month in terms of Covid-19 cases. The state has been battling the pandemic for over a year now.Maharashtra recorded 590,448 cases from March 1 to March 29, while it had recorded 593,192 cases in September 2020, data revealed.While Maharashtra recorded a huge drop in cases in the beginning of 2021 compared to the previous three months, the number of new cases recorded this month have surpassed the tally of the past four months. Between November 2020 and February 2021, the state recorded 487,519 infections.Also Read | NCP opposes Maharashtra lockdown plansOn Monday, the state recorded 31,643 cases and 102 deaths, a day after recording its sharpest single-day spike of 40,414 cases. The state’s tally is now 2,745,518 cases and death toll is 54,283. Since March 17, Maharashtra has been recording more than 20,000 cases every day. The state has also recorded 2,129 deaths this month.Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state-appointed task force, said the numbers will continue to rise in the state. “It will rise further as tests have increased. We will have to keep testing more until the positivity rate goes down,” Dr Pandit said. The state’s positivity rate on Monday was 14.08%, while the recovery rate is 85.71%. The state has been conducting more than 100,000 tests every day for the last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-close-to-600k-covid-19-cases-in-march-101617072407977.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||PIL seeking independent probe against Anil Deshmukh to be heard today||The Bombay high court (HC) is scheduled to hear on Tuesday a petition filed by Mumbai lawyer Dr Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil, seeking an independent investigation into the purported malpractices by Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, as alleged by former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Dr Patil has referred to the March 20 letter written by Singh to the chief minister, in which the former top cop has alleged that Deshmukh had asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare case, to collect ₹100 crore every month, including ₹40-50 crore from 1,750 bars and restaurants in Mumbai. She sought handing over the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) or any other independent agency.Singh himself has filed a criminal public interest litigation (PIL) in HC after the Supreme Court directed him to do so, when he had approached the Apex court. Singh has also sought a CBI probe into the alleged malpractices resorted to by the home minister and sought the seizure of the CCTV footage of the minister’s home. His PIL also calls for the report of the then commissioner of state intelligence Rashmi Shukla, and all files connected to the report – purportedly revealing malpractices in police transfers in Maharashtra – to be placed before HC.Meanwhile, advocate Ghanashyam Upadhyaya has also a filed a PIL seeking a court-monitored probe by CBI or ED into the allegations made by Singh. Upadhyay also sought the seizure of the properties amassed by tainted police officers. He has called for a time-bound probe against Singh, Vaze, assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil, deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal and some politicians including Deshmukh.Meanwhile, Vaze’s brother Sudharm had on March 15 filed a habeas corpus petition in HC, seeking the former cop’s production before the court.No specific dates are, however, given for hearing of the PILs filed by Singh, Upadhyay or Sudharm.2 cops stationed outside home of Vaze’s kin Vaze’s sister Anuradha Hatkar, 50, on March 19 had filed an application in the court to issue directions to the media, stationed outside her house since her brother’s arrest. Hatkar, who stays at Saket, claimed that several media persons were repeatedly asking her questions regarding the case. She claimed that she feared for the well-being of her family despite being nowhere connected to the case. The court of district judge Shailendra Tambe directed the Rabodi police station to look into her complaint. Rajendra Shirtode, senior police officer of Rabodi, said, “Following the court’s directives, we have stationed two constables round the clock outside her house to discourage anyone from going near it.”Retired HC judge likely to head state probe against DeshmukhThe Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government decided to probe the allegations of extortion against home minister Anil Deshmukh last week, but is yet to make an official announcement on itIt is likely to set up a judicial commission under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952, in which case, the probe has to be headed by a retired high court judgeUnder the Act, the panel will have certain powers, and can work like a civil court. It can summon any person and examine witnesses on oath. It can also receive evidence on affidavits and requisition any public record or copy thereof from any court or officeThe commission will get a couple of months to complete the probe and submit its findings to the state governmentCurrently, a panel under the Commissions of Inquiry Act is investigating the violence that took place at Bhima Koregaon near Pune in January 2018. Formed in February 2018, it was given four months to complete the probe. But the completion of the probe was extended on multiple occasions. It is yet to submit its report to the state government.ATS applicationTwo of former cop Sachin Vaze’s accomplices – cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor, 31, and ex-cop Vinayak Balasaheb Shinde, 51 – were sent to Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad’s (ATS) custody in Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case till March 30. However, on March 24, the chief judicial magistrate at Thane directed ATS to transfer the probe to NIA. Accordingly, NIA received Gor and Shinde’s custody. The application for Vaze’s custody filed by ATS before the special NIA court became infructuous and was not pressed by ATS on the due date, March 25.Vaze’s pre-arrest bail Apprehending his arrest in the Hiran murder case, Vaze had on March 12 applied to the Thane district and sessions court for anticipatory bail. The next day, he was arrested by NIA in the Antilia case. The sessions court refused to grant any interim protection from arrest to him and posted his plea for further hearing on March 19. It was then adjourned to March 30.(Inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pil-seeking-independent-probe-against-maharashtra-home-minister-to-be-heard-today-101617045886378.html
30-03-2021||Other||Bombay HC notice to UK embassy over pending appeal against resident||The Bombay high court (HC) has issued a notice to the United Kingdom (UK) embassy about the pendency of an appeal against the 2003 acquittal of a former Baroda resident. The individual relocated to the UK in 2004 after his acquittal and broke all contact with his advocate. The court also directed the state to provide a copy of the non-bailable warrant to the UK embassy and directed the Mira-Bhayandar, Vasai and Virar division police commissioner to execute the non-bailable warrant issued against the man in whichever way possible. A division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the appeal of the state against the 2003 acquittal of two persons in a case of murder at Kashimira police station, was informed that the when the appeal was filed in 2004, both the respondents had been represented by their lawyers, and hence no action was taken against them under section 390 of the Criminal Procedure Code. However, as the hearing of the appeal was delayed, the first respondent returned to the United States, and thereafter was not in touch with his lawyer. The court was further informed that the second respondent, who was a resident of Baroda when the appeal was filed, had blocked all the contact with his lawyer, and hence it was not possible to get his presence for the hearing of the appeal. Advocate Nitin Sejpal informed that though his letters to the respondent had been received at the given address, there was no response from the second respondent. On March 9, the second respondent’s step-sister, who had received the letters of the advocate at the Baroda address, approached the court and informed that she was not aware of his UK address, only a mobile number was available. After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “In view of this fact, we are constrained to issue non-bailable warrant against respondent no 2.” The court further directed a lookout notice to be issued against the respondent, which will be circulated at all airports too. The court then directed the state to send a copy of the warrant to the UK embassy, and submit a report to that effect within two weeks, and directed the registry to issue a notice to the Embassy about pendency of the appeal against acquittal. In an earlier hearing, the court had issued a similar notice to the US embassy regarding a non-bailable warrant issued against the first respondent in the appeal, who had shifted to the US after his acquittal. However, after the US Consulate informed the court that the Ministry of External Affairs needed to serve a letter rogatory (request to foreign court) through the Indian Embassy in Washington, DC to get the non-bailable warrant executed, the court changed its order and directed the police commissioner to issue letter rogatory to the MEA authorities concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-notice-to-uk-embassy-over-pending-appeal-against-resident-101617045526439.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Antilia security scare: Number plates recovered from Mithi of stolen vehicle||The identical vehicle number plates recovered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Mithi river in Mumbai on Sunday in connection with the Antilia security scare case belonged to a stolen vehicle owned by a state government servant.Vinay Nade, a resident of Jalna employed as a clerk with the state’s social welfare department, had reported the vehicle, a Maruti Eco, stolen from Aurangabad district in November 2020. Police inspector Sambhaji Pawar of the City Chowk police station in Aurangabad confirmed that a case of vehicle theft was registered on November 20, 2020 on the basis of a complaint lodged by Nade.“My car with the number ‘MH-20-FP-1539 T’ was stolen on November 16, 2020, and an FIR was filed. I have a copy of the same. For three months, there was no information but yesterday, I was informed about it,” Nade to ANI.The NIA on Sunday took former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to a spot near the Mithi river in a bid to recover crucial evidence with the help of professional divers, even as officials said the suspended policeman tried to destroy proof related to investigations into an explosives-laden car found near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence and the death of a man linked to the vehicle.NIA investigators recovered two digital video recorders (DVRs), two CPUs, a laptop and two vehicle registration plates with the help of divers, a police official said on condition of anonymity.Also read | ‘Lockdown can be avoided, if…’: Maharashtra minister Nawab MalikThe development comes after the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government decided to conduct a judicial probe into allegations of corruption levelled against home minister Anil Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who was removed amid investigations into the two cases that have also triggered political slugfest in the state.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday claimed he had warned some party leaders that Vaze could create problems for the coalition government and that the episode has taught some lessons to the Shiv Sena-led coalition government.The central agency is probing the cases of the recovery of the car outside the south Mumbai residence of Ambani and the subsequent death of businessman Mansukh Hiran.Vaze was arrested on March 13 for his alleged role in planting the explosives-laden car. He has also been accused of masterminding Hiran’s murder, which the NIA is also investigating.“During interrogation of accused Sachin Vaze, he disclosed willingly to show the place where he threw the material used in the crime and destroyed the evidence. Accordingly, two independent witnesses were called and his voluntary statement was recorded. Further, accused showed the place as Mithi River, BKC, Bandra (East), Mumbai,” an NIA official said.“The said place was searched with the help of divers. NIA recovered one laptop, one printer, 2 hard disks, a pair of number plates, 2 CPUs, 2 DVRs, etc. The said articles were identified by rightful owners/custodians from whom accused Sachin Vaze had collected them illegally without proper documentation. Also, the laptop and printer recovered was used by Sachin Vaze in his office,” the official added.This is one of the most important recoveries made in the investigation so far.An NIA officer said that most of the items were damaged before they were thrown into the river. He added that the recovered articles would be sent to Pune’s forensic science laboratory and the Centre for Developing Advanced Computing, for data retrieval.He added that the laptop and the printer recovered from Mithi river were used by Vaze in his office in the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch. “A visible effort was made by the accused to destroy the same as hammer marks are present on them,” the officer said.Vaze was initially the investigating officer in the case; he got all the evidence in his custody and after Hiran’s murder, when he realised that the case could go to some other agency, he tried to destroy the proof, an official said. According to people familiar with the developments, the DVRs were allegedly removed from the housing society in Thane where Vaze lives. NIA also learnt that a lot of evidence collected by Vaze as the investigating officer was not recorded in the case diary, as the main aim was to destroy it to save himself, said another officer, asking not to be identified.“A group of 10 divers conducted search around three hours and recovered crucial evidence,” another NIA official said on condition of anonymity.The NIA probe team reached the spot at 3.15pm and the search was conducted till 6pm with the help of local divers, the second NIA official said. It is suspected that assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kaazi told NIA during his interrogation that the evidences were thrown into the Mithi river, according to news agency Press Trust of India. An official told ANI that the DVRs have a recording of Vaze’s society where the car was parked between February 17 and February 24 before it was planted.Hiran, linked to the car that was found containing explosives outside Ambani’s house, was found dead on March 5 in Thane.Investigations into his death were being carried out by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) until the Union home ministry handed over the probe to NIA.Vaze was earlier in NIA custody till March 25 for his alleged role and involvement in planting the explosives-laden vehicle. Later, a special NIA court on March 25 allowed the agency his custody till April 3.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-security-scare-number-plates-recovered-from-mithi-of-stolen-vehicle-101617045406362.html
30-03-2021||Other||History-sheeter who tried to electrocute cop held from Navi Mumbai||Trombay police arrested a 32-year-old history- sheeter from Navi Mumbai who had allegedly tried to kill a policeman by electrocuting him when he had been to the accused’s home to nab him in a case. The accused, Abdul Karim Khudabaksh Shaikh alias Dubai Akram, a resident of Cheetah Camp, has dozens of cases of house break-in, robbery, chain snatching and assault registered against him, and was a wanted accused for over a year. In November 2020, officers at Trombay police station received a tip-off that Shaikh has returned to his house in Cheetah Camp. However, Shaikh learnt that a police team was visiting his house to arrest him. “Shaikh had connected electricity to the door latch, and when a police officer from the team held the latch to open the door, he sustained an electric shock. Taking advantage of this, Shaikh escaped from the spot. The injured police officer was rushed to a hospital,” said police sub-inspector Rushikesh Babar. “Shaikh had been evading his arrest by consistently changing his locations. He spent months in Ajmer, Goa and Ujjain. In Maharashtra, he kept moving between Nashik, Thane, Janata, Auarngabad, Badlapur and Navi Mumbai,” said constable Shashikant Gangawane, who had been tracking his movements. Recently Babar and Gangawane learnt that Shaikh has been hiding in a residential society at Ulve, Navi Mumbai. On Friday, a police team searched the entire building and nabbed Shaikh from a flat. “Shaikh has been arrested under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 353 (assaulting or obstructing public servant from discharging his duty) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 and 25 of the Arms Act. A court remanded him in police custody till Wednesday,” said assistant inspector Amol Kadam of Trombay police station Shaikh has admitted to his role in various crimes committed in the jurisdiction of Trombay police. “Because of the lockdown, he had targeted closed shops, malls and had formed groups of burglars,” Kadam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historysheeter-who-tried-to-electrocute-cop-held-from-navi-mumbai-101617045407039.html
30-03-2021||Other||Three killed as car crashes into auto on Karjat-Neral road near Mumbai||Three people died after a car collided with an auto ricksaw on Karjat-Neral road on Monday. Both the vehicles were gutted in fire after the accident. Anil Gherdikar, deputy superintendent of police, said, “The CCTV footage of a nearby building shows the auto waiting on the road for a few minutes around 3pm and then taking a U-turn all of a sudden. That was when the car, which was coming from behind, hit the auto. The auto’s CNG tank exploded due to the collision and a fire engulfed both the vehicles soon after.” “The auto’s driver Subhash Jadhav, his wife Subhangi and sister-in-law Sarita Salunkhe suffered major burns and died on the spot. The family seated in the car came out of the vehicle immediately after the mishap and thus did not suffer any injury in the accident,” Gherdikar further said. The police booked the drivers of both the vehicles for rash driving under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicle (MV) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-killed-as-car-crashes-into-auto-on-karjat-neral-road-near-mumbai-101617045286352.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Up in flames: Maharashtra's saga of forest fires||At 3pm on March 2, Santosh Jamghare, a supervisor on a commercial farm in rural Maharashtra’s Shilottar village, noticed licks of flame and billowing smoke, approaching from the teak and palash forests which line the farm’s northern perimeter.Jamghare immediately alerted 38-year-old Adityavardhan Pathak, the farm-owner, who at the time was inspecting a crop of mangoes on the other end of the farm. Within minutes of receiving word, Pathak and three members of his staff bundled into a car and drove off to assess the blaze -- its size, intensity and speed.“The fire was initially coming from one direction, but it quickly spread outward. The farm is surrounded by woods on three sides and the grass is very dry this time of year. Before we knew it, there were ground-level fires coming at us from every direction,” said Pramod Lakde, a farm supervisor, who was present that day.On February 15, Pathak had shifted residence from his home in Mulund, Mumbai, to the 80-acre estate in Thane district, where he grows fruit (cashews, papaya, mango, jamun, amla), rice and some vegetables. The produce is sold to a mix of caterers, food processing units, wholesalers and also directly to villagers in Shilottar.The farm was bought by his doctor parents back in 2002, and Pathak -- a former army captain in the Short Service Commission -- joined them in 2011. Pathak spends the majority of his summers on the property, arriving in February or March and staying till the monsoon arrives in June.Each year, usually between February and May, a couple of fires break out in nearby farmlands, or in the forests surrounding his property. “I have to be present if they suddenly go rogue,” Pathak said. The closest fire station is at least 30km away, in the Murbad industrial area, which he said, was too far. This year, Pathak was yet to create fire-lines -- breaks in combustible vegetation which can prevent fires from spreading -- and clear the boundary of debris like twigs, leaves and straw.So on March 2, as soon as the flames began licking the edges of his farm, he and his staff got to work: first, they identified areas where the fire might breach the boundary. Over the following five hours, about 18 to 20 agricultural workers, along with three to five supervisors, did the gruelling task of clearing vegetation from the perimeter, keeping track of the fire’s movements, and doused the licking flames and embers before they spread.“There were four to five teams assigned to different parts of the farm, and they would keep switching locations depending on where the fire was spreading. We usually bring in an earth moving machine to clear the debris, so our challenge was doing it manually, and quickly,” explained Pramod.Since water, a scarce commodity in the region, is required in prohibitively large quantities when dealing with fire, jute bags and palm fronds were brought out of storage to beat back the flames. Swabs of wet cloth were distributed to those venturing too close to the fire. “To cover our mouths. Otherwise, you might breathe in the smoke and start suffocating,” said Pramod. Another agricultural worker, Manda Lakde, was assigned the job of ensuring a steady supply of drinking water as firefighting leaves one parched.Despite this, the blaze eventually found its way into Pathak’s six-acre cashew orchard, destroying his crop and some irrigation equipment. “The trees themselves are alright, fortunately. Only one season’s yield has been lost. We’re trying to salvage some of it by making olya kajuchi sabzi, a Maharashtrian delicacy which uses raw cashew-nut,” says Pathak’s wife, Sujata.“These fires happen once or twice a year, but they are usually smaller than what we just saw. The hair on your arms gets singed if you stand even a few metres away. It is scary, but if something were to happen to the farm, where will I come back and work tomorrow?” said Lakde, a daily-wage earner.Signs of an uptickSigns of fire are, in fact, conspicuous along the Murbad-Kalyan highway as one drives toward Shilottar in Thane’s Shahapur taluka. One sees not only the remnants of controlled, square-shaped fires lit in recently harvested paddy fields, but also entire hillsides that have been scorched, trees and all.Data from NASA’s Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS) shows a steep increase in fire counts in Thane this year. The district witnessed 2,477 forest fires between January 1 and March 28 this year, a 257% increase from the same period last year, when just 694 fire counts were observed.At a more granular level, data obtained from the Forest Survey of India (FSI) fire alert system shows that within Thane district, the highest number of fire counts is observed in the Murbad, Dhasai, Dolkhamb, Kalyan and Shahapur forest ranges, which are in close proximity to Shilottar where Pathak’s farm is located. These ranges together make up just under half of all fire counts in Thane district since November 2018 as per FSI data.Several theories have been posited for why such fires break out: one, electrical infrastructure like distribution lines and transformers passing through wooded areas, which create sparks when they malfunction, or make contact with vegetation; another, the hunting practices of the resident adivasi and forest-dwelling populations. “The tribals set small fires to drive out pigs and rabbits. Sometimes it can cause trouble,” said Nandu, a small farmer from the nearby town of Vasind, about 19km away.Then there’s also the issue of climate change. Rising temperatures and increasingly erratic monsoon have led to a “drying” or “browning” of vegetation in parts of Maharashtra, creating conditions in which fires can spread easily, said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune.“Most fires may be set by humans, but their frequency and impact can be exacerbated by climactic conditions. Across Maharashtra, we have seen two major factors -- erratic monsoon and a rise in temperature over the last five decades or so -- which would be making the environment conducive to fire. This is perhaps why you are seeing an increase in fire counts at the district level, in places like Thane and Raigad. The link between these fires and changing climactic conditions needs further study,” said Koll.Madhav Gadgil, eminent ecologist and founder of the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science, noted that all these were plausible culprits. “But speaking from my own experience in Maharashtra’s fire-prone districts, human interventions are almost always directly associated. They are overwhelmingly more responsible for forest fires than say, increasing temperatures or drought, though of course those are factors too,” Gadgil said.A 2019 study by the Forest Survey of India, identifying fire prone forest areas in the country, states: “Some forest fires start from natural causes like lightning, rolling stones, friction of dry bamboos and stems of trees. Moreover, high atmospheric temperatures and dryness (low humidity) offer favourable circumstance for a fire to commence. In India, however, over 95 % of fire incidences are of anthropogenic origin.”Thane district, though, is not considered a problem area by the forest department. Multiple officials in the department, including Sanjeev Gaur, additional principal chief conservator of forests (protection), said that mitigation efforts are largely concentrated in the drier, water-scarce, and more densely forested region of Vidarbha.“In Vidarbha, as compared to Western or Madhya Maharashtra, the fires are not only more in number but also more intense. The risk to biodiversity is also more than in, say, Thane or Raigad,” said Gaur, citing the example of Gadricholi -- a densely forested district bordering Chhattisgarh in central India, which accounted for 1.78% of India’s forest fires between 2003 and 2016, according to a 2018 joint report of the Ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the World Bank. This made it the only district in Maharashtra to be ranked in the nation’s top 20 fire prone districts.In Vidarbha, officials said, controlled fires are also lit by forest-dwelling communities when foraging for tendu leaves used in beedi making, which may inadvertently spread over larger portions of the forest.Success storyEven so, data shows a consistent downward trend in fire counts in these regions. Satellite data shows a clear reduction in fire counts across Vidarbha in the last four years. Gadchiroli’s fire counts in 2020, for example, were a third of what they were in 2016 (4,332 fire counts, down from 12,425). Similar trends can be observed in nearby Amravati, Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Gondiya districts, where the state’s fire management efforts have been redoubled in the last half-decade or so.“Gadchiroli has been a challenge, but through effective interventions and implementation of dedicated fire management plans, there have been improvements. Nearby districts like Amravati and Chandrapur are also prone to fires,” said Gaur who oversees the fire management plans in each of the state’s 36 districts.The main tool of the forest department is to create fire-breaks, or fire-lines. These are essentially three to six metre-wide gaps in vegetation that we create in the most high-risk areas of the forests, based on past experiences. This is done by physically removing the vegetation or setting controlled fires to it.“Work on this starts every year in December and January. Since most fires we encounter are ground fires, a well-placed network of fire-lines does the job effectively,” he said.In addition to pre-emptive measures, though, officials also said that increased monitoring and integration with NASA-FIRMS and the FSI’s forest fire alert system have also played a role in reducing the impact of forest fires. A case study is that of Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati district, which has a dedicated fire cell constituted last year, comprising a district forest officer (DFO), a range forest officer (RFO) and 10 forest guards.As per a technical document shared by the Melghat Tiger Reserve fire cell, all assigned forest guards are registered with NASA FIRMS and FSI, and receive SMS alerts in real time when a forest fire is detected by satellite. When the guard receives the alert, he creates a ‘forest map’ using an open-source, GIS software, showing the exact location of the fire in relation to the forest’s administrative boundaries, the document explains.The map is then shared with field staff through WhatsApp. During fire season, every range officer in Melghat is assigned an eight-member fire-squad, along with at least one vehicle and a number of fire-blowers. As soon as the range office receives the alert, a squad sets off to track down and douse the fire using directions provided by the guards. “Similar operations will be implemented in other districts as well,” said Gaur.In five years, the number of annual fire counts in Melghat Tiger Reserve reduced from 11,401 (in 2016) to just 1,015 (in 2020), as per data provided by the Melghat Fire Cell. Year on year, the area of forest affected by fires in Melghat also declined, from 379 sq kms in 2016 to 128 sq kms in 2020. Department officials attributed this to pre-emptive steps (like timely creation of fire lines), but also the fire cell’s enhanced capacity to respond to incidents in real time.Madhav Gadgil, on the other hand, strongly emphasized that these trends are more attributable to community participation from gram sabhas in Vidarbha, where a substantial number of community forest rights claims have been recognised, largely under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act over the last five or six years.“It can be confidently said that the indigenous population is now encouraged to protect their own resources. I have seen first-hand how forest dwelling communities have been reluctant to actually put out fires, due to conflicts with the forest departments. Now that their claims over the forest have been recognised they are able to finally protect their own resources after years of being harassed by the state machinery,” said Gadgil.New hotspotsEven as the state has been able to control outbreaks in Vidarbha, emerging hotspots for fire counts are a cause for concern. Data shows that in the past eight years (2013-2020), Thane comes third among Maharashtra’s 35 districts (based on 2011 census) by average share of fires --- after Gadchiroli. Other districts where forest fire counts are significant include Raigad, Satara and Pune, which are all outside Vidarbha.Raigarh and Thane account for 8.4 and 7.2% of all fire counts in the state over the past eight years, while Pune and Ratnagiri, also western districts which have not been historically fire-prone, came in at fourth and fifth place, contributing 6.2 and 6.1% of fire counts between 2013 and 2020.Nizamuddin Jalal, an activist who has been tracking stray fires in Raigad’s Mahad taluka, said, “In front of my home, there is a hillside which has been burnt before my own eyes. There is a new fire that is reported to me every day.”Responding to these concerns, Gaur said that it is still a “long way away” before the fire department can exercise complete control over emerging forest fire hotspots. “The Western Ghats and Konkan areas are just as important for biodiversity as Vidarbha’s forests. We already have district-level plans in place for these areas, and will tweak them based on our experiences in eastern Maharashtra. Our achievements in Melghat will surely be replicated elsewhere.”January to March is also the time when farmers in Maharashtra prepare their fields for the upcoming kharif season, using controlled burning to clear land of crop stubble. “Many times, these fires go out of control, or embers may travel some distance and create a spot fire somewhere else. These are not intentional but can still cause damage,” said Gaur.“During this season, the weather gets hotter, leaf matter dries up and falls to the ground, and hot winds start blowing. These are the catalytic factors,” he said.In 2011, a few years after Pathak began farming commercially (and when he wasn’t well prepared to manage this sort of disaster), a particularly intense blaze had laid waste to more than 50 acres of his farm, resulting in financial losses that he pegs to be in the lower eight figures. He not only lost produce but also expensive equipment like solar panels, irrigation pipes, and an aquaculture pond that remains defunct. The fire also diminished crop yield for the following three years at least, he said.“We have a proper fire management plan in place now, but the worrying thing is that there seem to be a lot more fires in the area this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/up-in-flames-maha-s-saga-of-forest-fires-101617045227064.html
30-03-2021||Other||6 held with multiple drugs in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted several raids in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai and arrested six people, including a foreign national, and seized 165 grams of mephedrone, 20 blots of LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) and 8 grams of MDMA (Ecstasy) tablets from them. A team of NCB officials raided a spot in Mahim on Sunday and nabbed a man and a woman. On searching them, the team found 105 grams (commercial quantity) of mephedrone from their possession, said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of NCB.“It has been observed during our drives that teenage girls are being used as peddlers for drug trafficking”, said Wankhede.Another raid was conducted at Dhokali in Thane (West), where a person was nabbed with MDMA tablets and 20 blots (0.5 gram) of LSD. After questioning the three accused from Mahim and Thane, an NCB team raided a flat in Andheri (West) and recovered 57 grams (commercial quantity) of mephedrone from a man and a woman.The fourth raid was conducted early on Monday at Kharghar in Navi Mumbai. The team identified the drug peddler as per information gathered through reliable sources. But when the team went to nab him, he tried to flee to the forest. The officers chased for around 1.5km and managed to arrest Kenneth Ezi, a Nigerian national. NCB allegedly recovered 200 grams of mephedrone from him, said Wankhede.All the accused were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-held-with-multiple-drugs-mumbai-101617045166305.html
30-03-2021||Other||4 of family charred to death in Palghar||PALGHAR Four members of a family, including two children, were charred to death after a fire gutted their grocery shop-cum-house in Brahmangaon, at Mokhada, Palghar, on Monday around 2.30am. A neighbour broke a window and rescued two other children, who were stranded inside the house. On Sunday, the family celebrated Holika Dahan and went to sleep, after rolling the shutter half down. “Around 2.30am, a huge fire was reported from the house. Ananta Moule, the store owner, who was sleeping in another room near the house, rushed to the spot after hearing the screams. The store was gutted in the fire and his wife Dwarkabai, 47; mother Gangubai, 78; and children Krishna, 10, and Pallavi, 15, were charred to death. Their neighbour, Madhukar Moule, managed to enter the store and rescued two other children, Ashwini, 16, and Bhavesh, 12. They are being treated in Nashik and Mokhada government hospitals. Ananta has suffered head injuries while trying to rescue his family,” said a Mokhada police official. Mokhada police have registered a case of accidental death and are waiting for the post-mortem report. Locals suspect the fire could be due to a short circuit. However, Kiran Nagaonkar, superintendent engineer, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Palghar, said short circuit is the preliminary conclusion, but at an adjacent spot, there is a kerosene shop located, and the fire could have started from there. The exact cause of the fire is being probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-of-family-charred-to-death-in-palghar-101617045046988.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Personal finance: How to use a credit card||According to data provided by the Reserve Bank of India, as of December 2020, there are 60.4 million credit cardholders in the country. The credit card debt in the same month was ₹63.84 lakh - arrived at by assessing the value of transactions at ATMs and point of sales (POS). The total number of credit card transactions in December 2020 alone equalled 174.7 million. Many of us rely on credit cards to pay off bills or withdraw money, but are we aware of the fine print? Here’s what you need to know when you use credit cards. Credit rating matters Your credit score depends on the regularity of your financial activity and how promptly you pay off your bills. Timely repayment of credit card debt will help build up your credit score that would augment the chances of getting loans approved. You miss a repayment cycle, and the result is debt piling up on your card. This gets recorded in your credit file, thus, impacting your credit score in the negative. Higher interest rates Many credit card companies offer bonuses for signing up for credit cards. The customers avail bonus points on having spent a certain amount within a certain period. These bonus points can provide discounts on other purchases. Cashback offers during seasonal bonanza sales also help you avail of discounts on paying with credit cards; sometimes you may even get a small amount of money back on paying with credit cards. Credit card companies make it seem attractive to use credit card to spend. But it’s equally important to remember that the money should be repaid else it will invite interest charges as high as 10% every day. Nothing comes for me, so hold your horses before you revel at the sight of discounts and cashback offers. To avail discounts, you must earn bonus points that are not possible without spending on a sizeable point. This means that the whole idea is to make you spend using your credit cards. This is because merchants accepting payments via credit cards must pay a percentage of the transaction amount to credit card companies. The cashback that you get is simply a part of the merchant fees that the credit card company shares with you. Besides, there is a yearly cap on cashback rewards beyond which you cannot exceed. Independent of currency Credit cards can be used to pay bills in any currency. Though banks or credit card companies may charge currency conversion fees, you may use your card to shop at overseas online stores or pay during an international trip. Some credit card companies also wave off fees on international purchases as a reward for increased use. However, beware of rampant credit card use as it may cause you to miss a payment or carry forward a balance debt that will have to be repaid with fees and interest charges. In some cases, the charges can be high; combine that with Goods and Services Tax (GST), and you end up paying a hefty amount as a foreign currency mark-up fee. Crossing the limit You may want to shop till you drop dead, but your credit card company may have had other plans for you. There is a limit beyond which you cannot spend depending on the credit card you use. However, spending beyond the credit card limit can invite a hefty amount as a penalty. The minimum over-limit fees charged is ₹500 from where it can go up depending on how much you have crossed your limit. Cash withdrawal charges You have the option to withdraw cash from an ATM using either a debit or credit card. If possible, never use your credit card to withdraw cash. This is because of the high cash advance fees that could either be fixed or levied as a percentage of the amount withdrawn. The credit limits on different cards vary, thus, determining the cash withdrawal limit. In most cases, banks and credit card companies allow their customers to withdraw up to 40 per cent of the card limit. However, interest charges ranging between three and five per cent accrue immediately after cash withdrawals using credit cards. This means that a withdrawal of ₹10,000 can incur an interest penalty in the range of ₹300-500. Not many credit cardholders are aware of the GST applicable on all credit card fees and charges. If you are someone who makes informed decisions on income and expenses, unbridled spending using credit cards may not be the right choice. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-how-to-use-a-credit-card-101617044987255.html
30-03-2021||Other||Operation All Out: 31 wanted accused held by Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police carried out a combing operation named Operation All Out from Sunday night till Monday morning and arrested 31 wanted accused. They also arrested 42 motorists and took action against 9,362 others for driving under the influence of alcohol during nakabandi at 208 major places across the city. Over 93 people were also arrested under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, while 38 were arrested with weapons during the operation.The police also arrested externed criminals during the combing operations, which were carried out at 255 places. A total of 1,267 criminals were also checked to ensure the law-and-order situation in the city prevails. The police found 509 suspects allegedly involved in mobile, chain, two and four-wheeler theft cases, and also arrested those criminals who had been externed from the city but had come back. Police officers said that the combing operation was started to maintain law and order situation in the city, as well as to deter habitual offenders from committing any crime, once or twice a month. Operation All-Out is carried out every month across the city before any major festival or occasion, under the guidance of Mumbai Police commissioner. This time, the operation was carried out on the eve of Holi. The police also checked 897 hotels and lodges and carried out raids at 53 locations. Ninety-three people who had non-bailable warrants issued against them were arrested during the operation. “Under the supervision of police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, maximum manpower from each police station across the city, was deployed to take action in order to ensure peace and law and order,” read a press statement from the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/operation-all-out-31-wanted-accused-held-by-mumbai-police-101617044926865.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar to undergo a gallbladder surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, 80, is unwell. He has been diagnosed with gallstones (stones in gallbladder) and is likely to be operated upon for the same at the Breach Candy Hospital on March 31. All his scheduled meetings have been cancelled till further notice. The veteran leader was feeling uneasy owing to abdominal pain and was taken to the hospital for a check-up on Sunday evening, where he was diagnosed with stones in the gallbladder and was advised an immediate surgery.“Pawar was on blood-thinner medication and following advice of doctors, they have stopped the same. On March 31, he will be admitted to the hospital for endoscopy followed by a surgery the same day,” said Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson, NCP.Party insiders said he is on painkillers and is taking rest at his south Mumbai residence — ‘Silver Oak’.“The surgery could have been conducted immediately if he wasn’t on blood-thinner medication. Those medicines have to be stopped 48 hours before a surgery. He is also likely to undergo laparoscopic surgery that will take an hour or so, but he has to be kept under observation for a day or two. Later, he will have to be at home for rest for some more days,” said a NCP insider.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, union minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan, legendary playback singer Lata Mangeshkar, MNS chief Raj Thackeray etc. enquired about his health. Pawar thanked them on his Twitter handle.“Chief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray earnestly inquired about my health. His good wishes are a representation of sentiments of Maharashtra. Thank you very much!,” he said in a tweet.On March 1, the NCP chief had taken the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine along with his daughter and Baramati MP Supriya Sule. He had also undergone hip replacement surgery at Breach Candy hospital in December 2014 NCP had declared that Pawar will travel to West Bengal on a three-day visit from April 1. Pawar had planned to campaign in West Bengal in support of Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-to-undergo-a-gallbladder-surgery-101617044926311.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||NCP opposes Maharashtra lockdown plans||With the fear of a lockdown looming large, the ruling Nationalist Congress Party insisted that a lockdown is not a solution to the pandemic and the people and state are not in a position to afford it. The statement came a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday asked state officials to begin preparing a plan for another lockdown that will have minimal impact on the state’s economy. The NCP is part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state along with Shiv Sena and Congress. Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister, said, “Daily cases are on the rise and on Sunday it crossed the 40,000-mark but the people and the state won’t be able to afford another lockdown. We have told the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) that lockdown is not a solution to the pandemic and we should focus upon improving health infrastructure to tackle the situation. The way cases are increasing, the state may face a shortfall of beds considering which the chief minister has ordered for the preparations as well.” He also said the situation was still under control. “The state government has not taken any decision on imposition of a lockdown. The situation has not gone out of control. If people start strictly following Covid rules, we can still avoid lockdown,” he stressed. In a meeting attended by Thackeray and health minister Rajesh Tope and members of the state Covid-19 taskforce, the chief minister said the citizens were flouting all Covid-19 guidelines and the state would be forced to take this step. He made the announcement soon after the state’s Covid-19 taskforce recommended strict measures including a lockdown to counter the alarming surge in infections and deaths. “There should not be any kind of confusion among the people once a lockdown is announced,” the CM was quoted as saying. From March 28, the state government has imposed a night curfew, prohibiting gathering of more than five people at a place and shutting down of all cinema halls, malls, auditoriums and restaurants from 8pm till 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-opposes-maharashtra-lockdown-plans-101617044866296.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 5,890 new Covid cases; active cases now stand at 46,248||Mumbai on Monday recorded 5,890 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the active cases to 46,248. Mumbai also recorded 12 deaths, taking the toll to 11,665. Following the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) dashboard noted that 75% or 9,789 of its 13,006 beds for serious, critical, and symptomatic Covid-19 patients were occupied as of Monday morning, whereas 3,217 beds were vacant. These include its 1,709 ICU beds, of which 73.8% or 1,261 beds were occupied, and 448 were vacant, as of Monday morning. A total of 226 ventilator beds of the 1,036 total beds are vacant. Among the 3,241 beds in Covid Care facilities meant for mild symptomatic patients, 1,022 were vacant. On Monday, the BMC issued an order for optimising its bed management, and also directed all facilities across the city to activate maximum available beds for Covid-19 patients. The guidelines in the order mandate strict implementation of decentralised bed management system, put in place at the beginning of the pandemic. Hospital beds will be allotted to Covid-19 patients only through the ward war room, and not directly via hospitals. Sixty-nine more private hospitals will become operational for Covid-19 patients, adding 1,909 hospital beds, and 360 more ICU beds, according to the order. After hospitals activated maximum beds for Covid-19 patients, 80% of these beds, and 100% of all ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients will be handed over to BMC for management via the ward war room, the order said. The war rooms will first allot beds at local nursing homes and hospitals. Once these are fully occupied, beds at private hospitals will be allotted to patients, followed by beds at jumbo facilities, then at government hospitals, and lastly at municipal hospitals. A nodal officer will be appointed for every private hospital, for 24x7 coordination with the BMC. Asymptomatic patients will not be allotted beds in hospitals, so these remain vacant for those in need. The order read, “In view of the current surge in Covid-19 cases, it is necessary to reiterate some of the important guidelines for better management of needy Covid-19 patients. It is observed that in spite of above orders, patients are directly admitted by the hospitals without information/intimation to the ward war room.” In a statement last week, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said BMC will increase the city’s bed capacity to a total of 21,000 beds in the next two weeks. According to the statement, BMC projected that these numbers will be able to cater to a situation of up to 10,000 new cases per day, should such a situation arise. Going by the present trend, only about 15% of such patients are critical and need hospital beds. On Monday, Mumbai conducted 33,966 tests. This brings the positivity rate for the day to 17.2%, as opposed to 12%-14% recorded in the previous week, and 4%-5% recorded in the beginning of March. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 4,017,316 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-5-890-new-covid-cases-active-cases-now-stand-at-46248-101617044806349.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Close to 600,000 Covid-19 cases in March for Maharashtra||As the fear of another lockdown looms over Maharashtra, March 2021, with two days still to go, is on its way to be the state’s worst month, in terms of Covid-19 cases. The state’s battle against the pandemic had crossed a year earlier this month.Maharashtra has recorded 590,448 cases from March 1 to March 29, while the worst month, September 2020, had seen 593,192 infections, data revealed. Another grim statistic: While Maharashtra had entered 2021 with a huge drop in cases compared to the previous three months, the new cases recorded this month has also surpassed the tally of the past four months. Between November 2020 and February 2021, the state had recorded 487,519 infections. On Monday, the state recorded 31,643 cases and 102 deaths, a day after recording its sharpest single-day spike of 40,414 cases. The state’s tally is now 2,745,518 cases and toll 54,283. Since March 17, Maharashtra has been recording more than 20,000 cases every day. The state has also recorded 2,129 deaths this month.Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state-appointed task force, said the numbers will continue to rise in the state. “It will rise further as tests have increased. We will have to keep testing more until the positivity rate goes down,” Dr Pandit said. The state’s positivity rate on Monday was 14.08%, while the recovery rate is 85.71%. The state has been conducting more than 100,000 tests every day for the last few weeks. The only silver lining in this second wave is that the death rate is still low, despite the increasing number of cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state has also reduced to 1.98% as of Monday, as per data released by the public health department.“While the death rate is still comparable to November-December 2020, the absolute numbers are still high,” Dr Pandit said. Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the death audit committee, said the late arrival of patients is still a problem being faced by authorities. “While it is a rapidly spreading strain, patients are recovering, however, late arrival is still a problem,” Dr Supe said.On Monday, Mumbai also recorded more than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases with 5,890 cases and 12 deaths, taking the tally to 404,614 and 11,665 fatalities to date. In a meeting held on Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also asked officials to draw up a strategy for a lockdown. The state has already imposed a night curfew wherein more than 5 people cannot be seen together between 8pm and 7am. A day after the CM asked the administration to make preparations for a lockdown, the ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said it was not in favour of a lockdown and instead, the government should strengthen infrastructure. The state has 336,584 active patients currently, with the highest in Pune (59,475), Mumbai (46,248), Nagpur (45,322), Thane (35,264) and Nashik (26,553). Currently, 1,607,415 people in the state are in home quarantine, while 16,614 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/close-to-600-000-covid-19-cases-in-march-for-maharashtra-101617044747596.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Stage all set for NCP vs BJP poll battle in Pandharpur||The stage is all set for a poll battle for Pandharpur assembly constituency in Solapur after both the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared names of their candidates on Monday. While NCP declared Bhagirath Bhalke as its candidate, BJP decided to field Samadhan Autade.The by-election for the seat will be held on April 17. It had fallen vacant following the death of sitting NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke in November last year. The NCP has fielded Bhagirath, Bhalke’s son and a three-time MLA. He had defeated BJP’s Sudhakar Parichak by 13,361 votes in 2019 assembly polls. Both Bhalke and Paricharak died of Covid-19 last year. Bhalke was undergoing treatment post Covid complications and died in Pune on November 28, 2020.Autade fought as a Shiv Sena candidate in 2014 and as an independent in 2019 assembly polls. He was picked by the saffron party over their sitting MLC Prashant Paricharak’s insistence for the candidature for his nephew Pranay. Paricharaks have a stronghold as Sudharkar Paricharak, Prashant’s uncle, represented the constituency for five terms between 1985 and 2009.Autade, who is in the construction and cooperative sector, had polled 54,124 votes as an independent in the 2019 election and 40,910 votes in 2014 as a Shiv Sena candidate. He was reportedly in touch with the NCP too for the candidature. He will have to face dismay within the party as the aspirant from Paricharak family has been denied the ticket by the party leadership. Besides, his close rival and NCP candidate Bhagirath Bhalke may enjoy sympathy owing to the demise of his father which may go against Autade.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena’s local leader Shaila Godse too has filed her nomination as an independent candidate posing a challenge for the NCP candidate. Godse had sought a ticket from her party in 2019, but the seat went to BJP in a seat-sharing pact between the BJP and Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stage-all-set-for-ncp-vs-bjp-poll-battle-in-pandharpur-101617044746933.html
30-03-2021||Mumbai||Special lectures for Class 10, 12 students||In order to help SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) state board students beat the exam stress, the education department has come up with a unique initiative. The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) will hold special lectures for students between March 29 and 31.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad made the announcement on Sunday. “Students will be motivated with these lectures and will get confidence to write their exams. We wish them all the very best,” tweeted the minister. Some of the topics on which sessions will be held include developing self-confidence, maintaining discipline in studies, getting rid of stress and being able to concentrate for a longer time. These lectures will be aired on MSCERT’s YouTube channel between 8am and 8.30 am.Earlier this month, the department had also started putting up several expert videos on its YouTube channel to help students ace the exams. Teachers said while these initiatives are really helpful, students are still going to have some stress about writing their papers in the pandemic. “Students are scared because of the rising number of cases across the state and this anxiety is natural. The government should still think of some solutions if the exams cannot be held due to rising cases,” said the principal of a civic school.While the HSC exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, SSC exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 33 lakh students appear for the exams every year. Students will get their own schools and junior colleges as exam centres as per an announcement made by the board last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/special-lectures-for-class-10-12-students-101617044746371.html
30-03-2021||Lucknow||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, subdued Holi celebrations in Uttar Pradesh||The coronavirus pandemic cast its shadow on the Holi celebrations in Uttar Pradesh with roads wearing a deserted look and people preferring to stay indoors, celebrating the festival with their family members.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath extended greetings to people, saying in a tweet that the festival symbolises the victory of truth over evil."Pray to God that the festival dedicated to love, cheerfulness and joy strengthen the colours of our unity and harmony. May the colours of happiness, peace and prosperity fill your lives," Adityanath said in a Hindi tweet.In Lucknow, the district administration had on March 23 said in view of the Covid-19 situation, rain dance parties, open dance programmes and other public gatherings had been prohibited till further orders.The permission given earlier for all such types of parties was also cancelled.A traditional procession of 'laat sahib' on the occasion of Holi was taken out in Shahjahanpur. According to the 18th-century tradition, Holi revellers in this Uttar Pradesh town begin the celebrations by hurling footwear at the 'laat sahib' procession, featuring a cart and a man personifying a ruler.Police officials said the procession first reached the Phoolmati temple, from where it was taken to the Vishwanath temple. The procession was also taken to the Kotwali police station, where the "laat sahib" was given a salute.'Laat sahib' was wearing a garland of shoes.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) president Shivpal Yadav celebrated Holi at their native Saifai village in Etawah.Akhilesh Yadav celebrated Holi at the family home, while Shivpal Yadav celebrated the festival at the village school.Senior Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav sang Holi songs along with people who had gathered at the residence of the Yadav family in Saifai.Meanwhile, a 60-year-old woman was beaten to death and five members of her family were injured when they opposed Holi revellers from celebrating the festival outside their house in Mevati Tola locality in Etawah, police said.The Holi revellers, in an inebriated state, entered the woman's house around 10 am and beat her to death with sticks and stone, Additional Superintendent of Police (city) Prashant Kumar Prasad said.When other family members tried to save her, five of them -- two women and three children -- were also beaten up, the police officer said.In another incident reported from the Ekdil police station area of Etawah district, a youth under the influence of alcohol drove a tractor at high speed and injured six people.The tractor got damaged after hitting an electricity pole. The youth was handed over to the police and the injured have been hospitalised, police said.In Lucknow's Krishnanagar area, a dispute among children over Holi celebrations led to an exchange of fire between two neighbours.A history-sheeter, identified as Rakesh Pandey, was injured on the neck, while a passerby suffered injuries in the cross-firing.A police officer said three people have been arrested and a case registered against them. The accused are Vivek, Pawan and Bhalchandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-subdued-holi-celebrations-in-uttar-pradesh-101617042140174.html
30-03-2021||Pune||Pandharpur bypolls: NCP’s Bhagirath Bhalke to take on BJP nominee Autade||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday announced Bhagirath Bhelke, son of former MLA Bharat Bhalke as its candidate for Pandharpur-Mangalwedha legislative assembly bypolls scheduled on April 17. The counting of votes will take place on May 2. The bypolls were necessitated at Pandharpur-Mangalwedha seat after the demise of three term NCP legislator Bharat Bhelke during the last week of November. In an attempt to post a serious challenge against NCP nominee, BJP on the other hand has fielded Samadhan Autade who fought 2019 assembly polls and garnered over 54,000 votes. Autade has been assured all possible support by BJP leader and its legislator in the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) Prashant Paricharak. Prashant’s uncle Sudhakar Paricharak, who died of Covid in August last year had unsuccessfully contested against Bharat Bhalke in 2019 polls. “I thank the BJP for trusting me for these polls. With Prashant Paricharak and me, we will definitely develop this constituency,” said Autade after his nomination was declared by BJP from Delhi. During 2019 polls, Bharat Bhalke defeated Paricharak by over 13,300 votes even as Autade was the second runner up in the contest. The NCP hopes to get benefit of sympathy wave for its nominee this time. “With the approval of Sharad Pawar, the party has decided to announce Bhagirath Bhalke’s candidature for Pandharpur-Mangalwedha constituency. We are confident of his victory,” said NCP state unit chief Jayant Patil. In view of the rising Covid numbers, the state election commission has made arrangements for virus infected patients, those above 80 years and disabled persons in the bypolls. Due to the second wave of pandemic, all the political and social gatherings in the Solapur district have already been banned. According to the election commission, the constituency has around 1,200voters above 80 years while 1,782 with physical disabilities.Political observers feel even as Autade’s entry into polls fray from BJP has made the contest tougher, the sympathy wave in favour of NCP nominee and likely poor voter turnout in view of Covid may help Bhagirath Bhalke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pandharpur-bypolls-ncp-s-bhagirath-bhalke-to-take-on-bjp-nominee-awatade-101617032265875.html
30-03-2021||World||Biden administration announces new measures to counter anti-Asian violence||The Biden administration on Tuesday announced a set of measures responding to rising anti-Asian violence, including deploying $49.5 million from COVID-19 relief funds for U.S. community programs that help victims.White House officials said in a statement that the Department of Justice is also focusing on a rising number of hate crimes targeting Asian Americans."We can’t be silent in the face of rising violence against Asian Americans," Biden wrote on Twitter. "These attacks are wrong, un-American, and must stop."The measures come after a shooting in Atlanta earlier this month left eight people dead, six of them Asian-American women.The shooting stoked fears among those in the Asian-American Pacific Islander community, which has reported a spike in hate crimes since March 2020 when then-President Donald Trump began referring to the novel coronavirus as the "China virus."Biden's new steps include $49.5 million of pandemic relief funds for "community based, culturally specific services and programs for survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault" as well as a new task force dedicated to countering xenophobia against Asians in healthcare.The Justice Department is also planning new efforts to enforce hate crime laws and report data on racial crimes, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-announces-new-measures-to-counter-anti-asian-violence-101617124283893.html
30-03-2021||World||Chicago hospital CEO suspended after improper vaccinations||A Chicago hospital's CEO has been suspended for two weeks following a series of Covid-19 vaccination events involving alleged favoritism, including one in which ineligible Trump Tower workers were vaccinated.The unpaid suspension of Loretto Hospital's president and CEO, George Miller, is on hold until the hospital finds a new chief operating officer and chief financial officer, a hospital spokeswoman said late Monday.Dr. Anosh Ahmed, who had been Loretto's COO and CFO, resigned last week, days after he and Miller were reprimanded by its board of directors following news reports that hospital executives provided Covid-19 vaccines to some people who weren’t yet eligible.The Associated Press left a message seeking comment from Miller at the hospital Tuesday.There have been at least six alleged incidents in which Loretto Hospital vaccinated people connected to the hospital’s executives, including to employees at downtown Chicago's Trump Tower — where Ahmed owns a condo — Cook County judges and their spouses, as well as Miller’s suburban church, the Chicago Sun-Times reported.A hospital spokeswoman disclosed the latest of those incidents Monday in a statement.According to that statement, Dr. Ali Ahmed, the president and CEO of Affinity Health — which oversees Loretto Hospital's Covid-19 clinical trials — “requested 10 vaccinations for 10 individuals he identified as eligible under city guidelines, one of whom was terminally ill."The statement notes that Ahmed is not a Loretto Hospital employee, but says that on Jan. 29 “the 10 vaccinations were provided to Dr. Ali Ahmed and then administered to these individuals.”“While information provided at the time deemed that these individuals were eligible per city vaccination guidelines, Loretto is no longer approving off-site visits that aren’t either hosted by the hospital or community partners and organizations,” according to the statement.Loretto Hospital is located on Chicago’s West Side and largely serves Black and Latino people. It was chosen last year to administer Chicago’s ceremonial first Covid-19 vaccination as part of the city’s efforts to encourage residents in West Side neighborhoods to get vaccinated.Mayor Lori Lightfoot said Monday that Loretto is a “safety net hospital” that is pivotal to Chicago and that she is “committed to helping Loretto get it right because they’re so important to the West Side community.”“Obviously, they deviated from what I think is their core mission and what should have been the focus during this critical time period, which is driving vaccine exclusively to that West Side population that’s so in need and where we still have a lot of work to do to boost the numbers on the West Side," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chicago-hospital-ceo-suspended-after-improper-vaccinations-101617123496812.html
30-03-2021||World||Asian American woman, 65, assaulted in New York; mayor de Blasio condemns attack||An Asian American woman was attacked in New York City by a man who repeatedly kicked her as two people nearby who appeared to be security guards did not intervene, according to surveillance footage released by police.The 65-year-old woman was walking in midtown Manhattan a few blocks from Times Square on Monday afternoon when a man approached her and kicked her in the stomach, knocking her to the ground, police said. The man then stomped on the woman's face several times while shouting anti-Asian insults at her, police said. He later casually walked away, the footage shows.The attack comes amid a national spike in anti-Asian hate crimes, and happened just weeks after a mass shooting in Atlanta that left eight people dead, six of them women of Asian descent. The NYPD says there have been 33 hate crimes with an Asian victim so far this year, news outlets reported.Mayor Bill de Blasio called the video “absolutely disgusting and outrageous” and said it was “absolutely unacceptable” that witnesses did not intervene.“I don’t care who you are, I don’t care what you do, you’ve got to help your fellow New Yorker,” de Blasio said Tuesday at his daily news briefing.“If you see someone being attacked, do whatever you can," he said. “Make noise. Call out what’s happening. Go and try and help. Immediately call for help. Call 911. This is something where we all have to be part of the solution. We can’t just stand back and watch a heinous act happening.”Gov. Andrew Cuomo called the attack “horrifying and repugnant." He ordered the state police's Hate Crimes Task Force to offer its assistance to the NYPD. The NYPD’s Hate Crime Task Force is investigating the attack and has asked anyone with information to contact the department. No arrests have been made.The woman was hospitalized with serious injuries. She was in stable condition on Tuesday, a hospital spokesperson said.According to video footage of the New York City assault, the two people who appeared to be security guards walked into the frame and one of them closed the building door as the woman was on the ground.The property developer and manager of the building, Brodsky Organization, wrote on Instagram that it was aware of the assault and said staff members who witnessed it were suspended pending an investigation.The head of the union representing building workers disputed allegations that the door staff failed to act. He said the union has information that they called for help immediately.“Our union is working to get further details for a more complete account, and urges the public to avoid a rush to judgment while the facts are determined,” SEIU 32BJ President Kyle Bragg said in a written statement. He condemned the attack as “yet another example of the unbridled hate and terror" against Asian-Americans.Police Commissioner Dermot Shea called Monday's attack “disgusting."“I don’t know who attacks a 65-year-old woman and leaves her on the street like that," Shea said Tuesday on TV station NY1.Shea recently said the agency would increase its outreach and patrols in predominantly Asian communities.According to a report from Stop AAPI Hate, more than 3,795 incidents were reported to the organization from March 19, 2020, to Feb. 28. The organization, which tracks incidents of discrimination, hate and xenophobia against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the U.S., said that number is “only a fraction of the number of hate incidents that actually occur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-american-woman-65-assaulted-in-new-york-mayor-de-blasio-condemns-attack-101617123285286.html
30-03-2021||World||Myanmar insurgents sense growing conflict, call for international intervention||One of Myanmar's main ethnic minority rebel groups warned of a growing threat of major conflict on Tuesday and called for international intervention against a military crackdown on opponents of last month's coup.Myanmar has been in turmoil since the army ousted an elected government led by Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi on Feb. 1, detaining her and reimposing military rule after a decade of tentative steps towards democracy.While cities and towns across the country have been consumed by protests against the military, fighting has also flared between the army and insurgents in frontier regions and refugees are spilling over borders.The Karen National Union rebel group, which operates in the east along the border with Thailand, said it was bracing for a major government offensive."Now, thousands of Burma military ground troops are advancing into our territories from all fronts," the group said in a statement."We have no other options left but to confront these serious threats posed by the illegitimate military junta's army in order to defend our territory."The group urged the international community, Thailand in particular, to help Karen people fleeing the "onslaught" and for countries to cut ties with the junta to stop the violence against civilians.A spokesman for the Myanmar junta did not answer calls seeking comment.Opponents of the coup have called for a united front with insurgent groups to help those standing up to the military.Rebels have battled the government for decades for greater autonomy in remote border regions. The military has justified its long grip on power by saying it is the only institution capable of ensuring national unity.Military aircraft bombed KNU fighters on the weekend, sending some 3,000 villagers fleeing to neighbouring Thailand.Thailand denied accusations from activists that refugees were being forced back but a Thai official on the border said the army was sending most people back because it was deemed safe on the Myanmar side.A spokesman for the U.N. refugee agency said it was concerned about reports people were being sent back and it was seeking information from Thailand.Fighting has also flared in the north where ethnic Kachin insurgents battle government forces.A border state in India withdrew an order to refuse refugees food and shelter after the measure drew fierce public criticism.'Unacceptable'The military seized power saying that November elections won by Suu Kyi's party were fraudulent, an assertion dismissed by the election commission.At least 512 civilians had been killed in nearly two months of protests against the coup, 141 of them on Saturday, the bloodiest day of the unrest, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) advocacy group.Despite the surge in violence, thousands of protesters came out to march in several towns on Tuesday, according to media and photos on social media.Security forces shot and killed one man in the southernmost town of Kawthaung, the Mizzima news portal reported, and one person was killed in Myitkyina in the north, a relative of the 23-year-old victim told Reuters.A civil disobedience campaign of strikes has paralysed parts of the economy and protesters stepped it up by asking residents to leave rubbish at intersections in the main city of Yangon.Western countries have condemned the coup and the violence and called for Suu Kyi's release, and some have imposed limited sanctions.Asian neighbours have been more guarded, though Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore have spoken out, and Indonesia did so again on Tuesday while renewing an offer to help."Indonesia strongly denounces this kind of act. It is unacceptable," its foreign minister, Retno Marsudi, said while on a visit to Japan, referring to the surge in violence.Indonesia has led efforts by members of the 10-country Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which Myanmar is a member, to encourage a negotiated solution, despite an old agreement not to comment on each other's problems."While continuously respecting the non-interference principle, since the very beginning ASEAN offers are assistance to Myanmar," Retno said.She said the safety and well-being of the Myanmar people were paramount, adding: "Dialogue should be pursued to bring democracy, peace and stability back in Myanmar."The Philippines issued its strongest comment on the crisis, saying it was dismayed by the "excessive and needless" force against protesters."We reiterate our call for security forces in Myanmar to exercise restraint and desist from resorting to disproportionate force against unarmed citizens," the Philippine foreign ministry said.Thailand asked for the violence to be "reduced". It said Myanmar had acknowledged the message but had said it would depend on the situation.Traditionally, foreign criticism and Western sanctions have failed to sway the generals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-insurgents-sense-growing-conflict-call-for-international-intervention-101617121333838.html
30-03-2021||World||European Union may start easing Covid-19 restrictions in second quarter||The European Union may start easing the Covid-19 restrictions in the second quarter of 2021 based on the current vaccination and virus transmission dynamics, the European Commission stated in a report published on Tuesday."The second quarter could see the start of the relaxation of confinement measures and further reopening of food services, assuming a progressing rollout of the vaccination," the report, Short-Term Outlook for EU Agricultural Markets in 2021, said.However, according to the document, significant uncertainties yet remain due to the varying speed of vaccination campaigns across the EU countries and the risk of the emergence of new coronavirus variants that could be resistant to existing vaccines.Currently, over 12 percent of the EU population have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and over five percent have been fully inoculated, out of the target 70 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-may-start-easing-covid-19-restrictions-in-second-quarter-101617121112647.html
30-03-2021||World||Suez Canal races to clear shipping backlog at crucial maritime trade route||The Suez Canal expects 140 ships to pass on Tuesday after the freeing of a container ship stranded for nearly a week allowed it to reopen, but disruptions to global shipping and at ports could take months to resolve, experts warned.The blockage threw global supply chains into disarray, threatening costly delays for firms already wrestling with COVID-19 restrictions, and nearly doubled rates for oil product tankers.Shipping convoys through the canal resumed on Monday evening after tugs pulled the 400-metre-long (430-yard) Ever Given container carrier free from the spot where it became wedged amid high winds on March 23.The Ever Given's grounding across a southern section of the canal forced a halt to all traffic, leading to a build-up of 422 ships at either end of the canal and along its course.Suez Canal Authority chairman Osama Rabie said 95 ships would pass by 1900 local time (1700 GMT) on Tuesday and a further 45 by midnight, reasserting that he hoped a backlog caused by the blockage would be cleared in three to four days.However, knock-on effects to global shipping and at ports could take much longer to resolve.Though the build-up around the Suez Canal might be cleared in four to five days, it could take several months to deal with backlogs at ports, Jan Hoffmann, a UNCTAD expert on logistics, told a briefing.Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said the Ever Given's grounding had drawn attention to the importance of the waterway for global trade."We didn't hope for something like this, but fate was doing its work. It showed and reaffirmed the reality and importance" of the canal, Sisi said as he greeted staff on a visit to the Suez Canal Authority in Ismailia."We want to reaffirm in a clear message to the world that everything is back to the way it was," he later told reporters from a platform on the canal, as container ships passed behind him.Shipping group Maersk has said the knock-on disruptions to international shipping could take weeks or months to unravel.Rabie has said the SCA will look at giving discounts to shippers affected by the stoppage."We need to study it in the right way because the number of ships is large, including ships that waited for one day, ships that waited for two days, and ships that waited for three days or four days -- not all of them will take the same percentages," he told a press conference late on Monday.The Japanese owner of the Ever Given said it had not received any claims or lawsuits over the blockage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suez-canal-races-to-clear-shipping-backlog-at-crucial-maritime-trade-route-101617121048704.html
30-03-2021||World||'I witnessed a murder': Onlooker testifies in trial over George Floyd's death||A man who was among the onlookers shouting at a Minneapolis police officer to get off George Floyd last May testified Tuesday that he called 911 after paramedics took Floyd away, “because I believed I witnessed a murder."Donald Williams, a former wrestler who said he was trained in mixed martial arts, including chokeholds, returned to the witness stand a day after describing seeing Floyd struggle for air and his eyes roll back into his head. He said he watched Floyd “slowly fade away ... like a fish in a bag.”Prosecutor Matthew Frank played back Williams’ 911 call, on which he is heard identifying officer Derek Chauvin by his badge number and telling the dispatcher that Chauvin had been keeping his knee on Floyd’s neck despite warnings that Floyd’s life was in danger. She offers to switch him to a sergeant.As he is being switched, Williams can be heard yelling at the officers, “Y’all is murderers, bro!”On Monday, Williams said he thought Chauvin used a shimmying motion several times to increase the pressure on Floyd. He said he yelled to the officer that he was cutting off Floyd’s blood supply. Williams recalled that Floyd’s voice grew thicker as his breathing became more laboured, and he eventually stopped moving.During cross-examination Tuesday, Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson sought to show that Chauvin and his fellow officers found themselves in an increasingly tense and distracting situation, with the crowd of onlookers getting agitated over Floyd's treatment.Nelson pointed out that Williams seemed to grow increasingly angry at police on the scene, swearing at and taunting Chauvin with “tough guy,” “bum” and other names, then calling Chauvin expletives, which the defense attorney repeated in court.Williams initially admitted he was getting angrier, but then backtracked and said he was controlled and professional and was pleading for Floyd's life but wasn't being heard.Williams said he was stepping on and off the curb, and at one point, Officer Tou Thao, who was controlling the crowd, put his hand on Williams’ chest. Williams admitted under questioning that he told Thao he would beat the officers if Thao touched him again.Williams was among the first witnesses as Chauvin, 45, went on trial on charges of murder and manslaughter in Floyd's death. The death of the Black man after he was held down by the white officer touched off sometimes-violent protests around the world and a reckoning over racism and police brutality.Prosecutors led off their case by playing the part of the harrowing bystander video of Floyd's arrest. Chauvin and three other officers were fired soon after the footage became public.Prosecutor Jerry Blackwell showed the jurors the video after telling them that the number to remember was 9 minutes, 29 seconds — the amount of time Chauvin had Floyd pinned to the pavement “until the very life was squeezed out of him.”Nelson countered by arguing: “Derek Chauvin did exactly what he had been trained to do over his 19-year career.”The defense attorney also disputed that Chauvin was to blame for Floyd’s death, as prosecutors contend.Floyd, 46, had none of the telltale signs of asphyxiation and had fentanyl and methamphetamine in his system, Nelson said. He said Floyd’s drug use, combined with his heart disease, high blood pressure and the adrenaline flowing through his body, caused a heart rhythm disturbance that killed him.“The evidence is far greater than 9 minutes and 29 seconds,” Nelson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-witnessed-a-murder-onlooker-testifies-in-trial-over-george-floyd-s-death-101617120373872.html
30-03-2021||World||'Go big': US President Joe Biden to launch sweeping infrastructure plan||It is a mantra that Joe Biden repeats at every opportunity: "Go big."And this week, the US leader launches the second big offensive of his fledgling presidency: a massive infrastructure investment project, to be accompanied by tax hikes that remain to be defined but already have his political opponents up in arms.In a sign of the importance he attaches to the issue -- which could be a central plank of his presidency -- he will speak Wednesday from the city of Pittsburgh, where he launched his campaign two years ago.His predecessor Donald Trump tried to label him "Sleepy Joe," portraying him as a man lacking inspiration, but Biden wants to show he has a bold and reformist agenda.Having already pushed an almost $2 trillion pandemic recovery plan through Congress, the figures being bandied about for his infrastructure plan reach as high as $3 or even $4 trillion.The aim of the huge package is to "rebuild our economy and create better-paying jobs for American workers," said White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki.The project revolves around a pledge Biden repeated a thousand times on the campaign trail to "Build Back Better:" a promise to modernize ageing infrastructure across the country, to meet the challenge of competing against China and to tackle the key issue of climate change.The White House has remained tight-lipped so far about the details -- fueling speculation about the projects and how much they will cost -- but also about political strategy itself.But one thing is certain: the Pittsburgh speech will be just the starting point for a bitter battle in Congress, with a very unpredictable outcome.The Democratic Party's majority there is razor thin, and negotiations promise to be formidable, testing Biden's negotiating skills and his decades of expertise as a Washington insider.Buttigieg on the front lineThe idea of repairing or building roads, bridges, railways, ports and airports is appealing to the general public, especially since much of US infrastructure dates back to the 1950s and is generally considered to be dilapidated.But beyond the constant refrain that "this is a subject on which Democrats and Republicans can agree," building a political consensus is no easy task.Biden's two predecessors, Trump and Barack Obama, also had catchy slogans and made great promises, but the issue remained a dead letter.And it keeps coming back to the same question: how to pay for it?Biden's new transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg, who ran against him in the Democratic primaries, will be on the front lines of this battle, trying to ensure that this time, the stars are all aligned."I think that there's a tremendous opportunity now to have bipartisan support for a big, bold vision on infrastructure," the youthful politician said."Americans don't need a lot of selling to know that we've got to do big things when it comes to our infrastructure and the truth is, you can't separate the climate part from this vision because every road we fix, every bridge we build, we can either do it in a way that's better for the climate, or worse for the climate," he said.Even if his enthusiasm is real, the task promises to be daunting. DJ Gribbin, an expert at the Brookings Institution who served as an adviser to Trump on infrastructure, said Biden would do well to learn from the mistakes of his predecessors.The first step is to precisely define the role of the federal government, which in the overwhelming majority of cases does not own the infrastructure, Gribbin said.At the same, there is the danger of the project becoming overly "technical" for the taste of most Americans, who tend to focus more on "tangible" questions, such as what will be the impact on their commute times, and will the potholes on their roads be fixed?Unless he refines his approach, Biden's plan could face insurmountable odds in Congress -- and he, too, risks failure, said Gribbin."And the tradition of future presidential candidates wishfully promising trillion-dollar solutions to our nation's infrastructure problems will continue," he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/go-big-us-president-joe-biden-to-launch-sweeping-infrastructure-plan-101617119689066.html
30-03-2021||World||Imran Khan responds to PM Modi, seeks ‘enabling environment’ for dialogue||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has called for creating an enabling environment for a “constructive and result-oriented dialogue” in a letter sent to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi.Khan, who is recovering from Covid-19, sent the letter on Monday in response to Modi’s message of greetings on the occasion of Pakistan Day on March 23. The contents of Khan’s letter were confirmed by people familiar with developments in Islamabad.“The people of Pakistan also desire peaceful, cooperative relations with all neighbours, including India. We are convinced that durable peace and stability in South Asia is contingent upon resolving all outstanding issues between India and Pakistan, in particular the Jammu & Kashmir dispute,” Khan wrote.“Creation of an enabling environment is imperative for a constructive and result-oriented dialogue,” he added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Khan’s letter.In his letter sent to Khan, Modi had said that an atmosphere of trust and devoid of terrorism is “imperative” for better relations between the two sides.“As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan. For this, an atmosphere of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is imperative,” Modi’s letter had said.Modi also referred to the impact of Covid-19 as a “difficult time for humanity”, and conveyed his best wishes to Khan and the people of Pakistan “for dealing with the challenges” of the pandemic.In his response, Khan thanked Modi for conveying his greetings on Pakistan Day and conveyed Pakistan’s “best wishes for the people of India in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic”.President Ram Nath Kovind had also sent a separate message to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi on the occasion of Pakistan Day.People familiar with developments in New Delhi, speaking on condition of anonymity, had described Modi’s letter as a routine message sent to heads of government or state on national days.After it recently emerged that Khan had tested positive for Covid-19, Modi had tweeted: “Best wishes to Prime Minister @ImranKhanPTI for a speedy recovery from Covid-19.”The exchange of letters came against the backdrop of a perceived thaw in India-Pakistan relations, which had suffered a major blow in the wake of a military standoff in early 2019 and New Delhi’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status the same year.The Indian and Pakistani armies began strictly adhering to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir from the midnight of February 24 – the apparent outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two countries.Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa also said recently that the time has come for the two countries to “bury the past and move forward”, though he cautioned that any peace process would be susceptible to disruption without the resolution of the Kashmir issue.Bajwa made the conciliatory remarks just a day after Khan said India will have to take the first step for improving bilateral ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-responds-to-pm-modi-s-letter-seeks-enabling-environment-for-dialogue-101617117949690.html
30-03-2021||World||SpaceX Starship rocket prototype failed yet again, confirms Elon Musk||SpaceX chief Elon Musk confirmed on Twitter on Tuesday that the latest prototype of the company's Starship rocket series had crashed, after the video feed of its test flight cut out."At least the crater is in the right place!" he joked, acknowledging the fourth failed test of the prototype."Something significant happened shortly after landing burn starts. Should know what it was once we can examine the bits later today," he added.The rocket, SN11, launched from the company's South Texas facility around 1300 GMT and began its ascent to 10 kilometres (six miles), experiencing some video glitches.It was descending to the surface when the feed was lost once again."We lost the clock at T plus five minutes, 49 seconds," said announcer John Insprucker, meaning the amount of time that had passed after lift-off."Looks like we've had another exciting test of Starship Number 11," he added, dryly.SN11 is the 11th prototype of Starship, which SpaceX hopes will one day be able to fly crewed missions to the Moon, Mars and beyond.It was the fourth to conduct a test flight attempting to return to the ground for a soft vertical landing.SN8 and SN9, which launched in December and February respectively, crash-landed and exploded, while SN10 successfully landed then blew up a few minutes later during its test on March 3.Despite the previous failures, analysts say SpaceX is gathering valuable data that will help it to accelerate its development timeline.Eventually, SpaceX plans to combine the Starship spaceship with a Super Heavy rocket, creating a fully reusable system.This final version will stand 394 feet (120 meters) tall and will be able to carry 100 metric tonnes into Earth orbit -- the most powerful launch vehicle ever developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-starship-rocket-prototype-failed-yet-again-confirms-elon-musk-101617114242515.html
30-03-2021||World||Germany to discuss AstraZeneca vaccine shots after brain disorder reports||German leaders will discuss the use of AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine on Tuesday, after several states said they would stop giving the shot to people under the age of 60 following further reports of a rare brain blood disorder.Health Minister Jens Spahn will talk with his regional counterparts at 1800 CET (1600 GMT), a ministry spokesman said.The meeting follows further reports by Germany's vaccine regulator, the Paul Ehrlich Institute (PEI), of cases of blood clots known as cerebral sinus vein thrombosis (CSVT).Germany's vaccine committee, known as STIKO, will recommend using the Anglo-Swedish shot only in people over 60, the Augsburger Allgemeine newspaper reported citing a draft decision by STIKO.PEI said it had registered 31 cases of CSVT, which resulted in nine deaths, out of some 2.7 million people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. With the exception of two cases, all reports involved women aged between 20 and 63.It did not comment on the possible consequences and only said it was actively working with the European Medicines Agency (EMA). EU regulators plan to issue an updated recommendation on the AstraZeneca shot next week.Several German states, including Berlin and Brandenburg, as well as the city of Munich, said they would stop giving the shot to people under 60.State hospital groups Charite and Vivantes suspended vaccinations in female staff aged under 55, citing further cases of CSVT."Although no complications have occurred at the Charite after vaccinations with AstraZeneca, the Charite wants to take precautionary action here and wait for final assessments," a spokeswoman said.Because use of the vaccine in Germany was initially limited to those under 65, the shot has been administered among younger women, particularly medical staff and teachers.Many European countries briefly stopped using the Anglo-Swedish firm's vaccine earlier this month while investigating rare cases of blood clots.Both the EMA and the World Health Organization said this month the benefits of AstraZeneca's vaccine outweighed the risks.An EMA review covering 20 million people who took the AstraZeneca shot in Britain and the European Economic Area found seven cases of blood clots in multiple blood vessels and 18 cases of CVST.AstraZeneca says its vaccine is safe and effective, citing extensive trial data. Millions of doses have been safely administered around the world.Nearly all countries have since resumed use of the vaccine. But France broke with guidance from the EMA and said on March 19 it should only be given to people aged 55 or older. France said the decision was based on evidence that the clotting affected younger people.Canadian Health Officials said on Monday they would stop offering AstraZeneca's shot to people under 55 and require a new analysis of the shot's benefits and risks based on age and gender.Some 19,000 people work at the Charite hospitals and 17,000 at Vivantes, which operates clinics as well as care homes.Tagesspiegel, which first reported the decision, said that around two thirds of staff at Charite have been vaccinated so far, and 70% of those workers have received one shot of the AstraZeneca vaccine.Bavarian Premier Markus Soeder criticised the "back and forth" around the vaccine, saying all recommendations showed that the danger of severe illness from the coronavirus outweighed any side-effects linked to the shot."At some point we have to be able to administer it freely and say, 'he who wants it and he who dares should be able to get it'," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-to-discuss-astrazeneca-vaccine-shots-after-brain-disorder-reports-101617112929271.html
30-03-2021||World||Pakistan PM Imran Khan 'fully recovered' from Covid-19, resumes work||Prime Minister Imran Khan has made full recovery from the coronavirus and has resumed work, it was announced on Tuesday, more than a week after he tested positive for the deadly virus.Senator Faisal Javed Khan, who is considered close to the premier, made the announcement on Twitter."He has resumed work gradually and started building up his work routine as per doctors' instructions keeping in view national and international guidelines," the senator tweeted, adding that the public should take precautions to prevent the spread of the virus.Alhamdulillah, Prime Minister Imran Khan has fully recovered. He hasresumed work gradually & started building up his work routine as per doctors' instructions keeping in view national & intl guidelines. May ALLAH grant health to all. Ameen. Take care of urself & others #StaySafeThe 68-year-old premier along with his wife Bushra Bibi tested positive for COVID-19 on March 20 and the couple remained in quarantine. It was not known if she had also recovered.The news of Prime Minister Khan's recovery came a day after President Arif Alvi and Defence Minister Pervaiz Khattak tested positive for the deadly virus and went into quarantine. No fresh statement was officially made about their health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-imran-khan-fully-recovered-from-covid-19-resumes-work-101617112613525.html
30-03-2021||World||Pope, using Shakespeare, makes climate change appeal, criticises Trump for withdrawing from Paris Accord||Pope Francis adapted Shakespeare's famous Hamlet quote in an appeal to people not to remain blind to the destruction of climate change and the mass migration it may cause, writing: "To see or not to see, that is the question."Francis went on to urge people to work together to protect "creation, our common home" and not "hunker down" in individualism, in the preface of a document by the Vatican development office on the pastoral care of people displaced by climactic events."I suggest we adapt Hamlet's famous 'to be or not to be' and affirm: 'To see or not to see, that is the question!' Where it starts is with each one's seeing, yes, mine and yours," Francis wrote."We are not going to get out of crises like climate or Covid-19 by hunkering down in individualism but only by 'being many together', by encounter and dialogue and cooperation," he added in the preface to the 30-page study released on Tuesday.Conservatives in the Church, many aligned with conservative political forces, are climate change sceptics and contest the majority scientific opinion that global warming is mostly caused by people.Francis appeared to be appealing to such sceptics."When people are driven out because their local environment has become uninhabitable, it might look like a process of nature, something inevitable," Francis wrote."Yet the deteriorating climate is very often the result of poor choices and destructive activity, of selfishness and neglect, that set humankind at odds with creation, our common home," he said.The pope criticised former US President Donald Trump when he withdrew the United States from the 2015 Paris accord to limit global warming. The Vatican has welcomed President Joe Biden's return to the accord.At the Climate Adaptation Summit hosted by the Netherlands in January, leaders were told that climate change could depress global food production by up to 30%, while rising seas and greater storms could force hundreds of millions in coastal cities out of their homes."We really seem to be at the point of deciding, actively and passively, whether we are going to take care of the one home we have or destroy it," Cardinal Michael Czerny, under-secretary of the Vatican development office, said at a news conference presenting the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-using-shakespeare-makes-climate-change-appeal-criticises-trump-for-withdrawing-from-paris-accord-101617109802659.html
30-03-2021||World||UN calls for unhindered access to Xinjiang over gross human rights violations||The United Nations human rights experts have expressed serious concerns over the continuous crackdowns on the Uyghur community residing in Xinjiang, calling for unhindered access to the country to conduct fact-finding missions and urging global and domestic companies to closely scrutinise their supply chains.According to a news release by the UN Human Rights Special Procedures dated Monday, several experts appointed by the Human Rights Council said they had received information that connected over 150 domestic Chinese and foreign domiciled companies to serious human rights abuses against Uyghur workers."We are deeply concerned by these allegations which, if proven, would constitute grave human rights abuses," stated the Working Group on Business and Human Rights, one of eight UN independent human rights mandates to raise their concerns over treatment of members of the Uyghur minority."We stand ready to strengthen our dialogue with the Government of China at the earliest opportunity and welcome the Government's prompt response to these allegations as well as its willingness to continue the constructive engagement with us. As independent experts appointed by the Human Rights Council, of which China is a State Member, we consider that an official visit to China (including the Xinjiang region) would be the ideal opportunity for such dialogue and to assess the situation for ourselves based on free and unhindered access," they added.Uyghur workers have been subjected to exploitative working and abusive living conditions that may constitute arbitrary detention, human trafficking, forced labour and enslavement by the use of forced labour. Hundreds of thousands of members of the Uyghur minority have been held in so-called "re-education" facilities. Many have also reportedly been forcibly transferred to work in factories in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region and in other Chinese provinces."Uyghur workers have allegedly been forcibly employed in low-skilled, labor-intensive industries, such as agribusiness, textile and garment, automotive and technological sectors," stated Dante Pesce, Chairperson of the Working Group, as quoted by the statement."While the Government of China justifies its actions relating to the treatment of Uyghurs by combatting terrorism and violent extremism, poverty alleviation or development purposes, we nevertheless respectfully urge the Government to immediately cease any such measures that are not fully compliant with international law, norms and standards relating to human rights, including the rights of minorities," continued Pesce.The statement noted that the UN experts have written to the Government of China as well as private businesses, both inside and outside of China that may be implicated in the alleged abuses. They have also written to governments of 13 countries where the businesses are domiciled or headquartered, recalling the obligations of home States under the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights to ensure that businesses under their territory and/or jurisdiction respect all human rights throughout their operations."Many businesses are also implicated in these allegations, either directly or through their supply chains. Businesses must not turn a blind eye to this and must conduct meaningful human rights due diligence in line with the UN Guiding Principles to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for human rights abuses caused, contributed to or directly linked to their operations, products or services in Xinjiang and in other Chinese provinces," said Surya Deva, Vice-Chairperson of the Working Group."At the same time, the Chinese Government must create an environment conducive for all businesses operating in China to conduct human rights due diligence in line with international standards," noted Deva.The global body's concerns come as international condemnation is growing against Beijing's crackdowns against the Uyghur community.Last week, EU foreign ministers included four Chinese citizens and one organisation on the sanctions list over alleged human rights violations and what they perceive as persecution of the Uyghur Muslim minority in Xinjiang. Beijing responded by imposing sanctions on 10 European officials and four organisations.The US, Canada and the UK later also joined in on the sanctions against China. In response, China sanctioned the chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom, Gayle Conelly Manchin, Vice Chair Tony Perkins, and the Canadian member of parliament Michael Chong.However, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said on Saturday that Western sanctions were "based on rumors and misinformation."China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination.Beijing, on the other hand, has vehemently denied that it is engaged in human rights abuses against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang while reports from journalists, NGOs and former detainees have surfaced, highlighting the Chinese Communist Party's brutal crackdown on the ethnic community, according to a report.The US Department of State under then-Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called the crackdown on Uyghurs as 'genocide'. Beijing has been restricting information flow from the area to scrub evidence, leading countries to make determinations as best as they can.Surveillance and censorship have long hindered a full view of conditions in Xinjiang. However, last year, Beijing locked-down borders, citing the coronavirus; expelled foreign journalists who reported on Xinjiang; and scrubbed information off websites across the region, reported Washington Post.The designation of genocide would become an indelible stain on President Xi Jinping's legacy and further boost European nations to join the United States in imposing economic sanctions and calls to boycott the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics.China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination.Beijing, on the other hand, has vehemently denied that it is engaged in human rights abuses against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang while reports from journalists, NGOs and former detainees have surfaced, highlighting the Chinese Communist Party's brutal crackdown on the ethnic community, according to a report.The US Department of State under then-Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called the crackdown on Uyghurs as 'genocide'. Beijing has been restricting information flow from the area to scrub evidence, leading countries to make determinations as best as they can.Surveillance and censorship have long hindered a full view of conditions in Xinjiang. However, last year, Beijing locked-down borders, citing the coronavirus; expelled foreign journalists who reported on Xinjiang; and scrubbed information off websites across the region, reported Washington Post.The designation of genocide would become an indelible stain on President Xi Jinping's legacy and further boost European nations to join the United States in imposing economic sanctions and calls to boycott the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-calls-for-unhindered-access-to-xinjiang-over-gross-human-rights-violations-101617107476215.html
30-03-2021||World||Third Covid-19 wave emerging in Russia: State health official||A Russian health official said on Tuesday a third wave of coronavirus infections was emerging in the country, which has recorded more than 4.5 million cases since the start of the pandemic.President Vladimir Putin said last week he expected Russia to reach herd immunity and lift pandemic-related restrictions by the end of the summer. Some regions have already begun easing some curbs."Unfortunately, the incidence rate and the progression of the disease allow us to speak of a third wave of coronavirus infections," TASS news agency quoted Deputy Health Minister Tatiana Semyonova as saying.Russia started a mass vaccination campaign in December. Putin said last week that 4.3 million people in the country of around 145 million had so far received two shots of a vaccine.Russia on Tuesday reported 8,277 new coronavirus cases in the previous 24 hours, including 1,291 in Moscow. The country also reported 409 deaths, raising the official toll to 98,442.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/third-covid-19-wave-emerging-in-russia-state-health-official-101617107691896.html
30-03-2021||World||Austria in talks to buy one million Sputnik V vaccine doses||Austria said on Tuesday it was negotiating with Russia over the possible purchase of one million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine -- which has yet to be approved by EU regulators.Though EU member Hungary is already administering Sputnik V and a total of 57 countries have authorised its use, according to the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), it is still under review by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).The office of Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz told AFP on Tuesday that the talks had started on February 26 over the delivery of 300,000 doses in April, 500,000 in May and 200,000 in early June 2021, but added that no agreement had been made.Earlier this month, Kurz and five other central and eastern EU leaders urged Brussels to find a "correction mechanism" to fix what they called the unfair distribution of coronavirus vaccines within the bloc."If Austria receives an additional one million vaccine doses, we will be able to return to normality faster and could save many lives as well as jobs," Kurz said."There should be no geopolitical blinkers when it comes to the vaccine. The only thing that should matter is whether the vaccine is effective and safe, and not where it comes from."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-in-talks-to-buy-one-million-sputnik-v-vaccine-doses-101617105783760.html
30-03-2021||World||The moment vaccine skepticism went mainstream, 'became political'||In early 2015, as news broke that a significant measles outbreak had started at Disney, Carl Krawitt found himself outraged. Krawitt’s son Rhett had been battling leukemia since he was two-and-a-half. That meant his immune system was too weak to handle routine childhood vaccines. Something like measles could be extremely dangerous for Rhett, so it was crucial that others around him be vaccinated. But Rhett had recently started kindergarten in Marin County, a county with triple the vaccine exemptions of the California average. Measles requires more than 95% of kids to be vaccinated in order to prevent outbreaks. Krawitt was blown away by the fact that they couldn’t take peanut butter to school because some kids had allergies, but putting his son’s life at risk by forgoing vaccination was totally allowed. The Krawitts began speaking out about this, and Rhett became the face of a bill that sought to tighten vaccine laws in the state. The bill passed. Vaccination rates went up. But that wasn’t the only outcome of the bill.“The anti-vaxxers came out,” Krawitt recalls. “They threatened us, they threatened my kid. They told lies. And it was scary.”The Disneyland measles outbreak was a tipping point. The outbreak made clear that number of people opting out of vaccination was significant. But it also changed the people protesting vaccines. Before that, activists speaking out about vaccines had mainly been parents concerned about the safety of their kids. The push to get rid of vaccine exemptions changed the conversation. It became political. It became about choice and freedom and democracy.“This is where we really saw this coalescence around the idea of vaccination as a civil liberties issue,” says Amelia Jamison, a doctoral student at Johns Hopkins University who studies health misinformation.In the third episode of Doubt, a new series from the Prognosis podcast that explores vaccine hesitancy, we look at this moment in time, and how it would foreshadow what we’re living through now, a moment in which millions of Americans feel they do not trust the government when it comes to public health policy.“The anti vaxxers kind of felt endangered or in peril,” says Jamison. “And then they started to mobilize and help organize themselves in ways that they could protest this bill.” The aftermath of the Disneyland outbreak was the moment when this group of people would really become a movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-moment-vaccine-skepticism-went-mainstream-became-political-101617105353676.html
30-03-2021||World||Thailand denies forcing fleeing villagers back to Myanmar||Thailand’s prime minister denied Tuesday that his country’s security forces forced villagers back to Myanmar who had fled from military airstrikes, saying they returned home on their own accord.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, nevertheless, said his country is ready to shelter anyone who is escaping fighting, as it has done many times in recent decades. His comments came a day after humanitarian groups said Thailand has been sending back some of the thousands of people who have fled a series of Myanmar military airstrikes.“There is no influx of refugees yet. We asked those who crossed to Thailand if they have any problem in their area. When they say no problem, we just asked them to return to their land first. We asked, we did not use any force,” Prayuth told reporters.“We won’t push them back,” he said. ’If they are having fighting, how can we do so? But if they don’t have any fighting at the moment, can they go back first?”The weekend strikes, which sent ethnic Karen people to seek safety in Thailand, were another escalation in the violent crackdown by Myanmar’s junta on protests against its Feb. 1 takeover.At least 510 protesters have been killed since the coup, according to Myanmar’s Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, which says the actual toll is likely much higher. It says 2,574 people have been detained. Protests continued Tuesday despite the deaths of more than 100 people on Saturday alone.The coup that ousted the government of Aung San Suu Kyi reversed the country's progress toward democracy since her National League for Democracy party won elections in 2015 after five decades of military rule.At Thailand’s Mae Sam Laep village along the Salween River, which forms the border with Myanmar, paramilitary Thai Rangers on Tuesday twice waved off a boat that had come from the other side carrying seven people, including one lying flat and another with a bandage on his head. But ambulances soon arrived on the Thai side and it landed anyway.Thai villagers helped medical staff carry the injured people on stretchers to a small clinic at a nearby checkpoint. One man had large bruises on his back with open wounds, an injury one medical staffer said could have been caused by an explosion.An elderly woman in the group had small cuts and scabs all over her face. Thai nurses in protective gear to guard against Covid-19 attended to her, giving her and others tests for the coronavirus.Another villager from the boat, 48-year-old Aye Ja Bi, said he had been wounded by a bomb dropped by a plane. His legs were hit by shrapnel and his ears were ringing, he said, but he was unable to travel to get help until Tuesday.The airstrikes appeared to be retaliation for an attack by guerrillas of the Karen National Liberation Army on a government military outpost, in which they claimed to have killed 10 soldiers and captured eight. The group is fighting for greater autonomy for the Karen people.Thai authorities, who claimed weeks ago to be preparing for an influx of refugees, have responded inconsistently. A group of 2,500-3,000 refugees crossed into Thailand on Sunday, according to several humanitarian aid agencies who have long worked with the Karen.They said on Monday, however, that Thai soldiers had begun to force people to return to Myanmar.“They told them it was safe to go back even though it is not safe. They were afraid to go back but they had no choice,” said a spokesperson for the Karen Peace Support Network, a group of Karen civil society organizations in Myanmar.Two other people confirmed that refugees were being sent back to Myanmar. All three spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the issue.Thai Foreign Ministry spokesman Tanee Sangrat said in a statement Monday night that claims some Karen were being forced to return to Myanmar were inaccurate and “cite information solely from non-official sources without confirming the facts from official sources on the ground.”“In fact, the Thai authorities will continue to look after those on the Thai side while assessing the evolving situation and the needs on the ground,” he said.The army has restricted journalists’ access to the area where the villagers crossed the border.Myanmar’s government has battled Karen guerrillas on and off for years — along with other ethnic minorities seeking more autonomy — but the airstrikes marked a major escalation of violence.Political organizations representing the Karen and Kachin in northern Myanmar have issued statements in recent weeks warning the government against shooting protesters in their regions and threatening a response.They were joined Tuesday by the Three Brothers Alliance, which represent the guerrilla armies of the Rakhine, Kokang and Ta-ang -- also known as Palaung -- minorities.The alliance condemned the killing of protesters and said if it did not stop immediately, they would abandon a self-declared cease-fire and join with other groups to protect the people.Their statement, like those of the Karen and Kachin, seemed to suggest that any military response by them would be in their home areas, not in the cities of central Myanmar where the protests and repression have been the strongest.Supporters of the protest movement are hoping that the ethnic armed groups could help pressure the junta. Protest leaders in hiding say they have held talks, but there have been no commitments.The United States on Monday suspended a trade deal with Myanmar, also known as Burma, until a democratic government is restored in the Southeast Asian country.The office of the US Trade Representative said the country was immediately suspending “all US engagement with Burma under the 2013 Trade and Investment Framework Agreement.″ Under the agreement, the two countries cooperated on trade and investment issues in an effort to integrate Myanmar into the global economy, a reward for the military’s decision to allow a return to democracy — a transition that ended abruptly with last month’s coup.The announcement Monday doesn’t stop trade between the two countries. Last week, the United States restricted American dealings with two giant Myanmar military holding companies that dominate much of that country’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-denies-forcing-fleeing-villagers-back-to-myanmar-101617104325795.html
30-03-2021||World||Google Maps to start using 'eco-friendly' routes to tackle climate change||Google's Maps app will start directing drivers along routes estimated to generate the lowest carbon emissions based on traffic, slopes and other factors, the company announced on Tuesday.Google, an Alphabet Inc unit, said the feature would launch later this year in the U.S. and eventually reach other countries as part of its commitment to help combat climate change through its services.Unless users opt-out, the default route will be the "eco-friendly" one if comparable options take about the same time, Google said. When alternatives are significantly faster, Google will offer choices and let users compare estimated emissions."What we are seeing is for around half of routes, we are able to find an option more eco-friendly with minimal or no time-cost tradeoff," Russell Dicker, a director of product at Google, told reporters on Monday.Google said it derives emissions relative estimates by testing across different types of vehicles and road types, drawing on insights from the U.S. government's National Renewable Energy Lab (NREL). Road grade data comes from its Street View cars as well as aerial and satellite imagery.The potential effect on emissions from the feature is unclear. But in a study of 20 people at California State University, Long Beach, university researchers last year found participants were more inclined to consider carbon emissions in route selection after testing an app that showed estimates.Google's announcement included additional climate-focused changes. From June, it will start warning drivers who are about to travel through low emissions zones where some vehicles are restricted in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Spain and the U.K.In the coming months, Maps app users will be able to compare car, biking, public transit and other travel options in one place instead of toggling between different sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-maps-to-start-using-eco-friendly-routes-to-tackle-climate-change-101617103698375.html
30-03-2021||World||BioNTech aims to manufacture 2.5 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses this year||German pharmaceutical company BioNTech says that after ramping up its manufacturing and supply systems, it expects to manufacture this year up to 2.5 billion doses of the coronavirus vaccine it developed with U.S. partner Pfizer.The two companies had previously spoken of being able to make 2 billion doses in 2021.Mainz-based BioNTech said Tuesday that it had delivered 200 million doses of the vaccine globally as of March 23 and signed orders for 1.4 billion doses for delivery in 2021. Discussions on further orders were ongoing, it said.The company attributed the increased capacity to optimized production processes and the start of production at a new plant in Marburg, Germany; the expansion of its manufacturing and supply network; and regulatory approval for six doses to be drawn from each vial, rather than five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biontech-aims-to-manufacture-2-5-billion-covid-19-vaccine-shots-this-year-101617103349368.html
30-03-2021||World||Australia's Queensland warns of more Covid-19 cases, Easter travel plans on hold||Australia's Queensland state warned on Tuesday that more cases of Covid-19 were expected to emerge as authorities scrambled to contain an outbreak linked to the virulent UK variant, throwing Easter travel plans into disarray.Officials reported eight new locally acquired cases on Tuesday, taking the total in the latest outbreak to 15 so far. All of the cases were linked to two distinct virus clusters, one related to a doctor and the second to a nurse, authorities said."The fact that we have these cases that are linked is good news," Queensland state Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk told reporters. "Do we expect to see more cases? Probably. Probably, we will see more."Brisbane, the state capital, has been placed under a three-day lockdown until Thursday, requiring more than 2 million city residents to stay home except for essential work, healthcare, grocery shopping or exercise.The restrictions upended holiday plans for thousands as the lockdown is scheduled to end just a day before the Easter long weekend and the school term break in Australia, a popular time for vacations.Several states closed their borders with Queensland, while others will require travelers from the virus hotspots to self-isolate for two weeks on their return.Brisbane Airport forecast a steep drop in the number of domestic travelers passing through the airport by the weekend compared with its pre-lockdown expectations."This week we had forecast 35,000 to 40,000 per day. However, today this number was closer to 15,000 and we anticipate this may drop to under 10,000 per day by the weekend," a spokeswoman told Reuters.Lockdown and border controls could put the state's businesses under more strain as the government's A$90 billion ($69 billion) job subsidy scheme ended on Sunday.Neighbouring New South Wales (NSW) state, Australia's most populous, is also on alert after two of the Queensland cases, a nurse and her sister, travelled while unknowingly infectious to Byron Bay, a tourist town just south of the Queensland border and home to Hollywood A-listers such as Chris Hemsworth.Health alerts have been issued for a hotel, cafe and restaurant exposed to the virus as officials urged patrons to test and isolate."I hope that we do not have any cases emerge in New South Wales, but I won't be surprised if we did. So, we need to brace ourselves," NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said.Snap lockdowns, social distancing rules and speedy contact tracing systems have helped Australia to contain fresh clusters in recent months. It has reported just under 29,300 cases and 909 deaths since the pandemic began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australias-queensland-warns-of-more-covid-19-cases-easter-travel-plans-on-hold-101617076315921.html
30-03-2021||World||Sri Lanka plans to hold provincial council polls towards year end: Minister||Colombo, Mar 30 (PTI) Sri Lanka plans to hold the long-pending council elections in all of its nine provinces towards the year end and the government will soon discuss the issue with all political parties, a senior minister said.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting on Monday where the subject of holding the provincial council polls was discussed at length."The Cabinet last night discussed at length the issue of provincial councils and the government hoped to hold them the latest by the year end," said senior minister S M Chandrasena.He said the government will soon have a detailed consultation with all the political parties on the issue.The announcement assumes significance as India has been advocating the early holding of the elections for all nine provinces, which has been stalled since 2018.India at the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva last week stressed that there is a need for Sri Lanka to hold provincial elections as soon as possible.Last week, India abstained from voting in a resolution adopted by the UNHRC against Sri Lanka’s rights record, which calls upon the Sri Lankan government to ensure prompt thorough and impartial investigation, if warranted, prosecution of all alleged crimes relating to human rights violations and serious violations of international human rights law during the country's three decade-long civil war with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).India has said its stand on the matter is governed by two considerations: support to the minority Tamils and stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.According to the Lankan government figures, over 20,000 people are missing due to various conflicts including the three-decade brutal war with Lankan Tamils in the north and east which claimed at least 100,000 lives.The provincial elections to provinces were held up due to a legal snag involving the Delimitation Commission report.The report became necessary in order to reform the system from the present proportional representation.The Delimitation Review Committee report should have been submitted in Parliament in 2018. The process came to be affected by the constitutional crisis in October 2018 when the then prime minister Ranil Wickremesinghe was sacked and later reappointed.The provincial councils were added to the Sri Lankan statutes as a result of a direct Indian intervention in Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority issue.India proposed province based devolution in terms of the Indo-Lanka Peace Accord of 1987 under the then Indian Prime Minister late Rajiv Gandhi.On the electoral system reform, Chandrasena said most parties favoured the first past the post system for provincial councils discarding the current proportional representation system. PTI CORR RUP ZH AKJ ZH ZH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-plans-to-hold-provincial-council-polls-towards-year-end-minister-101617100349435.html
30-03-2021||World||La Nina has ended, Australian weather bureau says||A La Nina weather event has subsided, Australia's weather bureau said on Tuesday, ending a six-month spell of greater rainfall and cooler than average temperatures across the country's east coast.An end to the La Nina is expected to see average conditions across Australia for at least the next three months, Australia's Bureau of Meteorology said.While the event is blamed for the recent devastating floods across Australia's east coast earlier this month, the wetter weather also drove record wheat production during the 2020/21 season.Despite a return to average weather conditions, Australian farmers are expected to reap the benefits of recent heavy rain as soil moisture boosts crops that will be planted next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/la-nina-has-ended-australian-weather-bureau-says-101617081850162.html
30-03-2021||World||Thailand says it does not push back refugees from Myanmar||Thailand’s prime minister denied Tuesday that his country’s security forces have sent villagers back to Myanmar who fled from military airstrikes and said his government is ready to shelter anyone who is escaping fighting.His comments came a day after humanitarian groups said the Thai military had begun sending back some of the thousands of people who have fled a series of airstrikes by Myanmar's military.“There is no influx of refugees yet. We asked those who crossed to Thailand if they have any problem in their area. When they say no problem, we just asked them to return to their land first. We asked, we did not use any force,” Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha told reporters.“We won’t push them back,” he said. ’If they are having fighting, how can we do so? But if they don’t have any fighting at the moment, can they go back first?”The weekend strikes, which sent ethnic Karen people to seek safety in Thailand, were another escalation in the violent crackdown by Myanmar’s junta on protests against its Feb. 1 takeover.At least 510 protesters have been killed since the coup, according to Myanmar’s Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, which says the actual toll is likely much higher. It says 2,574 people have been detained. Protests continued Tuesday despite the deaths of more than 100 people on Saturday alone.The coup that ousted the government of Aung San Suu Kyi reversed the country's progress toward democracy since her National League for Democracy party won elections in 2015 after five decades of military rule.At Thailand’s Mae Sam Laep village along the Salween River, which forms the border with Myanmar, paramilitary Thai Rangers on Tuesday twice waved off a boat that had come from the other side carrying seven people, including one lying flat and another with a bandage on his head. But ambulances soon arrived on the Thai side and it landed anyway.Thai villagers helped medical staff carry the injured people on stretchers to a small clinic at a nearby checkpoint. One man had large bruises on his back with open wounds, an injury one medical staffer said could have been caused by an explosion.An elderly woman in the group had small cuts and scabs all over her face. Thai nurses in protective gear to guard against COVID-19 attended to her, giving her and others tests for the coronavirus.Another villager from the boat, 48-year-old Aye Ja Bi, said he had been wounded by a bomb dropped by a plane. His legs were hit by shrapnel and his ears were ringing, he said, but he was unable to travel to get help until Tuesday.The airstrikes appeared to be retaliation for an attack by guerrillas of the Karen National Liberation Army on a government military outpost, in which they claimed to have killed 10 soldiers and captured eight. The group is fighting for greater autonomy for the Karen people.Thai authorities, who claimed weeks ago to be preparing for an influx of refugees, have responded inconsistently. A group of 2,500-3,000 refugees crossed into Thailand on Sunday, according to several humanitarian aid agencies who have long worked with the Karen.They said on Monday, however, that Thai soldiers had begun to force people to return to Myanmar.“They told them it was safe to go back even though it is not safe. They were afraid to go back but they had no choice,” said a spokesperson for the Karen Peace Support Network, a group of Karen civil society organizations in Myanmar.Two other people confirmed that refugees were being sent back to Myanmar. All three spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the issue.Thai Foreign Ministry spokesman Tanee Sangrat said in a statement Monday night that claims some Karen were being forced to return to Myanmar were inaccurate and “cite information solely from non-official sources without confirming the facts from official sources on the ground.”“In fact, the Thai authorities will continue to look after those on the Thai side while assessing the evolving situation and the needs on the ground,” he said.The army has restricted journalists’ access to the area where the villagers crossed the border.Myanmar’s government has battled Karen guerrillas on and off for years — along with other ethnic minorities seeking more autonomy — but the airstrikes marked a major escalation of violence.Political organizations representing the Karen and Kachin in northern Myanmar have issued statements in recent weeks warning the government against shooting protesters in their regions and threatening a response.They were joined Tuesday by the Three Brothers Alliance, which represent the guerrilla armies of the Rakhine, Kokang and Ta-ang -- also known as Palaung -- minorities.The alliance condemned the killing of protesters and said if it did not stop immediately, they would abandon a self-declared cease-fire and join with other groups to protect the people.Their statement, like those of the Karen and Kachin, seemed to suggest that any military response by them would be in their home areas, not in the cities of central Myanmar where the protests and repression have been the strongest.Supporters of the protest movement are hoping that the ethnic armed groups could help pressure the junta. Protest leaders in hiding say they have held talks, but there have been no commitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-says-it-does-not-push-back-refugees-from-myanmar-101617083212304.html
30-03-2021||World||Covid-19: UK vaccination rates struggle in places worst-hit by virus||The UK’s rapid Covid-19 vaccination program made the country a global pacesetter. But while more than 30 million British adults have had at least one dose, take-up is significantly lower in Black and Asian communities, raising the risk of ongoing illness and death in some of the country’s most ethnically diverse and underprivileged areas.Official data released on Monday revealed that just 59% of Black African adults in England aged over 70 have received at least one shot, compared to about 91% of White people and a rate below 75% in England’s Pakistani and Bangladeshi communities. The figures back up analysis of health records by OpenSafely, a doctor-led data project, which shows that gaps in coverage have narrowed only slightly since January.Personal experience of poor treatment, combined with historic abuse and discrimination by the medical establishment, have led to mistrust, experts say. There are questions over potential side effects and language barriers, while misinformation has also sowed doubt, ranging from unfounded safety concerns to falsehoods suggesting that vaccines contain traces of alcohol or meat products. Some people may be willing to have the vaccine, but face access hurdles.“It’s a really complicated story that has many layers,” said Winston Morgan, a researcher at the University of East London who talks with Black pastors, nursing students and others to address concerns. “All of these things you have to overcome.” The situation is worrying local health officials in some of England’s most ethnically diverse areas, where two waves of Covid-19 have crashed over the past year. A Bloomberg analysis of government data shows that death rates tend to be higher — and vaccination rates lower — in areas where fewer than 60% of people are White.The UK government hit an early goal of offering a first dose to anyone aged 70 and older back in mid-February. Yet overall vaccination rates for people in their 70s remain below 90% in 10 London health-care districts, according to NHS data, and 24 districts across England have vaccinated less than 90% of people aged 80 or over. Many of those areas include some of England’s poorest, most multi-racial communities.If the pattern of low take-up in deprived, diverse areas persists it would allow the coronavirus to keep circulating even as it is driven out of more affluent places, leaving Black and Asian communities at risk of infection longer than much of the rest of the UK New and potentially dangerous variants could prolong the pain.Persuading people to embrace the vaccine depends on faith in both the government and the health service, said Morgan. “In a lot of communities described as hesitant they don’t have that trust.”Black British celebrities are now stepping in: An open letter from actor Lenny Henry was signed by stars including Chiwetel Ejiofor and Thandie Newton. The letter acknowledged people’s “legitimate worries and concerns,” adding: “We know change needs to happen and that it's hard to trust some institutions and authorities.”In districts such as Newham, in east London, which suffered almost 456 deaths per 100,000 people over the past 12 months — the highest in England and more than twice the national average — vaccines are seen as a way to avert even more agony. Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities make up roughly three-quarters of Newham’s population.“If we want to stop transmission altogether we need to aspire to have the highest vaccine rates in places like this, not accept that they will be a bit lower,” said Jason Strelitz, Newham’s public health director.“Nationally the vaccine strategy so far is a huge success. But to get it right in the next phase we’ll need to put additional resources and effort into areas of low take-up.”Local community organizations and the government are trying to narrow the gaps as lockdowns ease. That means transforming places like the Redeemed Christian Church of God, in the Newham neighborhood of Stratford, into local vaccine clinics. One day last week more than two dozen people were booked to receive the shot at the boxy, white-brick building, known as the Sanctuary, near the site of the 2012 Summer Olympic Games.Providing Covid shots at places of worship, which play a central role in many communities and are close to peoples’ homes, is part of an effort to raise confidence. Like other boroughs, Newham has opened pop-up centers in churches, mosques, Sikh gurdwaras and Hindu temples.While some are keen, others in the Black community are “watching and waiting,” said Olufemi Daramola, a local doctor and congregant at the Stratford church helping with the vaccinations. “My worry is that more people will catch it,” he said of the coming weeks and months. “But this might help boost uptake.”The pandemic has already had a disproportionate impact on Black and South Asian people in particular. Cases and deaths from Covid-19 in Black African or Black Caribbean communities have been running at about double the rate for White communities, government data show.Earlier this year, the UK committed more than 23 million pounds ($32 million) to help expand vaccine access in areas of higher risk, targeting minority communities and areas of deprivation in particular. The government has pointed to initiatives, including WhatsApp groups sharing messages from religious figures and “vaccine buses” that bring shots to harder-to-reach areas.“We’ve had two tsunamis — short, sharp and devastating,” said Adeola Agbebiyi, a Newham public health consultant who is part of the vaccination drive. “For our population who have experienced many bereavements and much trauma because of Covid over the past year, it’s important. Demographically they’re more likely to be exposed and to die. So individual-level protection is huge.”Across the city, in northwest London, Raja Amjid Riaz oversees a regular clinic to administer the AstraZeneca Plc and University of Oxford vaccine at the Central Mosque of Brent. While generally positive, Riaz said take-up has been “very poor” in groups including the local Afghan, Somali and Black African communities.About two-thirds of the population in Brent are from Black, Asian and minority ethnic groups. Brent had the highest Covid-19 death rate between March and June last year, followed by Newham, as people with lower-paid jobs, poor housing and health conditions suffered the most.“Covid highlights a major issue in UK society — unfortunately it has hit the poor and Black and minority ethnic communities quite badly,” Riaz said. “The major way out of the pandemic now is through vaccination.”Sapna Chadha, a volunteer at the brick mosque on the edge of the train line in Willesden Green, said she worries about pockets of people at the local level who are still susceptible to the virus while the UK succeeds nationally.“We’ve got to be very careful,” she said. “Covid is here to stay.”There’s a lot at stake for Britain, which faced intense criticism for missteps earlier in the pandemic but has moved swiftly in securing and distributing vaccines. The U.K. has given more than 45% of its total population at least one dose, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. That compares with about 29% for the U.S. and 10% for the European Union.As the coronavirus continues to circulate, the more chance it has to mutate and evade the immunity provided by vaccines or a past infection. Getting to a level at which enough people are immune that the virus can no longer spread will depend on ensuring all groups have access. That “herd immunity” mark could be at around 70% to 85% of the population, though the exact level is unclear.Just as communities start to see progress, they’ve been hit by other factors beyond their control. The UK is involved in an ongoing tussle over vaccine supply with the European Union; separately, the country faces a looming four-week supply crunch. That “massively” changed the plan for April, making it difficult to predict how many doses Newham will receive, said Strelitz, the health director. Some people also canceled appointments after concerns about blood clots prompted a string of European nations to temporarily suspend immunizations using the AstraZeneca vaccine, he said.When the doses begin to flow again, getting younger adults to roll up their sleeves will be another challenge. Some in that generation see themselves as less vulnerable, or are less confident in vaccines, Strelitz said. Others will have work commitments that make it harder to book appointments, he added.Morgan, the east London academic, specializes in toxicology and also studies factors that contribute to poor medical outcomes. The UK vaccine system may be overlooking people who disregard text message invites or consider unsolicited letters as spam, especially if they don’t regularly see a doctor, he said. Some may want a personal invitation.The gaps between ethnic groups appear to be narrowing slowly, though not as fast as everyone wants. “People still aren’t getting the information they need,” Morgan said.“They’re not totally against taking the vaccine. They just want to be reassured, and that reassurance has to come from people they know and trust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-uk-vaccination-rates-struggle-in-places-worst-hit-by-virus-101617099569028.html
30-03-2021||World||Vietnam sentences flight attendant for spreading coronavirus||A court in Vietnam handed a two-year suspended jail term to a Vietnam Airlines flight attendant on Tuesday after finding him guilty of breaking COVID-19 quarantine rules and spreading the virus to others, police said.Duong Tan Hau, 29, was convicted of "spreading dangerous infectious diseases" at the one-day trial at the People's Court of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's Ministry of Public Security said in a statement.Vietnam has been praised for its efforts to contain the virus through mass testing and tracing and strict centralised quarantining. It has recorded fewer than 2,600 COVID-19 infections and only 35 deaths due to the disease.Hau breached the country's 14-day quarantine regulations and met 46 other people following his flight from Japan in November, according to the indictment posted on a police ministry website.Hau had mingled with other people during a stint in state quarantine and according to the indictment visited cafes, restaurants and attended English classes while he was supposed to be self-isolating. He tested positive for COVID-19 on Nov. 28.Hau's violations resulted in the quarantine and testing of around 2,000 other people in the city at a cost of 4.48 billion dong ($194,192), the indictment said.State media said he had infected at least three other people."Hau's violation was serious, put society in danger and endangered the safety of the community," the statement said.Reuters could not immediately reach his lawyer for comment.In December, Vietnam sentenced the head of the Hanoi Center for Disease Control and Prevention to 10 years in prison after finding him guilty of wrongdoing linked to the procurement of equipment intended to help tackle the COVID-19 outbreak. ($1 = 23,070 dong) (Reporting by Khanh Vu; Editing by Martin Petty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-sentences-flight-attendant-for-spreading-coronavirus-101617084567288.html
30-03-2021||World||Day 1 of Derek Chauvin's trial, police officer accused of killing George Floyd||Opening statements were made on Monday in one of the most closely-watched trials in decades in the US as the murder trial began for Derek Chauvin, one of the four police officers facing charges with respect to the death of George Floyd. Floyd died after Chauvin pressed his knee onto the 46-year-old Black man’s neck on May 25, 2020. His death led to massive protests across the world under the “Black Lives Matter” movement. The trial on Monday included the prosecution’s opening remarks centred on a bystander video of Floyd’s death. Protesters also gathered outside the courthouse showing the interest that people had in the trial which is being recorded. Ben Crump, a lawyer for Floyd’s family, told supporters on Monday that “the whole world is watching.”Charges against Derek ChauvinThe charges against Chauvin, the former Minneapolis police officer, include manslaughter and unintentional second-degree murder. Similar charges will also be faced by the other three officers—Tou Thao, Thomas Lane and J Alexander Kueng.Second-degree murder means that the murder was not planned and happened due to the “offender’s reckless conduct”. It carries a maximum sentence of 40 years. Manslaughter refers to the unlawful killing of an individual without malice and can be both voluntary and involuntary in nature. It carries a maximum sentence of not more than 10 years or payment of a fine of not more than $20,000 or both.The trialThe opening statements in the trial were based on the video of Floyd’s arrest. The video, which was taken by a bystander was about 9 minutes and 30 seconds long and was shown by the prosecuting attorney Jerry W Blackwell.“You can believe your eyes, that it’s homicide — it’s murder,” Blackwell said. Chauvin’s lawyers on the other hand said that the jurors must consider “heaps of evidence” outside of the video itself. Eric Nelson, a lawyer for Chauvin, said that the case “is clearly more than about 9 minutes and 29 seconds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/day-1-of-derek-chauvin-s-trial-police-officer-accused-of-killing-george-floyd-101617098384003.html
30-03-2021||World||EU, UN hold talks to find 'credible solution' to Syria conflict||Dozens of nations and international organisations were holding virtual talks on Tuesday to help tackle the humanitarian crisis deepening in Syria and neighbouring countries as the civil war there entered its 11th year without a political solution in sight.The annual pledging event is co-hosted by the United Nations and the European Union.“The overarching objective of the Brussels Conferences is to continue supporting the Syrian people and mobilize the international community in support of a comprehensive and credible political solution to the Syria conflict," organizers said.The decade of bloodshed in Syria has killed more than a half-million people and sparked a refugee exodus that has destabilized neighbouring countries and impacted Europe.According to the UN, 13.4 million people in Syria, more than half the country's pre-war population, need assistance. That's a 20% increase from last year.Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the humanitarian situation has worsened. The local currency has crashed and food prices have soared — increasing by 222% from last year.Nine out of 10 people live below the poverty line and in northwestern Syria, an area that is held by the rebels, close to three-quarters of the 4.3 million residents are food insecure.“It has been 10 years of despair and disaster for Syrians," UN humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock said. “Now plummeting living conditions, economic decline and COVID-19 result in more hunger, malnutrition and disease. There is less fighting, but no peace dividend."The UN and other aid groups are seeking more than USD 4 billion for aid within Syria at this year's conference, their biggest appeal yet. Another USD 5.8 billion are requested for nearly 6 million Syrian refugees who fled their homeland.Over the years, pledges have typically fallen short. The humanitarian appeal for 2020 was 45% below its USD 3.82 billion target — nearly a 14% drop from the year before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-un-hold-talks-to-find-credible-solution-to-syria-conflict-101617095167714.html
30-03-2021||World||Trump's heir? Mike Pence reemerges, lays groundwork for 2024 run||When former President Donald Trump was asked to list those he considers the future leaders of the Republican Party, he quickly rattled off a list of names, including Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and Sens. Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz. Conspicuously absent from the list: Mike Pence.The former vice president is steadily reentering public life as he eyes a potential run for the White House in 2024.He's joining conservative organizations, writing op-eds, delivering speeches and launching an advocacy group that will focus on promoting the Trump administration's accomplishments.But Trump's neglect in mentioning Pence during a podcast interview earlier this month signals the former vice president's unique challenge.For someone who built a reputation as one of Trump's most steadfast supporters, Pence is now viewed with suspicion among many Republicans for observing his constitutional duty in January to facilitate a peaceful transfer of power to the Biden administration, a decision that still has Trump fuming.To prevail in a Republican presidential primary, Pence may have to reinforce his loyalty to Trump while defending his decisions during the final days of the administration when the president falsely alleged widespread voter fraud, contributing to a deadly riot at the US Capitol. If anyone can achieve this awkward balance, some Republicans say, it's Pence.“Anybody who can pull off an endorsement of Ted Cruz and become Donald Trump's vice presidential nominee should not be counted out," said Republican strategist Alice Stewart, who worked for Cruz's 2016 presidential campaign when Pence endorsed him. “He has a way of splitting hairs and threading the needle that has paid off in the past."Pence aides generally brush off talk of the next presidential election. They insist he is focused on his family and next year's midterm elections, when Republicans are well positioned to regain at least one chamber of Congress. Allies argue that, over time, the anger will subside.“I think 2024's a long time away and if Mike Pence runs for president he will appeal to the Republican base in a way that will make him a strong contender," said Republican Rep. Jim Banks of Indiana, who chairs the conservative Republican Study Committee and has already endorsed a Pence 2024 run.“If and when Mike Pence steps back up to the plate, I think he will have strong appeal among Republicans nationwide.”Pence declined to comment for this story. For their part, Trump aides warn against reading too much into the omission during the podcast interview.“That was not an exclusive list,” said Trump adviser Jason Miller. Still, Trump continued to deride Pence in the interview, falsely claiming Pence had the authority to unilaterally overturn the results of the election, even though he did not.Trump has not said whether he will seek the White House again in 2024. If he doesn't, other Republicans are making clear they won't cede the race to Pence. Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, for instance, is already visiting the critical primary states of Iowa and New Hampshire.Since leaving office in January, Pence, who served as Indiana's governor and a member of Congress before being tapped as Trump's running mate, has kept a lower profile.He's pieced together a portfolio aimed at maintaining influence, paying the bills and laying the groundwork for an expected presidential run.He's forged a partnerships with the conservative Heritage Foundation and has even been discussed as a potential president of the organization, according to two people familiar with the discussions.He's joined the Young America's Foundation and a top speakers' bureau, penned an op-ed for the Daily Signal in which he perpetuated falsehoods about the 2020 election, and recently toured a Christian relief organization in North Carolina.He will make his first public speech since leaving office next month at the Palmetto Family Council's annual fundraiser in South Carolina, another crucial primary state.Pence has also discussed writing a book, according to aides, has been in continued conversation with his evangelical allies, and plans to spend much of the next two years helping Republican candidates as they try to reclaim House and Senate majorities in 2022.He's also planning to launch an advocacy organization that aides and allies say will give him a platform to defend the Trump administration's record and push back on the current president's policies as he tries to merge the traditional conservative movement with Trumpism.“He's doing what he needs to be doing to lay the groundwork in the event he wants to set up an exploratory committee,” Stewart said.“You have to make money, lay the groundwork, gauge the support and then pull the trigger."Pence's allies see him as the natural Trump heir, someone who can keep his base engaged while winning back suburban voters who left the party in droves during the Trump era.“Obviously Mike Pence has a very different persona, a very different tone. That probably is an understatement,” said former Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a longtime friend who now leads the Young America's Foundation."As long as he can still talk about the things that Trump voters care about, but do so in a way that's more reflective of kind of a Midwesterner, that I think ... would be attractive to those voters.”Skeptics, meanwhile, see another old, milquetoast white man saddled with Trump's baggage, but without his charisma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trumps-heir-mike-pence-reemerges-lays-groundwork-for-2024-run-101617090880652.html
30-03-2021||World||Syria says Assad, his wife have recovered from coronavirus||Syrian President Bashar Assad and his wife have recovered from COVID-19 and returned to their regular duties on Tuesday, three weeks after they had tested positive for the coronavirus, the president's office said.According to the statement, Syria's first couple had their PCR tests and the results were negative, and the mild symptoms of the virus that they had experienced before were now gone.Assad, 55, and his wife, Asma, who is 10 years younger and had announced her recovery from breast cancer in 2019, had isolated themselves since testing positive on March 8.Syria is witnessing a sharp increase in cases. Earlier this month, state media has reported that intensive care units in state hospitals in the capital of Damascus were full and that medical staff have been called to stay on alert to deal with coronavirus patients.Syria has been mired in civil war for 10 years since anti-government protests that began as part of Arab Spring uprisings turned into an insurgency in response to a military crackdown. A decade of fighting has resulted in the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions.Syrian authorities have so far registered more than 18,000 cases of the coronavirus and 1,247 deaths in government-held parts of the country, where the first case was reported in March last year.According to the World Health Organization, there are nearly 21,000 cases in the last rebel stronghold in Syria’s northwest along the border with Turkey, as well as some 9,000 cases in areas controlled by US-backed Kurdish-led fighters in the northeast.The real numbers are believed to be much higher, as testing is limited. Many Syrians cannot afford PCR tests amid the country’s severe economic crisis.The pandemic, which has severely tested even developed countries, has been a major challenge for Syria’s health care sector, already depleted by 10 years of conflict. The conflict has killed more than half a million people and displaced half of Syria's pre-war population of 23 million.WHO said last week it will oversee a coronavirus vaccination campaign in Syria that is expected to start in April, with the aim of inoculating 20% of the population by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syria-says-assad-his-wife-have-recovered-from-coronavirus-101617090131048.html
30-03-2021||World||Asian countries scramble for vaccine supplies after India export curbs||Several Asian countries scrambled to find alternative sources for Covid-19 inoculations on Tuesday after export restrictions by manufacturer India left a World Health Organization-backed global vaccine sharing programme short of supplies.South Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines are among countries to be hit by shipment delays to vaccines they have been promised under the COVAX programme, which was created mainly to ensure supplies for poorer countries."Our planned increase in daily vaccinations will be affected," Carlito Galvez, Philippines' vaccination chief, told reporters.India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, put a temporary hold on exports of AstraZeneca's vaccine being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), as officials focus on meeting rising domestic demand.The Serum Insitute was due to deliver 90 million vaccine doses to COVAX over March and April and, while it was not immediately clear how many would be diverted for domestic use, programme facilitators warned that shipment delays were inevitable.South Korea confirmed it would only receive 432,000 doses of the 690,000 it had been promised and delivery of those would be delayed until around the third week of April."There's uncertainty over global vaccine supplies but we're working on a plan to ensure no disruptions in the second quarter and making efforts to secure more vaccines," Kim Ki-nam, head of South Korea's Covid-19 vaccination task force team. Officials said they were in talks with AstraZeneca to accelerate shipments procured through a separate deal.Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte loosened government restrictions on private sector imports of vaccines, pleading with companies to obtain supplies no matter the cost, as his country battles a resurgence of the pandemic.In Vietnam, officials have similarly asked the private sector to step in after their COVAX supplies were slashed by 40% to 811,200 doses and shipments were pushed back by weeks.In Indonesia, health ministry official Siti Nadia Tarmizi told Reuters that 10.3 million doses from COVAX were likely delayed until May.India has not provided details on the length of its export curb but UNICEF, a distributing partner of COVAX, said at the weekend that deliveries are expected to resume by May.India's decision is the latest in a series of setbacks for the COVAX facility, relied on by 64 poorer countries, after production glitches and a lack of funding contribution from wealthy nations.China and RussiaChina and Russia are primed to step into the breach."We have good diplomatic relations with China and Russia and we are asking if we can have access to their vaccines in April," the Philippines' Galvez said.Both the Philippines and Indonesia are currently relying heavily on vaccines from China's Sinovac Biotech to run their inoculation drives. The Philippines and Vietnam have both approved Russia's Sputnik V vaccine, along with more than 50 other countries, mainly developing nations. The Philippines expects to receive its first batch of Sputnik V in April.Chinese vaccine maker Sinopharm, meanwhile, plans to produce its Covid-19 vaccine at a new plant in the United Arab Emirates.The spate of export curbs is also being felt by wealthier countries that are reliant on foreign manufacturing, including Japan, where the national vaccine rollout has been slow due to the limited number of Pfizer vaccines shipped from Europe."Some people are using vaccines for diplomacy, some people are trying to prioritize. Some people are buying like three to five times as many vaccines compared to their population. That's unnecessary," Japan's vaccine minister, Taro Kono, told Reuters on Monday in an interview."We really need to have the global leaders sit down and think this is a global issue, not the domestic issue, and try to solve this together."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-countries-scramble-for-vaccine-supplies-after-india-export-curbs-101617088147403.html
30-03-2021||World||Covid-19 origin study points to Bats, animal hosts as pathway||The coronavirus probably spread from bats to humans via another animal, according to the long-awaited results of a joint World Health Organization-China study into the origins of Covid-19.The authors suggest that the most productive research would be to find such an animal link, saying the hypothesis of lab leaks was extremely unlikely, according to a draft of the report, which was obtained by Bloomberg News before it’s due to be published Tuesday. The scientists suggested future studies take a wider geographical approach, including Southeast Asia, and investigate susceptible animal species more closely.The findings mirror what researchers said last month, at the end of their mission to Wuhan, the central Chinese city where the first Covid cases emerged at the end of 2019, and in their subsequent public comments. Possible host species include mink, pangolins, rabbits and ferret badgers, the report said.The hunt for the virus’s origin has been shrouded in controversy since the start of the pandemic, with China criticized for delaying access to scientists and both Beijing and Washington pushing alternative theories about how Covid began. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday all hypotheses are on the table and warrant complete and further studies. The expert team will brief member states on Tuesday and will then publish the report to the public.The Associated Press published comments from the report earlier. It was conducted by a team made up of both international and Chinese experts. The WHO has repeatedly said the report’s conclusions are independent and belong to the authors.Pandemic PreventionWhile the search has become highly politicized, governments and scientists agree that deciphering the virus’s creation story is key to reducing the risk of future pandemics. The research was aimed at galvanizing efforts to trace the origin of the virus that touched off the worst pandemic in more than a century, as well as its route of transmission to humans and the possible role of an intermediate animal host.A spillover from bats via another animal is the most likely scenario in the report, followed by direct spillover. Introduction through frozen food was deemed possible, and a laboratory accident considered extremely unlikely.Still, the report noted that the Wuhan CDC laboratory moved in early December to a location near the Huanan market, and “such moves can be disruptive for the operations of any laboratory.”However, the research center didn’t report any disruptions or incidents that would have been caused by the move, and it wasn’t storing or testing coronaviruses or bat viruses ahead of the outbreak, the report said. The authors also said that the three laboratories working in Wuhan on coronaviruses and vaccines had high biosafety levels and there was no evidence of Covid spreading among workers there.The U.S. government has questioned whether the WHO-convened experts were given enough access to reach a reliable conclusion. Top Biden administration officials on Sunday expressed concern about the way the WHO-China report was crafted, including the possibility that the Chinese government had a hand in writing it.The U.S. has “real concerns about the methodology and the process” of the report, including that the Chinese government “apparently helped to write it,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on CNN.China has been trying to deflect criticism of its handling of the pandemic amid growing scrutiny over the pathogen’s origins, including speculation promoted by the former Trump administration that the SARS-CoV-2 virus leaked from a Wuhan lab.Beijing has suggested the virus may have arrived in China through refrigerated goods and has urged the WHO to carry out investigations in other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-origin-study-points-to-bats-animal-hosts-as-pathway-101617084548249.html
30-03-2021||World||WHO to release long-awaited expert report on Covid-19 origin today||The long-awaited report on the origin of the coronavirus (Covid-19) will be released on Tuesday by the World Health Organization (WHO). Speaking at a news conference on Monday, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus confirmed receiving the full mission report over the weekend. "All hypotheses are on the table and warrant complete and further studies," he said during the briefing.The report has been drafted by a team of international experts appointed by the WHO who visited China's Wuhan city earlier this year. The seafood market in Wuhan was the Covid-19 cluster of human cases in December 2019. Since then, the infection has now spread to almost all the countries killing more than 2.7 million people.According to the preliminary information on the study, the researchers have found that Covid-19 most likely transmitted to humans via animals. However, the report offers no conclusive answers to the origin questions.The report is being closely watched by scientists around the world as the findings can help them prevent future pandemics.What are the findings?The researchers have listed four possible scenarios through which Covid-19 could have transmitted to humans, various news agencies reported. The reasons are mentioned in order of likelihood and a possibility of Covid-19 transmission from bats through another animal tops the list.Direct spread from bats to humans is listed as likely in the report, while the possibility of Covid-19 spreading through the packaging of “cold-chain” food products is "unlikely".The report listed a possibility of the virus' leakage from the laboratory under the "extremely unlikely" category.The team has proposed further research in every area except the lab leak hypothesis. It also said the role played by a seafood market where human cases were first identified was uncertain.Doubts remainThe expert report has a troubled past. From delay in publication to China's resistance to giving access to diplomats, all of these hurdles have raised questions about whether the Chinese side was trying to skew its conclusions.Emphasizing more information is required to ascertain the origin of Covid-19, Matthew Kavanagh of Georgetown University said, "It is clear that that the Chinese government has not provided all the data needed and, until they do, firmer conclusions will be difficult," news agency AP reported.United States' Secretary of States, Anthony Blinken also raised concerns regarding the methodology and the process of the investigation. "We’ve got real concerns about the methodology and the process that went into that report, including the fact that the government in Beijing apparently helped to write it," Blinken was quoted as saying by CNN.The top expert of infectious diseases, Anthony Fauci said he would like to read the report first then decide about its credibility. "I want to read the report first and then get a feel for what they really had access to - or did not have access to," AP quoted Fauci as saying."I’d also would like to inquire as to the extent in which the people who were on that group had access directly to the data that they would need to make a determination,” he also said as per an AP report.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-to-release-long-awaited-expert-report-on-covid-19-origin-today-101617079839152.html
30-03-2021||World||Probe underway, day after cargo ship freed in Suez Canal||Experts on Tuesday boarded a colossal container ship that had been stuck for nearly a week in the Suez Canal before it was freed as questions swirled about the grounding that had shaken the global shipping industry and clogged one of the world's most vital waterways.The Ever Given was anchored in the Great Bitter Lake, a wide stretch of water halfway between the north and south ends of the canal, after salvage teams succeeded in finally freeing the skyscraper-size vessel on Monday afternoon. The ship, stuck sideways in a narrow stretch of the canal, had halted billions of dollars a day in maritime commerce.A senior canal pilot, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to journalists, told The Associated Press the experts were looking for signs of possible damage and trying to determine the cause of the vessel's grounding.Engineers were examining the engines of the Panama-flagged, Japanese-owned ship hauling goods from Asia to Europe to determine when exactly it can sail to its destination in the Netherlands, he said without elaborating.Ships stacked with containers could be seen from the city of Suez, sailing in the north-bound part of the waterway. Suez Canal service provider Leth Agencies said that over three dozen vessels that had waited for Ever Given to be freed, have already exited the canal into the Red Sea since the waterway was reopened for navigation at 6 p.m. on Monday.The shipowner, Shoei Kisen, said Tuesday that it will be part of the investigation, which would also include other parties, though it did not identify them by name. It also refused to discuss possible causes of the accident, including the alleged high speed and other errors, saying that it cannot comment on the investigation that is still going on.The company added that any damage to the ship was believed to be mostly on the bottom. Shoei Kisen said it was not immediately known whether the vessel will be repaired on site in Egypt or elsewhere, or whether it will eventually head to its initial destination of Rotterdam. That is a decision to be made by its operator, rather than the shipowner, the company said.On Monday, a flotilla of tugboats, helped by the tides, wrenched the bulbous bow of Ever Given from the canal’s sandy bank, where it had been firmly lodged since March 23. The tugs blared their horns in jubilation as they guided the Ever Given through the water after days of futility that had captivated the world, drawing scrutiny and social media ridicule.Analysts expect it could take at least another 10 days to clear the backlog on either end of the Suez Canal.The Ever Given had crashed last Tuesday into a bank of a single-lane stretch of the canal about 6 kilometers (3.7 miles) north of the southern entrance, near the city of Suez. That created a massive traffic jam that held up $9 billion a day in global trade and strained supply chains already burdened by the coronavirus pandemic.At least 367 vessels, carrying everything from crude oil to cattle, had backed up to wait to traverse the canal. Dozens of others have taken the long, alternate route around the Cape of Good Hope at Africa’s southern tip — a 5,000-kilometer (3,100-mile) detour that costs ships hundreds of thousands of dollars in fuel and other costs.The canal is a source of national pride and crucial revenue for Egypt, and President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi praised Monday's events after days of silence about the blockage.“Egyptians have succeeded in ending the crisis,” he wrote on Facebook, “despite the massive technical complexity.”The crisis over the Ever Given had cast a spotlight on the vital trade route that carries over 10% of global trade, including 7% of the world’s oil. Over 19,000 ships ferrying Chinese-made consumer goods and millions of barrels of oil and liquified natural gas flow through the artery from the Middle East and Asia to Europe and North America.The unprecedented shutdown, which raised fears of extended delays, goods shortages and rising costs for consumers, has prompted new questions about the shipping industry, an on-demand supplier for a world under pressure from the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/probe-underway-day-after-cargo-ship-freed-in-suez-canal-101617084479020.html
30-03-2021||World||Donald Trump launches official website to stay connected with supporters||Republican former President Donald Trump has launched an official website, https://www.45office.com, a platform for his supporters to stay in touch and to showcase his time in office.The 45office.com website's home page displays multiple pictures of Trump with various figures including his wife Melania, members of the military and world leaders, which were taken at multiple events during his time as president."The Office of Donald J. Trump is committed to preserving the magnificent legacy of the Trump Administration, while at the same time advancing the America First agenda," the message on website's home page read.The "About" section contains a glowing 850-word synopsis of his time in office, highlighting what Trump has often cited as his greatest achievements, including energy and border security, strengthening NATO and other international alliances, and his response to the coronavirus pandemic.It made no mention of the scandals, corruption investigations, two impeachments or the attacks on democratic institutions that framed his presidency.It was not immediately clear when the website went live.Trump retains significant influence over the Republican Party despite his loss in the 2020 election and has hinted at a possible presidential run in 2024.In an interview with Fox News earlier this month, Jason Miller, a spokesman for Trump's 2020 campaign, said Trump will launch his own social media platform in two to three months.Trump was suspended from Twitter, Facebook and other social media sites after the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-launches-official-website-to-stay-connected-with-supporters-101617083089089.html
30-03-2021||World||Myanmar protesters launch 'garbage strike' as death toll tops 500||Rubbish piled up on the streets of Myanmar's main city on Tuesday after activists launched a "garbage strike" to oppose military rule as the toll of pro-democracy protesters killed by the security forces since a Feb. 1 coup rose to more than 500.Out of 14 civilians killed on Monday, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said at least eight were in the South Dagon district of the biggest city, Yangon.Security forces in the area fired a heavier calibre weapon than usual on Monday towards protesters crouching behind a barricade of sand bags, witnesses said. It was not immediately clear what weapon it was but it was believed to be some type of grenade launcher.State television said security forces used "riot weapons" to disperse a crowd of "violent terrorist people" who were destroying a pavement and one man was wounded.A South Dagon resident said on Tuesday security forces had been cracking down in the area overnight, raising concern of more casualties."There was shooting all night," said the resident who declined to be identified.Residents found a badly burned body on a street in the morning, the resident said, adding it was not known what had happened to the person and the military took the body away.Police and a junta spokesman did not answer calls seeking comment.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged Myanmar's generals to stop the killings and repression of demonstrations.In a new tactic, protesters sought to step up a civil disobedience campaign by asking residents to leave garbage at main road intersections."This garbage strike is a strike to oppose the junta," read a poster on social media. "Everyone can join."Pictures posted on social media showed piles of rubbish building up in Yangon.The campaign comes in defiance of calls issued via loudspeakers in some neighbourhoods of Yangon on Monday urging residents to dispose of garbage properly.'Unacceptable'At least 510 civilians had been killed in nearly two months of opposition to the ouster of an elected government led by Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, and the return of military rule after a decade of tentative steps towards democracy, according to a tally by the AAPP advocacy group.The total killed on Saturday, the bloodiest day of the protests, had risen to 141, its figures showed.One of the main groups behind the protests, the General Strike Committee of Nationalities, called on Monday in an open letter for ethnic minority forces to help those standing up to the "unfair oppression" of the military.In a sign that the call may be gaining more traction, three groups - the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, the Arakan Army (AA) and Ta’ang National Liberation Army - called in a joint statement on Tuesday for the military to stop killing protesters and resolve political issues.If not, they said they would cooperate with all ethnic groups "who are joining Myanmar's spring revolution" to defend themselves."This kind of brutal killing of innocent civilians is unacceptable," AA spokesman Khine Thu Kha told Reuters in an audio message.Insurgents from different ethnic groups have battled the central government for decades for greater autonomy. Though many groups have agreed to ceasefires, fighting has flared in recent days between the army and forces in both the east and north.Heavy clashes erupted on the weekend near the Thai border between the army and fighters from Myanmar's oldest ethnic minority force, the Karen National Union (KNU), which has also denounced the coup.About 3,000 villagers fled to Thailand when military jets bombed a KNU area after a KNU force overran an army outpost and killed 10 soldiers, an activist group and media said.Thai authorities denied accounts by activist groups that more than 2,000 refugees had been forced back, but a Thai official said it was government policy for the army to block them at the border and deny access to outside aid groups.Myanmar's military has for decades justified its grip on power by saying it is the only institution capable of preserving national unity. It seized power saying that November elections won by Suu Kyi's party were fraudulent, an assertion dismissed by the election commission.US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said the United States was suspending all trade engagement with Myanmar until the return of a democratically elected government.But foreign criticism and Western sanctions have failed to sway the generals and Suu Kyi remains in detention at an undisclosed location and many other figures in her party are also in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-launch-garbage-strike-as-death-toll-tops-500-101617079070318.html
30-03-2021||World||Myanmar death toll tops 500 as protesters defy junta's forces||Myanmar's security forces have killed at least 510 civilians in nearly two months of efforts to stop protests against a Feb. 1 coup, an advocacy group said on Monday, as thousands of people took to the streets again despite the growing toll.Another 14 civilians were killed on Monday, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said, as it also updated figures for previous days. The total killed on Saturday, the bloodiest day so far, had risen to 141, figures showed.The White House condemned the killings of civilians as an "abhorrent" use of lethal force and renewed a call for the restoration of democracy, while U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged Myanmar's generals to stop the killings and repression of demonstrations.Monday's dead included at least eight in the South Dagon suburb of Myanmar's main city, Yangon, the AAPP said.Security forces there fired a much heavier-calibre weapon than usual to clear a barricade of sand bags, witnesses said and a video clip showed. It was not immediately clear what type, although a community group posted a picture of a soldier with a grenade launcher.State television said security forces used "riot weapons" to disperse a crowd of "violent terrorist people" who were destroying a pavement and one man was wounded.Police and a junta spokesman did not answer calls seeking comment.Two people were also killed in shooting in the central town of Myingyan, student leader Moe Myint Hein told Reuters.Despite the violence, crowds turned out in towns across the country, according to media and social media posts.One of the main groups behind the protests, the General Strike Committee of Nationalities, called in an open letter on Facebook for ethnic minority forces to help those standing up to the "unfair oppression" of the military."It is necessary for the ethnic armed organisations to collectively protect the people," the group said.'HEARTLESS ACT'Insurgents from different ethnic groups have battled the central government for decades for greater autonomy. Though many groups have agreed to ceasefires, fighting has flared in recent days between the army and forces in both the east and north.Heavy clashes erupted on the weekend near the Thai border between the army and fighters from Myanmar's oldest ethnic minority force, the Karen National Union (KNU).About 3,000 villagers fled to Thailand when military jets bombed a KNU area after a KNU force overran an army outpost and killed 10 people, an activist group and media said.Thai authorities denied accounts by activist groups that more than 2,000 refugees had been forced back, but a local official said it was government policy for the army to block them at the border and deny access to outside aid groups."Thailand’s heartless and illegal act must stop now," Sunai Phasuk, senior researcher on Thailand for Human Rights Watch, wrote on Twitter.Earlier, Thai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said he wanted Myanmar's latest problems to remain there, while dismissing accusations Thailand backed the junta."We don't want to have an exodus, evacuation into our territory but we will observe human rights," Prayuth told reporters in Bangkok.In Myanmar's north, fighting erupted on Sunday in the jade-mining area of Hpakant when Kachin Independence Army (KIA) fighters attacked a police station, Kachinwaves media reported.GRIP ON POWERBoth the KNU and KIA have expressed support for the anti-coup movement and called on the army stop the violence against civilian protesters.Myanmar's military has for decades justified its grip on power by saying it is the only institution capable of preserving national unity. It seized power saying that November elections won by Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi's party were fraudulent, an assertion dismissed by the election commission.Suu Kyi remains in detention at an undisclosed location and many other figures in her party are also in custody.When asked for his message to Myanmar's generals, Guterres told reporters: "Stop the killings, stop the repression of the demonstrations, release the political prisoners, and return power to those that have legitimate right to exercise it."U.N. Special Rapporteur for Myanmar Tom Andrews said the army was carrying out "mass murder". U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai said the United States was suspending all trade engagement with Myanmar until the return of a democratically elected government.But foreign criticism and Western sanctions have failed to sway the generals.China and India have declined to condemn the coup and Russia has maintained its close ties with a visit by a Deputy Defence Minister Alexander Fomin and a pledge to beef up military ties. The Kremlin said Russia's long and constructive ties with Myanmar did not signify its approval of "tragic events" there.(Reporting by Reuters Staff; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason and Steve Holland in Washington and Steve Scherer in Ottawa, Writing by Ed Davies, Robert Birsel; Editing by Stephen Coates, Nick Macfie, William Maclean)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-death-toll-tops-500-as-protesters-defy-junta-s-forces-101617072054758.html
30-03-2021||World||Canada suspends use of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine for those under 55||Canadian health authorities have suspended the administration of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccines to those below the age of 55 years due to growing concerns that the shot could be linked to the formation of blood clots. The move followed a recommendation from the National Advisory Committee on Immunisation (NACI).Health Canada said in a statement the action came in the light of information being reported from Europe about additional cases of “very rare adverse events” of “thrombosis (blood clots) with thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) occurring after immunisation with the AstraZeneca vaccine”.Canada has so far received 500,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, all manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) under the Covishield brand name. The vaccines had arrived in the country on March 3, part of a larger two-million-dose deal that had come into effect after Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had requested his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for Covid-19 vaccine supplies during a telephone conversation on February 9. Canada has so far utilised over 60% of that tranche, which comes to more than 300,000 doses, according to health authorities. Health Canada, however, clarified that till date “no cases of these events (side effects such as possible blood clots) have been reported in Canada”.Health Canada is issuing “additional terms and conditions” to SII and its Canadian partner Verity Pharmaceuticals in the Greater Toronto Area. “These will include a requirement that the manufacturers conduct a detailed assessment of the benefits and risks of the vaccine by age and sex in the Canadian context,” the agency said in a statement. The information sought will “support the ongoing evaluation of these rare blood clotting events” and allow Health Canada to “determine if there are specific groups of people who may be at higher risk”.Health Canada said it is in discussion with AstraZeneca on this “evolving issue”. “We need to take a pause and look and examine the evolving nature of what’s happening in Europe,” Canada’s deputy chief public health officer Dr Howard Njoo told reporters.Health Canada also said it “will assess this information when it is received and will determine if additional regulatory actions are necessary”.Njoo said those who were vaccinated 20 days earlier and didn’t suffer any adverse reaction were safe, but if those more recently administered with the AZ jab suffered such side effects, they should immediately contact their healthcare provider. NACI said symptoms to be “vigilant” about included shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, persistent abdominal pain, neurological symptoms including sudden onset of severe or persistent worsening headaches or blurred vision and skin bruising other than at the site of vaccination.In its recommendation announced earlier in the day, NACI said the vaccine “should not be used in adults under 55 years of age at this time while the safety signal of Vaccine-Induced Prothrombotic Immune Thrombocytopenia (VIPIT) following vaccination with AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine is investigated further”.Cases identified in this regard, it pointed out, “have been primarily in women under the age of 55 years; although cases in men have also been reported and have mostly occurred between four and 16 days after receipt of vaccine”.NACI said that based on information from the European Medicines Agency on March 18, it had earlier been estimated at about 1 per 1 million people, but a higher rate of 1 per 100,000 was reported by the Paul-Ehrlich Institut in Germany this month.“Decisions” about the administration of a second dose of the AZ vaccine to those below 55 “will be determined based on the latest evidence and research”, the committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-suspends-use-of-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-for-those-under-55-101617079548293.html
30-03-2021||World||Chinese consul-general slams Trudeau, calls him 'running dog' of US||Li Yang, the Chinese Consul General in Rio de Janeiro, has slammed Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau allegedly for ruining the friendly ties between the two countries.He alleged that Trudeau has turned Canada into a "running dog of the United States"."Boy, your greatest achievement is to have ruined the friendly relations between China and Canada, and have turned Canada into a running dog of the US. Spendthrift!!!" Li Yang tweeted on Sunday.This comes a day after China had announced sanctions against two American religious-rights officials and a Canadian MP in response to western countries' sanctions on Beijing over the issue of human rights abuses in Xinjiang province.Those targeted by the new sanctions by China include Gayle Manchin, chairwoman of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom, and its vice-chairman Tony Perkins; Canadian MP Michael Chong and members of the Canadian Commons subcommittee on international human rights, South China Morning Post reported.However, the United States condemned China's sanctions and said that Beijing's attempt to silence criticism of human rights abuse in Xinjiang invites international scrutiny.Taking to Twitter, US Secretary Antony Blinken said, "We condemn the People's Republic of China's sanctions on two members of the independent and bipartisan @USCIRF (US Commission on International Religious Freedom). Beijing's attempt to silence criticism of serious human rights abuse in Xinjiang only contributes to growing international scrutiny."Recently in a press briefing, Trudeau slammed China's treatment of two of its nationals there, saying it threatens both 'respect for the rule of law' and Beijing's relationships with Western nations."China needs to understand that it is not just about two Canadians. It is about the respect for the rule of law and relationships with a broad range of Western countries that is at play with the arbitrary detention and the coercive diplomacy they have engaged in," said Trudeau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-consul-general-slams-trudeau-calls-canada-running-dog-of-us-101617079141438.html
30-03-2021||World||'Deadly serious': Biden, CDC director warn of virus rebound if nation lets up||President Joe Biden and a top health official warned that too many Americans are declaring virus victory too quickly, appealing for mask requirements and other restrictions to be maintained or restored to stave off a “fourth surge” of Covid-19. The head of the CDC said she had a feeling of “impending doom” if people keep easing off.The double dose of warnings on Monday came even as Biden laid out hopeful new steps to expand coronavirus vaccinations, with all adults to become eligible over the next five weeks. Biden announced plans to expand the number of retail pharmacies that are administering vaccines, and investments to help Americans get to vaccination sites. But the optimism was tempered by stark warnings about the potential for another wave of cases.“This is deadly serious,” Biden said, urging governors to reinstate mask mandates and other restrictions that some states have been easing.Hours earlier, during a virtual White House health briefing, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, grew emotional as she reflected on her experience treating Covid-19 patients who are alone at the end of their lives.“We have so much to look forward to, so much promise and potential of where we are and so much reason for hope," she said. "But right now, I'm scared.”“I'm going to lose the script, and I'm going to reflect on the recurring feeling I have of impending doom."Cases of the virus are up about 10% over the past week from the previous week, to about 60,000 cases per day, with both hospitalizations and deaths ticking up as well, Walensky said. She warned that without immediate action the US could follow European countries into another spike in cases and suffer needless deaths.“I have to share the truth, and I have to hope and trust you will listen,” she said.Later Monday, Biden addressed the nation from the White House, declaring, “If we let our guard down now, we can see the virus getting worse, not better. People are letting up on precautions, which is a very bad thing.”Biden delivered a direct appeal to governors, state and local leaders to reinstate mask-wearing requirements if they have lifted them, and said he encouraged leaders to pause plans to further ease virus-related restrictions.“Please, this is not politics, reinstate the mandate if you let it down," he said.Biden announced that by April 19 at least 90% of the adult U.S. population would be eligible for vaccination — and would have access to a vaccination site within 5 miles of home. Quick vaccination would still depend on supply.Biden had previously directed that all states make all adults eligible for vaccination by May 1, but many have moved to lift eligibility requirements sooner in anticipation of supply increases.Meanwhile, the White House is moving to double the number of pharmacies participating in the federal retail pharmacy program — it has emerged as among the most efficient avenues for administering vaccines — and increase the number of doses for them to deliver. Retail pharmacies are located relatively close to most Americans and have experience delivering vaccines like flu shots.Biden announced that the US is expecting delivery of 33 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine this week — including 11 million of the single-dose Johnson & Johnson shot.More than 1 in 5 adults and nearly 50% of senior American are fully vaccinated, according to data from the CDC. On Thursday, the UD set new single-day record for shots in arms: more than 3.2 million.“Now is not the time to let down," Biden said. “Now's not the time to celebrate. It is time to do what we do best as a country: our duty, our jobs, take care of one another.""Fight to the finish,” he added. "Don't let up now.”Walensky and Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, appealed to elected officials, community leaders and everyday Americans to maintain social distancing measures and mask wearing."We are doing things prematurely,” Fauci said, referring to moves to ease up on restrictions. Walensky appealed to Americans, “Just please hold on a little while longer.”She added: “We are not powerless, we can change this trajectory of the pandemic."Walensky pointed to an uptick in travel and loosening virus restrictions for the increase in cases. “People want to be done with this. I, too, want to be done with this,” she said."We've seen surges after every single holiday,” she reiterated: “Please limit travel to essential travel for the time being.”The White House, meanwhile is ruling out the creation of a national “vaccine passport” for Americans to verify their immunization status, saying it is leaving it to the private sector to develop a system for people show they've been vaccinated. Some other countries are establishing national databases to allow vaccinated people to resume normal activities.“We do know that there is a segment of the population that is concerned that the government will play too heavy-handed of a role in monitoring their vaccinations," said White House Covid-19 adviser Andy Slavitt. He said officials are worried that “it would discourage people” from getting vaccinated if the federal government was involved.The administration, instead, is developing guidelines for such passports, touching on privacy, accuracy and equity, but the White House has not said when those guidelines will be ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deadly-serious-biden-cdc-director-warn-of-virus-rebound-if-nation-lets-up-101617078104862.html
30-03-2021||World||China's parliament approves Hong Kong electoral system reform plan||Beijing approved a sweeping overhaul of Hong Kong's electoral system on Tuesday, a senior politician who works with China's parliament on matters relating to the former British colony's mini-constitution, told Reuters.The measures are part of Beijing's efforts to consolidate its increasingly authoritarian grip over the global financial hub following the imposition of a national security law in June, which critics see as a tool to crush dissent.Maria Tam said Hong Kong's election committee, in charge of selecting the city's chief executive, will pick 40 representatives of the city's legislature as part of the reforms approved by the National People's Congress Standing Committee.The number of directly elected representatives to the city's legislature will fall to 20 from 35 as part of the reforms, Tam added. The size of the legislature will increase to 90 from 70 currently.Beijing will also increase the size of the electoral committee from 1,200 to 1,500, as part of the restructuring.Chinese authorities have said the shake-up is aimed at getting rid of "loopholes and deficiencies" that threatened national security during anti-government unrest in 2019 and to ensure only "patriots" run the city.The measures are the most significant overhaul of Hong Kong's political structure since it returned to Chinese rule in 1997 and alter the size and composition of the legislature and electoral committee in favour of pro-Beijing figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-parliament-approves-hong-kong-electoral-system-reform-plan-101617075101664.html
30-03-2021||World||Mediator, France’s biggest modern health scandal, explained||A Paris court on Monday found pharmaceutical giant Servier guilty in a case which involved Mediator, said to be a medicine for diabetes and weight loss. The case is one of the biggest health scandals in France and involved thousands of plaintiffs ever since the trial opened in September 2019. With nearly 400 lawyers and thousands of defendants taking part in the trial, it was spread across five rooms in the Paris courthouse.The company Servier, which is headquartered in a Paris suburb and employs nearly 22,000 people worldwide, generated around 4.6 billion euros in revenue in 2020. It was accused of prioritising profits over the lives of patients. Jacques Servier, the company's CEO and founder, was indicted early in the trial but died in 2014.What happened in the scandal?The Mediator drug which is at the heart of the scandal was in the market for 33 years and is said to have been used by around 5 million people, according to a study in 2010. Originally a medication for diabetes, the drug was also widely prescribed for reducing weight as it was considered an appetite suppressant. The drug is suspected to have caused 1,000-2,000 deaths as doctors linked it to heart and lung problems.Read more: A statement by Nike, H&M on Uighurs. One year later, a backlash by BeijingWhen were the first concerns raised?In France, the drug was flagged as early as 1998 by a doctor. Servier also faced questions about the side effects of the drug from the medical authorities in Switzerland, Spain and Italy which led to the company withdrawing the drug in those markets between 1997 and 2004. In France, which was the main market of the drug, the company suspended sales in 2009; 10 years after the first cases came to light. This was prompted by an independent investigation into the side effects of the drug.What happened in the trial?Servier was accused of manslaughter, involuntary injury, fraud and influence trading in the trial along with colluding with the national medicines agency and hiding the dangers of the drug. Although, lawyers for Servier argued that the company was not aware of the risks that Mediator posed before 2009. The company also reiterated that it never said that Mediator could be used as an appetite suppressant.What did the court rule?The court found Servier guilty of “aggravated fraud” and “involuntary manslaughter” and fined the company €2.7 million (approximately $3.2 million) over the scandal. France’s medicines regulator ANSM (L’Agence nationale de sécurité du médicament et des produits de santé) was also fined €303,000 (approximately $356,000) and the company’s former deputy boss, Jean-Philippe Seta, was handed a prison sentence of four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mediator-france-s-biggest-modern-health-scandal-explained-101617078561403.html
30-03-2021||World||Pfizer, Moderna Covid-19 vaccines highly effective after first shot: Study||Covid-19 vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc with BioNTech SE and Moderna Inc reduced risk of infection by 80% two weeks or more after the first of two shots, according to data from a real-world US study released on Monday.The risk of infection fell 90% by two weeks after the second shot, the study of nearly 4,000 US healthcare personnel and first responders found.The results validate earlier studies that had indicated the vaccines begin to work soon after a first dose, and confirm that they also prevent asymptomatic infections.Some countries dealing with limited vaccine supplies have pushed back schedules for second doses with the hope of getting some protection to more people. US public health officials, however, continue to recommend two doses be given on the schedule authorized by regulators based on clinical trials.The study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) evaluated the vaccines' ability to protect against infection, including infections that did not cause symptoms. Previous clinical trials by the companies evaluated their vaccine's efficacy in preventing illness from Covid-19, but those studies would have missed asymptomatic infections.The findings from of the real-world use of these messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines also confirm the efficacy demonstrated in the large controlled clinical trials conducted before they received emergency use authorizations from the US Food and Drug Administration.The study looked at the effectiveness of the mRNA vaccines among 3,950 participants in six states over a 13-week period from Dec. 14, 2020 to March 13, 2021. About 74% had at least one shot, and tests were conducted weekly to catch any infections without symptoms."The authorized mRNA Covid-19 vaccines provided early, substantial real-world protection against infection for our nation's healthcare personnel, first responders, and other frontline essential workers," CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said in a statement.The new mRNA technology is a synthetic form of a natural chemical messenger being used to instruct cells to make proteins that mirror part of the novel coronavirus. That teaches the immune system to recognize and attack the actual virus.The CDC study comes weeks after real-world data from Israel suggested that the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine was 94% effective in preventing asymptomatic infections.Britain and Canada were among the countries that have allowed extended gaps between doses of up to three or four months. UK authorities said in January that data supported its decision for a 12-week gap between doses.Pfizer and its German partner have warned that they had no evidence to prove that. In their pivotal trials, there was a three-week gap between Pfizer shots and four weeks for the Moderna vaccine.The CDC said the study results on Monday provide reassurance that people start to develop protection from the vaccine two weeks after their first dose, although the agency reiterated that the greatest protection was seen among those who had received both recommended doses of the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-moderna-covid-19-vaccines-highly-effective-after-first-shot-study-101617071651194.html
30-03-2021||World||'Miss me yet?': Trump talks about self in speech at couple's wedding||Former US president Donald Trump stole the spotlight at a wedding in his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida over the weekend, using a congratulatory speech to mainly talk about himself and assail his successor."Do you miss me yet?" a tuxedo-clad Trump asked at Saturday night's function, according to video posted on celebrity gossip site TMZ.His question was met with whoops of delight and applause from guests at the wedding, between longtime Trump friends Megan Noderer and John Arrigo, according to Business Insider.Trump used his moment in the nuptial limelight to blast President Joe Biden on several issues including the US-Mexico border, China and Iran."What's happening to the kids? They are living in squalor, they are living like nobody has ever seen," Trump said, referring to conditions on the border.Since Biden took office, a surge of migrants including unaccompanied minors has tried to cross into the US.Trump's administration drew criticism for dividing families at the border and keeping children in what some critics described as "cages."He also referenced the November election, once again raising questions as to the integrity of the result even though he lost by seven million votes and all his attempts to challenge the outcome failed.At the end of the former president's speech, he praised the newlyweds."You are a great and beautiful couple," the 74-year-old businessman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/miss-me-yet-trump-talks-about-self-in-speech-at-couple-s-wedding-101617072351772.html
30-03-2021||World||Jurors shown video at ex-officer's trial in George Floyd's death||The video of George Floyd gasping for breath was essentially Exhibit A as the former Minneapolis police officer who pressed his knee on the Black man’s neck went on trial Monday on charges of murder and manslaughter.Prosecutor Jerry Blackwell showed the jurors the footage at the earliest opportunity, during opening statements, after telling them that the number to remember was 9 minutes, 29 seconds — the amount of time officer Derek Chauvin had Floyd pinned to the pavement last May.The white officer “didn’t let up" even after a handcuffed Floyd said 27 times that he couldn’t breathe and went limp, Blackwell said in the case that triggered worldwide protests, scattered violence and national soul-searching over racial justice.“He put his knees upon his neck and his back, grinding and crushing him, until the very breath — no, ladies and gentlemen — until the very life was squeezed out of him,” the prosecutor said.Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson countered by arguing: “Derek Chauvin did exactly what he had been trained to do over his 19-year career.”Floyd was fighting efforts to put him in a squad car as the crowd of onlookers around Chauvin and his fellow officers grew and became increasingly hostile, Nelson said.The defense attorney also disputed that Chauvin was to blame for Floyd’s death.Floyd, 46, had none of the telltale signs of asphyxiation and he had fentanyl and methamphetamine in his system, Nelson said. He said Floyd’s drug use, combined with his heart disease, high blood pressure and the adrenaline flowing through his body, caused a heart rhythm disturbance that killed him.“There is no political or social cause in this courtroom,” Nelson said. “But the evidence is far greater than 9 minutes and 29 seconds.”Blackwell, however, rejected the argument that Floyd’s drug use or any underlying health conditions were to blame, saying it was the officer's knee that killed him.Chauvin, 45, is charged with unintentional second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter. The most serious charge, the second-degree murder count, carries up to 40 years in prison. This is the first trial ever televised in Minnesota.Bystander Donald Williams, who said he was trained in mixed martial arts, including chokeholds, testified that Chauvin appeared to increase the pressure on Floyd's neck several times with a shimmying motion. He said he yelled to the officer that he was cutting off Floyd's blood supply.Williams recalled that Floyd’s voice grew thicker as his breathing became more labored, and he eventually stopped moving. He said he saw Floyd’s eyes roll back in his head, likening the sight to fish he had caught earlier that day.Williams said he saw Floyd “slowly fade away ... like a fish in a bag.”Earlier, Minneapolis police dispatcher Jena Scurry testified that she saw part of Floyd's arrest unfolding via a city surveillance camera and was so disturbed that she called a duty sergeant. Scurry said she grew concerned because the officers hadn’t moved after several minutes.“You can call me a snitch if you want to,” Scurry said in her call to the sergeant, which was played in court. She said she wouldn't normally call the sergeant about the use of force because it was beyond the scope of her duties, but “my instincts were telling me that something is wrong.”The video played during opening statements was posted to Facebook by a bystander who witnessed Floyd being arrested after he was accused of trying to pass a counterfeit $20 bill at a convenience store. The footage caused revulsion across the U.S. and beyond and prompted calls for the country to confront racism and police brutality.Jurors watched intently as the video played on multiple screens, with one drawing a sharp breath as Floyd said he couldn’t breathe. Chauvin sat calmly during opening statements and took notes, looking up at the video periodically.“My stomach hurts. My neck hurts. Everything hurts,” Floyd says in the video, and: “I can’t breathe, officer.” Onlookers repeatedly shout at the officer to get off Floyd, saying he is not moving, breathing or resisting. One woman, identifying herself as a city Fire Department employee, shouts at Chauvin to check Floyd’s pulse.The prosecutor said the case was “not about split-second decision-making” by a police officer but excessive force against someone who was handcuffed and not resisting.Blackwell said the Fire Department employee wanted to help but was warned off by Chauvin, who pointed Mace at her.“She wanted to check on his pulse, check on Mr. Floyd’s well-being,” the prosecutor said. “She did her best to intervene. ... She couldn’t help.”The timeline differs from the initial account submitted last May by prosecutors, who said Chauvin held his knee on Floyd’s neck for 8 minutes, 46 seconds. The time 8:46 soon became a rallying cry in the case. But it was revised during the investigation.Fourteen jurors or alternates are hearing the case — eight of them white, six of them Black or multiracial, according to the court. Only 12 will deliberate; the judge has not said which two will be alternates.Before the trial began, Floyd family attorney Ben Crump blasted the idea that the trial would be a tough test for jurors."We know that if George Floyd was a white American citizen, and he suffered this painful, tortuous death with a police officer’s knee on his neck, nobody, nobody, would be saying this is a hard case,” he said.After the day's proceedings, a few hundred protesters gathered outside the courthouse. Speakers called for justice for Floyd and others whose lives were lost in encounters with police. One speaker, Jaylani Hussein, screamed: “Police officers are not above the law!”The downtown Minneapolis courthouse has been fortified with concrete barriers, fences and barbed and razor wire. City and state leaders are determined to prevent a repeat of the riots that followed Floyd’s death, with National Guard troops already mobilized.Chauvin’s trial is being livestreamed over the objections of the prosecution. Judge Peter Cahill ordered that cameras be allowed largely because of the pandemic and the required social distancing, which left almost no room for spectators in the courtroom.Three other former officers go on trial in August because Cahill ruled there wasn't enough space to try all four at once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jurors-shown-video-at-ex-officer-s-trial-in-george-floyd-s-death-101617070201521.html
30-03-2021||World||North Korea's Kim Yo Jong calls South's president 'a parrot raised by America'||North Korea called South Korea’s president “a parrot raised by America” Tuesday, resuming its trademark derisive rhetoric against its rivals amid renewed animosities on the Korean Peninsula.Kim Yo Jong, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, issued the latest verbal salvo after South Korean President Moon Jae-in criticized the North’s ballistic missile launches last week. She said Moon’s “illogical and brazen-faced” comments echoed the US stance.“We can hardly repress astonishment at his shamelessness,” Kim Yo Jong said in a statement carried by the North's state media. “He cannot feel sorry for being ‘praised’ as a parrot raised by America.”The United States, South Korea and the United Nations all condemned the North's missile launches, the first of their kind in a year, as a violation of U.N. Security Council resolutions.On Saturday, Ri Pyong Chol, a top deputy to Kim Jong Un, called President Joe Biden’s criticism of the North’s missile tests a provocation and encroachment on the North’s right to self-defense. Ri said it was “gangster-like logic” for Washington to criticize the North’s launches while the U.S. freely tested intercontinental ballistic missiles.North Korea has a history of using colorfully harsh insults against rivals.Before entering now-stalled nuclear talks with the United States in 2018, Kim Jong Un called then President Donald Trump “the mentally deranged US dotard” after Trump called him a “little rocket man.”In 2019, North Korea called Biden, then a presidential hopeful, a “rabid dog” and a “fool of low IQ” when it criticized his comments about its leadership.Some experts say North Korea’s recent missile launches and tough language are meant to increase pressure on the Biden administration as it’s shaping its policy on North Korea. They say North Korea eventually wants the United States to relax sanctions on the North while accepting it as a nuclear weapons state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-yo-jong-calls-south-s-president-a-parrot-raised-by-america-101617068557441.html
30-03-2021||World||'Self-promoters': Trump lashes out at Covid experts including Anthony Fauci||Former US president Donald Trump on Monday lashed out at two of the country's leading figures in the coronavirus battle after they criticized his handling of the pandemic.In an angry statement, Trump described Anthony Fauci and Deborah Birx as "two self-promoters trying to reinvent history to cover for their bad instincts and faulty recommendations, which I fortunately almost always overturned."Trump accused Fauci, who leads the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, of trying to take credit for vaccine development, and "moving the goalposts to make himself look as good as possible."The former president added that Birx, who was his coronavirus task force coordinator, was "a proven liar with very little credibility left."The bitter outburst came after Fauci told CNN how shocked he had been when Trump last April called for states to "liberate" themselves as experts pleaded with Americans to obey shutdown orders.Birx said in an interview that -- while working at the White House -- she had received a "very uncomfortable" phone call from Trump after speaking publicly about the rapid spread of Covid-19.She also said "the federal government did not provide consistent messaging to the American people and that is fault number one."The interviews with Fauci and Birx were part of a CNN documentary on the pandemic.Birx retired after a bruising time at the White House that tarnished her once stellar reputation.Fauci, 80, is now the White House's top pandemic advisor under President Joe Biden after Trump's election defeat."Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx moved far too slowly, and if it were up to them we'd currently be locked in our basements as our country suffered through a financial depression," Trump said.He also attacked Fauci's ability to throw a baseball, described him as "king of the flip-flops," and said "Birx was a terrible medical advisor, which is why I seldom followed her advice."Trump, who makes a habit of strong counter-attacks to any criticism, has kept a relatively low profile since leaving the White House and moving to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida.Under Trump, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the United States soared to by far the world's highest toll as he resisted face masks, shutdowns and other measures to contain the pandemic.Biden has quickly ramped up vaccine distribution but also warned that the pandemic, which has killed 549,000 people in the US, remains a major threat as data shows another potential surge in infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/selfpromoters-trump-lashes-out-at-covid-experts-including-anthony-fauci-101617068266998.html
30-03-2021||World||Another woman accuses Governor Cuomo of sexual misconduct||An upstate New York woman said Monday that New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo grabbed her face and kissed her cheek at her home during a visit to inspect local flood damage, becoming the latest woman to accuse the embattled governor of inappropriate behavior.Sherry Vill made the allegations during a Zoom news conference with attorney Gloria Allred, describing a spring 2017 visit to her Rochester-area home after flooding near Lake Ontario.Cuomo kissed her cheek in front of family members while inspecting her flood-damaged home in what Vill, who has been married for decades, felt was a “highly sexual manner.” He kissed her cheek again outside her home in a “very aggressive manner,” Vill said."I felt like I was being manhandled,” said Vill, now 55. Vill, who is about 5 feet (1.5 meters) tall, said the governor towered over her.There was no immediate comment from the Cuomo administration.A series of women, some who worked for Cuomo, have accused him of making inappropriate comments about their looks, giving them unwanted hugs or kisses, or making comments they interpreted as gauging their interest in an affair. Among his accusers are two aides who still work in the governor’s office. One, who has yet to speak publicly, reportedly said the governor groped her at the Executive Mansion last summer.Cuomo has denied touching anyone inappropriately but said he’s sorry if he made anyone uncomfortable. The Democratic governor has brushed off widespread calls for his resignation and asked that people wait for the results of an investigation overseen by state Attorney General Letitia James.Allred said Vill would cooperate with James' investigation.The state Assembly is conducting a separate investigation into whether there are grounds to impeach the governor.The accusation Monday has similarities to allegations made by Anna Ruch, who told The New York Times that Cuomo touched her face and back and asked to kiss her moments after they met at a wedding reception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/another-woman-accuses-governor-cuomo-of-sexual-misconduct-101617064490453.html
30-03-2021||World||Now, Ghislaine Maxwell charged with sex-trafficking a 14-year-old||Ghislaine Maxwell, the British socialite and former girlfriend of Jeffrey Epstein, faces two new criminal counts and a new accuser who prosecutors say was about 14 when she was groomed as a victim of the duo’s alleged sex-trafficking scheme.The revised indictment raises the already steep stakes for Maxwell, 59, who could spend decades in prison if convicted. Her lawyers have argued that the government’s case is weak because it’s based on decades-old allegations from three women. On Monday, prosecutors added more heft to it, expanding the time frame of the alleged crimes from a few years in the 1990s to a decade and directly accusing Maxwell of sex trafficking of minors stretching into 2004.They had already accused her of engaging in a conspiracy with Epstein by helping recruit and groom victims and of participating in some of the alleged abuse. The new sex trafficking charge alone carries a maximum statutory prison sentence of 40 years.The girl, identified as Minor Victim-4, brought other girls to Epstein to provide him with sexualized massages, and Maxwell and other Epstein employees paid them hundreds of dollars, according to the new indictment. The government says some of the alleged crimes occurred at Maxwell’s London townhouse.Maxwell, who is fighting the charges, is scheduled to go on trial on July 12. Her lawyer Laura Menninger didn’t reply to an email seeking comment on the revised indictment.‘Normalizing’ behaviorProsecutors have said Maxwell played a critical role in “normalizing” the activity by undressing in front of the girls and taking them shopping and to the movies. Minor Victim-4 was about 14 when she met Epstein and Maxwell in Palm Beach, Florida, in 2001, prosecutors say. They claim Maxwell groomed her for sexual encounters with Epstein over a three-year period.The other new charge is sex trafficking conspiracy, for a total of eight counts, including enticing a minor to travel to engage in illegal sex acts.Read the new indictment hereLast week Maxwell, who is in a federal lockup in Brooklyn, New York, lost a third attempt to be released from jail, on a $28.5 million bond and an offer to relinquish her French and British citizenship. She has been in custody since her July 2 arrest in Bradford, New Hampshire, after the judge in her case concluded that she’s a flight risk.Epstein was found dead in a Manhattan federal jail in 2019 while awaiting trial on his own sex trafficking charges. His death was ruled a suicide.The case is US v. Maxwell, 20-cr-00330, US District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/now-ghislaine-maxwell-charged-with-sex-trafficking-a-14yearold-101617062661093.html
30-03-2021||World||Brazil: President Jair Bolsonaro overhauls cabinet amid Covid-19 surge||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro overhauled his government Monday, changing six cabinet members including the foreign, defense and justice ministers, as the far-right leader faced mounting pressure over a deadly surge of Covid-19.Bolsonaro, who comes up for re-election in October 2022, has drawn backlash with his handling of the pandemic in hard-hit Brazil, where the average daily death toll has nearly quadrupled since the start of the year to more than 2,600, pushing hospitals to breaking point.The shake-up comes the week after Bolsonaro replaced former health minister Eduardo Pazuello, an army general with no medical experience, with cardiologist Marcelo Queiroga, his fourth health minister of the pandemic.While speculation had been swirling that Bolsonaro was about to fire foreign minister Ernesto Araujo, who faced criticism for the government's problems securing more Covid-19 vaccines, many of the other changes came as a surprise.The president named army General Luiz Eduardo Ramos as his new chief of staff, career diplomat Carlos Franca as his new foreign minister, General Walter Souza Braga Netto -- the outgoing chief of staff -- as defense minister, and police commander Anderson Torres as justice minister.He also appointed a new attorney general, outgoing justice minister Andre Mendonca, and government secretary, Congresswoman Flavia Arruda -- the third woman in his 22-member cabinet.'Administration in crisis'Two of the former cabinet members -- defense minister Fernando Azevedo e Silva and foreign minister Araujo -- had been in their posts since Bolsonaro took office in January 2019.Azevedo e Silva's exit was unexpected, and speculation swirled over the reason.Bolsonaro has been on a purge, amid growing dissatisfaction -- including from allies in the business sector -- over his handling of a pandemic that has now claimed more than 312,000 lives in Brazil, the second-highest death toll worldwide, after the United States."The government is extremely fragile, as demonstrated by the instability at the top," said professor Mauricio Santoro of Rio de Janeiro State University (UERJ)."It's safe to say there is a crisis in the administration, beyond one or two ministries."Vaccine row Bolsonaro, who has long defied expert advice on Covid-19, now appears to fear his attacks on lockdowns, face masks and particularly vaccines could be a liability heading into next year's campaign.Brazil is struggling to deal with an explosion of infections, blamed partly on a local variant that is believed to be more contagious, at a time when vaccines are finally helping some other countries bring the pandemic under control.Vaccine shortages have put the government far off pace to meet the health ministry's target of immunizing the full adult population by the end of the year.Araujo, a key member of the government's so-called "ideological wing," admired former US president Donald Trump, and shared his hardline supporters' disgust with "globalism.""Globalists," he said last October, "are taking a disease caused by a virus, Covid, and trying to turn it into a huge prescriptive apparatus to reform and control the entire planet's social and economic relations."His vaccine diplomacy, or lack thereof, had come under attack, including during an appearance before Congress last week.The administration faces questions over its rejection of an offer last August to buy 70 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine -- which Bolsonaro joked could "turn you into an alligator" -- and its tense relations with Brazil's top trade partner, China.Chinese-developed CoronaVac is currently the most-administered Covid-19 vaccine in Brazil, but only because the government of Sao Paulo state defied resistance from the Bolsonaro administration to acquire it.Araujo, who took up the foreign minister post vowing to "resist Maoist China" and its plan "to dominate the world," had repeatedly provoked squabbles with Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-president-jair-bolsonaro-overhauls-cabinet-amid-covid-19-surge-101617060686152.html
30-03-2021||World||Poll finds Britons worry less about Covid-19, Brexit but new concerns grow||People in Britain are much less worried about the coronavirus pandemic than they were just a month ago as the country makes headway with its vaccination programme, an opinion poll showed on Tuesday.The proportion of respondents who cited Covid-19 as a big issue for the country dropped to 49% from 72% in February although it remained the single biggest concern, polling firm Ipsos MORI said.Britain has suffered Europe's biggest Covid-19 death toll but has raced ahead of other European countries with its coronavirus vaccinations this year.Prime Minister Boris Johnson, along with his counterparts in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, is gradually easing restrictions."Concern is notably lower among older age groups, which may suggest the vaccination campaign is having an impact on public perceptions – although worries are also lower among the youngest Britons who will not yet have been vaccinated," said Mike Clemence, associate research director at Ipsos MORI.Brexit also fell down the list of worries and was mentioned as a concern by 26% of respondents, its joint-lowest level since the referendum decision to leave the European Union in 2016.But there were significant increases in concerns about the health service, poverty, education and housing, the poll showed.Ipsos MORI interviewed 1,009 people between March 5 and March 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poll-finds-britons-worry-less-about-covid-19-brexit-but-new-concerns-grow-101617060032071.html
30-03-2021||World||'Well known global brands' may be linked to rights abuses in China's Xinjiang region: UN panel||Scores of Chinese and foreign companies may be involved in human trafficking, forced labour and other human rights abuses in China's Xinjiang region, a United Nations working group said on Monday."Several experts appointed by the Human Rights Council said they had received information that connected over 150 domestic Chinese and foreign domiciled companies to serious allegations of human rights abuses against Uyghur workers," South China Morning Post quoting the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) said.No specific companies were named, but the working group mentioned the sectors of agribusiness, tech, automotive, and textile and garment."Uyghur workers have reportedly been subjected to exploitative working and abusive living conditions that may constitute arbitrary detention, human trafficking, forced labour and enslavement by the use of forced labour," according to the statement about findings gathered by the OHCHR's Working Group on Business and Human Rights.The independent sources used by the UN working group said that "hundreds of thousands of members of the Uyghur minority have been held in 're-education' facilities" and that "many have also reportedly been forcibly transferred to work in factories in the Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region and in other Chinese provinces".Members of the working group have written to China's government, businesses whose supply chains include entities in Xinjiang, and the governments of 13 other countries where the companies are headquartered "to ensure that businesses under their territory and/or jurisdiction respect all human rights throughout their operations," it said. The statement did not name the other counties.The UN group has joined the list of countries that have asked China to address reports of human rights abuses in Xinjiang.China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination.Recently, several companies such as H&M and Nike (NKE) said they were concerned about allegations that forced labour has been used to produce cotton in Xinjiang.Chinese media has called for Chinese boycotts of Swedish multinational retailer H&M, sports apparel powerhouses Nike and Adidas; New Balance; Burberry and other members of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) that have voiced concerns or pledged not to use supply chain components produced in Xinjiang, South China Morning Post reported.Swedish multinational H&M, the world's second-largest clothing retailer, has been pulled from major e-commerce stores in China and blocked by several major navigation, review and rating apps.Dozens of Chinese celebrities have terminated contracts or said they would cut ties with these brands, including Nike, Adidas, Puma, Converse, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, and Uniqlo -- a move lauded by state media.On Friday, the Biden administration said America is keen to ensure that US companies adhere to US law and worker concerns and "don't in any way support forced labour"The tensions between Beijing and western countries have escalated recently after the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom joined the European Union (EU) imposed sanctions on Chinese officials involved in human rights violations.The sanctions blacklisted former and current officials in the Xinjiang region--Zhu Hailun, Wang Junzheng, Wang Mingshan and Chen Mingguo--for alleged abuses, which have sparked international outrage.The coordinated move also targeted the state-run Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps.In retaliation to the bloc's sanctions, China has decided to introduce sanctions against 10 European Union officials and four European organisations after accusing them of spreading lies and false information about the Xinjiang region.On Friday, China introduced sanctions on nine UK citizens and four entities in response to London's sanctions on Beijing over the issue of human rights abuses in Xinjiang province.The dispute has seen a flurry of activity in diplomatic circles, with China and European nations summoning each other's ambassadors to answer for the move and responses to it, according to the South China Morning Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/well-known-global-brands-may-be-linked-to-rights-abuses-in-china-s-xinjiang-region-un-panel-101617058558401.html
30-03-2021||World||US President Joe Biden to announce transportation-focused stimulus on Wednesday||President Joe Biden will on Wednesday unveil a transportation-focused plan of initiatives to rebuild US infrastructure, as part of his broader long-term economic program, the president of the United Steelworkers said.The announcement in Pittsburgh will focus on efforts to rebuild American roads, bridges, waterways and dams over the next decade, according to Tom Conway, the USW president, who said he has discussed the matter with the administration.The president will be presenting two “equally” critical components of his program in coming weeks, with investments in childcare, healthcare, education, and other proposals to bolster middle-class America to be laid out in April, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday.Key to the transport component coming on Wednesday will be to focus on longer-term projects -- giving companies the confidence to know they can invest, Conway said in a phone interview.“It’s going to take that sort of long-term investment, and the alternative to not doing it is going to be far more costly in the long run than if we do,” Conway said. He added that the labor union is on board with what Biden will announce.“The country’s infrastructure has been crumbling for years and we know it needs investment,” he said. “This ought to be a bipartisan initiative because the infrastructure supplies everybody, regardless of party.”Conway said that the administration is looking to spend $3 trillion overall on the long-term economic program, but that he expects Wednesday’s announcement on transportation will only be half of that number or maybe even less. Further infrastructure elements, like retro-fitting schools, will come later, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-to-announce-transportation-focused-stimulus-on-wednesday-101617056691009.html
30-03-2021||World||SolarWinds hack: US weighs ‘seen and unseen’ responses to major cyber attack||The White House is in “the closing stages” of deciding how to respond to a hack that compromised popular software by Texas-based SolarWinds Corp., according to Jake Sullivan, President Joe Biden’s national security adviser.Sullivan said the US is considering “seen and unseen” responses to the attack, suspected of being carried out by Russian hackers and affecting at least 100 US companies and nine federal agencies.“We’re in the closing stages of that process with options that will be presented at the highest levels here,” Sullivan said in an interview with Bloomberg News.While Sullivan declined to elaborate, the US response could include sanctions, expelling Russian diplomats, indicting the suspected hackers or some kind of covert cyber retaliation against Russia. However, there’s growing frustration among lawmakers that those methods -- used in response to previous hacks -- haven’t deterred US adversaries from attacking its computer networks.The administration continues to be focused intensively on remediation, Sullivan said. “Meaning, making sure that we’ve address the vulnerabilities of federal networks in particular,” Sullivan said.The breach -- along with another of Microsoft Corp.’s Exchange email software -- is an early test for Biden and his cybersecurity team.In December, cybersecurity analysts discovered a sprawling espionage campaign in which hackers compromised SolarWinds software, inserting malicious code into updates. As many as 18,000 customers received the malicious updates, though far fewer were targeted for follow-on attacks by the suspected Russian hackers.This month, Microsoft revealed that suspected Chinese hackers exploited flaws in the code of Exchange to breach customer email systems. Cybersecurity experts say the attack had tens of thousands of victims.The administration is working with Microsoft to encourage customers to patch their systems, and the nine compromised federal agencies are supposed to complete internal reviews of the breaches this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/solarwinds-hack-us-weighs-seen-and-unseen-responses-to-major-cyber-attack-101617055862155.html
30-03-2021||World||Increase in child migrants passing through dangerous Darien Gap between Panama, Colombia: UN||The number of child migrants passing through the perilous Darien Gap between Colombia and Panama has risen dramatically, the UN child welfare agency said Monday.While underage migrants made up only about 2% of those using the jungle corridor in 2017, in 2020 children comprised 25% of the migrants making the hard trek on foot, UNICEF's report said.The Darien Gap is a 60-mile (97-kilometer) stretch of roadless jungle that provides the only land route north out of South America. There is little food or shelter on the week-long trek and bandits and wild animals prey on migrants.Most migrants making the hike are from Haiti or Cuba, with smaller numbers from African nations such as Cameroon and Congo and South Asian countries India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.“I have seen women coming out of the jungle with babies in their arms after walking for more than seven days without water, food or any type of protection,” said Jean Gough, the UNICEF regional director who made a two-day trip to the zone.“These families go beyond their limits and put their lives at risk, often without realizing the risks they are taking,” Gough said.While only 109 children made the journey in 2017, that swelled to 3,956 in 2019. The coronavirus pandemic and travel restriction reduced both adult and child numbers in 2020, with the latter falling to 1,653.Over the last four years, a total of at least 46,500 migrants had made the trek, and in total for those years they included 6,240 minors.The US government has been facing an increase in the number of unaccompanied minors and families with children arriving at its southern border in recent months. Last week there were around 18,000 unaccompanied children in government custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/increase-in-child-migrants-passing-through-dangerous-darien-gap-between-panama-colombia-un-101617054275584.html
30-03-2021||World||Tennessee floods claim fifth victim; more rain on the way||Flash flooding in Tennessee has claimed a fifth victim after authorities said a man drove his car around barricades and apparently drowned.The latest death occurred Sunday night in Ashland City, just west of Nashville, when the man in his 60s ignored a sign warning of flooding and went into high water, Cheatham County Emergency Management Director Edwin Hogan told news outlets. The man's name was not immediately released.Four others died in Nashville and dozens more had to be rescued after the city received more than seven inches of rain, the second-highest two-day rainfall total ever recorded, Mayor John Cooper said at a news conference Sunday.The deluge flooded homes and left roads impassible. Some were still closed on Monday as the waters began to recede.The Harpeth River crested 15 feet (about 4.6 meters) above flood stage Sunday night at Kingston Springs and was expected to fall below flood stage by Monday night.But the National Weather Service warned that up to two inches of rain could fall in parts of Tennessee on Tuesday night and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tennessee-floods-claim-fifth-victim-more-rain-on-the-way-101617050223886.html
30-03-2021||World||US Capitol riot suspect wore 'I Was There' shirt when arrested||Garret Miller didn't speak to the law enforcement officers who arrested him on charges he stormed the US Capitol in January, but the T-shirt he was wearing at his Dallas home that day sent a clear and possibly incriminating message.Miller's shirt had a photograph of former President Donald Trump, and it said “Take America Back” and “I Was There, Washington D.C., January 6, 2021,” federal prosecutors noted in a court filing Monday.Prosecutors are urging a judge to keep Miller jailed while he awaits trial on charges stemming from the Jan. 6 riots in the nation's capital.On a recorded call immediately after his arrest, Miller told his mother, “I don’t feel that I’ve done anything wrong and now I’m being locked up,” according to prosecutors.Like many of the more than 300 people facing federal charges in connection with the siege, Miller thoroughly documented and commented on his actions that day in a flurry of social media posts.After Miller posted a selfie showing himself inside the Capitol building, another Facebook user wrote, “bro you got in?! Nice!" Miller replied, “just wanted to incriminate myself a little lol,” prosecutors said.Miller joined the mob that breached the Capitol building and later threatened to kill New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and a Capitol police officer, authorities said.After the Democratic congresswoman tweeted the word “Impeach,” Miller tweeted back to her, “Assassinate AOC,” according to prosecutors.In a Jan. 10 post on Instagram, Miller said the officer who shot and killed a woman in the crowd of rioters should get a televised execution, according to prosecutors. Miller believed the officer was a Black man and called him a “prize to be taken,” prosecutors said.“He will swing," he allegedly wrote. "I had a rope in my bag on that day.”“By bringing tactical gear, ropes, and potentially, by his own admission, a gun to the Capitol on January 6, 2021, Miller showed that he was not just caught up in the frenzy of the crowd but instead came to D.C. with the intention of disrupting the democratic process of counting and certifying Electoral College votes,” prosecutors wrote.A federal magistrate judge in Texas ordered Miller detained after his Jan. 20 arrest. On Feb. 12, a grand jury in the District of Columbia indicted Miller on 12 counts, including civil disorder, obstruction of an official proceeding, and assaulting, resisting or impeding officers.Miller's attorney is seeking his client's release from custody, saying he has expressed regret for his actions.“Nevertheless, he has no history of violence, and he did not engage in any acts of violence in connection with the charged offenses, unlike many others who have previously been released,” defense attorney F. Clinton Broden wrote.Miller remains jailed in Oklahoma City. His transport to Washington is on hold because he broke his collarbone while playing soccer in the recreation yard at a Dallas jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-riot-suspect-wore-i-was-there-shirt-when-arrested-101617048938087.html
30-03-2021||World||Romania: Protesters march against Covid-19 restrictions in Bucharest amid rising infections||Anti-restriction protesters took to the streets in several Romanian cities Monday against new pandemic measures that came into force a day earlier amid rising Covid-19 infections.More than a thousand people gathered in the capital, Bucharest, sounding horns and chanting “Freedom!” as they marched to the government headquarters in central Victory Square. One man was detained by police after refusing to identify himself for not wearing a face mask.Smaller protests were held in other parts of the country. The demonstrations were largely organized by the far-right AUR Party, which has spoken out against pandemic restrictions and supported a number of recent anti-vaccination protests.Party leader George Simion, who has called on people to protest across the country every day this week, attended the Bucharest demonstration.The new restrictions include an 8pm curfew and, in hard-hit areas, shorter shopping hours.On Monday Romania recorded its highest number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units — almost 1,400 — since the pandemic started, and roughly another 12,000 people infected with Covid-19 are receiving regular hospital care.So far, the country — which has a population of more than 19 million — has recorded more than 940,000 confirmed infections, 23,234 have died, and almost three million shots of vaccine have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/romania-protesters-march-against-covid-19-restrictions-in-bucharest-amid-rising-infections-101617048482374.html
30-03-2021||World||American Airlines to put most jets back in service as travel rebounds after Covid-19 pandemic||American Airlines Group Inc. expects to put most of its fleet back in service in the second quarter following “recent strength in domestic and short-haul international bookings” that hint at a gathering travel rebound.Falling infections and hospitalizations and rising vaccinations have spurred demand after a blow early this year when the US required negative coronavirus tests for international travelers, American said in a regulatory filing Monday. The seven-day average of net bookings on March 26 was about 90% of the 2019 level and domestic flights are 80% full, the company said.American’s upbeat assessment underscored recent progress against a pandemic that caused an unprecedented decline in travel last year. Earlier this month, the carrier reported “what looks like the beginning of a very large uptick” in demand. American on Monday projected that strong bookings would continue into the second quarter, but cautioned that visibility was limited.“Despite some areas of Europe going under new lockdowns and the US CDC still advising against unnecessary travel, the recovery is in full swing,” Andrew Didora, an analyst at Bank of America Corp., said in a report. Airline bookings are “seeing a more pronounced improvement since early February, led by leisure.”As if to underline the uncertainty facing the travel recovery, however, US airline stocks fell as Rochelle Walensky, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, pleaded with Americans to wear masks and stick with Covid-19 measures.“I’m going to reflect on the recurring feeling I have of impending doom,” Walensky said at a press briefing. “We have so much to look forward to, so much promise and potential of where we are and so much reason for hope, but right now I’m scared.”American slipped 1.3% to $22.63 at 2:37 p.m. in New York, the shallowest decline on a Standard & Poor’s index of major US carriers. The shares had climbed 45% this year through March 26, the most on the industry stock gauge.The Fort Worth, Texas-based company parked 22 Boeing Co. 737-800 jets and at least 15 regional planes as demand sagged last year, and permanently retired 158 aircraft from its fleet. American operated 1,399 planes at the end of 2020, before reactivating any stored aircraft.The demand outlook for long-haul international flights is also cloudy. Much of Europe is lagging behind the US in vaccine distribution, and some countries have recently imposed more restrictions on movement and gatherings.First-quarter system capacity will be down 40% to 45% from the same period in 2019, American said. That represents a slight improvement from the airline’s previous outlook of down 45%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/american-airlines-to-put-most-jets-back-in-service-as-travel-rebounds-after-covid-19-pandemic-101617046373672.html
30-03-2021||World||US President Joe Biden says 90% of adults to be eligible for Covid-19 vaccine from April 19||President Joe Biden said Monday that 90% of US adults will be eligible to get a Covid-19 vaccine in three weeks, and that his administration will more than double the number of pharmacies where shots are available, as cases begin to rise again.“Look at what we have done in the last ten weeks. No other country has come close,” Biden said at the White House. But he urged states that have eased restrictions on masks and other prevention measures to reinstate them: “The war against Covid-19 is far from won.”Biden made the announcement Monday afternoon at the White House, marking April 19 as a new milestone in the vaccination effort. He also said that nearly all US adults will be able to get a shot within 5 miles of their homes.The announcement comes as the US continues to ramp up its inoculation effort. Biden doubled his goal for vaccines last week after the US reached his initial target six weeks early.The US is on pace to soon administer 3 million doses a day of Covid-19 vaccine, as the supply increases and states widen eligibility. After stalling at about 2.5 million doses a day, the rate of shots administered in the US has started to again climb.On Friday, Saturday and Sunday, the US reported a total of more than 10 million shots in arms -- a record three-day stretch that helped push up the average rate, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker.Roughly three-quarters of vaccines still go directly to states, but Biden has steered a growing share to federal channels, including pharmacies, as supply has increased. That shift has allowed Biden to target disadvantaged zip codes as he tries to address disparities in access, often along racial lines.At the same time, Rochelle Walensky, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, pleaded with Americans to wear masks and stick with Covid-19 mitigation measures, warning of “impending doom” as cases, hospitalizations and deaths begin to rise again.Speaking at a press briefing Monday, she fought back tears as she outlined a series of warning signals and said she was frightened about a looming fourth wave of Covid cases. “We have so much to look forward to, so much promise and potential of where we are and so much reason for hope, but right now I’m scared,” Walensky said.As part of his announcement, Biden described plans to launch a dozen more community vaccination sites in the next three weeks. He said vaccines will be made available at nearly 40,000 pharmacies over that time period, from about 17,000 now.Biden previously directed states to open eligibility to all adults no later than May 1. A total of 31 states have said they will fully open eligibility by April 19. Biden’s announcement Monday is based on those moves -- and will mean roughly 90% of US adults will be eligible, he said.Biden has said the US will have enough supply by the end of May to vaccinate all US adults, though administering the shots could take longer. Until recently, eligibility was typically based on age or whether a person had underlying medical conditions that put them at greater risk. Full adult eligibility means anyone 16 or older can get the shot, regardless of medical history.The 7-day average of daily shots administered has climbed to 2.7 million, the highest level yet. Biden has pledged to administer 200 million shots in total under his presidency by the end of next month and is on pace to do that.Biden also announced $100 million in funding to help vaccinate vulnerable and at-risk older adults, and people with disabilities. The program would be aimed at getting those high-risk people scheduled for, and taken to, vaccine appointments, including those with mobility challenges.The US vaccine effort is buoyed by vast supplies. The administrations of Biden and his predecessor, Donald Trump, have used wartime powers to prioritize US government orders.Biden has said the US will begin sharing shots with other nations once it has enough to cover all US adults, including the potential need for booster shots and a stockpile for children, given the uncertainty over which vaccines will be best for younger age groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-says-90-of-adults-to-be-eligible-for-covid-19-vaccine-from-april-19-101617045838385.html
30-03-2021||World||Canadian panel recommends pausing administration of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine for people under 55 years||Canada’s National Advisory Committee on Immunization is recommending a pause on AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccinations for people under 55 for safety reasons, two officials with the matter told The Associated Press on Monday.The officials confirmed the recommendation on condition on anonymity as they were not authorized to speak publicly before the announcement. It remains a recommendation and it is up to each of Canada’s provinces to decide to follow it or not.Dr. Joss Reimer of Manitoba’s Vaccine Implementation Task Force said despite the finding that there was no increase risk of blood clots overall related to AstraZeneca in Europe, a rare but very serious side effect has been seen primarily in young women in Europe.“So out of abundance of caution, Manitoba will be recommending that these vaccines only be used in people who are 55 or older at this time. I do want to say this is a pause while we wait for more information to better understand what we are seeing in Europe,” Reimer said.Reimer said the increase in the rare type of blood clot happens affects somewhere around one in 100,000 or one in a million people who receive AstraZeneca. She said it typically happens between four and 20 days after getting the shot and the symptoms can mirror a stroke or a heart attack.Reimer said they have not seen any of these cases in Canada.“While we still believe the benefits for all ages outweigh the risks I’m not comfortable with probably. I want to see more data coming out of Europe so I know exactly what this risk benefit analysis is,” Reimer said.Ontario Premier Doug Ford, the leader of Canada’s most populous province, suggested his province would do a pause as well.“I’d rather wait than roll the dice,” Ford said.Several European countries that had suspended using the vaccine over concerns it could cause blood clots have resumed administering it after the EU’s drug regulator said the vaccine was safe.Health Canada, the country’s regulator that approved AstraZeneca, is expected to hold a news conference later Monday.Canada is expected to receive 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca from the US this week.The vaccine is used widely in Britain, across the European continent and in other countries, but its rollout was troubled by inconsistent study reports about its effectiveness, and then more recently a scare about clots that had some countries temporarily pausing inoculations.Canadian Regulators have approved the Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. Canada has placed bigger bets on Pfizer and Moderna, ordering up to 76 million doses of Pfizer and up to 44 million of Moderna, compared with up to 20 million of AstraZeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-panel-recommends-pausing-administration-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-for-people-under-55-years-101617045010003.html
30-03-2021||India||Odisha plans to vaccinate 2 lakh people a day from April 1||The Odisha government on Tuesday decided to increase its daily Covid-19 vaccination target from the current level of 65,000-70,000 to 2 lakh for inoculating the 1-crore odd people in the 45+ age group in the quickest time possible.Vaccinating potential superspreaders such as street vendors, meat and fish sellers, auto and bus drivers, school and college teachers, salon and barber shop employees and security guards as early as possible, the Odisha government would continue the inoculation drive on government holidays on April 1 (Utkal Divas) and April 2 (Good Friday).On Tuesday, a total 90,299 people were vaccinated. Odisha has used 23.26 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine by now.In a letter to district collectors, municipal commissioners and health officials, additional chief secretary of the health department, PK Mohapatra directed them to vaccinate those who are at the highest risk of being potential superspreaders.He also asked the district officials to take adequate steps to achieve the district-wise daily target and increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres if the need arises. Mohapatra also asked for sealing some shops which were violating Covid-19 protocol and enforce masks and social distancing in a strict manner to check the spread of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-plans-to-vaccinate-2-lakh-people-a-day-from-april-1-101617128150014.html
30-03-2021||India||Army’s military farms to be shut, flag ceremony for closure at Delhi Cantt||The Indian Army’s Military farms will be disbanded on Wednesday, leading to the shutting down of 39 such farms across the country, officials familiar with the developments said The flag ceremony for the closure will be held at Military Farms Records at Delhi Cantonment, the officials said. Raised in 1889, the defence ministry ordered the closure of the military farms in August 2017 to cut costs and better utilise thousands of acres of defence land. The 39 military farms are spread over more than 20,000 acres of prime defence land across the country in cities such as Ambala, Kolkata, Srinagar, Agra, Pathankot, Lucknow, Meerut, Allahabad and Guwahati.The closure of the farms will lead to giving away more than 25,000 heads of cattle to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and different state governments for rearing, as previously reported by HT.The military farms supplied more than 21 crore litres of milk to the army, accounting for 14% of the total requirement. The army bought the rest of its requirements locally. The cattle stock includes thousands of high-yielding Frieswal cows, a cross between Dutch Holstein Friesian and Indian Sahiwal breeds.In a report submitted in 2016, a defence ministry committee panel recommended that military workforce could be trimmed in several non-combat areas including military farms. The 11-member panel, headed by Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), was tasked with mapping out a strategy to sharpen India’s combat edge and suggest measures to initiate targeted reductions in personnel.The military farms account for a total work force of 2,000 civilians who work in the defence ministry and 14 combatants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armys-military-farms-to-be-shut-flag-ceremony-for-closure-at-delhi-cantt-101617127130090.html
30-03-2021||India||Kerala police file fresh case against ED, its third against the central agency||The ongoing tussle between the Centre and the Kerala government over the gold smuggling case deepened further after the latter filed a fresh case against the Enforcement Directorate (ED)—the third case so far against the central agency. Besides these three cases, the state government had also announced a judicial probe against the ED. The latest case was based on the statement of one of the accused in the smuggling case, Sandeep Nair, in which he alleged that he was under pressure to implicate the state government and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Detained under Cofeposa, he is in custody now. The ED had approached the High Court on Monday to quash the FIR against its officials. In its plea the agency said its officials were intimidated and it was a ploy to weaken the gold smuggling case. Earlier, the crime branch had registered two cases against the ED based on the purported revelations of main accused Swapna Suresh and two women police officers who accompanied her during her deposition in court. The sensational gold smuggling case surfaced in July last year after 30 kilograms of gold was seized from a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later, many, including the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar and a senior IAS officer, were arrested for helping the accused. The three main accused, including Swapna Suresh, were detained under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act). Last month, the Customs department had filed a shocking affidavit in Kerala High Court quoting Swapna Suresh’s statement under Section 164 of the IPC wherein she alleged that the CM, three of his ministers and the Speaker were aware of the smuggling activities through the consulate. Later, the AG had sent a show-cause notice to the Customs Commissioner to explain why contempt proceedings were not initiated against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-file-fresh-case-against-ed-its-third-against-the-central-agency-101617125990015.html
30-03-2021||India||India rolls out over 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines despite slowdown in exports||India has rolled out more than 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as grants, including 200,000 doses for UN peacekeepers, since last week despite a slowdown in vaccine exports in order to focus on its domestic immunisation programme amid a spike in cases. Since March 26, vaccines have been donated to Paraguay and Fiji (100,000 doses each), Zimbabwe (35,000 doses), Niger (25,000 doses), the Nepali Army (100,000 doses) and UN peacekeepers (200,000 doses), according to data from the government. Another 25,000 doses were provided to Palestine through the WHO-backed COVAX facility. On Tuesday, the Covid-19 vaccines gifted by the Indian Army to the Nepali Army were handed over by Indian envoy Vinay Mohan Kwatra to the Nepali Army chief, Gen Puran Chandra Thapa, during a ceremony held in Tundikhel. The Indian Army chief, Gen MM Naravane, joined the ceremony via video conference and reaffirmed the special fraternal bonds between the two armies. The Indian Army has been assisting the Nepali Army to fight Covid-19 through different types of assistance since last year, including the supply of the drug Remdesivir, X-ray machines, computerised radiography systems, ICU ventilators, video endoscopy units, anaesthesia machines, laboratory equipment and ambulances. On March 27, the 200,000 doses donated by India for UN peacekeepers were despatched on a Qatar Airlines flight from Mumbai to Copenhagen, where the vaccines will be consolidated within the UN vaccine programme for onward distribution to peacekeeping missions. Renata Dessallien, the UN resident coordinator in India, said: “The UN warmly thanks India for this generous gesture of solidarity and support, reflecting India’s strong commitment to multilateralism, to global peace, to the United Nations in particular.” The UN under-secretary general for operational support, Atul Khare, said India’s donation will ensure that UN peacekeepers “are able to remain healthy and deliver in some of the most difficult environments in the world without relying on already stretched national health systems or ongoing COVAX efforts”. The consignments sent to Paraguay and Zimbabwe comprised Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine. The Hyderabad-based manufacturer announced earlier this month that the first vaccine developed in India had an efficacy of 81% in phase III clinical trials. Indian officials had clarified last week that there is no ban on vaccine exports but the government’s primary focus will be on the domestic vaccination programme, especially after a sudden spike in the total number of Covid-19 cases and the move to open up the immunisation drive to everyone above the age of 45 from April 1. Speaking at an event on Tuesday, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said the resurgence of Covid-19 cases had highlighted the need for an accelerated domestic vaccination drive. “Naturally, we will need to calibrate our external supplies keeping in mind our domestic production and domestic needs,” he said. The two Indian vaccine manufacturers are expected to “rapidly expand their manufacturing capacities” to meet increasing domestic and external demand, and some vaccine candidates may conclude their trial process and become available, Shringla said. The Quad Leaders’ Summit has proposed using Indian manufacturing capacity, financed and supported by other Quad members, to supply vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region, and this will involve creating new capacities and won’t impact India’s current vaccine rollout, he added. India has so far provided more than 64 million doses of vaccines to 82 countries as grants, commercial sales and supplies through the COVAX facility. However, the WHO-backed COVAX facility notified participating countries last week that deliveries of doses from the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be delayed in March and April as the Government of India battles a new wave of infections. “COVAX and the Government of India remain in discussions to ensure some supplies are completed during March and April,” WHO said in a statement. According to an agreement between Gavi, the vaccine alliance, and SII, which included funding to back an increase in manufacturing capacity, SII is contracted to provide COVAX the AstraZeneca vaccine for 64 lower-income countries. COVAX has so far received 28 million doses from SII and was expecting 40 million doses in March and up to 50 million doses in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rolls-out-over-5-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-despite-slowdown-in-exports-101617124550024.html
30-03-2021||India||Karnataka: Section 144 imposed in Dakshina Kannada District due to Covid surge||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, Karnataka authorities imposed Section 144 of CrPC in Dakshina Kannada District on Tuesday.As per the order signed by Dakshina Kannada District Deputy Commissioner, all religious gatherings are now banned at public places, public grounds, gardens, markets and religious places.The announcement came after a day after Karnataka chief minister B. S. Yediyurappa held a crucial meeting with the state authorities and health minister to review the Covid-19 situation.While he ruled out the possibility of imposing a complete lockdown in the state, the CM tightened several Covid-19 restrictions to contain the virus spread.Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 2,975 new Covid-19 cases, 1,262 discharges and 21 deaths today, taking the total number of cases to 9,92,779.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-section-144-imposed-in-dakshina-kannada-district-due-to-covid-surge-101617122181591.html
30-03-2021||India||Centre asks states to trace 25-30 contacts of each Covid-19 positive patient||Tracing 25 to 30 contacts of each Covid-19 case, proper isolation and creating larger containment zones were among steps the Centre has asked states to adopt for tackling the surge in Covid-19 cases.Calling for a district-centric approach to fight the upward swing in cases, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday that each district, irrespective of whether it is seeing a surge or is with low burden, should formulate an action plan with clear timelines and responsibilities.Bhushan said the virus can be contained by quarantining and testing individuals suspected to be Covid-19 positive as well as 25 to 30 close contacts of positive persons, isolating, quarantining and testing them."Where there are clusters of cases, simply quarantining individuals or families will not help. In that case, larger containment zones with clear boundaries and stringent controls must be implemented," he said.In a letter to all chief secretaries, Bhushan said Covid-appropriate behaviour must be enforced using the Police Act, or powers under the Disaster Management Act.The states have also been asked to map cases based on surveillance activities and focused testing in areas, reviewing sub-areawise indicators like case positivity rate, rate of growth of cases, case fatality, doubling rate of cases, on a real-time basis.They have also been asked to review the proportion of Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR tests."All districts with high caseload and fast growth of cases must ensure saturation vaccination of priority age groups of 45 years and above in the coming two weeks," Bhushan said in the letter.He said many districts in the country are seeing the emergence of clusters of cases because of specific events and crowding, or where a large number of people are in close physical contact coupled with a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Efficient implementation of the 'Test Track and Treat' strategy remains the only proven strategy for controlling transmission, Bhushan said.The states were asked to identify localities and hospitals where deaths are high."Do an analysis (death analysis) to understand the system-related issues of why the death happened whether it was due to late detection (surveillance failure) or late admission in hospitals (delay in referral), or due to clinical care at hospitals (non-adherence to clinical management protocols, lack of oxygen lack of beds, the non-transparent procedure of bed allocation). Such issues must be promptly redressed," he said.Bhushan said some districts that saw a high number of cases in August-November are again seeing a high growth rate of cases."Additionally, a number of new districts that saw a limited prevalence earlier are worryingly showing a surge in cases. States and UTs that currently have low levels of cases, however, cannot be complacent," the health secretary said.He said a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour and laxity in public health effort can lead to a sudden surge."If immediate, proactive and focused action is taken by your teams right now, it will be possible to ensure that the infection does not spread into currently low prevalence districts," Bhushan told the chief secretaries.Any complacency at this stage and at any level will have heavy costs, he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-trace-25-30-contacts-of-each-covid-19-positive-patient-101617119979179.html
30-03-2021||India||‘We are where we were’: Army chief Naravane says not an inch lost to China||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane asserted India has “not lost out on any territory” in the months-long military standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, adding that “we are where we were” after the worst border conflict between the two nuclear-armed neighbours in decades, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.“I think that firstly we have not lost out on any territory, we are where we were before this whole thing started. As a result of this agreement, which has been reached on the principle of mutual and equal security, I think that’s how we should look at this whole disengagement process that it serves the interest of both the countries to have a very stable LAC (Line of Actual Control), with less chances of any confrontation taking place. That should be the larger viewpoint,” Naravane told news agency ANI.“Not an inch has been lost, that’s right,” General Naravane further said.#WATCH: Army Chief General MM Naravane speaks to ANI on India-China disengagement in Ladakh. He says, "We have not lost out on any territory, we are where we were before this whole thing started...Not an inch of land has been lost." pic.twitter.com/yIyyBR6Z4nSince the beginning of the crisis, India has maintained that no land has been conceded to China, a point reiterated by defence minister Rajnath Singh while outlining the disengagement plan in Parliament last month. The opposition, especially Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has frequently attacked the Centre for “letting China acquire Indian territory.”Also Read | ‘Disengagement plan at Pangong Tso finalised’, says Rajnath Singh on China rowTalking about the disengagement plan, the army chief said that after the ninth round of Corps Commander level talks, an agreement was reached to move away from the friction areas in a phased manner. “Tenth February onwards, the disengagement started and went as per plan. From the north and south banks of the Pangong Tso and Kailash range, people have gone to their nearest permanent locations,” Gen Naravane added.This, Naravane said, reduced the chances of miscalculation which could have taken place due to face-to-face deployment of the two sets of troops. “Now there is relative peace and tranquillity along the LAC,” he remarked.Thereby the face to face deployment which was there and because of which there could have been chances of miscalculation has now receded. Now there is relative peace and tranquillity in the LAC: Army Chief General MM Naravane to ANIIndia and China disengaged from the most contentious Pangong Lake area in Ladakh last month after extensive talks at both military and diplomatic level. However, disagreement still exists despite several rounds of talks since last year, and disengagement is yet to take place from other friction areas like Depsang, Hot Spring and Gogra.Also Read | Army releases new visuals showing Pangong Tso disengagement in top gearNew Delhi has maintained the complete withdrawal of Chinese troops from all points of conflict is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity along the disputed border.The face-off, which began in late April-May May last year, led to a bloody clash in the Galwan Valley on the night of June 15, that led to casualties on both sides. It was the first time in more than 40 years that lives were lost in a border skirmish along the LAC. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in action.China initially didn't disclose the number of casualties sustained by its troops, officially admitting only in February that four of its soldiers were killed while one was injured. However, it is believed that the number of actual Chinese casualties is higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-where-we-were-army-chief-naravane-says-not-an-inch-lost-to-china-101617115799072.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt to increase beds reserved for Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi to increase normal, ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday his government will increase the number of normal and intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the national capital, adding they are “keeping a close watch and will take all necessary steps”. Read moreRailways is public property, will remain so: Piyush Goyal on 'privatisation' rowRailways minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday reiterated the central government is not planning to privatise the Indian Railways and said that the national carrier is the "property of the nation and the people", and urged people to not pay heed to "opposition's propaganda". Read moreGermany to discuss AstraZeneca vaccine shots after brain disorder reportsGerman leaders will discuss the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday, after several states said they would stop giving the shot to people under the age of 60 following further reports of a rare brain blood disorder. Read moreFrom April 1, automatic recurring payments to change. Know whyThere will be no automatic recurring payments for your mobile, utility, recharges and other such bills from April 1 due to a new regulation of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which has made Additional Factor of Authentication (AFA) mandatory after March 31. Read moreBatting with Virat Kohli, you push to match him and improve: Devdutt PadikkalDevdutt Padikkal, the emerging talent who shone brightest in 2020 IPL, has warmed up for the coming edition with an outstanding show in the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament, where he became the first Indian to score four successive hundreds in List A cricket. Read moreApple WWDC 2021 to take place on June 7, may announce iOS 15 and moreApple has finally announced the dates of its upcoming WWDC (Worldwide Developers Conference). Like the last year, the company will be holding the event in an online-only format. WWDC keynote event will take place on June 7 and the entire conference will go through June 11. It is free for iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS developers. Read moreSushmita Sen shares note on unhealthy relationship patterns: ‘I speak from experience’Actor Sushmita Sen took to Instagram to share a note about the tendency to repeat unhealthy relationship patterns and stressed on the need to break out of them. She said that it can only be done through being aware and then challenging the patterns ‘before they break us’. Read moreMarvel fan watches Avengers: Endgame 191 times, sets a recordIf you’re a Marvel fan, you’ve probably watched and re-watched Avengers: Endgame, the final movie of the Avengers franchise. Now imagine someone watching the same movie not just once or twice but 191 times. Read moreWatch| Mamata, Modi & 5 factors that'll determine Bengal 2021 contest I CVOTER Director||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-to-increase-beds-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-101617117225485.html
30-03-2021||India||With 27,918 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally at 2,773,435||Maharashtra recorded 27,918 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 139 related deaths, the state’s health department said in a bulletin on Tuesday, with fewer tests on a holiday on the occasion of Holi. This is the first time since March 23 that Maharashtra has reported less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases. The caseload of the western state, the worst-affected by the pandemic, is now 2,773,435 and its death toll 54,422. It recorded 31,643 Covid-19 cases and 102 deaths on Monday, a day after reporting its sharpest daily spike of 40,414 infections.There are 340,542 active cases and 2,377,127 people, 23,820 on Tuesday, have recovered from the viral disease in the state, the bulletin showed. There were 129,876 tests in the last 24 hours, taking the number of tests to 19,625,065 so far.The Centre said earlier in the day that Maharashtra has eight of the top 10 Covid-19 high-burden districts of the country. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded and Ahmednagar are the districts in Maharashtra with high active cases, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in New Delhi during a press briefing. Bhushan said Maharashtra last week had an average positivity rate of 23 per cent against the average national rate of 5.65 per cent.In Mumbai, there were 4,760 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to the health department’s bulletin. The disease tally of the state’s capital city is now at 409,374 and its death toll at 11,675.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ordered private hospitals to reserved 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals for virus-infected patients in the city amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease. The civic body said in a circular issued Monday that 100 per cent of beds in intensive care units (ICUs) will be reserved for the same in line with the Ward War Room allotment.Data shows that Maharashtra recorded 590,448 cases from March 1 to March 29, while the worst month, September 2020, had seen 593,192 infections. It also shows that the state began 2021 with a huge drop in Covid-19 cases compared to the previous three months, the new cases in March surpassed the tally of the past four months. The state recorded 487,519 infections between November 2020 and February 2021, according to data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-27-918-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-s-tally-at-2773436-101617115831953.html
30-03-2021||India||2 of the Gandhis are in politics 'only for family's survival': Smriti Irani||Apparently referring to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Union minister Smriti Zubin Irani on Tuesday alleged that they "do not know the Assamese culture" and pursue politics only for "the survival of their family".She, however, did not name the siblings.The senior BJP leader also accused Congress of committing a sin by not fulfilling the promises that it had made during earlier elections in Assam.Without taking the names of Gandhis, the Union textiles minister said, "A few days ago, two members of the Gandhi family visited Assam. They don't know the Assamese culture and do politics only for the survival of their family."Irani had defeated Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi in the 2019 general elections.Addressing a series of election rallies in Assam, the Union women and child development minister appealed to the people to vote for the BJP for development and bring the saffron party back to power."The Congress committed a sin of smashing the dreams of people, which it had earlier shown before coming to power," she said.The Congress was in power in Assam for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016.Irani claimed Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched a series of schemes that are directly benefiting people who were earlier deprived of welfare programmes.She alleged that Congress, when it was in power at the Centre, did not even send funds allotted to Assam for its development.Terming the AIUDF, an alliance partner of the Congress, as a communal party, Irani said, "Don't spread communal hatred among people and create a fight among brothers. The Assamese people will vote for the development and welfare of their families."The first phase of the Assam assembly election was held on March 27. The state will have polling in two more phases on April 1 and 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-of-the-gandhis-are-in-politics-only-for-family-s-survival-smriti-irani-101617113339817.html
30-03-2021||India||Railways is public property, will remain so: Piyush Goyal on 'privatisation' row||Railways minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday reiterated the central government is not planning to privatise the Indian Railways and said that the national carrier is the "property of the nation and the people", and urged people to not pay heed to "opposition's propaganda". "I assure you that the Indian Railways is the property of the nation and the people. No one can touch it, it will never be privatised. Don't get caught in the opposition's propaganda. This is your property, it will remain yours,” Goyal said during a public meeting in West Bengal's Kharagpur, according to news agency ANI.I assure you that Indian Railways is the property of the nation & people. No one can touch it, it will never be privatized. Don't get caught in opposition's propaganda. This is your property, it will remain yours: Railways Minister & BJP leader Piyush Goyal in Kharagpur pic.twitter.com/sgyA1afq9CLast year, the Indian Railways allowed private companies to operate certain stations in a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The move, steered by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), aims to significantly modernise parts of a decades-old system. However, it sparked rumours that the Centre might be planning to sell off the governmental entity. These speculations received a boost in October when the government decided to set up a committee to draft a blueprint for transferring the operations of 150 trains and 50 railway stations to private firms.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, at a public meeting in Kerala last month, said that the government's "intent" to privatise the Indian Railways was a "threat to the millions of poor people who travel in trains". Responding to the opposition, Goyal hpointed out in Parliament that there was a difference between "privatisation" and "monetisation". "When you privatise, you sell off the assets permanently and it no more remains a part of the government ownership. In the railways, the plan is to monetise in terms of how it will generate resources, further investment and growth. The infrastructure of Indian Railways will never be privatised," Goyal said.The Union minister said that private investment should be welcomed in order to improve railway services across the country. Passenger train operations, taken up through the PPP model, aims to bring a total investment of about ₹30,000 crore and is expected to make the railways a key economic driver in the strategy of investment-led growth, according to the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-is-public-property-will-remain-so-piyush-goyal-on-privatisation-row-101617107323582.html
30-03-2021||India||Compliance of Covid-19 protocols irregular, levy spot fines: DGCA to airports||Aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday told airport operators to increase surveillance at airports and levy spot fines against those not following Covid-19 protocols amid rising cases in India adding that its compliance was not satisfactory.“During surveillance of some airports, it has come to the notice that compliance (of Covid-19 protocols) is not satisfactory. All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions on Covid-19 protocol from the standpoint of wearing face mask properly, covering nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distance norms within the airport premises are followed scrupulously,” it said in an order to airport operators on Monday.According to the DGCA, at least 15 passengers till date have been charged for violating Covid-19 norms in domestic airports and may be put on a ‘no-flying’ list for a period of three months.“Accordingly, all airport operators may enhance surveillance towards this end.The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with law, shall also be explored with the local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol,” DGCA said on Tuesday.The aviation regulator reiterated its earlier order for compliance with Covid-19 protocols issued on March 13. It directed airport authorities and airlines to take strict action against those not complying with Covid-19 protocols at airports and inside planes. Those found flouting rules may be offloaded and handed over to security agencies, the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.“The Airport Director/Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the airport premises. In case, any passenger is not following “Covid-19 Protocol”, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warnings. If required, they may be dealt with as per law,” the DGCA said in its March 13th order.This also came days after the Delhi high court issued a set of guidelines that empower airline crew to offload any passenger not wearing their masks properly and to be put on the no-fly list if they exhibit “stubborn reluctance”. The judge took note of the callous attitude of passengers at airports and gave directions to the DGCA.Soon after the DGCA also informed the Delhi High Court that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they would be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”.On March 16, in a first, four passengers on board Alliance Air flight 91 614 from Jammu to New Delhi were deboarded for not following Covid-19 protocols inside the flight, according to Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The passengers were charged as ‘unruly/disruptive passengers’ and handed over to security agencies at Delhi Airport.Last week Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the government is not planning to curtail flight services further amid the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Our fight against Covid-19 continues. Advisory issued to all airports to ensure compliance of Covid-19 Protocol. People must wear face masks (covering nose & mouth) & maintain social distance. We are moving in direction of punitive action by police against passengers who don’t comply,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted.However, plans of making all services functional from April 1 have been postponed amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. At present, the Centre has allowed domestic flights to operate up to 80% of its pre-Covid-19 capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compliance-of-covid-19-protocols-not-satisfactory-levy-spot-fines-dgca-tells-airports-101617110209808.html
30-03-2021||India||In implementation of MGNREGA programmes, Andhra ranks fourth in India||The Andhra Pradesh government has claimed that it has ranked fourth in the country in the implementation of work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. A statement from the ministry of rural development indicated on Monday that as against the target of 25.25 crore person days allotted by the Centre, the state had created employment for 25.42 crore person days as on March 29, which was 100.67 per cent achievement. “This is the fourth best achievement in the country and the third best in South India. Chhattisgarh ranks at the top, Tamil Nadu is in second position and Kerala in the third position. While Chhattisgarh achieved 105.27 per cent in creation of employment in terms of person days, Tamil Nadu achieved 102.40 per cent and Kerala 101.46 per cent,” an official in the department of rural development familiar with the development said. State minister for panchayati raj and rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said Andhra Pradesh was aiming at crossing the milestone of 26 crore person days by March 31. “The entire credit for this achievement goes to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy who has given strict instructions to the official machinery to see that every eligible person in rural areas get work under MGNREGA. He has directed that there should be no case of migration from the state to other areas in search of employment,” the minister said. The minister said during 2020-21, the government had spent ₹10,170 crore under MGNREGA, including ₹5,818 crore towards wage component and ₹3,965 crore towards material component. He said during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Andhra government had taken up work under MGNREGA on a large-scale to provide employment to migrant labourers who had returned from other states. “At the same time, it was a challenge to provide employment to local labourers who were deprived of any work during the lockdown. While 6.35 lakh labourers who had returned from other states were provided with new job cards, another 7.36 lakh job cards for local labourers were re-activated, besides issuance of fresh job cards for another 2.44 lakh people,” he said. The workers were provided employment by taking sufficient care in maintaining social distance and using sanitisers during the work. “On June 9 last year, a record number of 54 lakh people were provided wage employment on a single day,” the minister said. Reddy said this year, the state government had linked the MGNREGA work with various other schemes such as construction of Rythu Bharosa Centres, YSR Help Clinics, Anganwadi Centres and Bulk Milk Cooling units etc. In all, 48,969 works had been taken up at a cost of ₹9,871 crore and the material component of these would be linked to the MGNREGA, he said. “Similarly, rural infrastructure work like laying of cement roads and drainage work, besides development of greenery would also be taken up under MGNREGA programmes,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-implementation-of-mgnrega-programmes-andhra-ranks-fourth-in-india-101617107389770.html
30-03-2021||India||NCPCR takes cognisance of beating, parading of rape survivor, accused in MP||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has asked the Madhya Pradesh Police to submit a report with 24 hours on the alleged thrashing and parading of a 16-year-old rape survivor with the man accused of raping her in the state’s Alirajpur district.A purported video of the assault and parading went viral on social media on Sunday and provoked outrage.Police superintendent Vijay Bhagwani said the survivor’s brother, uncle and cousin are among the six booked for parading and assaulting the two under Indian Penal Code’s sections 294 (obscene act in public places), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour a person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation). “The accused and the 16-year-old victim used to work together as labourers in Gujarat. They returned to their village a few days ago. The family members on Saturday came to know that the girl was raped by the accused. Instead of informing the police, they thrashed the survivor and the accused on Saturday and paraded them in the public on Sunday morning.”Also Read | Minor among five apprehended for gang rape and attempted murder in PunePolice said the survivor has been shifted to a government-run shelter home for women.Alirajpur collector Surabhi Gupta, “A Child Welfare Committee is counselling her. We have done her medical examination and she did not sustain any grievous injuries. The girl is fine now. The girl’s parents want to take her back home, but we will observe her and will make a decision accordingly because there are chances that the girl can be pressurised to take her complaint back.”The rape accused has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s section 376 (rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-takes-cognisance-of-beating-parading-of-rape-survivor-accused-in-mp-101617107149130.html
30-03-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh to have a stricter law to check gambling||The Uttar Pradesh government has initiated the process to enact a new law as the Centre plans to scrap the Public Gambling Act and mandate states to come up with their own legislation to control gambling, people aware of the matter said.“The State Law Commission is preparing a draft for the proposed law to check the gambling. All aspects are being studied and looked into to make the law stringent. It will also have special provisions to check online gambling,” said justice AN Mittal, the commission’s chairman.Officials said in the Internet age when online gambling is a bigger threat, the proposed law will have special provisions to check this. A number of applications are available for online gambling. There is not any law to check online gambling.Also Read | Two arrested for Pune murder over cricket betting debt The Public Gambling Act only provides for one-year imprisonment and ₹1,000 fine. These punitive provisions are not enough to check online gambling, officials said.The commission is also going through laws of other countries, specially framed to check online gambling.The new law is also likely to make organised gambling a non-bailable offence and provide for a seven-year jail term for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-to-have-a-stricter-law-to-check-gambling-101617106789224.html
30-03-2021||India||BJP richest party in the world, alleges Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday claimed that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is the richest political party in the world and they have no dearth of money. “They brought demonetisation, threaten industrialists and now they have started electoral bonds. We hoped that the Supreme Court will ban them but it did not. If the industry takes out bonds for ₹100 crore, gives ₹95 crore to the BJP and divides ₹5 crore among the Congress, CPI, CPM, BSP, how will the democracy be strong if it isn’t an equal fight?”the CM asked while addressing the nomination rally of party candidate for Sujangarh (Churu) bypolls, Manoj Meghwal. All three Congress candidates – Meghwal, Gayatri Trivedi from Sahara (Bhilwara), and Tansukh Bohra from Rajsamand (Udaipur) filed their nomination today on the last day of filing the nomination. All senior Congress leaders – Gehlot, AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, state PCC chief Govind Singh, and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot travelled together in a chopper and addressed public meetings in the three constituencies going for bypolls.Also Read | Dust-laden winds from Rajasthan blow over Delhi, air quality deterioratesOn farmers’ movement, the CM said, “They [BJP] have won with the blessings of farmers, got a huge majority in Parliament but are not listening to agitated farmers… They are adamant.” He also urged the Centre to talk to the farmers and Opposition parties. The CM today mentioned Pilot in his speech stating that party is committed to fulfill the promises made in manifesto, which was made when Pilot was state party chief. Addressing a gathering in Sujangarh, Pilot said, “The bypolls will not make or dent a government...But the results will send a message to Delhi that farmers and youth resent the BJP because they are imposing agri-laws, misgovernance and inflation.” In Sahara, he said supporting the Congress will send out a message of a stable and strong government. “Let BJP try, but they aren’t coming in power again in Assam and even in West Bengal. Their party is divided from top to bottom, which has become visible in these elections,” he said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek hit back at the Congress over the allegation of being the richest because of electoral bonds, said his party has more funds but it also has the largest membership. Its workers bring in funds which are then utilised for the party and elections. “The Congress, which is facing a dearth of leadership, does not have workers. Their leaders have broken all records of corruption,” he said. Polling in these three constituencies will be held on April 17 from 7am to 6pm, and counting will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-richest-party-in-the-world-alleges-rajasthan-cm-101617106369230.html
30-03-2021||India||Municipal councillor, injured in J&K’s Sopore, succumbs||Councillor Shamasuddin Peer, who was injured in an attack in Jammu & Kashmir’s Sopore a day earlier, succumbed to his bullet injuries at a Srinagar hospital on Tuesday. The toll from the attack on the Sopore Municipal Council office rose to three with Peer’s death.Four personal security officers (PSOs) deployed for the councillors’ safety have been suspended as police admitted to lapses that led to the attack. A policeman was also killed in the attack.Police have blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), its local operative Mudasir Pandit and a foreign terrorist for the attack.Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said the PSOs were outside the office but failed to stop the attackers. “They could have acted and stopped this attack. It was a security lapse.” He added the four were sufficient to stop the attackers.Also Read | LeT may be involved in Sopore attack, shows preliminary investigation reportKumar said the council chief had not informed the police about the meeting. “Had the police been informed on time, there would have been additional deployments and this incident would not have taken place.”Senior police and army officers visited the attack scene and later Kumar chaired a security review meeting.“Preliminary investigation indicates that Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT along with a foreign terrorist are involved in the attack. However, further investigations are rigorously going on,” said Kumar. He said they have arrested one person for allegedly sheltering the attackers. “We launched search and cordon operation at two places but they [attackers] managed to escape. They will be soon neutralised.”Kumar said police were trying to plug the gaps and address security lapses.Monday’s attack was the first on councillors since the formation of District Development Councils in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/injured-councillor-in-j-k-s-sopore-succumbs-to-injuries-101617104509237.html
30-03-2021||India||Impose fines on passengers not wearing masks 'properly': DGCA to airports||Aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday told airports to consider imposing spot fines, with the help of police authorities, on passengers who are found not wearing masks properly and not maintaining social distancing as per the Covid-19 rules.On March 13, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had asked airports and airlines to ensure that passengers wear mask and maintain social distance at all times during air travel, and take action against those violating the norms.In a circular issued on Tuesday, the regulator said, "During the surveillance of some airports, it has come to notice that compliance (of Covid-19 protocols) is not satisfactory.""All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions on Covid-19 protocol from the standpoint of wearing face mask properly, covering nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distance norms within the airport premises are followed scrupulously," it said.Accordingly, all airport operators can increase surveillance in this regard, the DGCA said."The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with the law, shall also be explored with local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol," it stated.The March 13 circular had asked the airport operators to hand over the passengers, who are not following the Covid-19 protocol even after repeated warnings, to the security agencies.Moreover, it had asked the airlines to de-board the passengers who refused to adhere to Covid-19 norms even after repeated warnings and consider banning them from flying for at least three months.Fifteen passengers, who were found violating Covid-19 norms on domestic flights of three airlines between March 15 and March 23, might be banned for three months by the carriers, senior officials of the DGCA had said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impose-fines-on-passengers-not-wearing-masks-properly-dgca-to-airports-101617103918785.html
30-03-2021||India||President Kovind’s bypass surgery conducted successfully: Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday underwent successful bypass surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and his condition is stable, a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. "The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind underwent cardiac bypass surgery today morning (March 30, 2021) at AIIMS, New Delhi. Surgery was successful. He is stable and is being closely monitored by a team of senior doctors," the statement said.The 75-year-old President underwent a health check-up at the Indian Army’s R&R Hospital last Friday after he complained of discomfort in his chest. He was later shifted to AIIMS. “The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has been shifted to the AIIMS, Delhi, in the afternoon today (March 27, 2021). Post investigations, doctors have advised him to undergo a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on the morning of March 30, Tuesday. The President's health is stable and he is under the care of the experts at the AIIMS,” his office said in a statement on March 27.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said in a tweet he spoke to the director of AIIMS to enquire about President Kovind's health. He congratulated doctors for a successful operation. "The President of India Ram Nath Kovind has undergone a successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi. I congratulate the team of Doctors for successful operation. Spoke to Director AIIMS to enquire about Rashtrapatiji's health. Praying for his well-being and speedy recovery," he said.The President of India, Shri Ramnath Kovind has undergone a successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi.I congratulate the team of Doctors for successful operation. Spoke to Director AIIMS to enquire about Rashtrapatiji’s health. Praying for his well-being and speedy recovery.Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted to wish President Kovind a speedy recovery. “Glad to learn about Rashtrapati Shri Ram Nath Kovind Ji’s successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, New Delhi. May each day bring him renewed strength. My good wishes and prayers for his speedy recovery,” Shah posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-s-bypass-surgery-conducted-successfully-rajnath-singh-101617102841691.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Dust-laden winds blow over Delhi deteriorating air quality and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Dust-laden winds from Rajasthan blow over Delhi, air quality deterioratesDust-laden winds from Rajasthan have started blowing over Delhi, leading to a deterioration in air quality and visibility. Read MoreAmit Shah says if Mamata is defeated in Nandigram, TMC will lose West BengalUnion home minister Amit Shah, who is in West Bengal to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the ongoing assembly elections, said on Tuesday Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee must be defeated in Nandigram to bring about "much-desired change" in the state. Read MoreNow Uttarakhand makes negative RT-PCR test report must for visitorsPeople, especially from states where cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are increasing, will be required to produce a negative Covid test report before they can enter Uttarakhand. Read MoreBhuvi’s swing of fortune and fitnessYou’d think that Bhuvneshwar Kumar would be happy about picking up 10 wickets across the eight limited-overs matches against England. Read MoreVolkswagen to expand its SUV range, announces a new model called TaigoVolkswagen has announced the name of the new sporty SUV Coupe. Read MoreRecipe: Smile your way into the mid-week with this Overnight Oatmeal Cookie JarFood is bae but with the monotony of work from home since the past year, we have run out of a menu that can lift up our mood in a jiffy and that is when we stumbled upon a recipe of Overnight Oatmeal Cookie Jar. Read MoreWhen Suhana Khan scolded dad Shah Rukh Khan for not quitting smoking like he'd promisedShah Rukh Khan has often spoken about his smoking habit. Last year, he implied in a tweet that he still hadn't kicked it, despite saying in the past that he would like to stop, for his children's sake. Read MoreElectricians’ kind gesture for kid who kept offering them help wins heartsKids can be extremely curious about new things happening around them. They often don’t refrain from asking one too many questions and sometimes even try to copy the actions they see happening. Read More‘If you attack our culture…’: PM Modi warns LDF & UDF on Sabarimala rowPrime Minister Narendra Modi accused the LDF and UDF being ashamed of the culture of Kerala. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-dust-laden-winds-blow-over-delhi-deteriorating-air-quality-and-all-the-latest-news-101617101753852.html
30-03-2021||India||India backs UN-led initiative for ceasefire in Afghanistan: Jaishankar||India backs a regional process to be convened under the UN to achieve a political settlement and comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan as the situation in the war-torn country continues to be cause for grave concern, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. Jaishankar made the remarks in Dushanbe while speaking at the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process, a regional initiative of 15 countries, including China, Russia, Iran and Central Asian states, to find a lasting solution to the situation in Afghanistan. This was the first reaction from the Indian side to the UN-led initiative proposed by the Biden administration. Addressing a gathering that included Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Jaishankar also said durable peace in Afghanistan requires a “genuine ‘double peace’” or “peace within Afghanistan and peace around Afghanistan”. He added, “It requires harmonising the interests of all, both within and around that country.” Also Read | The Taliban is at its strongest since 2001. This needs a clear US responseIndia’s backing for a regional process on Afghanistan convened by the UN – first suggested by US secretary of state Antony Blinken in a letter sent to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in February – came against the backdrop of worries in New Delhi that the country has been kept out of other processes such as Russia’s “extended troika”. Jaishankar said: “India welcomes any move towards a genuine political settlement and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire in Afghanistan. We appreciate the international recognition of foundational principles that will determine their contours.” He added, “We support a regional process to be convened under the aegis of the United Nations. UN stewardship would help to take into account all relevant UN resolutions and improve the odds for a lasting outcome.” In his letter, Blinken had outlined four elements as part of a high-level diplomatic effort involving regional countries and the UN to move quickly toward a settlement in Afghanistan. One of these four elements is a meeting to be convened by the UN of foreign ministers and envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US to forge a unified approach on Afghanistan. The date for this meeting is yet to be finalised. Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan continues to be a “cause for grave concern”, as violence and bloodshed are “daily realities and the conflict itself has shown little sign of abatement, whatever may be the promises”. Noting that the past few months have witnessed an escalation in targeted killings of civil society, he said that “2020 sadly marked a 45% increase in civilian casualties in Afghanistan over 2019”, while “2021 does not look very much better”. “The continued involvement of foreign fighters in Afghanistan is particularly disturbing. Heart of Asia members and supporting countries should, therefore, make it a priority to press for an immediate reduction in violence leading to a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire,” he said. Also Read | S Jaishankar, Ashraf Ghani exchange views on peace process in AfghanistanAccording to a UN report issued last year, some 6,500 Pakistani fighters, including members of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, were active in Afghanistan. Indian and Afghan officials have for long accused Pakistan’s military establishment with deep links with elements of the Taliban, especially the Haqqani Network. Jaishankar said that ensuring Afghanistan is free of terrorism, violent extremism and drug and criminal syndicates is a “collective imperative”. He added, “A stable, sovereign and peaceful Afghanistan is truly the basis for peace and progress in our region.” India has supported all efforts to accelerate dialogue between the Afghan government and the Taliban, including intra-Afghan negotiations, and attended the inaugural virtual session of the Doha talks last year, he noted. “If the peace process is to be successful, then it is necessary to ensure that the negotiating parties continue to engage in good faith, with a serious commitment towards reaching a political solution,” he said. At the same time, Jaishankar reiterated India’s interest in preserving the gains made over the past two decades in Afghanistan, including the democratic framework under which elections are held through universal suffrage, sovereignty in domestic and foreign policy and protection of the rights of women, children and minorities. India is also committed to the development partnership with Afghanistan, which involves pledges of $3 billion, including more than 550 community development projects covering all 34 provinces, in order to ensure a self-sustaining nation. As the lead country on trade, commerce and investment confidence-building measures under the Heart of Asia process, India will continue to work on improving Afghanistan’s connectivity through projects such as Chabahar port in Iran and dedicated air freight corridors between Indian and Afghan cities, Jaishankar said. A lot of speculation regarding Jaishankar’s visit to Dushanbe has focused on whether he will hold a meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Qureshi. However, there was no official word from the Indian or Pakistani side about such a meeting. Ahead of the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia process, Jaishankar held talks with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Monday night and shared India’s perspectives on the peace process. He also met his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif and discussed bilateral cooperation, including for Chabahar port. Jaishankar held a separate meeting with his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu and discussed “Afghanistan-related developments and our bilateral relations”, he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-un-led-initiative-for-ceasefire-in-afghanistan-jaishankar-101617098810055.html
30-03-2021||India||Villagers attack police in Bokaro after child’s death in road accident||Several policemen and villagers were injured in a clash Monday evening after a SUV of an assistant of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Bokaro hit two minor children on a bicycle, killing one and seriously injuring another, at Bagda, Jharkhand police said on Tuesday.Five police personnel were injured in the incident. Four were admitted to Bokaro general hospital (BGH) and referral hospital with serious injuries, police said. Sub-divisional officer (SDO), Bermo, Anant Kumar also received minor injury in stone pelting by the villagers, police said.The villagers alleged that the speeding SUV of the DC’s assistant Ajit Pandey, who was also travelling in the vehicle, hit two brothers aged 9 and 11 who were going to buy coloured powder to celebrate holi in the evening. The younger one died on the way to hospital, while the older one, whose condition is stated to be serious, is undergoing treatment at BGH.The SUV turned turtle after the accident. While the driver escaped from the spot, villagers held Pandey captive and allegedly beat him. Police teams reached the spot after getting the information.Bermo SDO Anant Kumar said, “The villagers had made Pandey captive for two-three hours. We reached the spot and talked to villagers to release him. Suddenly, quite a few villagers from the crowd started pelting stones and also used sticks against police personnel.”He said quite a few police personnel were injured in the incident and he also was hit by stones on his back. “Four police personnel were seriously injured. Two were admitted to BGH, while two others are undergoing treatment at Bokaro referral hospital,” he said.Police also resorted to lathi-charge and rescued Pandey safely from the villagers. Many villagers also received injuries in the incident.“A hit and run case and an FIR against villagers who resorted to violence against police personnel have been lodged,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-attack-police-in-bokaro-after-child-s-death-in-road-accident-101617098808937.html
30-03-2021||India||Death toll in Sopore municipal office attack rises to 3||The death toll in the attack on the Sopore municipal office on Monday rose to three on Tuesday after another injured councillor succumbed to his injuries in a Srinagar hospital, police said.Meanwhile four PSOs of the protected persons were placed under suspension.Injured councillor Shamas-ud-din Peer who was referred to Srinagar died early in the morning in the hospital. A policeman and a councillor were killed in the attack on Monday. Soon after the attack, police blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba militants and said it was carried out by local militant Mudasir Pandit along with a foreign militant.Late Monday night senior police and army officers visited the spot and later inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar chaired a security review meeting with Commander 5-Sector Rashtriya Rifles, DIG CRPF and SSP Sopore.“Preliminary investigation indicates that a local terrorist Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT along with a foreign terrorist are involved in the said attack. However, further investigations are rigorously going on. IGP Kashmir also took serious note of the poor and inappropriate retaliation by the PSOs of protected persons present on spot and directed SSP Sopore to put four PSOs under suspension,” a police spokesperson said. Meanwhile security forces conducted search and cordon operations at many places to trace the attackers. Security around Municipal Councils in north Kashmir where councillors hold meetings has been reviewed to stop similar attacks in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-in-sopore-municipal-office-attack-rises-to-3-101617096048961.html
30-03-2021||India||Vaccines are safe, stay away from WhatsApp university: Harsh Vardhan allays fear||Union minister of health Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday sought to address vaccine hesitancy and asked people to stay away from rumours about the jabs against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected more than 12 million people in the country and killed more than 162,000. "Both Indian vaccines are safe and effective. A lot of people still have doubts regarding vaccines. I urge them not to believe what is being circulated in WhatsApp university," Vardhan said, according to news agency ANI, referring to false information related to election, politics and religion among other things shared on the widely-used messaging application."There are only a few rare cases wherein people contracted Covid-19 after taking vaccines. Even if someone tests positive after taking vaccines, it minimalises the chances of their hospitalisation or admission to ICU wards," he added.Also read | 6 states reported 78.56% of India's daily Covid-19 cases: GovtThe health minister made the remarks after he and his wife, Nutan Goel, received the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute. Harsh Vardhan, who took the first dose of the vaccine on March 2, also said that neither of them felt any side effects after the first dose.Harsh Vardhan also said that seven more vaccine candidates are in various stages of clinical trials. "Some of them are in the advanced phase of the trials. Around two dozen vaccines are in pre-clinical trials,” he said.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday, 6,11,13,354 vaccine doses have been administered through 10,07,091 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7am, during the national inoculation drive against Covid-19.These include 81,74,916 healthcare workers, who have taken the first dose, and 51,88,747, who have taken the second dose, and 89,44,742 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 37,11,221 who have taken the second dose, it said.The health ministry said 68,72,483 people aged 45 to 60 years with specific co-morbidities have received the first dose and 405 the second dose. In the category of those more than 60 years of age, 28,219,257 have got the first dose and 1,583 the second dose, it added. On Day 73 of the national vaccination drive on March 29, 582,919 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 551,164 people were vaccinated across 14,608 sessions for the first dose and 31,755 others received the second dose.The country’s vaccination drive started on January 16 with healthcare and frontline workers being inoculated against Covid-19 in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses are being administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities. The government has decided to vaccinate all above 45 years from April 1.India reported 56, 211 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease and 271 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-are-safe-stay-away-from-whatsapp-university-harsh-vardhan-allays-fear-101617095378642.html
30-03-2021||India||81-year-old Covid-19 patient dies by suicide at government hospital in Nagpur||In a shocking incident, an 81-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide at the government hospital in Nagpur.The incident took place at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMC), Nagpur on Monday.Dr. Kanchan Wankhede, Medical Superintendent (In-charge), GMC Nagpur, informed that the old man, who was admitted in the Covid-19 ward of the hospital, committed suicide by hanging himself using an oxygen pipe inside a bathroom.Nagpur has been witnessing a dynamic surge in Covid-19 cases and reported 3,177 new infections on Monday. There are 38,298 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/81yearold-covid-19-patient-dies-by-suicide-at-government-hospital-in-nagpur-101617094706854.html
30-03-2021||India||Starting April, Vistara to roll back pay cuts for non-management staff||Vistara will be rolling back pay cuts for a few categories of employees, starting April. These pay cuts were implemented last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic leading to severe financial issues for the aviation industry.An internal email by the airline’s chief executive officer (CEO) Leslie Thng to its employees said that pay cuts will be rolled back for level 1 to level 3 employees but will continue for management-level executives (level 4 and level 5 employees), including himself.The full service carrier had, in June 2020, announced a reduction in salary of nearly 40% of the total workforce. This reduction in salary was announced for the period up to December 31, and was later extended to March 31. Also Read | Vistara to upgrade 787-9s for long haulIn the internal mail, the Tata Sons and Singapore Airlines joint venture airline said it will not be paying an annual increment in April this year. However, it mentioned that the increment process will be revised in October, based on the airline’s financial position in the coming six months.Thng’s email read, “Our board has approved to cease the pay cut that was implemented for level-1 to level-3 staff from April 1, but the leadership team (level 4 and level-5) and I will continue with our pay cuts at 15% and 25%, respectively… we are definitely not out of the woods yet as our operating capacity and revenue are still below pre-Covid levels, and the road ahead will continue to remain vigilant in controlling our costs and be nimble and flexible in our plan, and should be prepared to take difficult decisions if the need arises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/starting-april-vistara-to-roll-back-pay-cuts-for-non-management-staff-101617094428819.html
30-03-2021||India||Bombay High Court to hear Param Bir Singh's PIL against Deshmukh on Mar 31||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it would hear on Wednesday the PIL filed by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh seeking a CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed asked police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants.Singh filed the criminal Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the HC on March 25.He claimed Deshmukh had asked police officers, including suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the NIA in the case of bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai, to collect ₹100 crore each month from bars and restaurants.The PIL also raised the issue of alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in the state.On Tuesday, senior counsel Vikram Nankani, appearing for Singh, mentioned the petition before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni and sought urgent hearing.Chief Justice Datta asked Nankani about the prayers sought in the petition and if the PIL is maintainable.Nankani said the main prayer sought in the petition is for a CBI probe into the serious allegations levelled by a senior IPS officer against a state minister."We will satisfy the court with arguments on the maintainability of the petition," Nankani said.The HC then posted the PIL for hearing on Wednesday.Singh had initially approached the Supreme Court, alleging he was transferred from the post of Commissioner Police of Mumbai on March 17 and shunted to the Home Guards department after he complained to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders about the "corrupt malpractices" of Deshmukh.The apex court had termed the matter as quite serious, but asked Singh to approach the high court.Singh then filed the PIL in the HC, reiterating his allegations against Deshmukh and seeking an "immediate, unbiased, impartial" probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, who is an NCP leader.In his PIL, Singh also accused Deshmukh of routinely interfering in police investigations and putting pressure on him to implicate BJP leaders in the case of suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar.Singh also sought a direction from the HC to the CBI to secure CCTV footage of Deshmukh's residence from earlier this year before it was "destroyed", and a direction to the state government to produce all records of communication received from IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in March 2020.In February last year, Shukla levelled allegations of malpractices in police postings and transfers against Deshmukh and also informed her superiors about it, but soon afterwards she was transferred, the PIL alleged.The court should pass directions to ensure that in future police officials are not transferred on account of "pecuniary benefits to any politician", it said.Deshmukh has denied the allegations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-param-bir-singh-s-pil-against-deshmukh-on-mar-31-101617089940539.html
30-03-2021||India||6 states reported 78.56% of India's daily Covid-19 cases: Govt||Six states cumulatively contributed to 78.56 per cent of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours from across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. These states are Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat which continued to report a surge in the daily Covid-19 cases, according to the health ministry.India recorded 56,211 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours which took the nationwide tally to 12,095,855, the health ministry showed. With this, the number of active cases also went up by 18,912 between Monday and Tuesday morning as the active case count reached 540,720, the health ministry said. 271 fatalities were reported due to the infection which took the death toll to 162,114.Here’s a look at the six states which contributed the most to India’s Covid-19 related deaths on Tuesday:MaharashtraMaharashtra, which remains the worst-affected state by the coronavirus pandemic, reported 31,643 new Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the overall tally of the state to 2,745,518. The state reported 102 deaths in the past 24 hours which pushed its death toll to 54,283. The active cases in the state stood at 336,584 and the total recoveries stood at 2,353,307.PunjabPunjab on Monday reported 59 more fatalities due to Covid-19 and 2,868 fresh cases which took the death toll to 6,749 and the infection count to 234,602, respectively. The number of active cases increased from 23,917 on Sunday to 24,143 on Monday.Read more: Covid-19: India provides 100,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine to ParaguayKarnatakaKarnataka reported 2,792 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which took the state’s tally to 987,012. The death toll in the state stood at 12,504, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The recoveries from the disease neared 952,000 in the state while active cases have climbed to 23,037.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh on Monday reported 2,323 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 291,006. With nine more patients succumbing to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the overall fatality count in the state rose to 3,967. A total of 1,349 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the count of recoveries in the state to 271,889.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu logged 2,279 new Covid-19 infections on Monday which pushed the caseload in the state to 8,81,000 while 14 more deaths took the toll to 12,684. Total recoveries in the state stood at 855,085 with 1,352 patients being discharged, leaving 13,983 active cases.GujaratGujarat's Covid-19 caseload reached 303,118 after 2,252 new Covid-19 cases were detected on Monday. With eight deaths and 1,731 people getting discharged, the state's death toll stood at 4,500 and the recovery count stood at 286,577.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-states-reported-78-56-of-india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-govt-101617090284591.html
30-03-2021||India||80% beds in pvt hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 patients: BMC||In wake of rising cases in Mumbai, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ordered private hospitals to reserved 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals for virus-infected patients. In the intensive care unit (ICU), 100 per cent of beds will be reserved for the same in line with the Ward War Room allotment, the civic body said in a circular issued on March 29.BMC also restricted private hospitals to directly admit patients in any of these reserved beds.This comes as the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is worsening with every passing day. On Monday, the state reported as many as 31,643 cases in the span of 24 hours, out of this 5,890 cases were reported from Mumbai alone. While the number of fatalities in the same period was at 102. Mumbai recorded 12.On March 28, it recorded the sharpest single-day spike in daily cases after 40,414 people found to be infected by the Covid-19.From March 1 to 29, the state recorded 590,448 cases, while it had recorded 593,192 cases in September 2020, according to the figures by the state health department. The state’s tally is now 2,745,518 cases and the death toll is 54,283.On Monday, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik urged residents to comply with the Covid-19 protocol as the state government mulled the reimposition of lockdown. “We can’t afford another lockdown. We have asked the CM to consider other options. Due to the rising cases, he has directed the administration to prepare for lockdown but that doesn’t mean a lockdown is inevitable. If people follow rules, it can be avoided,” ANI quoted Malik as saying.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday asked officials to start preparing plans for the implementation of another lockdown as cases continued to surge in the state. Meanwhile, a night curfew has already in effect in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-to-be-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-bmc-101617090708106.html
30-03-2021||India||BJP functionary found dead in west Delhi, say police||A BJP functionary was found dead at a park in west Delhi's Hari Nagar, the police said on Tuesday.Gurvinder Singh (58), a resident of Fateh Nagar, was head of the legal department of the BJP's West Delhi district unit.Singh's body was found at Jheel Wala Park on Monday, a senior police officer said, adding that the man had a minor dispute with his family.His son Ishwender Singh reached the spot and identified the body which was later sent for post-mortem, the police added.To seek help for depression and other forms of mental distress please reach out to the helplines of International Bipolar Foundation (+91-8888817666) and Jeevan Aastha (toll free: 1800 233 3330). For issues surrounding gender and sexuality, call LGBT organisation, Pahal Foundation at 8318837081 (operational on Friday to Sunday, from 3pm to 6pm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-functionary-found-dead-in-west-delhi-say-police-101617089235568.html
30-03-2021||India||BR Ambedkar's statue found damaged in UP's Ballia||A statue of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar was found damaged at a village here, leading to a protest by members of the local Dalit community, police said on Tuesday.The statue in Khunta village was vandalised by some "anti-social elements" in the early hours of Monday, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Bilthara Road, Sarvesh Yadav said.The SDM and police officials pacified the protesters, assuring that a new statue would be installed at the earliest.A case was lodged at Bhimpura Police Station against unknown persons, on a complaint from Ambedkar Committee president Sunil Kumar, under relevant sections of the law, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. In December last year, a statue of Ambedkar was found damaged in Sikanderpur area of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/br-ambedkar-s-statue-found-damaged-in-up-s-ballia-101617089844272.html
30-03-2021||India||Seven Covid-19 vaccine candidates in clinical trials, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that seven more Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in stages of clinical trials.He made the statement after receiving the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi Heart and Lung Institute.Harsh Vardhan said, "Around seven more Covid vaccine candidates are in clinical trials. Some of them are in the advanced phase of the trials. Around two dozen vaccines are in pre-clinical trials."The Union Health Minister said that 430 districts in the country have not reported a single case of coronavirus in the last 28 days."The situation is under control but we don't have to be complacent in terms of observing Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.His wife Nutan Goel also took the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine today.Harsh Vardhan said that neither of them felt any side effects after their first doses."Both Indian vaccines are safe and effective. A lot of people still have doubts regarding vaccines. I urge them not to believe what is being circulated in WhatsApp university," he further said."There are only a few rare cases wherein people contracted Covid-19 after taking vaccines. Even if someone tests positive after taking vaccines, it minimalises the chances of their hospitalization or admission to ICU wards," he added.He had taken the first dose of the vaccine on March 2.In what is billed as the largest vaccination drive in the world, as many as 6,11,13,354 vaccine doses have been administered till 8 am on March 30.India had started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses are being administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities. From April 1, the government has decided to vaccinate all above 45 years.India reported 56, 211 fresh Covid-19 cases and 271 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the union health ministry informed on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-in-clinical-trials-says-harsh-vardhan-101617089828693.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi spells out BJP's vision for Kerala, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi spells out BJP's vision for Kerala, praises E Sreedharan in PalakkadPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has a forward looking vision for poll-bound Kerala, like the rest of the country, as he addressed a rally in Palakkad. Read moreHow Kerala’s economy has fared under LDF rulePolls for the 140-member Kerala Assembly, in a single-phase election on April 6, will see the incumbent, the Communist Party of India-Marxist or CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) battle it out with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Read moreShould India declare a net zero emission target?Net zero emission by 2050 is emerging as the latest war cry on the climate front. And the drum beat is getting louder as the Glasgow climate conference draws nearer. Read more'Leader of the pack': Ajay Jadeja says Bhuvneshwar Kumar fulfilled Jasprit Bumrah's role effectively in ODI seriesIndia pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar made a stunning return to India's limited-overs squad against England, as he led the bowling attack against the World No. 1 team. Read moreRam Setu: Akshay Kumar reveals first look as shoot commences, asks fans for feedback on his archaeologist lookAkshay Kumar is one of the busiest actors in Bollywood right now. He wrapped Atrangi Re over the weekend and is already on the sets of his new project. Akshay took to Twitter and revealed that he has started the shoot of Ram Setu on Tuesday. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan says he spent Holi 'sitting in silence' by himself, away from family: 'Mind, body, spirit is vacant'Actor Amitabh Bachchan took to his blog on Monday to express regret about the quiet manner in which he celebrated Holi this year. He wrote that he spent the festival of colours sitting by himself 'in silence'. Read morePrachi Desai cuts contemporary-chic silhouette in ivory Chanderi jacket, lehengaThough production stopped, stores closed and catwalks went dark due to the Covid-19 lockdowns last year, fashion is now back and better than it was before and Bollywood actor Prachi Desai’s latest pictures are enough to back our claim. Read moreF1 of the skies? This could be world's first electric flying car race eventElectric vehicles are quite the rage at ground level but what about the open skies where speed may be nearly limitless? Read moreNaughtiness alert: These smart animals will leave you gigglingSmart, sassy and agile- these are some of the few adjectives apt for the animals shown in this video. We know that cute and cuddly pet videos make for an entertaining watch, but we assure you that these intelligent animals doing all kinds of smart activities are a delight to watch. Watch hereWatch: Why Canada suspended use of India-made vaccine for those under 55||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-spells-out-bjp-s-vision-for-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101617087845660.html
30-03-2021||India||Ruckus at release of Pawan Kalyan movie's trailer||A ruckus was created at the Sangam Sharath theatre here during the release of the trailer of actor-turned-politician Pawan Kalyan's movie 'Vakeel Saab' and his fans trying to celebrate the event.The trailer was released in only a few theatres in the Telugu states on March 29 around 4 pm. The superstar's fans reached the theatre by 2pm and offered puja and coconuts at his photo.In the commotion the glass of the theatre was broken, but despite that, the fans went inside to watch the trailer. The filmmakers had decided to launch the trailer on Holi and the superstar's fans decided to celebrate the occasion.#WATCH | Andhra Pradesh: Ruckus erupted at a theatre in Visakhapatnam during the release of the trailer of actor & Jan Sena chief Pawan Kalyan's movie, yesterday pic.twitter.com/MjNrpxto1dPawan Kalyan is making a comeback after a two-year sabbatical with his film Vakeel Saab, which is the Telugu remake of the Bollywood hit Amitabh Bachchan's Pink.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-at-release-of-pawan-kalyan-movie-s-trailer-101617085849686.html
30-03-2021||India||Gujarat chief minister weighed against 85kgs of silver at event||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was on Monday weighed against 85 kilograms of silver at a function organised in Gandhinagar.Rupani donated the silver for the welfare of livestock at cow shelters, a state government release said, adding that the 'rajat tula' event was organised by Samast Mahajan Trust.Rupani said his government was committed to the welfare of livestock, and had enacted a stringent law against cow slaughter with jail terms of up to 12 years.He said his government had launched 'Karuna Abhiyan' to treat birds injured during the kite festival, apart from operating 350 mobile veterinary vans, and offering financial assistance to cow shelters.Steps had been taken to make such cow shelters, or panjrapole, self-sufficient by helping those running it grow fodder, the CM added.Rupani also inaugurated in online mode 'gauchar' development works in Banaskantha and Mehsana, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-chief-minister-weighed-against-85-kgs-of-silver-at-event-101617085821891.html
30-03-2021||India||6 people arrested for poaching deer in Chhattisgarh’s Achanakmar Tiger Reserve||Chhattisgarh forest department arrested six people for hunting a spotted deer in Achanakmar Tiger Reserve, forest officials said on Tuesday.The department claimed that the department also recovered 35 kg meat from the accused and sent it for further examination. “We got a tip-off that some poacher entered in the jungle and killed an animal. We started searching on Saturday night and in the early hours of Sunday, the officials arrested two people Vivek Nelson and Mexon George and found 10 kg of chital meat,” said deputy director, Achanakmaar Tiger Reserve, Satyadev Sharma. Based on the statement of the duo, houses of four others Santosh Porte, Suresh Uraon, Bhuvneswar Porte and Budhram were raided and 25 kg of chital meat was recovered, Sharma said. “We have also seized bows, arrows, steel cable and clutch wire from Budhram. During questioning, it emerged that one Hasrat Khan of Bilaspur had allegedly killed a chital with a 0.22 bore gun with their support. Later, two more accused Asaram and Raghunath were also arrested,” said Sharma.The main accused Hasrat Khan, Santosh Porte and Suresh Uraon are still absconding, Sharma said. “We are raiding various spots in this connection and more arrests could follow,” he said. The accused have been booked under relevant provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-people-arrested-for-poaching-deer-in-chhattisgarh-s-achanakmar-tiger-reserve-101617085788534.html
30-03-2021||India||14 arrested in connection with violence at Nanded gurudwara in which 4 cops were injured||The police in Maharashtra's Nanded arrested 14 people in connection with violence outside a gurudwara on Monday, news agency ANI reported. Four policemen were injured after being attacked during vandalism and one of them - a constable - is said to be in a serious condition.ANI quoted a police official as saying that a case has been registered against 64 accused under charges of rioting and attempt to murder.The sword-wielding mob attacked policemen after being denied permission to hold a public procession in Nanded due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.A video of the incident, flashed by various news agencies, showed the mob barging out of the gurudwara, breaking the barricades put up by police and attacking the cops.Several vehicles were also damaged in the violence."Permission for the Hola Mohalla public procession was not granted due to the pandemic. The gurudwara committee was informed and they had assured us that they would abide by our directives and hold the event inside the gurudwara premises," Nanded Range DIG Nisar Tamboli told news agency PTI."However, when the Nishan Sahib was brought at the gate around 4 pm, several participants started arguing and over 300 youth stormed out of the gate, broke the barricades and began attacking the policeman," he added.Hola Mohalla is a Sikh festival that comes a day after Holi. It is an occasion for Sikhs to demonstrate their martial arts skills.Nanded is an important Sikh pilgrimage centre as it is home to a sacred shrine, the Takht Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib. It was here that the 10th and last Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708), anointed the holy book Guru Granth Sahib as the eternal Guru of Sikhism and spent the last 14 months of his life.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-detained-in-connection-with-violence-at-nanded-gurudwara-101617083622153.html
30-03-2021||India||Devotees celebrate 'Hola Mohalla' at Golden Temple, Amritsar||On the occasion of 'Hola Mohalla' or Warrior Holi on Monday, thousands of devotees thronged to seek blessings at the Golden Temple in Amritsar.On this day the devotees at Shri Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar, along with their families, bow down, listen to Gurbani, take a dip in the holy water and take the blessings of Guru Sahib.On the occasion of Holi, people from across the country visit the centre of faith and spirituality to offer prayers at the Golden Temple. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-celebrate-hola-mohalla-at-golden-temple-amritsar-101617081822121.html
30-03-2021||India||More than 40 dead, 38 others injured across Bihar during Holi celebrations||At least 41 people including three children were killed and over 38 others were injured as violence and accidents marred Holi celebrations in Bihar in the past two days, police said. Several violent incidents were reported from many places as groups clashed with each other. Five people were murdered in Patna alone in group clashes while four persons died in two road accidents in Samastipur because of drunken driving. Reports from Buxar, a woman at Pandeypatti village under Muffasil police station was shot at and injured on Monday when she opposed the playing of obscene songs by a group of youths near her house. One of the revelers whipped out a pistol and shot her. Buxar’s SDPO Gorakh Ram said, “The firing happened during a dispute over the playing of songs. The woman has suffered a bullet injury in her leg. We are investigating the matter.” In Nalanda, miscreants set on fire three huts at Miya-Bigha village and injured four persons when they opposed the playing of obscene Bhojpuri songs. In Bhagalpur, at least six people were injured in a clash between two communities at Barari police station area. The clash took place after a group of people sprinkled colour on another group which was on its way to play cricket. The clash escalated quickly with both communities attacking each other and setting several shops on fire. Bhagalpur SSP Nitasa Guriya said the situation is normal and police were registering FIRs against the culprits. Earlier, on Sunday evening, a speeding truck rammed into a sweet and snacks shop near Telhara police station in Nalanda killing six people and injuring more than 10 others. The locals, angered over the incident, attacked the Telhara police station and torched eight vehicles parked on its campus. In Gaya, three Dalit children were charred to death and another was seriously injured during Holika Dahan in Rahul Nagar village. SHO of Bodh Gaya police station Mitesh Kumar said, “The villagers cremated the bodies on Monday morning. They have not lodged any complaint so far.” On Monday, two groups of people clashed over a land dispute in Madhubani’s Benipatti police station area. Three persons including two brothers were shot dead while three others injured in a firing between the two groups. Madhubani’s police chief Dr Satya Prakash said two of the injured persons referred to Patna while another referred to Darbhanga. According to reports from Sitamarhi, two persons were killed and three others injured near Mushahri village on Holi after their motorcycles collided with each other. Similar incidents reported from Katihar where three motorcyclists died and two were injured in accidents. Two persons each from Vaishali, Gopalganj, Buxar and Jehanabad districts killed in road mishap while one person died and 10 injured in Lakhisarai when a pickup van overturned. In Kaimur, three persons including a two-year-old died and three others were injured in two separate road accidents. An official in the police headquarters said that a farmer was shot dead in Khagaria while two persons were killed in Buxar. In Rohtas one person was killed and three others were injured in a firing between two groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-40-dead-38-others-injured-across-bihar-during-holi-celebrations-101617082668511.html
30-03-2021||India||Passengers departing from Mumbai airport to continue paying development fees||People flying out of Mumbai will have to continue paying development fees for another year. This process was to end on Wednesday, March 31, but passengers departing from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will now be paying ₹120 for domestic and ₹720 for international destinations till March 31 next year.The implementing authority, Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA), said that the situation will be reviewed again by the end of December 2021, and a decision will be taken based on the report of an independent auditor appointed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI).AERA stated that it had sanctioned a levy of ₹100 for every domestic passenger and ₹600 for every international passenger at Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) in 2012, to cover a deficit of ₹3,845 crore in airport project financing, up to April 30, 2021.Also Read | From April 1, flying to become costlier as DGCA hikes air security feeMoreover, in 2016, MIAL was allowed to charge a levy of ₹20 per domestic and ₹120 per international passenger to finance the Metro works to collect ₹518 crore. Both these levies were merged to a combined development fees of ₹120 and ₹720 per domestic and international passenger respectively and were to be charged till March 31, 2021.However, 2020 and 2021 saw a huge impact on Indian aviation and, consequently, passenger numbers at all airports dropped, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which severely affected the collections.An AERA order dated March 24 stated, “… a request was received from MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Ltd.) for extension of period of levy for project development fees and Metro development fees, due to shortfall in the collection of both the levies. Airports Authority of India (AAI) confirmed that as on March 31, 2020, ₹524.6 crore are yet to be collected under project development fees, and, a deficit of ₹102.7 crore is to be collected under Metro development fees.”AERA said that during the period April 2020 to January 2021, the number of domestic passengers reduced by 76.4% and the number of international passengers reduced by 91.9% when compared to the previous year for the same period, resulting in the collection of development fees during the period April 2020 to March 2021 to be much less than the anticipated amount. Due to this, the deficit cannot be covered by Wednesday, March 31. AERA said that it examined the facts, and, on the basis of passenger traffic, during FY 2020­-21, it expects MIAL to collect ₹80.63 crore; which means that, after the end of FY 2020­ 21, there will be a shortfall of ₹546.64 crore.“So, there is a necessity to extend the levy of development fees beyond March 2021, to recover the sanctioned development fees amount. However, the traffic projections for the period FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23 are tentative and may change depending on the Covid-19 situation and other economic factors and collection may vary from the present calculations. Accordingly, it is decided to extend the levy of development fees up to March 2022. The position will be reviewed after December 2021 and further action/ order will be issued based on such review,” concluded AERA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-departing-from-mumbai-airport-to-continue-paying-development-fees-101617082608772.html
30-03-2021||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan, wife receive second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday received the second dose of Covid-19. He was vaccinated along with wife Nutan Goel at Delhi's Delhi Heart & Lung Institute. "After taking first dose of vaccine, neither of us felt any side effects," ANI quoted the Union health minister as saying. He also urged people get themselves vaccinated without hesitation."Both Indian vaccines are safe and effective. A lot of people still have doubts regarding vaccines. I urge them not to believe what is being circulated in WhatsApp university," he said according to the ANI report."There are only a few rare cases wherein people contracted Covid-19 after taking vaccines. Even if someone tests positive after taking vaccines, it minimises the chances of their hospitalisation or admission to ICU wards," the health minister also said.On March 2, the health minister and wife received the first dose of the vaccine. "I request everyone to get vaccinated. After 28 days of first dose, everyone should get their second dose. Do not worry if you experience minor side-effects, but do let your doctors know," Harsh Vardhan wrote on Twitter after getting the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read | 8 states have administered highest number of Covid-19 vaccine dosesSpeaking on Covid-19 situation in the country, Harsh Vardhan said it is "under control now." "There are 430 districts in the country where not a single case of coronavirus has been reported in the last 28 days. The situation is under control but we don't have to be complacent in terms of observing Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.On January 16, India rolled out its vaccination drive in the country. Only healthcare and frontline workers were allowed to be immunised in the first phase of the drive. In the following phase, which began on March 1, the government permitted those above 60 years and people above 45 with commodities to be inoculated.The government has allowed all those above the age of 45 to be administered with the Covid-19 vaccine from April 1, the health ministry announced earlier.India is currently using Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for the inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-wife-receive-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-101617082373748.html
30-03-2021||India||Jaishankar may present India’s views on Afghan peace process in Tajikistan today||External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to present India’s views on the troubled Afghan peace process at a crucial meet on Afghanistan hosted by Tajikistan and hold meetings with leaders of Central Asian states on Tuesday. Jaishankar is in the Tajik capital of Dushanbe at the invitation of his counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin. Ahead of the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process, Jaishankar held talks with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Monday night and shared India’s perspectives on the peace process. The minister tweeted about his visit on Monday and said, “Look forward to my bilateral visit and attending the Heart of Asia Conference tomorrow.”A lot of speculation regarding Jaishankar’s visit has focused on whether he will hold a meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who is also attending the Heart of Asia meet. However, there was no official word from the Indian or Pakistani sides about such a meeting. On Monday, Jaishankar also met his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu and discussed “Afghanistan-related developments and our bilateral relations”, he said in a tweet. Heart Of Asia, a regional initiative launched by Afghanistan and Turkey in November 2011, is one of the rare forums focused on Afghanistan that includes both India and Pakistan. The initiative includes 15 countries, including China, Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Central Asian states such as Tajikistan and Kazakhstan. Also Read | S Jaishankar, Ashraf Ghani exchange views on peace process in AfghanistanAs the lead country for trade, commerce, investment and confidence-building measures under the Heart of Asia initiative, India has made concerted efforts to strengthen regional connectivity for greater economic integration of Afghanistan with the rest of the region. A dedicated air freight corridor between cities in India and Afghanistan and the operationalisation of Chabahar port in Iran are steps in that direction, the external affairs ministry said. “India, as an important stakeholder for peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan, has played a constructive role in the international processes on Afghanistan,” the ministry said. India has engaged regional and international stakeholders on Afghanistan, and Jaishankar’s visit is expected to further enhance the country’s outreach to Central Asian states, with a special focus on Afghanistan, the ministry further said. Besides participating in the Heart of Asia meeting, Jaishankar will hold talks with his Tajik counterpart on all aspects of bilateral ties and regional and international issues. He will also meet Tajik President Emomali Rahmon and other Tajik Ministers and dignitaries. Jaishankar is also expected to meet his counterparts from Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan in Dushanbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-may-present-india-s-views-on-afghan-peace-process-in-tajikistan-today-101617082008431.html
30-03-2021||India||Manipur withdraws earlier order to turn Myanmar refugees away ‘politely’||The Manipur government on Monday withdrew an earlier order directing authorities in districts bordering Myanmar to “politely turn away” nationals from the neighbouring nation who are trying to enter India. The fresh letter was issued by H Gyan Prakash, special secretary (home), government of Manipur, to deputy commissioners of Chandel, Tengnoupal, Ukhrul and Churachandpur districts. “The fresh letter was issued on Monday which directed the deputy commissioners in four districts to disregard the earlier letter issued on March 26,” Prakash said over phone from Imphal. The letter mentions that the earlier order issued on March 26 has been misconstrued and interpreted differently, and the Manipur government has been providing all aid to Myanmar nationals who have entered India via the borders with the state. Also Read | India can’t become capital of illegal migrants: Govt on Rohingyas’ deportationIt maintains that the state government has been taking all necessary humanitarian steps, including taking in some injured Myanmar refugees, who are fleeing the country after last month’s military coup, to the state capital Imphal for treatment. Monday’s order stated that to avoid misunderstanding, the earlier letter has been withdrawn. On March 26, Prakash’s office had issued a directive that there should not be any camp to provide food and shelter to Myanmar nationals and no civil society group should not provide food and shelter to the refugees either. It added that in case of grievous injuries sustained by Myanmar nationals, medical attention “may be provided on humanitarian considerations”. “People trying to enter/seek refuge should be politely turned away,” the March 26 letter read. Manipur government’s actions are in contrast to Mizoram where chief minister Zoramthanga has refused to turn away Myanmar nationals (as asked by Centre) who have entered the state through the border. As per reports, nearly 1,000 Myanmar nationals have entered Mizoram and are taking shelter in the state at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-withdraws-earlier-order-to-turn-myanmar-refugees-away-politely-101617080748446.html
30-03-2021||India||S Jaishankar to attend Heart of Asia conference in Tajikistan today||During his three-day visit to Tajikistan, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will attend the ninth Ministerial Conference of Heart of Asia - Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) on Afghanistan in Dushanbe on Tuesday.Jaishankar will attend the conference at the joint invitation of his counterparts from Afghanistan and Tajikistan. He is expected to meet leaders of other participating countries on the sidelines, according to a March 26 statement from the external affairs ministry.The conference, being hosted in Tajikistan, is focused on strengthening a regional and international consensus for Afghan peace.However, the highly-anticipated meeting between Indian and Pakistani foreign ministers has not been scheduled so far. Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who departed for participation in the conference Monday, had told Dawn that "no meeting has been finalised or requested".The development comes in the backdrop of understanding the resumption of the 2003 ceasefire between Pakistan and India, reached at the end of February and the meeting held on Indus water sharing after a gap of two years.On Monday, Jaishankar met Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and held a discussion on the Afghan peace process."Honour to call on President @ashrafghani before the commencement of @HeartofAsia_IP Conference. Shared our perspectives on the peace process," Jaishankar tweeted.According to the MEA, the minister had earlier visited Dushanbe in June 2019 to attend the fifth Summit of Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia. The ongoing visit is in continuation of the frequent high-level exchanges between the two countries that will further strengthen the close strategic partnership between India and Tajikistan.Last week, Afghan Foreign Minister Haneef Atmar visited India and held-back-to-back talks with Jaishankar and NSA Ajit Doval.In New Delhi, during the meeting of the Afghan Foreign Minister with Jaishankar on the peace process, the two sides reviewed the Troika Peace Meeting in Moscow and assessed the final declaration of the meeting as positive for strengthening and advancing the peace process.During the meeting with NSA, both discussed the peace plan of the Afghanistan government for the success of Afghanistan peace negotiations.Recently, it was reported that the US is reviewing the Doha agreement with the Taliban while also keeping all options on the table when it comes to the May 1st deadline for withdrawal from Afghanistan.The Doha agreement was signed in February 2020 between the Taliban and United States with an aim to end the 18-year old conflict in Afghanistan.The agreement calls for a full US withdrawal from Afghanistan if the terror group upholds counterterrorism commitments such as denying safe haven to al Qaeda.Meanwhile, the Taliban warned the United States on Friday against defying a May 1 deadline for the withdrawal of US and NATO troops from Afghanistan, promising a "reaction" though failing to specify exactly what it would be. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-to-attend-heart-of-asia-conference-in-tajikistan-today-101617077086374.html
30-03-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19, tweets Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), confirmed his son and party leader Omar Abdullah on Tuesday.Omar added that he and his family will go into self-isolation and get themselves tested."My father has tested positive for Covid-19 & is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in to contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said in a tweet.Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to wish Abdullah a speedy recovery from the viral infection. "Praying for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Farooq Abdullah Ji. Also praying for your and the entire family’s good health @OmarAbdullah," PM Modi said in a tweet. Abdullah, who is Lok Sabha member from Srinagar, got his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at a hospital earlier this month on March 2.The NC leader was given the first dose of the vaccine at the Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences during the second phase of nationwide vaccination where those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities are being inoculated.Omar Abdullah took to Twitter to thank the doctors and other staff at the hospital for administering the vaccine to his father."Thank you to the doctors, nurses and staff at SKIMS, Srinagar. Today my 85 year old father & my mother had their first COVID jab. My father has a number of health issues including being on immunosuppressants for a kidney transplant. If he can get the vaccine, you should as well," Omar tweeted.The 85-year-old NC chief addressed Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party (JKNPP) function last week on Tuesday where he spoke about the abrogation of the Article 370 in 2019. The function was organised by the JKNPP to observe its 40th foundation day. JKNPP founder Bhim Singh was unanimously elected its president for the next three years."In an apparent reference to the abrogation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir's special status in 2019, he said, "It is an attack on our honour… we will lost our land and our children will be left without jobs as people from outside will come and take the jobs".He added that when people will come from outside, will they (the local youth of Jammu and Kashmir) get jobs in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, Punjab or Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-tests-positive-for-covid-19-tweets-omar-abdullah-101617075607445.html
30-03-2021||India||India's daily new Covid-19 cases dip to 56,211; 271 deaths reported in last 24 hours||India recorded 56,211 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Tuesday morning. With this, the nationwide tally reached 12,095,855.The number of active cases also went up by 18,912 in the said period, the health ministry data showed. The active case count has now reached 5,40,720.In terms of fatalities, 271 people lost their lives due to the infection in the last 24 hours, which took the death toll to 1,62,114. As many as 11,393,021 people were discharged from the hospital.Eight states including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases and account for nearly 85 per cent of the fresh cases, the health ministry said on Monday.On the other hand, the total vaccination coverage in India has crossed 6 crore, it said.Five states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh - cumulatively account for 80.17 per cent of the total active cases in the country, it added.Seventeen states and union territories have lower cases per million than the national average (8,724) while 19 states and union territories (UTs) have higher cases per million than the national average, according to the ministry.Ten states - Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan - are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-new-covid-19-cases-dip-to-56-211-271-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101617074917124.html
30-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: After hottest March day in 76 years, Delhi temperature to drop today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi sees hottest March day in 76 years, temperature set to drop from todayDelhi recorded its hottest day in of March since 1945 on the festival of Holi on Monday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed. Read morePM Modi to address rallies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry ahead of April 6 pollsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday address rallies in poll-bound Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, where elections will be held on April 6. Read morePresident Ram Nath Kovind to undergo bypass procedure at AIIMS todayPresident Ram Nath Kovind is expected to undergo a planned bypass procedure on Tuesday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. Read moreMaharashtra records close to 600k Covid-19 cases in MarchAs the fear of another lockdown looms over Maharashtra, March, 2021, with two days still to go, is on its way to being the state’s worst month in terms of Covid-19 cases. The state has been battling the pandemic for over a year now. Read more‘He takes bit too much risk but it's his strength’: Aakash Chopra hails ‘special player' Rishabh PantThe recently-concluded ODI series between India and England has brought wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant under the spotlight. Read moreRanbir Kapoor spotted by paparazzi for first time since making Covid-19 recovery. See picsActor Ranbir Kapoor finally stepped out of his home after making a full recovery from Covid-19. He was clicked in Mumbai's Juhu, as he made his way to producer Aarti Shetty's home. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-after-seeing-hottest-march-day-in-76-years-temperature-in-delhi-to-drop-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101617074570980.html
30-03-2021||India||Heatwave conditions likely in parts of central, west, NW India for next few days||Heatwave conditions are likely in some parts of central, west and northwest India with severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over west Rajasthan, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Heatwave conditions are likely in pockets over Himachal Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Kutch and Madhya Pradesh on March 29 and 30; and Vidarbha and Odisha on March 30, 31 and 1.Severe heatwave affected Delhi on Sunday as the maximum temperature was 40.1 degrees Celsius (°C), 8°C above normal, which is also the highest March temperature after March 31, 1945 .Dust raising strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely over Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh between March 30 and April 1.According to IMD, heatwave is recorded when departure of the maximum temperature from normal is + 4°C to + 5°C or more for the regions where the normal maximum temperature is more than 40°C. Another criterion for IMD to declare heatwave is when departure of the maximum temperature from normal is + 5°C to + 6°C for regions where the normal maximum temperature is 40°C or less. (heatwave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C for plains and at least 30°C for hilly regions).Also Read | Delhi records hottest March day in 76 years, temperature set to drop from todayheatwave can also declared when the actual maximum temperature remains 45°C or more for a day, irrespective of the normal maximum temperature, officials said.Widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, thundersquall, or lightning at some places is very likely over northeast India till April 2 with the maximum activity during March 30 and 31. Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur will be affected.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining the south Andaman Sea during the next 36 hours. It is likely to become more marked over the North Andaman Sea and the neighbourhood during the subsequent 24 hours.Under its influence, widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty wind is likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the next five days. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast Bay of Bengal and the adjoining south Andaman Sea on March 30 and 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-central-west-nw-india-for-next-few-days-101617074087975.html
30-03-2021||India||Temperature soars across Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh is bracing for a scorching summer with day temperature rising in several districts. Jhansi recorded its hottest day in 28 years on Monday with day temperature rising to 42.3 degree Celsius, which was six degrees above normal. The all-time highest day temperature in the district was recorded at 43.3 degree Celsius on March 27, 1982, according to IMD website.The state capital recorded its hottest day in March in four years. On Monday, the maximum temperature in Lucknow rose to 39 degree Celsius, which was four degrees above normal. The all time highest maximum temperature in Lucknow for the month was 41.1 recorded on March 30, 2017.“With western disturbances centred over North India and clear sky, maximum temperature is going North gradually. But expect a drop in day temperature from Thursday onward,” Met department director in Lucknow, JP Gupta said. Day temperature in Prayagraj was 41.4 degree Celsius, the hottest in four years. The all-time highest day temperature in March for Prayagraj was recorded at 42.8 on March 31, 2017. Agra recorded at 41.1 degree Celsius, which was 6.1 degree Celsius above normal temperature.Gaurav (22), who works with an IT company said, “I never experienced such weather during Holi in Lucknow. It was extremely hot. We had to switch on the ceiling fan. We are about to get our air conditioner serviced because it is just a matter of a few days when day temperature will cross 40 degree Celsius.”Vineet Gupta, a shopkeeper in Aminabad market said, “It is getting hot with every passing day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-soars-across-uttar-pradesh-101617073788394.html
30-03-2021||India||From April 1, flying to become costlier as DGCA hikes air security fee||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has hiked air security fee (ASF), making air travel costlier, from April 1. While the rise in ASF for domestic passengers is of ₹40, for international passengers, the rise is of ₹114.38. ASF is one of the components of air tickets which is used to fund the security arrangements across the country. “Aviation Security Fee for domestic passengers will be levied at the rate of ₹200 per embarking passenger. Aviation Security Fee for international passengers will be levied at the rate of US$ 12 or equivalent Indian Rupees embarking passenger. The new rates will be effective on tickets issued on or after April 1, 2021,” stated the DGCA order dated March 19.The Central Industrial Security Force takes care of the security at most airports in the country under the ministry of civil aviation.Also Read | Airlines may ban 15 passengers for not following Covid-19 norms on flightsChildren under the age of two years, holders of diplomatic passports, airlines crew on duty, persons travelling on official duty on aircraft operated by the Indian Air Force, persons travelling on official duty on United Nations peacekeeping missions, passengers in transit of transfer or those departing from any airport due to involuntary rerouting ( ie. technical problem or weather conditions are exempted from paying ASF.The ASF rates have been revised after around six months . In September 2020, the ASF for domestic flyers had been increased by ₹10 (to ₹160). For international passengers, it was increased to US$ 5.20 from US$ 4.85.This comes at a time the Indian aviation has been severely affected due to Covid-19 pandemic and the international sector remains closed since May last year. Though the domestic sector reopened on May 25, 2020, the flight capacity remains around 80%. Moreover, even though domestic air travel is struggling to meet pre-Covid level, the government increased the lower limit of the airfare band by 35% within a month. The government introduced the fare bands while reopening domestic travel last year with pocket-friendly airfares in order to encourage more people to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgcahikes-air-security-fee-for-domestic-international-travellers-101617072708058.html
30-03-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind to undergo bypass procedure at AIIMS today||President Ram Nath Kovind is expected to undergo a planned bypass procedure on Tuesday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi.President Kovind was shifted to AIIMS last week following chest discomfort.The President’s health condition is stable and he is under the care of experts, a statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Kovind, 75, had undergone a health check-up at the Army (R&R) Hospital on Friday morning.“The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has been shifted to the AIIMS, Delhi, in the afternoon today (March 27, 2021). Post investigations, doctors have advised him to undergo a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on the morning of March 30, Tuesday."The President’s health is stable and he is under the care of the experts at the AIIMS,” the statement said.President Kovind continued to perform his work duties a day after hospitalisation as he gave his assent to a bill that accords primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government.The central government announced about the presidential assent to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 through a gazette notification.According to the legislation, the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor" and the city government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive action.Parliament passed the bill last week - Lok Sabha on March 22 and Rajya Sabha on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-undergo-bypass-procedure-at-aiims-today-101617068483566.html
30-03-2021||India||LeT may be involved in Sopore attack, shows preliminary investigation report||Preliminary investigation indicates that a local terrorist Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT and a foreign terrorist are involved in the Sopore terror attack, police said on Monday.On March 29, at about 1310 hours Sopore Police received information about a terror crime incident near SDH Sopore where terrorists had attacked municipal councillors. Senior police and CAPF officers along with their teams immediately reached at the terror crime spot, as per a statement from Jammu and Kashmir police."Preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists had fired indiscriminately upon the Municipal Councillors near Lone Building opposite SDH Sopore resulting in injuries to two Municipal Councillors namely Reyaz Ahmad Pir and Shams-ud-din Pir and a police personnel namely Shafqat Nazir. However, among the injured Councillor Reyaz Ahmad and police personnel Shafqat Ahmad succumbed to their injuries and attained martyrdom. Meanwhile, another injured councillor has been shifted to hospital for treatment of his injuries," police said.It is pertinent to mention that post terror attack, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar-IPS visited PD Sopore and inspected the scene of terror crime. Thereafter, he chaired a security review meeting with Commander 5-Sector RR, DIG CRPF and SSP Sopore.The main focus of meeting was today's (Monday) attack by the terrorists in Sopore Town and the necessary security measures to be taken to counter such terrorist attacks. While interacting with the officers, the IGP Kashmir urged upon the participating officers that it is of crucial importance to enhance security of vulnerable persons and to take all necessary measures to thwart away the nefarious designs of terrorists."Preliminary investigation indicates that a local terrorist Mudasir Pandit of proscribed terror outfit LeT along with a foreign terrorist are involved in the said attack. However, further investigations are rigorously going on. IGP Kashmir also took serious note of the poor and inappropriate retaliation by the PSOs of protected persons present on spot and directed SSP Sopore to put four PSOs under suspension," the statement read."Later on, in order to pay honour and respect to these martyrs, a wreath lying ceremony was held at DPL Sopore where floral tributes were paid to the martyrs. Senior officers of Police/SF laid floral wreath on the mortal remains and paid rich tributes to the martyrs," it read.Police has registered a case in this regard under relevant sections of law and officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime. Cordon and search operation at various locations is going on to nab the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-may-be-involved-in-sopore-attack-shows-preliminary-investigation-report-101617064064353.html
30-03-2021||India||Third aircraft-shaped balloon with 'PIA' written on it found in Jammu||An aircraft-shaped balloon with 'PIA' written on it was recovered by Jammu and Kashmir police in the Kanachak area of Jammu.This is the third such instance. Similar balloons were recovered by the police on March 10 and 16 in Sotra Chak village of Hiranagar sector and Bhalwal area of Jammu respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-aircraft-shaped-balloon-with-pia-written-on-it-found-in-jammu-101617063851882.html
30-03-2021||India||Covid-19: India provides 100,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine to Paraguay||Paraguay on Monday received a shipment of 1,00,000 doses of India's indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine."Paraguay receives 100,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine from India. We guarantee the continued immunization against COVID-19. Thanks to India for its support," Sputnik reported citing Paraguay Health Ministry.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar took to Twitter to announce that 'Made in India' vaccines have arrived in the south American country."Never too far for friendship. Made in India vaccines arrive in Paraguay," Jaishankar tweeted.Paraguay has reported over 2,09,000 COVID-19 cases. So far, over 4,063 people have died in the country due to the infection.India has been supplying coronavirus vaccines to countries around the world under the Vaccine Maitri initiative. New Delhi has provided vaccines to over 75 countries.According to the Ministry of External Affairs, over 638.81 lakh doses of vaccines have been provided by India to countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-provides-100-000-doses-of-covaxin-vaccine-to-paraguay-101617057324587.html
30-03-2021||India||PM Modi's Puducherry visit: Drones, UAVs banned to tighten security||Flying of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has been banned in the entire Puducherry region from March 29-30 to ensure security during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit for electioneering.An order to this effect came from the District Magistrate Purva Garg on Monday.In a press release, Garg said an order under section 144 CrPc has been clamped in whole of Puducherry region to prohibit flying of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles.Any violation of the order would attract action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws, the District Magistrate said.Modi would address an election rally on Tuesday to woo voters for NDA candidates contesting the April 6 Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-puducherry-visit-drones-uavs-banned-to-tighten-security-101617053469578.html
30-03-2021||India||Heatwave in Odisha; Titlagarh sizzles at 42.2 degree Celsius||Odisha is experiencing a heatwave as at least 13 places across the state recorded temperature at 40 degree Celsius or above on Monday while the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast a likely rise in temperature by two to three degree during next two days.While Titlagarh recorded the highest at 42.2 degrees Celsius, it was followed by Baripada (42 degrees Celsius), Bolangir (41.5 degrees Celsius), Jharsuguda and Sambalpur (41.2 degrees Celsius each), Angul and Hirakud (41.1 degrees Celsius each), Malkangiri (41 degrees Celsius), Bhubaneswar (40.5 degrees Celsius), Nayagarh and Talcher (40.2 degrees Celsius each) and Balasore and Cuttack (40 degrees Celsius each).The Maximum temperature is very likely to rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius over the districts of Odisha during the next two days and no major change thereafter, the IMD said in its forecast.The Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, also issued heatwave warning for several districts of Odisha till April 1.Heatwave condition is likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Bolangir and Sonepur on Tuesday and continue till 8.30 am of Wednesday, it said. Similarly, it said that the heatwave condition is likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Bolangir, Sonepur, Sambalpur, Angul, Boudh and Kalahandi from 8.30 am of March 31 till 8.30 am on April 1.Meanwhile, the Special Relief Commissioner asked the district authorities to remain prepared for the heatwave conditions in certain places as predicted by the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-in-odisha-titlagarh-sizzles-at-42-2-degree-celsius-101617047670555.html
30-03-2021||India||EAM S Jaishankar, President Ashraf Ghani exchange views on peace process in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday called on Afghan President Ashraf Ghani here and shared India's perspectives on the peace process in the war-torn country.Jaishankar is here in the capital of Tajikistan for the 9th Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) ministerial conference to be held on Tuesday."Honour to call on President @ashrafghani before the commencement of @HeartofAsia_IP Conference. Shared our perspectives on the peace process," Jaishankar tweeted.Last week, Jaishankar said that India would like to clearly see a sovereign democratic and inclusive Afghanistan that takes into account the interests of its minorities."There is something called the peace and reconciliation process and everybody else is saying that the Taliban is reaching out and changing etc. Let us wait and watch," he had said.The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country.India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country.India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.The HoA-IP ministerial conference is part of the Istanbul Process - a regional initiative on security and cooperation for a stable and peaceful Afghanistan - that was launched on November 2, 2011 in Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-s-jaishankar-president-ashraf-ghani-exchange-views-on-peace-process-in-afghanistan-101617043562898.html
30-03-2021||Today's||A case for environment-friendly sanitary pads||The Centre has introduced a scheme for the promotion of menstrual hygiene among adolescent girls in the age group of 10-19 years old in the rural areas. The objective is to increase the use of high-quality sanitary napkins and ensure their safe disposal. The scheme was initially implemented in 2011 wherein a pack of six sanitary napkins called “Freedays” was provided to rural adolescent girls.From 2014, funds are being provided to states/Union Territories under the National Health Mission for the decentralised procurement of sanitary napkins packs for provision to rural adolescent girls at a subsidised rate of ₹1 for a pad. Considering that less than 50% of women in the target group are using sanitary napkins, the efforts of governments to promote the use of sanitary napkins are commendable. According to the Menstrual Health Alliance of India, the country has 336 million menstruating women, of which only 121 million or 32% use sanitary pads.It was only after Purnima Khandelwal, founder of Plastic-Free Period Campaign and a feisty sustainable menstruation crusader, drew my attention to the obverse side of the problem, did I realise the environmental consequences of this policy.The sanitary pads commonly used by women from all classes contain super-absorbent polymers (SAP), which don’t decompose. They gradually break down into what are known as micro-plastics, which contaminate soil, water and air. They also enter the food chain injecting toxins into the food humans and animals consume. Two of the ingredients used in commercial non-biodegradable menstrual napkins also have serious health consequences for women. These are dioxins that are used to bleach the absorbent core and responsible for side-effects in the body such as pelvic inflammatory disease, ovarian cancer, immune system damage, impaired fertility and diabetes.Now imagine if the number of menstruating women who use commercial sanitary pads containing plastics is doubled, taking it to 242 million (still far short of universal coverage). This would increase the number of sanitary pads requiring disposal, in some form, to 24 billion annually. Whereas in the urban areas, these mostly reach landfills, in the rural areas, these would are either burnt or buried in some form of pits, the two methods recommended in the guidelines issued by the Government of India for the promotion of menstrual hygiene. The ecological damage caused by this will have far-reaching consequences and the government may have to spend much more in cleaning up the mess their short-sightedness in pushing the use of plastic containing sanitary napkins would create. A single commercial sanitary napkin takes 500-800 years to decompose. On an average, a woman could use up to 10,000 sanitary pads from menarche to menopause.A 2017 report by Euromonitor, a market research company, revealed that the Indian feminine hygiene product market was valued at $340 million and was expected to reach $522 million by 2020. As the use of sanitary pads increases rapidly, the value of the product market would also rise substantially. But, at present, there is no incentive to point the market towards environment- and health- friendly bio-degradable sanitary pads.Although several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have been producing such products through women self-help groups (SHGs), it is not to scale. Network units producing and marketing at commercial scale are not inclined to invest in research and development (R&D) for more cost-effective and environment-friendly sanitary pads. Government purchases, in very large quantities, mostly from network units, are pushing them to scale up their production capacities — but of pads containing plastic.Mass education as part of the menstrual hygiene programme has produced some widely accepted but flawed assumptions — that the use of cloth, as has traditionally been done, is unhygienic; the use of sanitary pads offers hygienic means for managing menstruation under all conditions; all types of sanitary pads available in the market are safe for use; and menstrual waste generated through sanitary pads is efficiently managed through current waste management infrastructure.These assumptions can easily be challenged. For instance, with proper training on cleaning, washing and drying, cloth pads are safer than commercial pads. It is also not true that the current solid waste management system, which is extremely poorly managed in the urban centres and is virtually non-existent in rural areas, is adequately addressing the issue of menstrual waste disposal.There is an urgent need for course correction through effective policy interventions. The government must create a gender-inclusive platform for continuous dialogue and consultation on key issues with experts and civil society organisations and find sustainable and effective alternatives to pads containing plastics. It is also important to correct the incentive system to nudge the market towards affordable biodegradable and reusable pads.As a start, central and state governments must announce that from April 1, 2023, purchases they make shall exclude pads containing plastics. This will allow network manufacturers and others to plan their production lines in accordance with the timelines. A special “disposal cess” should be imposed from FY2023 on pads containing plastic to penalise producers and make them pay for scientific disposal of the pads. The government should also amend the existing frameworks under the Swachh Bharat Mission to provide for detailed guidelines for appropriate disposal methods to remove ambiguity. SHGs, under National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) and National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM), could be encouraged and provided incentives for propagating segregation at source and ensuring disposal of menstrual waste in a scientific and environment-friendly manner.Arvind Mayaram is former finance secretary of the Government of India (2012-14) and currently serves as vice-chairman, Rajasthan Economic Transformation Advisory CouncilThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-case-for-environment-friendly-sanitary-pads-101617113330182.html
30-03-2021||Today's||It is time to reimagine the Indian Ocean||The United States (US) secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin’s recent visit to India underlined the strategic importance of Delhi in Washington’s Indo-Pacific engagements. Although the US and India did not sign any specific agreements during the visit, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Austin provided, with their brief statements, a glimpse into the areas of collaboration that lie ahead.For the maritime domain, the interesting takeaway was the specific mention in Singh’s remarks to “pursue enhanced cooperation between the Indian military and the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command”. On Twitter, Austin mentioned the western Indian Ocean as a region for collaboration (in addition to the Indo-Pacific) after his meeting with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar. Underlining the need to work with the three US combatant commands, and referring to the western Indian Ocean, is an acknowledgement of the bureaucratic division of the ocean and the need to work through its imaginary divisions. It is also a nod toward the importance of the African coast within the Indian Ocean framework, a geographic reality often lost amid South Asia and West Asia’s geopolitics.Washington is not alone in engaging the Indian Ocean in silos; Delhi’s political class, too, has divided the ocean into many sub-regions. Traditionally, India draws a line with Mauritius and Seychelles as its areas of strategic collaboration in the Indian Ocean. In terms of sub-regions, the priority is in the northern (Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal), and eastern Indian Ocean (Andaman Sea and Straits of Malacca). The Indian Navy, on the other hand, defines the region in its entirety as its area of responsibility from the coast of Malacca to the eastern coast of Africa. While India has begun to rectify this division of the Indian Ocean, especially with the establishment of the Indian Ocean division in the ministry of external affairs (MEA) in 2016, the western Indian Ocean and the eastern coast of Africa still continue to be in the maritime periphery in Delhi’s official worldview. To place this in context, Beijing’s first overseas military base was set up in the western Indian Ocean, in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa. Russia too recently acquired a base in Sudan, on the Red Sea coast, between the Suez Canal and Bab-el-Mandeb — a strategic chokepoint in the Indian Ocean. Beyond the anti-piracy mission, India’s presence and maritime engagements with the African coast, however, have been largely ad hoc.Since Independence, India has enjoyed an advantageous position in the Indian Ocean, primarily accorded through its geography. The lack of direct competition after the end of the Cold War allowed India to continue with its limited maritime approach while retaining the role of a key “Indian Ocean player”. In reality, Delhi ignored and misunderstood the geographic importance of its maritime environment. In comparison, Beijing has consistently aimed to improve its diplomatic, political and military engagements in the region from Sri Lanka to the Comoros, spanning the Indian Ocean in its entirety. Through the Maritime Silk Road, part of China’s Belt and Road initiative, Beijing engages with littorals and islands across the Ocean. Over the years, Beijing has undertaken missions and activities to show both its interest and ability to emerge as a key player in the Indian Ocean — from the 2014 submarine docking in Colombo and assisting Maldives in its 2016 water crisis to establishing its military base in Djibouti in 2017.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Indian Ocean islands (Sri Lanka, Mauritius and Seychelles) in 2015 was the first visit by an Indian leader in over three decades in an attempt to re-engage with the Indian Ocean. While the current government has adopted a more active outlook toward the maritime domain — encouraged by China’s increasing presence — there are challenges in fully understanding and leveraging India’s potential in the Indian Ocean.India’s reorientation toward the maritime domain has been not been easy, with generations of foreign and defence service officials focusing and training on continental issues. That the Indian Navy is allotted approximately 14% of the defence budget speaks clearly to the defence establishment’s priorities. While this is not to discount Delhi’s continental troubles, seen in recent crises such as Doklam and Ladakh, there is a need to understand the importance of maritime geography and its link to India’s strategic interests and growing competition in the region. While MEA appears to be undertaking a more active approach in correcting this negligence, the defence establishment too has to match foreign policy engagements.The Navy’s priority is maritime domain awareness, which translates into being aware of all movements, under, on and over, the sea. In order to prepare for emerging new threats, being aware is the first step in formulating policies. However, Delhi continues to struggle in working with the Indian Ocean as one region. For example, Madagascar and the Comoros were excluded from MEA’s Indian Ocean division until December 2019. India continues to exclude the two countries from its Indian Ocean Coastal Surveillance Radar Network — aimed at increasing collaborations and information-sharing with the region. There is also no defence attache in either of the countries or accredited from neighbouring islands covering military developments around those waters. With a limited footprint on the African coast, the western Indian Ocean remains a blind spot in Delhi’s Indian Ocean engagements. If China indeed is emerging as the key competitor to India’s interests in the Indian Ocean Region, there is a need to reframe our mental maps and view the Indian Ocean as one continuous space, and understand regional dynamics better.Darshana M Baruah is an associate fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC, where she leads the Indian Ocean initiativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/it-is-time-to-reimagine-the-indian-ocean-101617111891839.html
30-03-2021||Today's||Due to its 2012 blunder, India’s Cairn challenge at The Hague is likely to fail||Towards the end of 2020, an investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS) arbitration tribunal, in a case involving the British oil and energy giant, Cairn, and the Republic of India, found India guilty of having violated the India-United Kingdom (UK) bilateral investment treaty (BIT). The dispute arose when the Indian government, armed with the retroactive 2012 amendment in the Income Tax Act, demanded that Cairn pay taxes on the alleged capital gains it made due to a 2006 internal corporate restructuring. The tribunal held that India’s conduct breached the fair and equitable treatment (FET) provision of the India-UK BIT, and ordered India to pay more than $1.2 billion to Cairn.Although an ISDS award is binding on the parties, it does not bring the dispute to an end. There are two more obstacles. First, the award could be challenged at the seat of arbitration. Second, the host State could contest the enforcement of the ISDS award in its jurisdiction or in any other jurisdiction where the investor tries to enforce the award.India has challenged the award in a court in The Hague — the seat of arbitration. The award can be contested on limited grounds such as procedural irregularities or jurisdictional matters. India’s challenge is based on the ground that the ISDS tribunal lacked jurisdiction. India considers that taxation matters are outside the scope of the application of BIT. Therefore, the case brought by Cairn falls outside the subject-matter scope of the tribunal.While India has a legal right to challenge the award, this challenge is likely to fail. As the Cairn tribunal has explained, the dispute between Cairn and India is not a tax dispute but a tax-related investment dispute. The tribunal held that a tax dispute is a row related to the taxability of a specific transaction. On the other hand, in a tax-related investment dispute, the tribunal’s task is to determine whether the host State has violated the substantive protection standards given in BIT by exercising its authority in the field of taxation. In other words, the question was whether the manner in which India taxed the 2006 transactions, including the application of the 2012 amendment, fell short of the substantive standards given in BIT or not.India’s jurisdictional challenge will fail also because tax-related matters are not excluded from the purview of the India-UK BIT. Taxation matters are listed as an exception in Article 4(3) of the India-UK BIT only for two substantive standards — most-favoured nation treatment and national treatment. Taxation-related sovereign measures could still be tested on the touchstone of other substantive standards in BIT such as FET provision.The Indian government is correct in asserting that taxation powers are an indispensable part of a country’s sovereign power. However, this does not mean that the exercise of this power cannot be a subject matter of arbitration unless BIT unequivocally excludes taxation matters from its ambit. The very purpose of having a BIT is to impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of sovereign powers, including taxation that may affect foreign investment.Cairn has already initiated proceedings to enforce the ISDS award in several jurisdictions. It is eyeing the possibility of attaching Indian assets in these jurisdictions, including the assets owned by Indian public sector undertakings, to recover the money. All this is a horrible advertisement for India’s reputation as an attractive destination for foreign investment and as a country governed by the rule of law. India will definitely resist the enforcement of the award in foreign countries, citing the fact that it has challenged the jurisdiction of the tribunal or by invoking sovereign immunity. However, these measures, at best, will help India in buying time, not solving the problem. To put an end to this dispute, India should comply with the ISDS ruling and undo the horrendous error made in 2012 by making the amendment in the Income Tax Act prospective in nature.Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor at the South Asia University’s faculty of legal studiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/due-to-its-2012-blunder-india-s-cairn-challenge-at-the-hague-is-likely-to-fail-101617111890763.html
30-03-2021||Editorials||Send a message to Myanmar | HT Editorial||Myanmar’s military dictators have crossed a line. Not only did they reject electoral results, oust a representative government, arrest political leaders and grab complete power in February, they have also been engaged in a brutal repression of the pro-democracy movement. Security forces are reported to have killed over 400 citizens, including possibly over a 100 on Friday itself; detained thousands; deployed high-tech surveillance equipment to keep a check on citizens; and stifled all outlets for the expression of democratic views.India is in a fix. It had, in the 1990s, supported pro-democracy elements in Myanmar. But the need to have a working relationship with the military — for security reasons in the Northeast, for strategic reasons with an eye on China, for geopolitical reasons to enhance connectivity with Southeast Asia, and for economic reasons to be able to leverage Myanmar’s resource-rich landscape — saw it tone down support for democracy. When the army and Aung San Suu Kyi shared power in the system, Delhi had equities in the system, primarily through the military, and shared an uneasy relationship with Ms Suu Kyi. When the military took power this year, India decided to take a cautious approach of relatively muted public criticism, as compared to the West, and private engagement with the military. The Indian Army chief, for instance, has not yet condemned the atrocities by a neighbouring military — even as many at the helm of defence forces in democracies have done so. This approach is unsustainable. One, India, as a democracy, which distinguishes itself from China on the count, cannot turn a blind eye to bloodshed in the neighbourhood. Two, even if one were to take a realpolitik rather than an ethical view, it is clear that the military regime, despite its hold over the State, is losing its legitimacy in society. Three, the crisis has resulted in refugee flows to India — the Manipur government’s inhuman notification denying any support to refugees has fortunately been withdrawn, but it shows that India will have to grapple with the cross-border impact of the political crisis. Rejecting them entry will diminish India’s standing, while accepting all of them will generate complications internally. And four, India’s western allies are looking to South Block to take a principled position. New Delhi may not have the leverage to change Tatmadaw’s behaviour. But it does have the standing to send a stern public and private message to the dictators in Nayapidaw — restore democracy now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/send-a-message-to-myanmar-hteditorial-101617111889429.html
30-03-2021||Editorials||Farm protests need a resolution, now | HT Editorial||Even as political and media attention has shifted away from the farm protests to the assembly elections, it is important to note that the protests have not ended. Indeed, organisations, activists and farmers who are opposed to the three new farm laws have continued their agitation both at Delhi’s borders and in Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh. This has remained largely peaceful, but at times, taken coercive forms, as seen during an attack on a Bharatiya Janata Party legislator. The protests have continued while India is going through the second wave of Covid-19, with Punjab being one of the most affected states.The blunt truth is that while the government made a mistake in not going through a deeper consultative process while bringing the laws and political managers on the ruling side alienated protesters by questioning their nationalism, the farm leaders have done great disservice to the cause by not displaying responsible leadership. The government has offered to suspend the laws for 18 months; this offer is on the table; farm groups can negotiate and perhaps try to extend this timeline even more. But instead of doing that, they have chosen to stick to their maximalist demand of repealing the laws. This will not just prolong the standoff, but also expose the protesters to continued risk in the face of the pandemic. Farm unions would do well to negotiate and withdraw the protests before the pandemic extracts a higher toll from the brave men and women who have fought valiantly for their cause. The government would do well in making a renewed offer of talks and, yet again, allaying the apprehensions of farm leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/farm-protests-need-a-resolution-now-hteditorial-101617111829351.html
30-03-2021||Editorials||The missing voice of the developing world | HT Editorial||In an article for Project Syndicate, economist Arvind Subramanian — who served as the chief economic adviser in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in its last term — and political scientist Devesh Kapur, who has written extensively on global economic institutions, exposed the deep imbalance that exists in the world of knowledge production of development economics.They pointed out how the field, which is focused on improving lives and incomes of the poor in developing countries, has barely any representation from the global south. None of editors or co-editors of The Journal of Development Economics, a leading academic journal, are based in developing countries, with Asia and Africa entirely unrepresented; the flagship conference of the World Bank on development economics saw no participation from an institution from a developing economy in 2019 and only 7% of the papers presented at the conference in the last three decades are from the global south. Mr Subramanian and Mr Kapur also flag the problems associated with the growing use of randomised controlled trials, and how it has had exclusionary consequences, both because of the costs associated with it and the fact that gatekeepers are located, once again, in the developed world.This may appear like an abstract academic debate. But by pointing to this imbalance, the scholars have pointed to a real crisis in global knowledge production. Peer-reviewed journals and academic and policy conferences are the first site of throwing up and testing new ideas, which then get picked up by the policy establishments and determine the agenda of global institutions. But in this process, the voices and experiences of billions of the world’s poor remains unheard. This must be corrected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-missing-voice-of-the-developing-world-hteditorial-101617102650268.html
