04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 24 more Covid deaths, 229 fresh cases||With 24 more fatalities, the death toll due to COVID-19 climbed to 5,400 in Punjab, while 229 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 1,67,441 on Monday.There are 3,069 active COVID-19 cases in the state currently, according to a medical bulletin.Mohali reported the highest of 71 new cases, Ludhiana 23 and Jalandhar 21.A total of 490 COVID-19 patients were discharged after treatment in a 24-hour period, taking the number of such people to 1,58,972 in the state, the bulletin said.Five critical patients are on ventilator support while 73 are on oxygen support, it added.A total of 39,66,071 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-24-more-covid-deaths-229-fresh-cases-193640
04-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmers block traffic on Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road||Members of various farmer and labour organisations on Monday blocked the traffic on the Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road, protesting the registration of a case against some people who allegedly unloaded cow dung in front of BJP leader Tikshan Sud's residence a few days ago.Protesters demanded the withdrawal of the case, saying police had registered a "false" case.The call for the protest was given by the Joint Kisan Morcha.The protesters, led by farmer leaders Gurpal Singh Mali, Satnam Singh Sahni and Kuldip Singh Raipur, staged a dharna in front of the district administrative complex and blocked the traffic on the road for over four hours.The authorities concerned had to divert the traffic. They said the case was “politically motivated”.The protesters also raised slogans against the Union Government for not accepting farmers' demands, including a repeal of the three farm laws.Several persons were booked under different provisions, including Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC by police, they said.Some people, believed to be farmers, had unloaded a dung-laden trolley in front of the main gate of the residence of former Punjab minister Tikshan Sud in Hoshiarpur on Friday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-traffic-on-hoshiarpur-chandigarh-road-193636
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Diljit Dosanjh shares income tax certificate to refute reports of IT probe||Don't spread so much hate, Punjabi singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh said while sharing his certificate from the Ministry of Finance amid reports of an income tax probe against him.Dosanjh has been actively supporting the ongoing farmers' protests against the new agri legislations. There were reports that the income tax department had initiated an investigation into the finances of Dosanjh after he donated Rs one crore to farmers."There was news that my foundation is connected with some politician. Very good Raje... Keep doing this, no worries no matter how hard you try... Such people's aim is to distract from real issues. So they will keep doing this," the actor said in a video on Twitter."Hope there is some solution (to farmers agitation) as today is January 4. I have always appealed and spoken for peace. Never said anything provocative...," Dosanjh shared in Punjabi.The actor had earlier taken to Twitter on Sunday to share his "platinum certificate" from the ministry for filing his tax returns for the year 2019-2020 to refute rumours. The certificate recognises the 36-year-old actor's "contribution" towards nation building."Here it is, my platinum certificate... One doesn't become patriotic by saying so on Twitter. One has to work towards that," Dosanjh wrote in Punjabi. In a subsequent tweet, the actor said even though he was reluctant to share the certificate, the situation in the country is such that he has to prove his Indian citizenship."I didn't want to do this, but here it is. Today the situation is such that I have to give proof of my Indian citizenship. Please don't spread so much hate." Last month, the "Udta Punjab" star joined the farmers protests at Delhi's Singhu border and asked the demonstrators to be patient and peaceful in their agitation and requested the government to accept their demands. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-shares-income-tax-certificate-to-refute-reports-of-it-probe-193631
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal limits in Haryana, Punjab||Most parts of Haryana and Punjab recorded above-normal minimum temperatures on Monday, an official of the Meteorological Department here said.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 12.5 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal, the official said.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2 degrees Celsius, Hisar 9.4 degrees Celsius and Karnal 10.5 degrees Celsius The mercury settled at 9.4 degrees Celsius in Narnaul, 12.6 degrees Celsius in Rohtak, 6.5 degrees Celsius in Bhiwani and 10.9 degrees Celsius in Sirsa.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius, 13.4 degrees Celsius and 12.5 degrees Celsius, respectively, up to eight degrees above normal.Pathankot recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius, Adampur 13.5 degrees Celsius, Halwara 14.2 degrees Celsius, Bathinda 5.6 degrees Celsius, Faridkot 11.5 degrees Celsius and Gurdaspur 6 degrees Celsius.Some places in Punjab received rains the previous day. Among them are Amritsar (2.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.7 mm), Pathankot (16 mm), Adampur (0.8 mm) and Gurdaspur (6.7 mm). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-limits-in-haryana-punjab-193518
04-01-2021||---||2 unemployed ETT teachers protest by climbing atop water tank at Patiala's  Mohindra College||Patiala, January 4To protest against the state government, two unemployed ETT TET pass teachers climbed atop a water tank at Government Mohindra College on Monday.The teachers said they would not get down until their long-pending demands were met.They demand that the Education Department should repeal the provision of B.Ed entry into ETT and advertise 10,000 new posts of theirs immediately.Notably, the police had detained and booked them on Sunday after they staged a sit-in outside the residence of Punjab’s Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.However, they were released after registering an FIR.Demanding employment, ETT and TET pass teachers protested against the state government on Sunday. They gathered at the Baradari gardens and raised slogans.Meantime, a few teachers, evading the police force, reached the residence of Vijay Inder Singla, Education Minister, and staged a sit-in there. However, the police soon detained all protesting teachers from both sites.The protesters said the state government was not serious about their demands. They took exception to the decision of the Education Department to allow BEd graduates to apply for the posts of ETT teachers.They demanded the Education Department should repeal the provision of BEd entry and advertise 10,000 new posts of ETT teachers immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-unemployed-ett-teachers-protest-by-climbing-atop-water-tank-at-patialas-mohindra-college-193508
04-01-2021||---||Amritsar-based teacher crowned Mrs India Intelligent Queen||Amritsar, January 3Amritsar-based teacher and poetess Baljit Kaur Talwandi was crowned Mrs India Intelligent at a pageant show ‘Mrs India International Queen’ held in New Delhi recently. A total of 28 participants from all across India as well as from the UK and Australia took part in the event.The Education Department arranged a cake-cutting ceremony. Chander Parkash Sharma, Block Elementary Education Officer, Amritsar 2, said “It is an honour and a proud moment for Amritsar and the entire state. It is for the first time that a government teacher participated and won the coveted title.”Talwandi said, “The credit goes to my family, friends and my colleagues at GES Ganda Singh Wala, Majitha road, and BPEO Chander Parkash, who always motivated me to achieve my dreams in life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-based-teacher-crowned-mrs-india-intelligent-queen-193481
04-01-2021||---||BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla urges PM Modi to resolve all issues of farmers||Amritsar, January 3Senior BJP leader and former health minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla on Sunday appealed to the protesting farmers in Delhi not to remove their clothes in view of the intense cold. Chawla also urged the Prime Minister to resolve all problems being faced by the farmers so that they could return to their homes.Chawla had earlier also objected to the labelling of farmers as terrorists. She said farmers were fighting for their land and children of many of them were guarding the country’s borders. “Over 50 farmers have died during the protest in Delhi but it seems that the government is indifferent,” she rued.She said the farmers should not resort to protests such as removing clothes because of the shivering cold. “The farmers should not risk their lives. It is very shameful that farmers in such large numbers have died in the protest and the government has failed to find a solution,” she added.Meanwhile, students of various senior secondary schools took out a rally from Sandhu colony to India Gate on Sunday. Braving the inclement weather, they marched in union raising slogans against the Union Government to repeal the three farm laws.Navkiran Kaur Sohal, a Class XII student, said they did not belong to any group or society but were inspired to save farming.They demanded that the Union Government should repeal the three controversial agriculture laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-laxmi-kanta-chawla-urges-pm-modi-to-resolve-all-issues-of-farmers-193486
04-01-2021||Lalit Mohan||Use of painting by Punjab govt unethical: Sobha Singh’s daughter||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 3Gurcharan Kaur, daughter of legendary painter Sobha Singh, has expressed resentment over “unauthorized use of a painting” of Guru Teg Bahadur by the Punjab government in its calendar for the year 2021.Gurcharan Kaur who stays in Andretta village near Palampur and manages the Sobha Singh Art Gallery, while talking to The Tribune, said that she has been informed that the public relations department of Punjab was publishing official calendar for 2021 with copy of painting created by the legendary artist. “It is unethical on the part of the Punjab government to use painting without our permission. It was also a violation of the Copyright Act and I have written to the Chief Minister, Punjab, Capt Amarinder Singh regarding this illegal act of the Punjab government”, she said.The painting of Guru Tegh Bahadur in controversy was created by Sardar Sobha Singh in the year 1972. He got it registered and obtained copyright for it in the year 1984. After the death of Sobha Singh the copyright for the painting was in the name of his daughter Gurcharan Kaur.Gurcharan Kaur said that she was not objecting to the authorized use of the painting by the Punjab government authorities. It was a question of ethics. Recently, Hallmark printed 300 gold coins with painting of Guru Nanak etched over it, in England. Since the painting was created by Sardar Sobha Singh the Hallmark took permission from her.A large numbers of paintings of Sobha Singh were being printed across Punjab in an authorized manner. “We have been complaining to various authorities in Punjab to check the authorized use of paintings of Sobha Singh. In some cases the action was also taken by the authorities. However, in case the government does an illegal act of copying the paintings, it would encourage other also,” she said.Anindita Mitra, Director, Public Relations Punjab, when contacted, that said she would take the charge tomorrow and knows nothing about it at present.Senu Dugggal, joint director, Public Relations, Punjab, when contacted, said that she does not know anything aboutthe matter.Ravi Bhagat, outgoing Director, Public Relations Punjab was not available for comment despites calls on his mobile number.Gurcharan Kaur who lives in the house of Sobha Singh in Andretta village also runs a Sobha Singh Memorial Art Gallery in the house. Thousands of visitors from across the world visit the gallery every year. The gallery has more than 50 original works of the legendary painter displayed forthe visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/use-of-painting-by-punjab-govt-unethical-sobha-singhs-daughter-193363
04-01-2021||---||Restore Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway service: Residents||Our CorrespondentNurpur, January 3Residents of lower Kangra district have been demanding the restoration of train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar railway line for the past a few months, but the Northern Railway authorities have taken no initiative for the restoration of the service. The trains had been suspended in March last year amid pandemic-induced lockdown.The train service in Harsar Dehri, Jawali, Nagrota Surian, Haripur, Guler and Dehra is considered the lifeline for thousands of people in the region as the road transport facility is scanty in the region.The train service on the Kalka-Shimla rail line has already been restored a few months ago whereas people of Kangra have been deprived of this economical transport means notwithstanding repeated requests by the locals.The train service that was suspended nine months ago has virtually left the residents of the district high and dry and the state government has also “failed” to take up this issue with the Union Railway Ministry.This railway line also plays a significant role in trading activities in Kangra as it is linked with Pathankot, a major business centre in Punjab. Prior to the pandemic, six trains were plying onthis route.Senior Congress leader Chander Kumar has alleged that the train service was not restored because of the indifferent attitude of sitting area MP Kishan Kapoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restore-pathankot-jogindernagar-railway-service-residents-193368
04-01-2021||---||4 farmers die at Singhu, Tikri||Sonepat, January 3Two protesting farmers died reportedly due to cardiac arrest at Kundli border on Sunday. The condition of another farmer is serious and he has been referred to PGIMS Rohtak.The deceased have been identified as 52-year-old Kulbeer Singh of Gangana village in Gohana of Sonepat district and 45-year-old Shamsher Singh of Lidhra village of Sangrur district in Punjab.Kulbeer Singh was found dead in his tent near Parker Mall on Sunday morning. The farmers informed the Kundli police. They said that he was feeling restless on Saturday night and after taking dinner, they went to sleep. He was at the dharna site for the past five days.As Yudhishter Singh (35) of Gangana village heard about the death of Kulbeer Singh, he also got a heart attack at the dharna site. He has been admitted at the general hospital from where the doctors referred him to PGIMS Rohtak, but his family members admitted him in a private hospital.The police handed over Kulbeer Singh’s body to his kin after the post-mortem examination.Besides, the condition of Shamsher Singh of Lithra village of Sangrur deteriorated today. He was shifted to the general hospital where he died. Farmer Karam Singh said that Shamsher had come to the dharna site five days ago. He was feeling chest pain on Sunday.Enraged over the death of two protesters, farmers raised slogans against the government in the general hospital at Sonepat.Jhajjar: Two protesters, one from Punjab and another from Haryana, died at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border during the past 24 hours. The deceased have been identified as Jashanpreet Singh (18) from Bathinda and Jagveer Singh (66) of Ital Kalan village in Jind district.As per reports, Jashandeep was brought to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh on Saturday from where he was referred to PGIMS Rohtak due to his critical condition. He died during treatment at the PGIMS.Jagveer, who was participating in the ongoing farmers’ protest for the past some days, became unconscious in the morning. He was brought to Bahadurgarh Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The exact cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem examination, said a doctor.A total of 12 protesters have so far died at Tikri border. Of them, two died in accidents.Nine lives lost at Singhu border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-farmers-die-at-singhu-tikri-193323
04-01-2021||GS Paul||Instal Baba Bhakna’s statue: Kin’s demand on birth anniversary||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3On the eve of the 151st birth anniversary of freedom fighter Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, his family has only one request for the state government: “Keep your word on installing Baba Bhakna’s statue.”To mark the occasion, an “akhand path” was performed in the district’s Bhakna village on Sunday, a day before the birth anniversary.Last year, CM Capt Amarinder Singh had announced that the demand for the statue would be met. The promise, however, remains on paper.Former SDM Amritsar II Shivraj Bal and MLA Tarsem Singh DC had visited the family last year and zeroed in on probable sites where the bust could be installed. The selected sites are Bhakna Chowk, the Amritsar-Attari GT road and the Heritage Street.Officials said a report was submitted to the government to take a final call, but the response was awaited.Baba Bhakna, the founder member of the Ghadar Party, was born on January 4, 1870. He had set up a pillar in his village, 4 km from here, displaying a message dedicated to the freedom struggle.He had spared a chunk of land to establish a school, which was later adopted by the government and named Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna Senior Secondary School.After he passed away on December 21, 1968, his family built a memorial where he was cremated. To this day, the family has been looking after the memorial without government support.His great-grandson Jasbir Singh Bhakna said, “Minister OP Soni had visited the school last year and announced to turn it into a smart one. The promise hasn’t been fulfilled. MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla had visited us and announced Rs 3 lakh to renovate the memorial site. Even that promise remains on paper.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/instal-baba-bhaknas-statue-kins-demand-on-birth-anniversary-193290
04-01-2021||---||Farmers, cops clash near BJP event||Sangrur, January 3Farmers clashed with the police near the Sangrur-Patiala bypass when the latter tried to stop them from marching towards the venue of a meeting of BJP leaders being presided over by party’s Punjab chief Ashwani Sharma. Farmers broke the first barricade but when they tried to break the second one, a scuffle ensued causing injuries to two farmers and three cops.“The police must register an FIR against the state BJP chief for causing tension in Sangrur deliberately by calling a meeting despite being aware that we will not allow it. Two farmers have suffered injuries and are under treatment. We will keep opposing the visits of BJP leaders,” said Gobindar Singh Mangwal, BKU (Ugrahan) Sangrur block president.To prevent any trouble, senior police officers from Patiala were also deployed but the problem started when protesting members of various organisations tried to move towards the residence of Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol after breaking the first barricade.“The Congress government has been supporting BJP leaders rather than banning their meetings. It shows that Congress and BJP are two sides of the same coin,” said Jasdeep Singh, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union.Farmer Gurpreet Singh and another protester along with Inspector Harwinder Singh (Training School) and Constables Harpreet Singh and Beant Singh have suffered injuries.During the meeting, Ashwani Sharma said peaceful protest was a democratic right, but some miscreants were creating problems for them.“In a democracy, we have the right to conduct meetings and farmers have the right to protest, but our political opponents are creating problems for us,” he said.After a meeting at the residence of Deol, Sharma also went to the house of another BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia at Gurdaspura, where two farmers raised slogans against the BJP.Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said farmers had a scuffle with cops. “Our officers had a narrow escape as some farmers tried to run over the cops after breaking the first barricade. Further investigations are on,” Soni said.State BJP chief faces protest in MogaState BJP president Ashwani Sharma faced stiff opposition in Moga from farmers during his visit to district president Vinay Sharma’s house. The farmers raised slogans against the BJP leadership and showed black flags. Reacting to the incidents, the BJP state chief termed the protests a conspiracy by the Congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-cops-clash-near-bjp-event-193220
04-01-2021||---||Withdraw dung dump FIR or will block roads: BKU (Rajewal)||Jalandhar, january 3 Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) today threatened to block major roads in Jalandhar and hold protests at BJP leaders’ residences if an FIR against those accused of dumping cow dung at the entrance to party leader Tikshan Sud’s house wasn’t withdrawn by January 6. Union members said the farmers’ act was in response to BJP leaders’ alleged inflammatory statements amid a growing number of deaths at the Delhi border. An FIR under Sections 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC had been lodged against a Dal Khalsa member and several unidentified protesters. The protesters had taken exception to Sud’s reported statement that “most farmers were unaware of farm laws and were going there on a picnic”. Kulwinder Singh, union’s district general secretary, said: “BJP leaders have been making repeated statements about farmers amidst loss of lives at the Delhi border.” “We give an ultimatum to the state government to withdraw the FIR lodged under Section 307 and other grave offences against farmers at Hoshiarpur by January 6 or we will block roads in Jalandhar. In the coming days, we will bring such tractor-trailers to BJP leaders’ residences regularly.” “In the middle of deaths at Singhu, if a leader says farmers go there on a picnic then it is bound to cause anger. We do not approve of the farmers’ act either. But in a democracy, an attempt-to-murder FIR can’t be lodged for dumping dung. We are not scared of FIRs. We just want peace in the state. But the government, rather than acting against the minister for provoking farmers, has lodged an FIR under serious offences,” he said. Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said: “The FIR was lodged on a complaint received by the police. An SIT has been formed and is looking into the matter. Action will only be taken as per sections that merit the act by protesters. If any sections are found unwanted, these will be removed.” On his part, Sud said his statement had been taken out of context. “I’m from farming background and haven’t said anything against farmers. Everyone has the right to protest. But we are against those who in the garb of protest trespass on to people’s homes. The farm leaders had never asked people to dump things on residential premises.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-dung-dump-fir-or-will-block-roads-bku-rajewal-193221
04-01-2021||---||Harsimrat faces protests in Mansa, cancels programmes||Mansa, January 3Former Union Minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal today faced protests from farmers during her visit to villages in the Budhlada subdivision of Mansa district. Later, she cancelled her four programmes in villages.Farmers staged a protest claiming that the SAD and Harsimrat had supported the contentious agricultural Bills when these were tabled in the Cabinet and now they were befooling the people.Hundreds of people raised slogans and tried to gherao her, but the police escorted her convoy out of the area. This was her first visit to an area in her constituency after her resignation from the Union Cabinet.Harsimrat had come here to pay condolences to the families of farmers who died during the agitation. The farmers hailed from Gurddi, Bachhuana, Dharmapura, Bare, Dodra, Boha and Bhadra villages.However, in Dodra and Bhadra villages, locals and activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan, Dakaunda and Qadian) groups, started staging protests against her.A message was also sent by family members of Piara Singh, a farmer who died during the agitation and hailed from Dharampura village, that they did not want to meet Harsimrat, said sources. This was confirmed by Vasava Singh, a leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).On the other hand, Harsimrat alleged that the protests were a ploy of opposition parties.Claiming that the SAD was still with the farmers, she said, “I left the Cabinet and NDA. Even today, I am standing shoulder to shoulder with the farmers in their struggle against the Modi government at the Centre.”“I did not sign any document in favour of these laws. I opposed the enactment of the laws,” Harsimrat said. Appealing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to meet the protesting farmers, she said he should redress their grievances and repeal the laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-faces-protests-in-mansa-cancels-programmes-193222
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers leave for Delhi with kinnow trucks||Abohar, January 3Farmers, labourers and traders left for New Delhi on Sunday with four truckloads of kinnow, two water tankers and one tractor laden with firewood to help the protesters.Before leaving, one of the traders said, “The Central Government has become arrogant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not see the pain of families who have lost 50 members during the protest. Elderly women and children are braving the cold, but the Centre is hardly concerned. We will continue to support farmers till the time the justice is not given.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-leave-for-delhi-with-kinnow-trucks-193223
04-01-2021||---||BJP exploiting Guv’s office for political interests, says Capt||Chandigarh, January 3Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today lambasted the Punjab BJP leadership over its attempt to lower the prestige of the Governor’s office.Reacting sharply to the BJP state unit’s tweet accusing him of trying to make Punjab into another West Bengal, the CM said it was the “power-hungry” BJP which had been trying to use the office of the Governor for its own vested interests.“It has been happening in West Bengal, it happened in Maharashtra, and now they are trying to do the same in Punjab,” said Captain Amarinder, slamming the BJP for its efforts to force its way into power in states where it was currently not ruling.The BJP, which had been systemically trampling all democratic and constitutional institutions, had not spared even the office of Governor, said the CM, adding, “these actions do not behove a party that is the custodian of these institutions as the ruling party at the Centre.”Captain Amarinder quipped that the BJP, despite being a national party, seemed totally ignorant of the constitutional provisions, according to which the Governor was the titular head of the state, but all administration authority vested with the CM.“Don’t these BJP leaders know that the law and order responsibility of my state lies with me not only as Chief Minister but also as the Home Minister?” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-exploiting-guvs-office-for-political-interests-says-capt-193224
04-01-2021||Amritsar||Centre wants to impose Prez rule in state: Navjot Sidhu||Amid protest against the newly enacted farm laws, former state Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the BJP-led Centre was creating grounds for imposing President’s rule in Punjab.He expressed his apprehension through his tweet saying, “There’s no law and order problem in Punjab. Farmers dying on Delhi’s borders should be the government’s real concern but it is maligning Punjabis and scuttling our democratic voice by projecting us as anti-national to safeguard corporate interests and create grounds for President’s rule.”In the backdrop, reports surfaced about damage to mobile towers of a telecom firm owned by a corporate house in the state. Following this, the BJP state leadership has accused the Congress of not maintaining law and order in the state. Meanwhile, dejected by “offensive comments” being used by the BJP leadership against the farmers’ peaceful protest, senior leader of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal has served a legal notice to Union Minister Giriraj Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-wants-to-impose-prez-rule-in-state-navjot-sidhu-193225
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers' agitation: Rs 8 lakh relief for family of advocate who ended life||Fazilka, January 3A large number of residents took part in the last rites of advocate Amarjit Singh Rai who ended his life in support of farmers’ agitation at the Tikri border a week ago.Jalalabad MLA Raminder Singh Awla, Fazilka MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya, former minister Hans Raj Josan, Jalalabad Bar Association president Rohit Dahuja and farmer leaders paid tributes to Rai at a ceremony at Jalalabad on Saturday.Awla handed over a cheque for Rs 5 lakh to the family members of the deceased on behalf of the Punjab Government. Besides, Rs 1 lakh each were given to the family by the Jalalabad Bar Association, Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-rs-8-lakh-relief-for-family-of-advocate-who-ended-life-193226
04-01-2021||Bathinda||Losses mounting, impasse must end soon: Trade unions||With farmer unions staying put at the Delhi borders amid stalemate with the Centre over the farm laws, various trade unions have urged both sides to shun their “headstrong” stance and try to resolve the situation amicably in a timely manner. Representatives of the Beopar Mandal, Swarankaar Sangh, Arhtiya Association, Mansa, and Rice Millers’ Association among others said nobody would benefit from dragging the matter further as other sectors were getting affected in the state. Talking to The Tribune, Kartar Singh Jaura, national president, Akhil Bhartiya Swarankar Sangh (jewellers), said: “Several rounds of talks between the Centre and farmer unions have remained largely inconclusive, except the government’s relief on stubble burning and power legislation. It’s time both sides find a mutually agreed middle ground to end the impasse as dragging it further will not benefit anyone. Not just farmers and arhtiyas, almost every other sector is getting affected by the impasse. The government must agree to the farmers’ demands to end the stir.” Manish Babbi Danewalia, president, Beopar Mandal, said: “We urge both farmer unions and the Centre to resolve the matter early in a peaceful manner. On the one hand, thousands of people have been protesting at the Delhi borders and on the other, traders in the state have been adversely affected. Both sides must not make it a prestige issue.” Narian Parkash, secretary, Rice Millers’ Association, Mansa, said: “While the Modi government must find a solution with an open mind, farmers should restrict their stir. The farmers have got unprecedented support from all quarters and it’s time the matter is resolved amicably.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/losses-mounting-impasse-must-end-soon-trade-unions-193227
04-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Using dung cakes, ‘desi’ geysers bring relief in biting cold at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 3The indefinite protest of farmers at the Delhi borders has seen many firsts, including the optimum use of ‘desi’ geysers, manufactured in Punjab with little expertise.It is the first time that a ‘desi jugad’ has got such a huge response as a majority of people are getting hot water from these self-made machines, which deliver 14 liters of hot water with around 2 kg waste, including papers and empty plastic bottles and two-three dung cakes.“Our desi geysers are the only source of hot water in this biting cold. They are running round the clock and delivering hot water to thousands of farmers,” said Rampal Sharma, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader from Sangrur district. Sharma has been at the Tikri border since the start of the agitation.Along with ration, warm clothes and making all arrangements in their modified trailers, some farmers had taken these geysers with them. But once they realised that their Delhi protest would not end soon, many called up their families and got delivered more geysers to the Delhi border.“I have participated in many agitations earlier, but it is the first time that I have seen the use these geysers in such a huge number,” said Jaswant Singh, a farmer at the Tikri border.Apart from families of farmers, many NGOs are also sending the geysers in large numbers as they know that hot water is the basic need these days.“Since its manufacturing is cheap and our inexpert mechanics are also manufacturing these, we have enough machines now. Anyone can take them as per his requirement from our stock for free,” Gobind Singh, another farmer, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/using-dung-cakes-desi-geysers-bring-relief-in-biting-cold-at-tikri-193228
04-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Minor hiccups during dry run||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 3A few minor hiccups notwithstanding, the dry run of the Covid vaccine was conducted successfully here on Sunday. The two-hour mock drill was conducted at three sites — Government Rajindra Hospital, Sadhbhavna Hospital and Community Health Centre (CHC), Shutrana.At Rajindra Hospital, the mock drill was disrupted for about 20 minutes because of power cut. Another problem was that some beneficiaries were not familiar with the protocol. They were constantly reminded of the process by an officer from the World Health Organisation (WHO) while the drill was in progress.Some persons who had not registered themselves on the CoWIN app also turned up. They were, however, sent back.Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “Only those who had registered themselves on the portal were allowed to participate in the dry run. In all, 25 beneficiaries were called at each site. They (beneficiaries) were screened at entry points by matching their details on the identification cards with that of the registered data.”Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti Yadav oversaw the dry run at Rajindra Hospital. “The purpose of the dry run is to overcome the potential hiccups before the vaccination rollout. It has prepared the district administration for the final exercise,” she said.On the electricity cut, the ADC said, “The hospital gets round-the-clock power supply. The administration is looking into the reason for the outage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-hiccups-during-dry-run-193229
04-01-2021||---||Capacity to vaccinate 4L a day: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, January 3Punjab has a capacity to vaccinate 4 lakh persons a day, said state Minister for Health and Family Welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu today, adding a robust storage capacity of 1 crore vaccines had been set up in state’s own cold chain centres.Addressing a press conference, Sidhu urged the Centre to provide the Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to the state within a stipulated period. The Modi government cannot backtrack from its duty of supplying the vaccine, he said.Giving details of state’s preparedness, Principal Secretary Health Hussan Lal said the vaccine would be given to around 70 lakh persons in a phased manner, including 1.6 lakh healthcare and frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those with co-morbidities aged below 50. The criteria of the age would be counted as on January 1.The Health Minister said the state had also achieved more than 95 per cent of routine vaccination of children, highest in the country.He said 5,364 Covid-related deaths had occurred in the state, at the rate of 178 deaths per million. In comparison, 10,577 deaths took place in Delhi at the rate of 528 deaths per million.“We are in better position than other states. Punjab has a recovery rate of 95 per cent and active cases are declining by the day,” said the minister.Sidhu added the ambit of the original Ayushman Bharat Yojana of the Centre was limited to 14 lakh families shortlisted as per the Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) Data-2011, while the state government decided to increase the number of families to 40 lakh.To date, treatment services worth Rs 574.86 crore had been provided to 4,99,593 beneficiaries, with premium of Rs 418 crore having been paid to the insurance company.Free supply sought||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capacity-to-vaccinate-4l-a-day-punjab-govt-193230
04-01-2021||---||Intermittent rain, but some parts of Punjab still dry||Chandigarh, January 3While the New Year brought surplus rain in Punjab, many parts of the state remained dry, despite intermittent showers in the region over the past two days. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded 42 per cent surplus rain in the state, while the minimum temperature in some parts remained up to 8°C above normal over the past 24 hours.From January 1 to 3, Punjab received 1.1 mm rain against the normal of 0.8 mm, according to the IMDdata.Sangrur, Mansa, Fadirkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Mukutsar and Bathinda are among the districts that remained totally dry. On the other hand, Barnala, Kapurthala and Jalandhar were the wettest districts, with the surplus being up to 400 per cent.While the region is expected to experience more rain and snow for the next couple of days, the department has predicted that with the minimum temperature subsequently increasing, the cold wave prevailing would reduce and fog would abate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/intermittent-rain-but-some-parts-of-punjab-still-dry-193231
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 2.5 crore heroin seized in Fazilka||Fazilka, January 3Days after the recovery of a contraption used to push narcotics into the Indian territory by Pakistan smugglers, the troops of the second battalion of the Border Security Force seized 500 grams heroin, worth Rs 2.5 crore in the international market, in the area of the BOP, Jhuge Fauza Singh.Sources said the troops observed some suspected footmarks across the barbed wire fencing. During the search, a packet, suspected to be heroin, was recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-2-5-crore-heroin-seized-in-fazilka-193232
04-01-2021||Fazilka||Two  held for sand mining||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly excavating sand illegally from a seepage drain in the district. Sources said the police laid a barrier near Ghatianwalai Jattan village on a tip-off. They nabbed Kala Singh, a resident of Nau Behram village of Ferozepur district, and Balwinder Singh, a resident of Mannewala village. They were allegedly bringing the sand (spread across about 600 sqft) on two tractor trailers after excavating it from a seepage drain at Kathgarh. They have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 of the Mining and Minerals Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-for-sand-mining-193234
04-01-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||No CLU nod, Gurdaspur businessmen in the lurch||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, January 3Realtor Manjit Singh Dala is a harried man these days. Keeping in view the fact that there is no decent hotel on the Pathankot-Amritsar stretch of the NH-54, the Gurdaspur-based businessman decided to set up one. However, all his efforts have come to naught, as the Punjab Government, acting on the recommendations of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), has withheld change of land use (CLU) requests for the past one year.There are other businessmen also, who want to undertake various projects on this stretch, including setting up of petrol pumps, but are unable to do so.The NHAI, as per norms, puts on hold the CLU process before embarking upon a project. This, say officials, is to facilitate the process of land acquisition. “If commercial properties come up on the proposed path of the highway, it becomes difficult for us to take over the same,” an official said.The NHAI has chalked out the path of the expressway till Aujla village on the outskirts of Gurdaspur. However, there is no clarity on the 24 km stretch the highway will take from Aujla till Balsua village of Pathankot district. Sources say all CLU requests will have to be kept in abeyance till things are given concrete shape. “Nobody knows for sure when things will be finalised. Till then, all developmental activities running into crores of rupees, have been put on hold,” said an officer.“I want to set up a marriage palace near my village on the Pathankot-Gurdaspur road. However, officials tell me that I will not be allowed a CLU, which is mandatory for the construction of the palace, following which I dropped my plans,” said Hardyal Singh of Paniyar village.Villagers living on both sides of the NH-54 say they will be writing to NHAI chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu requesting his intervention. “We will ask Sandhu, who hails from the neighbouring district of Amritsar, to direct his officials to clarify the exact route. It is almost a year now that CLUs and development initiatives have been blocked,” said Balkar Singh, a resident of Bariar village.The Rs 60,000 crore expressway has already got mired in controversy as farmers in several districts of Punjab have refused to let NHAI acquire land till the three farm laws are repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clu-nod-gurdaspur-businessmen-in-the-lurch-193235
04-01-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Rs 12L fertiliser scam detected in Moga cooperative society||Tribune News ServiceMoga, January 3A Rs 12-lakh fertiliser scam in the state’s Cooperative Department has come to light in Moga district, the police said today.A case under Section 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) of the IPC has been registered against Gurmukh Singh, son of Sukhdev Singh, secretary of the cooperative society of Charik village. However, he was yet to be arrested.During preliminary investigation, it has been found that 3,462 bags of urea and 202 bags of DAP fertiliser were either sold on the black market or payments were not entered in the official records of the cooperative society.The cyber crime wing of the district police has confiscated the computer of the cooperative society to find out the modus operandi.Initial findings suggested there was a shortfall of Rs 11,61,994 in the official record. The figures could further increase during the police investigation.Some farmers had complained to local officials of the Cooperative Department that they had paid bills of the fertiliser purchased by them in cash to the society secretary, but the entries were not made in the records.Some farmers of the village alleged the secretary created artificial shortage of the fertiliser last year when the nation was fighting Covid-19 and later charged extra for early supply of the fertiliser to a section of the farmers in the village.The police officials said they would cross-check the fertiliser stocks allocated to the cooperative society with the figures of actual distribution among farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-12l-fertiliser-scam-detected-in-moga-cooperative-society-193236
04-01-2021||---||Gross GST collection rises by 5.7%||Chandigarh, January 3The state’s total GST collection for last December stands at Rs 1,067.21 crore, whereas it was Rs 1,009.03 crore for December 2019, an increase of 5.77 per cent.An official in the Taxation Commissioner’s Office said the gross GST revenue collection for the state from April to December 2020 was Rs 7,881.50 crore in comparison to Rs 9,851.82 crore for the corresponding period of 2019 — a decrease of 20 per cent.The protected revenue for December 2020 was Rs 2,403 crore, against which the state collected and received Rs 1,067 crore. This corresponds to about 44.4 per cent of the protected revenue. For December 2020, the amount of compensation due is Rs 1,336 crore. Further, the cumulative amount of compensation due from April to November 2020 is Rs 8,856 crore.The official further said the national gross GST revenue collection in December 2020 was Rs 1,15,174 crore, whereas the national gross GST revenue collection in December 2019 stood at Rs 1,03,184 crore — an increase of 12 per cent.The national gross GST revenue collection for the third quarter (October to December 2020) was Rs 3,25,292 crore in comparison to Rs 3,02,055 crore for the corresponding period in 2019 — a rise of 7.7 per cent.In addition to GST, the state collects tax revenue from the Value-added Tax (VAT) and Central Sales Tax (CST) regime. Major contributors to VAT and CST collection are alcohol for human consumption and five petroleum products, which are outside the ambit of the GST.For December 2020, the total VAT and CST collection was Rs 671.12 crore, whereas it was Rs 517.08 crore for December 2019 — an increase of 29.79 per centThe VAT and CST revenue collection for Punjab from April to December 2020 was Rs 4,474.02 crore in comparison to Rs 4,137.59 crore for the corresponding period in 2019 — an increase of 8.13 per cent.The GST, VAT and CST put together, the tax collection during December 2020 (Rs 1,738.33 crore) over December 2019 (Rs 1,526.11 crore) is up by Rs 212.22 crore (13.9 per cent).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gross-gst-collection-rises-by-5-7-193237
04-01-2021||---||6-year-old strangled after rape||Jalandhar, January 3The body of a six-year-old girl was found in a sugarcane field on the Rama Mandi-Hoshiarpur road on Sunday, the police have said. The investigation indicated that she was raped and then strangled.She went missing from her house in the district’s Hazara village on Saturday evening.The police said the accused, identified as Santosh (25), a migrant from Bihar, was on the run. He is a distant relative of the victim’s family.On the statements of the victim’s parents, Santosh has been booked under Sections 302 and 376 of the IPC, and the POCSO Act. The postmortem report will be out in two days.Adampur DSP Harinder Singh Mann said, “The girl was reportedly alone in her house when Santosh, who lived in her neighborhood, abducted her on the pretext on buying her chocolates. Around 5.30 pm, when her parents reached home and found their daughter missing, they enquired from their neighbours. One of the girl’s friends told them that she had gone with Santosh.”On confronting him, Santosh claimed he had dropped the girl home after an hour. Subsequently, he went missing. Suspicious, the parents approached the police.The DSP said the police were conducting raids to arrest the accused.This is the second such incident in the district in less than 12 days. On December 22, a two-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 32-year-old man at a locality in Rama Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-year-old-strangled-after-rape-193238
04-01-2021||---||4 pilfering whiskey from tankers held||Amritsar, January 3Acting on a tip off, the Punjab Police along with Excise Department today arrested four persons and confiscated two tankers containing 42,000 litres of 3-year-old blended grain scotch whiskey worth Rs 2 crore here.According to authorities, the liquor imported from Amsterdam, Netherlands, was being transported from a Mumbai dry port and was destined for M/s United Spirits Limited at Khasa distillery here.Those arrested included Dharminder Singh, Chamkaur Singh and Manohar Singh, all residents of Tarn Taran, and Sarvan Singh of Sue Wali Havelian at Sanghna village of Amritsar district.The suspects were pilfering the whiskey in smaller drums from the tankers. Their fifth accomplice, Gursharan Singh of Sanghna village, fled the scene.A case under the Excise Act and the IPC, including fraud and criminal conspiracy, has been registered against them.The police said the seized liquor was ordered by United Spirits Limited from a foreign consignor — Diageo Brands BV — at Amsterdam and was imported from the Nhava Sheva dry port.Investigations suggested the accused were hired by a Haryana-based contractor, Satish, alias Tau, working for a transport company. They were to pilfer the liquor in 200 litre drums, which would be further sold at Rs 10,000 per drum.After dilution, it would have been sold to liquor smugglers. They had planned to pilfer three drums of alcohol, while transporting the remaining to the Khasa distillery. Sarwan had pilfered two such drums on December 21-22.Further interrogation and forensic examination were on to trace the linkages of the seized consignment to identify the sources of pilferage.Was Meant for asr distillery||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-pilfering-whiskey-from-tankers-held-193239
04-01-2021||Abohar||Youth’s body found hanging from tree||The body of a 20-year-old youth was found hanging from a tree near the railway line, outside Dhani Desraj, on Saturday.  The victim was identified as Ravi Kumar. He worked as a driver with a private firm. He was preparing for recruitment in the Army. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youths-body-found-hanging-from-tree-193241
04-01-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||To counter terrorism, police to hire de-radicalisation experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3In a counter-terrorism measure in Punjab, the state police have decided to recruit specialised de-radicalisation counsellors in the backdrop of radicalisation of youth for pro-Khalistan activities via social media.This will be part of a massive recruitment drive for general policing where 841 sub-inspectors, 811 head constables and 6,836 constables will be recruited this year. Notably, the recruitment drive is being undertaken in the pre-election year.Thirty de-radicalisation counsellors and 82 assistants will be recruited soon with the challenging job to bring back youth into the mainstream after they were allegedly brainwashed by terror agencies, including Pakistan-based Inter-Services Intelligence, said DGP Dinkar Gupta. According to the police records, nearly 70 terror modules had been busted in the past few years in which more than 300 youth were arrested. Most of them were radicalised for pro-Khalistan activities through social media.The need for such experts was felt with several terror groups finding potential recruits over social media through pro-Khalistan posts. These agencies then carry out systematic training of the youth. “Many youth are just led into the activities as they are shown a picture contrary to ground realities. The police have de-radicalised some of them in the past,” said a senior police official.Some of these youths had also become a part of the narco-terror-gangster network. They acted as medium for smuggling of drugs and weapons from across the border.Security of BJP, RSS leaders to be upgradedThe Punjab Police are in the process of upgrading security of several BJP and RSS leaders in the state in the wake of daily protests against them over the Central farm laws. Police sources said the threat perception of main leaders of the BJP and RSS was being reviewed following the protests against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-counter-terrorism-police-to-hire-de-radicalisation-experts-193242
04-01-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Documentary on Guru Tegh Bahadur released in Anandpur Sahib||A documentary depicting the spiritual journey of Guru Tegh Bahadur was released by Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/documentary-on-guru-tegh-bahadur-released-in-anandpur-sahib-193243
04-01-2021||Arun Sharma||‘Illegal’ shopping complex comes up in Nangal||Tribune News ServiceRopar, January 3An illegal shopping complex is coming up just 50 ft from the Anandpur Sahib-Nangal National Highway-503 (extension) at Patti village of Nangal tehsil, even as officials claim they have been aware of it for the past three weeks, but could not take action because its owner remains “unidentified”.Public Works Department (Central Works) Executive Engineer (XEN) Davinder Sharma said, “The Punjab Urban Land Development Authority rules prohibit the construction of any structure within 100 ft of the highway so that there is no hurdle at the time of road widening. The shopping complex is being constructed very close to the road. The department is searching for its owners.”Meanwhile, land survey for road widening has already started without demolishing the building.In all, 13 shops have already been constructed, while the construction of 12 showrooms and restaurants is in progress. No owner was found at the site. Locals claimed the construction was being carried out by several people. They named two of them — Manoj Sharma and Happy of Nangal.When this correspondent, posing as a customer, called up Sharma, he claimed that he and his friends had bought land from locals and that they had been constructing 35 shops, which would be sold off for Rs 18 lakh each. “I have a restaurant at the shopping complex,” he said.When asked about the parking space as there was no private land in front of the shops, Sharma said the covered drain and service lane in front of shops to be built by the PWD at the time of widening of the NH would be used as a parking lot.When Happy was contacted, he claimed he had built three shops for his use.Both of them claimed they were unaware of the violation of PUDA rules. On the delay in taking action, the XEN said, “Officials visited the site several times but, each time, no property owner was found there. A major portion of the land is the property of the Bhakra Beas Management Board. Before taking any action, the PWD needs to verify the identity of landowners. I wrote a letter to Nangal SDM Kanu Garg on December 29”.The SDM, however, said she had not received any such letter to date.Owner ‘unidentified’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-shopping-complex-comes-up-in-nangal-193244
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||SAD accuses Cong of neglect||Abohar, January 3SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal kick-started party’s campaign for the municipal corporation elections in PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s hometown Abohar by addressing a series of meetings in 10 wards today.At a luncheon meeting, the Ferozepur MP discussed the list of candidates in the presence of former minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon and Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh “Rozy” Barkandi. He said party ticket would be allocated on the basis of winnability of nominees.Accusing the Congress of neglect in developing the area, Sukhbir sounded slogan “Congress harao, Abohar bachao”. Speaking to mediapersons, Sukhbir ruled out the possibility of an alliance with the BJP in the MC elections or the Vidhan Sabha polls and asserted the SAD would go all out to defeat the saffron party and Congress candidates. He said the lists of MC candidates were being vetted and would be released soon.Referring to the problems of flood victims of the Balluana constituency, Sukhbir said the Congress had sent its ministers to visit the flood-hit areas but none of the affected villagers had received compensation.“The SAD government had given crores of rupees in compensation to the farmers in the district during its tenure,” he claimed.Elections to the corporation are being held for the first time. Abohar, with 50 per cent seats reserved for women, was upgraded last year and the number of wards was increased from 33 to 50.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-accuses-cong-of-neglect-193245
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cong announces state poll panels, observers||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has entrusted former state Finance Minister and Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh with the responsibility of overseeing the elections to 118 civic bodies at the party level.He has been appointed chairman of a seven-member State Election Committee of the Punjab Congress, with other senior leaders as its members. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar said Cabinet Ministers OP Soni, Sukhbinder Sarkariua, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhjinder Randhawa, apart from senior MLAs have been appointed observers in nine Municipal Corporations of Abohar, Batala, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Moga, Pathankot, Phagwara and Mohali.The Local Government Department has already written to the State Election Commission for conducting MC polls by February 13.With January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date for the preparation of the electoral rolls, the Election Commission had allowed the preparation of electoral rolls till December 9, 2020, and the electoral rolls were published by December 10, 2020. The last date for filing of claims and objections was December 16 and the disposal of claims and objections was done by December 23. The final publication of electoral rolls has to be done by January 5. Besides, byelections to one ward of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and three wards of the Mahilpur and Mullanpur Dakha Municipal Councils will be held. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-announces-state-poll-panels-observers-193246
04-01-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Shortage of doctors hits Ferozepur eye hospital||Ferozepur, January 3The state-of-the-art eye hospital, which was constructed at Rs 5.5 crore, has become a white elephant in the absence of any superspecialist doctors, paramedical staff and specialised equipment to treat patients. The only eye specialist working here resigned recently.The patients have to depend on eye camps being organised by NGOs. During these camps also, the adequate equipment is not available and sterile conditions are not maintained. Dr Davinderpal Singh Gill, eye specialist, who recently resigned, said he had submitted his resignation in September due to some family issues. “I was working here since the inception of the hospital. As many 600 surgeries have been performed here with the help of local NGOs.”Sandeep Bajaj, ophthalmic officer at the hospital, said around 50-60 patients came to the OPD daily. “However, no surgeries are being conducted here, and critical patients are referred to the Government Medical College, Faridkot,” he said. Dr Sanjiv Gupta, Assistant Civil Surgeon, said he had written to the Health Department regarding the shortage of staff and unavailability of superspecialist doctors. “The eye surgeon deputed at the Zira Civil Hospital is also on leave. There are two ophthalmic officers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shortage-of-doctors-hits-ferozepur-eye-hospital-193247
04-01-2021||ohar||‘Basera’ project aims to make Abohar slum-free||Chief Minister’s slum development programme —   ‘Basera’ — may be launched on his first visit to Abohar during the present term, which is expected next week.  The programme envisages a “slum-free Punjab”, where every citizen has access to all basic civic amenities. Slum dwellers and specified categories of people, who are in occupation of small parcels of agrarian land through inheritance, will be eligible for land ownership rights with the project. The government had already given approval to the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020. During an informal conversation with the media recently, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said the programme was yet to be finalised, but the MC had completed its survey in slum areas. Agreeing that infrastructure needs to be raised to carry development works, he said state-of-the-art machines had been procured at Rs 2.5 crore. A traffic map would be prepared soon, he said. About mobilising financial resources, he said the corporation had sent notices to 500 defaulting property tax payers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/basera-project-aims-to-make-abohar-slum-free-193248
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Two police officers suspended for not reporting seizure||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 3Two police officials, including SHO Harwinder Singh and ASI Jaspal Singh of the Khamano police station, have been placed under suspension on charges of dereliction of duty.SSP Amneet Kondal has also ordered a departmental inquiry against them, besides SI Jaswant Singh. The SSP said there were charges of dereliction of duty and delay in following proper procedure while handling a case under Section 174 (procedure for police to follow in suicide, unnatural death cases) of the Criminal Procedure Code. She said the two officials were suspended on the recommendation of Khamano DSP Dharmpal.The officials allegedly embezzled Rs 8 lakh recovered after eatery owner Gurdial Singh’s death by not mentioning the seizure in the records.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-police-officers-suspended-for-not-reporting-seizure-193249
04-01-2021||Fazilka||NGO’s warm gesture||A helping hand for farmersGurdaspur: To extend a helping hand to the farmers, an 11-member committees has been constituted in villages across Gurdaspur. These are the months when the wheat crop has to be watered and pesticides need to be sprayed. Gurdaspur is a sugarcane-rich area and during this time, the harvested crop needs to be taken to sugar mills. Committee members are doing it for their brethren, who are slugging it out at the Delhi border. In his native village of Dharowali, Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is heading one such committee. “I believe that the farming community is one big family and we need to help each other. If a farmer is in trouble, do not ask him if there is anything you can do. Think of something appropriate and just do it,” he said.New Year gift for studentsAbohar: The new building of Army Public School, inaugurated at the military station on the Abohar-Sriganganagar road, is a New Year gift for students and staff. Rani Sharma, chairperson, Family Welfare Organisation, said the construction of the building augmented the existing school infrastructure. GOC, Sudarshan Chakra Division, commended the efforts of various agencies for setting up the new school building, which is equipped with well-furnished classrooms, laboratories, library, conference room, administrative office, sports facilities and multi-purpose hall. It has a capacity of 2,400 students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngos-warm-gesture-193257
04-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||33 Judges short, Punjab & Haryana High Court pendency up 1L in a year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court reopens on Monday after a short winter break with pendency of over six lakh cases — up by more than a lakh since January 2020. Facing a shortage of 33 Judges, litigants may have to wait for decades for justice.As of now, the Allahabad High Court has the highest number of pending cases at 7.46 lakh, followed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The virus from Wuhan, that struck the world hard, also left the justice delivery mechanism afflicted. The early signs of slowing down came soon after the High Court went into restrictive functioning mode in March-end. But Covid’s effect on the already ailing system manifested itself with full force in January this year with a pendency of 6,37,188 cases against 5,28,340 last year.The National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency — indicates the pendency of 2,64,191 criminal cases, predominantly involving life and liberty. Otherwise, 96,503 (15.15 pc) of the pending cases are up to a year old; 2,31,637 (36.35 pc) have been pending between one and three years; 92,551 (14.53 pc) between 10 and 20 years and 10,519 (1.65 pc) have been awaiting adjudication for 20-30 years.The data, however, does not reflect the severity of ailment. The High Court is hearing over 1,200 cases daily through video-conferencing — a formidable task. Primarily, matters involving public interest or urgency are being taken up. Approximately, 58,981 cases were filed from March 24 to September 30. But 23,474 cases could be disposed of. The High Court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigation once it reopens for normal “physical” operations.The situation is expected to further worsen because of the impending retirement of Judges. The High Court now has 52 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. No less than eight Judges are retiring this year. The collegium has recommended five advocates for elevation. But the process may take time because of the lengthy procedure.The oldest case, perhaps, is a regular second appeal filed 45 years back by Rachhpal Singh against Sohan Singh in a land matter pertaining to Gurdaspur area. The more than four decades of wait is not exceptional. One regular second appeal filed in 1978, followed by another in 1979 and “thousands” more subsequently are still pending.National Judicial Data Grid15.15% of pending cases up to a year old36.35% pending between one and 3 years14.53% pending between 10 and 20 years1.65% awaiting adjudication for 20-30 years||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-judges-short-punjab-haryana-high-court-pendency-up-1l-in-a-year-193263
04-01-2021||Aman Sood||In Patiala, poultry feed used in spurious milk||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 3The police have busted a milk adulteration racket wherein two unemployed youths of Kularan village in Patiala used poultry feed as an ingredient to double the quantity of milk.Behind bars, the accused, Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, ran a dairy business without actually owning any cow or buffalo. They would purchase the feed, a kind of dried white glucose powder, from Haryana and allegedly mix 10 kg of it in 100 litres of water at their two-room “dairy” in the village. They would then add this mixture to 100 litres of milk they procured from nearby villages.Two arrestedHow much adulterated milk they daily prepared and sold was being ascertained, but 500 litres was supplied to Ludhiana’s Supreme Dairy alone, a police official said. Besides Ludhiana, they had customers in Khanna, Rajpura and other parts of Punjab, he said.Patiala SSP Vikramjit Duggal said the owners of Supreme Dairy had been summoned for questioning. Attempts to contact the dairy’s owners proved futile.“Chicken feed being used to prepare adulterated milk is unheard of, though rackets using urea, other chemicals, refined oil and even detergent have been unearthed in the past. It is being investigated how long the accused have been in this illegal business,” the SSP said.By mixing poultry feed in milk, the accused cheated the dairy testing labs, which check fat content but have no mechanism to check animal or foreign fat, a health expert said. Such milk was harmful for children and elderly and its prolonged use could even lead to cancer, they said.A team led by SP Palwinder Cheema conducted the raid and arrested Harpreet and Gurpreet from the spot.An FIR under Sections 272, 273, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at Samana Sadar police station. Health officers were called to the police station to collect milk samples for testing, said Cheema.A chiller, 200 litres of stored milk, 25 kg of white powder, 125 kg of poultry feed, machinery to check fat content and containers to store and mix powder and milk have been seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-patiala-poultry-feed-used-in-spurious-milk-193264
04-01-2021||Impasse||Farmers step up pressure, to burn copies of 3 laws on Lohri||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 3Ahead of the seventh round of talks with the Centre on Monday, Punjab’s farm unions announced that they would burn copies of the three contentious farm laws on Lohri (January 13) and celebrate January 23 — Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary — as ‘Azad Kisan Diwas’.Representatives of the unions at a press conference here condemned the lathi-charge on farmers protesting against BJP leaders in Sangrur. Harmeet Singh Kadian said: “We will only focus on the repeal of farm laws and MSP during our meeting with the Centre on Monday.” In a statement, the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the success of Monday’s talks would depend entirely on the repeal of three farm laws.Sonia Gandhi, CongressShun arrogance: Sonia GandhiOver 50 farmers have lost their lives. This is an arrogant govt. Leave alone people, it cannot even heal the suffering of the ‘annadatas’. Union leader Onkar Singh urged the Centre to discard obduracy and repeal the “black” laws. Jangveer Singh Chauhan observed that the protest had been peaceful for the past 37-38 days but some political leaders were trying to provoke the farmers. He also said they had sent a letter on sugarcane rates to the Punjab Government but had yet to receive a response. “We will decide whether or not to hold a tractor march on Republic Day after tomorrow’s meeting,” Kadian said. Farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri had a tough time owing to overnight rains. Waterproof tents were of little help. Meanwhile, farmers from Maharashtra on Sunday left Nagpur for Delhi to join the protesters.Haryana cops use force to halt marchThe Haryana Police on Sunday fired tear gas shells to thwart a march by a group of farmers proceeding towards Delhi at the Masani barrage in Rewari. The farmers, who broke barricades, had been camping at the service lane of Delhi-Jaipur highway for several days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-step-up-pressure-to-burn-copies-of-3-laws-on-lohri-193216
