07-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 10 more deaths, 284 new cases in Punjab||Ten more COVID-19 fatalities in Punjab pushed the death toll to 5,422 while 284 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,68,187 in the state on Thursday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 2,975 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, it said.Mohali reported the highest number of new cases at 59, followed by Bathinda (42) and Ludhiana (30), among the fresh cases in the state, the bulletin said.It said a total of 290 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,59,790.Eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 127 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said that a total of 40,33,992 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-10-more-deaths-284-new-cases-in-punjab-195120
07-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC issues notice to Punjab in triple talaq case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7In, perhaps, the first case here after the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, criminalising triple talaq came into force, a Muslim woman has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging non-registration of an FIR against her husband for the offence.Taking up the petition through videoconferencing, the High Court today put the State of Punjab and other respondents on notice after taking note of the allegations that the husband gave ‘triple talaq’ on WhatsApp, which was illegal and an offence under Act. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also fixed the case for further hearing on March 5.Her counsel Ferry Sofat submitted that the husband on June 20, last year, sent three messages of “talaq, talaq, talaq” to the petitioner and also forwarded photographs with his new wife, along with the marriage certificate.Subsequently, the petitioner’s father forwarded a complaint regarding the offence under the Act to the Sangrur Senior Superintendent of Police. Her daughter too filed a representation before the Director-General of Police. But action was not taken. Sofat added the husband was “very influential” having good links with the police authorities, anti-social elements and politicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-issues-notice-to-punjab-in-triple-talaq-case-195113
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal levels in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued in Punjab and Haryana even as the minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in both the states on Thursday.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimums at 9, 12 and 13.5 degrees Celsius, up to seven degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 8.8, 12.3, 12.2, 12.3, 11.4 and 10 degrees Celsius respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective lows at 12.1, 11.9 and 13.2 degrees Celsius, up to six degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak and Sirsa settled at 10.6, 13.8 and 10.5 degrees Celsius respectively. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-levels-in-punjab-haryana-195104
07-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Punjab: Nursing student commits suicide in hostel room||A BSc Nursing student allegedly committed suicide at a hostel room of a college on the Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road here, police said on Thursday.Sarbi Kaushak, a resident of Parei village (Bajrer) of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, had come to Hoshiarpur for her examination on January 3 and was staying at a Rayat Bahra College hostel, police said.She was found hanging from the ceiling fan, police said.Police handed over the body to her family for cremation after autopsy.Investigating officer Naresh Kumar said no suicide note was found in the room. The cause of suicide is yet to be ascertained, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-nursing-student-commits-suicide-in-hostel-room-195092
07-01-2021||GS Paul||Farmers took right decision of not letting any political party to occupy their stage: Manjit Singh GK||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8At a time when the elections of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) are approaching, its former president Manjit Singh GK believes that its results would set the tone for the SGPC and 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections, as well.GK, who was here to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, said his purpose was to pray and perform ardas for the success of farmers’ struggle in the New Year.He advocated the farmers’ move of not sharing their stage with any political party while contesting the farm laws.“Otherwise, the political parties who had lost their grounds, would have misutilised the farmers’ platform for their political gains while tarnishing the farmers’ cause,” he said.He said many rounds of talks were there between the farmers and the Centre leadership, but these remained inconclusive. “I appeal to the Centre to resolve the issue shortly, especially when the farmers with their elders, children and ladies were holding protests amidst the adverse weather conditions,” he said.Launching a scathing attack on SAD, the president of JAGO (Jag Aasra Guru Ott) party said that Badals’ downfall was started in 2014 when Arun Jaitley could not succeed in Lok Sabha elections from Amritsar.“Badals have lost the credibility among the Sikhs who could never forget the flip-flop decision to pardon the controversial Sirsa Dera cult and series of sacrilege incidents that led to killing of innocent at Barghari. The DSGMC would witness the elections in three months and its results would clear air about Badals’ future. I foresee Badals being totally wiped out from the DSGMC, followed by the SGPC and the Assembly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-took-right-decision-of-not-letting-any-political-party-to-occupy-their-stage-manjit-singh-gk-195079
07-01-2021||New Delhi||Punjab student travels from US to stand with farmers||Had it not been for the farmers’ protest against the new agri laws that began over a month ago, 22-year-old Navpal Singh would have never planned a trip home at this time from Texas in the US, where he is a student.“This protest forced me to come here,” said the mechanical engineering student whose father and grandfather are farmers.“The last time I had come home was less than a year ago...in March, so I had no plans whatsoever to visit again, but the way this protest has taken over this country and also the world, I couldn’t stay away,” he said.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at multiple Delhi borders against the new agri laws.Singh arrived in India on Monday and has been travelling between Singhu and his ancestral village in Punjab’s Jalandhar every day since.Even though he is not a farmer himself, Singh felt the need to be part of the protest because of his farming roots that have provided for his education.“People might think I have no direct connection with farming...that I am studying in the US, I will also work and get married there, but my father and grandfather are farmers.“I wouldn’t have been able to have my life in the US without the farmers. And now it is my responsibility to come forward and stand with them in their fight for their rights,” he said. Several rounds of talks with the government have failed to break the deadlock with the government pushing the new legislations as important reforms in the agricultural sector.The next round of talks is scheduled on Friday.The farmers on the other hand have maintained that they want the three laws to be repealed. They have also threatened to enter Delhi on January 26 if their demands are not met.About the stalemate between the government and the farmers, Singh said it was the former’s way of “breaking their spirit”.“By scheduling talks after talks, the government is trying to simply drag the protest as long as it can, and hoping that it would eventually break our spirits, but they are mistaken.“A movement like this does not happen every now and then. Today’s rally alone has shown our strength and numbers,” said Singh, who will return to Texas on January 18.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the “mandi” (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-student-travels-from-us-to-stand-with-farmers-195067
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer leaders have political aspirations, say Punjab BJP leaders||With the stalemate continuing between farmer unions and the Union government, two Punjab BJP leaders mediating for talks have launched fresh attack against the farm leaders. BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jyani and Harjeet Grewal after meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that many of the leaders leading the agitation have political aspirations and they want to contest elections after returning to Punjab.Both the leaders are scheduled to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in the evening. Earlier, on Tuesday they had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well. Jyani said the current leaders do not want people to go back home peacefully and they are doing this out of political aspirations. They want repression on people, so that they could become bigger leaders with wider acceptability. “But their attitude will not lead anywhere.” Jyani said there are practical problems while dealing with the 32 leaders.“Now it has become leaderless. Nobody is ready to listen. We agree that they represent 32 organisations, but now they should choose their leader,” he said.However, Harjit Grewal went a step ahead and questioned the credentials of the leaders.“Who is Joginder Singh Ugrahan, he belongs to a Marxist-Leninist group, a Naxalite faction called Nagi Reddy group in Punjab.”     He also questioned Yogendra Yadav and CPM leader Hannan Mollah’s presence among the farmer unions.  However, reacting to this, farmer unions have called it just another name calling.“Earlier, they called as Khalistanis, then Maoists. Now they call us politically aspired move. Their new propaganda will also bite the dust like previous ones. It is part of our constitution that neither any of our leaders can contest the elections nor we support any political party,” said Jagmohan Singh, General Secretary, BKU (Dakaunda).Another farmer leader Rajinder Singh, vice president of Kirti Kisan Union, challenged the BJP leaders to go back and hold a public meeting to level the same allegation in a Punjab meeting.“The entire Punjab has stood up against BJP and its leaders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leaders-have-political-aspirations-say-punjab-bjp-leaders-195060
07-01-2021||---||Capt Amarinder launches slew of welfare schemes||Chandigarh, January 7Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday launched a slew of welfare projects, including free sanitary pads for high school and college girl students in the state, a press release by the state government read.The Chief Minister further powered the state’s digital leap with the roll-out of a Rs 75.64 crore Smart Metering project and an ‘e-Daakhil’ portal for e-filing of consumer complaints.The youth and the girl child have also been earmarked as the beneficiaries of the two other schemes launched virtually by the Capt Amarinder, dedicated the month of January to the girl child as ‘Dheeyan di Lohri’ and also paved the way for distribution of 2,500 sports kits to promote health awareness and sports culture among youngsters.DHEEYIAN DI LOHRILaunching ‘Dheeiyan Di Lohri’, the Chief Minister, in a symbolic gesture, blessed five girl children, along with their mothers, with a ‘shagun’ of Rs 5,100 and baby kits for each.Under the special scheme, a series of events will be held every day across districts, beginning with Mohali district, through the month to mark the occasion of Lohri, which will see congratulatory letters penned and signed by the Chief Minister being handed over to the parents of more than 1.5 lakh girls celebrating their first Lohri this year.Acceding to the demand of PPCC President Sunil Jakhar, the Chief Minister also announced free sanitary pads to all girl students of high schools and colleges besides those residing in rural areas, especially the slums across the state.Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary said the concluding event of the ‘Dheeiyan di Lohri’ month would be marked by grand celebrations during a state-level function at Ferozepur, where the parents and grandparents of newborn girls would be honoured.BASERA FOR SLUM DWELLERSWith the launch of the BASERA programme, as many as 2,816 slum dwellers in 10 slums of Patiala, Bathinda, Fazilka and Moga districts will get proprietary rights in the first phase. Those living in three slums of Moga will be granted their rights by shifting them to a separate land in Municipal Corporation at Moga Jeet Singh.Terming this initiative as a milestone step towards inclusive urban development and planning of the state government, Captain Amarinder said he had been nurturing this dream for the past 52 years of his political career.Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra said Punjab was the first state in the country to launch the Chief Minister’s Slum Development Programme ‘BASERA’ to confer proprietary rights to every slum household occupying state government land in a slum in any urban area on the date of notification of the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020.SMART POWER METERSLaunching the Rs. 75.64 crore three-phase Smart Metering project, the Chief Minister said the consumer-friendly scheme would help reduce human error in manual reading through automatic uploading of data.“From January 2021 to December 2021, a total of 96,000 meters will be installed across the state by the PSPCL under the project, which will also help to curb the malpractice of reading concealment/theft of electricity and improve the reading/billing efficiency and quality,” he said.E-DAAKHIL FOR CONSUMERSThe Chief Minister said the new e-Daakhil portal would help consumers safeguard their rights.“It will provide them with an effective mechanism to protect them from exploitation at the hands of traders and will facilitate them in approaching consumer courts with ease,” he said while launching the portal.Created to enable e-filling of consumer complaints in accordance with the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which envisages filling of consumer dispute electronically to Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, the portal will facilitate online filing of complaints by citizens/advocates.CRICKET KITS FOR YOUTHLaunching the scheme for distribution of 2,500 sports/cricket kits, through community participation especially of the Ludhiana industry, the Chief Minister said it would help promote health awareness and sports culture.It would motivate youth to take up sports in a big way, thus enabling the state to regain its lost glory in the arena of sports both at national and international levels, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-launches-slew-of-welfare-schemes-195055
07-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Security increased along Delhi borders||Security was increased along the borders of the national capital ahead of a tractor rally of farmers on Thursday morning.The farmers will hold the rally at 11 am at four borders of Delhi in protest against the Centre's agriculture laws. They had on Tuesday deferred their proposed tractor march from January 6 to January 7 due to bad weather forecast.The city has been receiving rain sporadically over the past four days.Braving severe cold and sporadic rain, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of farm laws, a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops and two other issues.The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers ended inconclusively on Monday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of three laws, while the government listed out various benefits of the new acts for the growth of the country's agriculture sector.Since the farmers arrived at the national capital's borders, the Delhi Traffic Police has been posting alerts on its official Twitter handle to inform commuters about road closures across the city.In a series of tweets, it had said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed for traffic movement."Please take alternative route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44."The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternative route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders," the traffic police said.It said Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement."Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement," another tweet read.According to the traffic police, people travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-security-increased-along-delhi-borders-195007
07-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers' agitation: Soaked in blood, letters continue to stir the ‘unstirred’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6Revolutions can’t succeed without shedding blood, it is said. At Singhu, it’s being done literally!For the 15th day on Wednesday, 48-year-old Taranjit Singh Nimana sits with a thin wooden straw in his hand; its tip soaked in red. He is penning a letter to the leaders of the country. On a nearby table lies 10 more letters — red on white — in Punjabi. But in place of ink, what he writes with is the blood of farmers!Since December 20, the Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Sewa Society, a Ludhiana-based NGO, has been penning letters in blood of farmers exhorting the top leaders of the country to withdraw the three farm laws. Everyday an array of blood-soaked letters are handed over to farm leaders. This blood is donated at the NGO’s blood donation camps being held behind the main stage of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha at the Singhu border.The NGO, which has won the state award nine times for its contribution in the field on blood donation, is headed by its president Taranjit Singh Nimana. Nearly 1,000 farmers have donated blood across the 15 blood donation camps held so far. Letters have so far been sent to the Prime Minister, Home Minister, President, Vice President and the Chief Justice of India, but to no avail. Nimana now plans to send a letter written in his blood to the UNO on his birthday tomorrow (January 7) in honour of those, who died at the Delhi protests.On his recent visit to the Singhu border, environmentalist Seechewal also called upon Nimana, his old acquaintance, after Seechewal’s speech on stage.Such is the spirit that after a storm uprooted the backstage tent and damaged the mattresses and equipment at the camp, it has been shifted to a safer shed, where the camp resumed today.Nimana, says: “Ehnan chitthiyan vich kisanan da khoon raleya hai. Asi bhejde rahange jad tak kale kanoon vapas nahi hunde. Singhan de hausle chikkar vich vi buland ne. (These letters are soaked in farmers’ blood. We will keep writing these until the black laws are withdrawn. Singhs are full of courage even in mud).”Nimana adds: “We sent back doctors yesterday. Our backstage tent lost its roof. It was very windy and the tent ended up dripping in rain. We resumed at another place today. It’s my birthday on January 7. In memory of lives lost at Singhu, I shall donate blood and write in blood to the UNO to get the laws withdrawn.” Blood collected from the camp has been donated to blood banks at Ludhiana, Patiala and now to UP, Delhi and Haryana (Faridabad, Rohtak, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad, Delhi (Mayur Vihar).“While there is already a blood shortage during the pandemic, we would want the blood to be used for any emergency case. Anyone who needs blood is free to take it from us,” Nimana says. While Nimana planned to send blood-soaked letters to the PM from Ludhiana, he shifted to Singhu border when the idea was discussed with morcha leaders, who asked the NGO to shift base to Singhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-soaked-in-blood-letters-continue-to-stir-the-unstirred-194795
07-01-2021||---||Hearing impaired woman, handicap son found dead||Jalandhar, January 6A 70-year-old woman along with her 25-year-old son were ‘murdered’ by unidentified persons at Aliwal village in Lohian on January 6.The deceased have been identified as Kartari and Mangat Ram, alias Manga. While the woman was speech and hearing impaired, her son was handicap. The duo was found murdered by villagers who then informed the police. The woman’s body was located from her home, while her son’s body was found in fields. Both were cattle grazers.The woman had suffered serious injuries on her head with a blunt weapon, said the police. They have not ruled out the possibility of an enmity or dispute given the nature of wounds on the bodies. An FIR was lodged under Sections 302, 120-B and 201 of the IPC. Lohian police station SHO Balwinder Singh said, “The bodies have been sent for the post-mortem. The woman was hit repeatedly with a blunt weapon. Things will get clear after the report arrives.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hearing-impaired-woman-handicap-son-found-dead-194797
07-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||At Singhu border, Seechewal pitches for organic farming||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6“Organic farming is the only way forward for the health of coming generations. It is a necessity for a strengthened farming community,” this was the exhortation of environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, who visited the farm protests at the Singhu border on January 3.Visiting the site with 10 quintals of groundnuts and 200 tarpaulins for farmers braving the rains, the environmentalist appealed to farmers to take to organic cultivation. Addressing farmers at the rain-washed Singhu border, Seechewal while backing the farmers agitation, took up the issues of depleting groundwater, crop diversification and organic farming in the state. While it was Seechewal’s first visit, jathas from his village have been heading to Delhi since the protests started.While a bevy of politicians, activists and leaders have been heading to the site, Seechewal is the first to bring up the issue of organic farming from the main stage of the protests.Raising organic farming decibels at Singhu, Seechewal said, “Punjab farmers have filled the country’s granaries with grains but lost their own water resources. Punjab’s soil and air have been polluted. The state is in the throes of a crippling water crisis. Cancer is spreading rapidly across villages. Only organic farming can ensure we leave a healthy state for our coming generations. The governments will not frame policies which will facilitate farmers to take organic and cooperative farming. Community farming will only succeed when the foundational structure of cooperative farming is strengthened.”He also appealed the Modi-led government to agree to their demands. Addressing farmers’ groups from the main stage at the Singhu border, Seechewal, who is credited with reviving the dying Holy Kali Bein at Sultanpur Lodhi, appealed to farm union leaders to encourage farmers to take up organic farming.Notably, Seechewal had also been aiding farmers with various boats from his dera pressed into service during the Punjab floods. While the environmentalist had also been working with farmers from Shahkot and Lohian belt to strengthen the bandh to prevent floods in future, the bandh’s work was kept on hold ever since the farmers’ agitation started as all cultivators from the region headed to Delhi.At Singhu, Seechewal visited along with followers from his dera bringing essentials which were disbursed among protesting farmers. Notably, the environmentalist had been sending rations and supplies and jathas from his village, including kabaddi players and the village sarpanch had also been setting up langars ever since the stir began.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-singhu-border-seechewal-pitches-for-organic-farming-194799
07-01-2021||---||Karnal prisoner found carrying UK virus strain, shifted to Punjab||Karnal/Sangrur, January 6The swab sample of a jail inmate, which was taken on December 5, has been tested positive for UK virus strain. Initially lodged in Karnal jail, the inmate was later shifted to a prison in Sangrur.Another traveller found infectedThe 22-year-old was arrested by the Karnal police in a theft case on December 2. He was tested Covid positive on December 5. After testing negative on December 13, he was shifted to Sangrur jail, said Amit Bhado, Jail Superintendent, Karnal.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, Karnal, said the inmate’s sample was selected randomly for genome testing. “We have already tested over 100 of his contacts and all turned negative,” he said.In Sangrur, Dr Anjna Gupta, Civil Surgeon, said: “The inmate is no longer Covid positive. But we have again taken his sample. Its report will come tomorrow. We have tested around 40 inmates of his barrack and all are negative.”The inmate, meanwhile, claimed that he had never gone abroad or met any NRI during his bail period from August 10 to December 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/karnal-prisoner-found-carrying-uk-virus-strain-shifted-to-punjab-194709
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal farm laws, Capt Amarinder urges PM Modi||Stressing that there was nothing wrong with the demands of the farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately repeal the new farm laws in order to resolve the crisis.Categorically rejecting as “highly irresponsible” reports in a section of the media that Punjab had already implemented the new laws, the Chief Minister said Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s statement had been mischievously twisted by one newspaper, with others picking it up.Punjab was the first state to have opposed the Central farm laws and, in fact, passed amendment Bills to negate their dangerous impact on agriculture, he pointed out, slamming the AAP for “spreading misinformation on the issue with its propaganda machinery”. He said, “The Governor should have forwarded our Bills to the President for assent, which he has not done.”The Chief Minister, in a media interview, made it clear that Punjab would not allow the lives of its farmers be ruined by the new laws. “We will do whatever possible to help the farmers and their families, for whom the state government had already started two helplines on which they can reach out in case of any emergency,” he said.Urging the Prime Minister to withdraw the controversial laws and talk to the farmers, Captain Amarinder said, “The farmers have made their stand very clear — that the laws should be repealed. It is the job of the Government of India to listen to them.” The Centre could bring in new laws after due consultation with the farmers, he said, pointing out that the Constitution had been amended many times and it could be done again for the revocation of the recently enacted farm legislations.Noting that farmers from across the country had joined the protests against the farm laws, Captain Amarinder said after six or seven meetings, it was time that the matter was resolved.The Chief Minister lambasted those calling the protesting farmers as “Naxals and terrorists”, terming it as wrong and irresponsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repeal-farm-laws-capt-amarinder-urges-pm-modi-194725
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Murder bid charge in dung dump case withdrawn||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered withdrawal of Section 307 against protesting farmers who dumped cow dung outside an ex-BJP minister’s house.Capt Amarinder, who also holds the Home portfolio, has also ordered transfer of the SHO who had registered the “attempt to murder” case, which is now being probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT).The CM said the SHO had gone overboard in registering a case under Section 307 of the IPC. “There was no attempt to murder,” he said, referring to the Hoshiarpur incident in which a group of protesters had unloaded a trailer full of cow dung in front of former Punjab minister Tikshan Sud’s residence.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister has termed as correct and justified the arrest of Punjabi singer Shree Brar for promoting gun culture in a music video. “Promoting gangsterism and gun culture in this manner is absolutely wrong,” he said, adding that the case had been registered correctly in the matter, which related to an old song of the singer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/murder-bid-charge-in-dung-dump-case-withdrawn-194726
07-01-2021||Amritsar/Muktsar||Tractor marches across Punjab||A tractor march was organised by residents of the Vallah area in Amritsar to spread awareness about the farmers’ cause and their call for conducting a tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 against the farm laws.On the other hand, supporting the farmers’ movement, Sikh outfit Dal Khalsa today declared that their activists would burn the copies of the controversial laws on Lohri and participate in the tractor parade in Delhi.Prof Sardara Singh, who accompanied the tractor march, said the parade had been organised as a protest against the ill-conceived anti-farmer policies of the Centre. “It is a pity that crores of rupees have been siphoned off by the so-called bigwigs who took shelter on foreign soil with impunity whereas the farmer, who fills the food basket of the nation, has been fighting for his right to get MSP on his produce,” he said.In Muktsar, a large number of farmers took out a tractor march. The march passed through various markets. Meanwhile, the commission agents welcomed the farmers in the grain market and promised full support. The farmers appealed to everyone to support them in their ongoing protest against the Centre over the contentious farm laws.A similar march was carried out by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Sidhupur) in the villages of Khuyiansarwer sub-tehsil in Abohar. Convener Gunwant Singh said the march was carried out to mobilise maximum number of farmers for participation in the protest, which was to be organised by farmers organisations’ joint front in Delhi on January 26. The tractor march started from Panjawa village and passed through Tootwala, Kallarkhera, Maujgarh, Gidderanwali, Dalmirkhera, Daulatpura, Khuyiansarwer, Telupura, Haripura and Diwankhera villages. Farmers greeted the participants and served fruits and snacks to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tractor-marches-across-punjab-194727
07-01-2021||Patiala||Farmers to protest land acquisition for  expressway in Patiala||Members of the Delhi-Katra Expressway Sangharsh Committee today said they would hold a protest march here against the acquisition of land for the project. During their first press conference at the Patiala media club in the city, they said they had decided that they would not give their lands for the project, as construction of the highway would be detrimental for farmers.Sukhdev Singh Dhillon, state president of the committee, said the expressway would be constructed for transportation of industrialists’ goods from their godowns. “The government wants to acquire lands of farmers at low rates for the benefit of the industrialists without rehabilitating the farmers. Trees will be razed along with houses. We are not allowing private surveyors to come to our villages. We are willing to talk with the government only after the farmers’ protest in Delhi comes to an end.”The farmers said they had met several ministers and MLAs in this regard. “We also met PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla and expressed our concerns, but we have not received any response. Now, after a number of press conferences, we will soon decide the date of the protest march in Patiala. Further steps will be decided after talks with farmers’ unions protesting at the Delhiborders,” Dhillon said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-protest-land-acquisition-for-expressway-in-patiala-194728
07-01-2021||Patiala||Youth mobilise support for tractor rally on Republic Day via social media||Youth in several villages are connecting through social media and phone calls, while some are convening meetings. The purpose is to ensure that youth in large numbers reach the Delhi borders before the Republic Day, when farmer unions plan to hold a tractor rally in the National Capital.Last week, farm unions had announced that thousands of protesting farmers would enter Delhi on January 26 and carry out a tractor parade if the three controversial laws were not repealed.Unions, youth, farmers, labourers, arhtiyas and landlords are mobilising support for making the January 26 rally a success.Congress leader Mansimrat Singh Riar said, “We are reaching out to everyone. We stand in solidarity with our elderly people, who have been sitting on fast in Delhi.”He dismissed the BJP’s claims of the agitation being politically motivated. “First and foremost, I belong to the farming community. Politics takes a backseat when it comes to farmers’ struggle. This protest is of every farmer, who has been toiling hard in fields,” said Riar, who has spent a few days at the Delhi border.For Ludhiana’s Baddowal resident Tarandeep Singh Grewal, the agitation has given him an opportunity to keep the youth of his area involved. He was doing his bit by keeping them informed about the ground reality of the protest at the Delhi borders.“I, along with some other villagers, have been meeting youngsters and farmers who own tractors. We plan to reach the Delhi borders two days before the proposed tractor rally. However, I do hope that the matter is resolved soon and our brothers and sisters protesting in this biting cold return home. In case we need to go, we are ready. The tractor rally will be historic and apolitical,” he said.Not only Punjab residents, but farmers and labourers, who live near the Patiala-Samana border in Haryana, are also supporting the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-mobilise-support-for-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-via-social-media-194729
07-01-2021||Amritsar||Politics behind Diljit’s criticism, says Navjot Sidhu||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu today expressed solidarity with actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh who has been supporting the farmers contesting the agricultural laws at the Delhi borders.On Diljit’ 37th birthday, Sidhu tweeted his feelings, saying, “Every Punjabi stands by Diljit Dosanjh with pride and all those criticising him are mostly computer bots with no following. It is much better to be loved by a sea of humanity and rule hearts than be criticised by politically motivated puppet robots, who troll baselessly.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/politics-behind-diljits-criticism-says-navjot-sidhu-194730
07-01-2021||Faridkot||Visually impaired walk 15 km to register protest against farm laws||Expressing solidarity with farmers who have been protesting on the Delhi borders for the past over 40 days, members of different organisations of visually impaired persons from across the state organised a 15-km protest march from Kotkapura to Faridkot town today.Prof Rajesh Mohan, former general secretary, All India Federation of Blinds, said: “It was the death anniversary of Louis Braille, the creator of Braille system of writing for the visually impaired. Instead of organising seminars or any other function to remember him, all organisations decided to join hands and organise a protest-cum-chetna (awareness) march he re to support farmers.”Prof Anit Gupta, one of the protesters, said: “The Centre has introduced some draconian laws without consulting farmers. The economic fabric of the state is at stake, so they want the government to reconsider these laws by taking public opinion.”He said what hurt the most was the “apathetic and irresponsible” attitude ofthe government towards farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/visually-impaired-walk-15-km-to-register-protest-against-farm-laws-194731
07-01-2021||Patiala||YAD: Singer arrested for writing ‘kisan anthem’||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) today alleged that Punjabi singer and lyricist Shree Brar was arrested and tortured by the state government on the directions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah as a punishment for writing the “kisan anthem”.Terming the arrest, torture and subsequent isolation of Shree Brar by the Patiala police as vindictive and against policing norms, YAD president Parambans Singh Romana said the singer had given a major boost to the “kisan andolan” by penning a song that had becomeits unofficial anthem.“The song “Swaraja piche barigate paaye hoi ne” inspired lakhs of people to join the movement, which was not liked by the Centre as well as the Home Ministry. This is why Shree Brar has been singled out for punishment with relation to another song he wrote a month ago,” Romana said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yad-singer-arrested-for-writing-kisan-anthem-194732
07-01-2021||Jalandhar||Anxiety palpable among farm labourers as impasse continues||Israil (45) from Purnia district in Bihar is having only one conversation with his fellow farm labourers these days and that is the impact of agricultural laws. He doesn’t know anything in detail but believes in one thing: If farmers suffer, he will too. Israil has been coming to Punjab to work in the fields for the past 20 years.He is working with farmer Rupinder Singh in Mirpur Maari village. Many labourers are looking after the fields of farmers and have started fearing for their future.Israil said the Covid lockdown and farm stir had an adverse impact on them. “I don’t know how we will feed our families. We get paid by the farmers and if they will not be given their dues, who will give us ours?” he said.Rupinder said already big machines had limited the need of labourers in fields. “Now they ask me what will happen when big companies step in and machines replace everything?” he said. Another farm labourer Munna Paswan said, “If no one will buy the farmer’s produce, how will he pay us? We support farmers.” Nakodar-based farmer Sukhwant Singh said anxiety was palpable among the labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anxiety-palpable-among-farm-labourers-as-impasse-continues-194733
07-01-2021||---||Gurdaspur villages bury hatchet to fight ‘common enemy’||Dera Baba Nanak, January 6Personal enmities, decades-old family feuds, property disputes and political differences have been pushed aside by warring villagers to ward off the common enemy — the “black” farm laws.Crime rate down, say policePolice officers said the crime rate had dropped significantly as peasants were engaged in a rare show of camaraderie and comradeship. “Historically, December and January are months when disputes and crimes are regularly reported from villages. There have been 65 per cent fewer FIRs registered last December as compared to the corresponding period in 2019,” said Rajinder Singh Sohal, Gurdaspur SSPIn almost all 1,200-odd villages of Gurdaspur district, and observers say in the entire Punjab, seven to 11- member committees have been constituted solely to ensure that the work of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders does not suffer.Caste lines, too, stand blurred. Old-timers say this is a unique phenomenon, something which has “rarely been witnessed in the past”.“The last time any adversity glued villagers together was the 1971 war. Farmers then had buried their differences and took comfort in each other amid high decibel noises of shells,” said Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Cabinet Minister and local MLA.He cites the example of a family in Ransika Mira village of his Assembly segment, whose loyalty to the Akalis is well-known. “This family abhors Congressmen. The war against the farm laws has changed things. Now the same family is irrigating the wheat crop of its known adversary, who is camping in Delhi. It is in times like these that we discover who we are and what we are made of,” said Randhawa. He said similar reports flowed in from other villages.Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa recounts how his party men are helping farmers owing allegiance to the Akalis by loading and then transporting their sugarcane crop to the Paniyar sugar mill. “Villagers have joined hands knowing well that if they don’t, they will perish. The other day, a dyed-in-the-wool Congress worker took out his tractor-trailer and transported the sugarcane harvest of his political rival to the mill,” said Bajwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-villages-bury-hatchet-to-fight-common-enemy-194734
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Finance Minister blames technical glitch for salary delay||Defending the delay in releasing the salary of state government employees, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today said despite the financial constraints, the state had not made any deductions in the salaries of its employees, and had ensured that it was disbursed on time.He said, “Amid pandemic, many states had deducted salaries of their employees, but we never resorted to any such measures.”On being asked about the delay in releasing salaries, he said, “The salaries were delayed on a few occasions due to technical reasons. When we switched over from the TCS to the NIC software — the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) — for approval and disbursal of salary, there was a technical glitch, which caused the delay. Also, the salary of a certain department was withheld on some occasions, which resulted in the delay as they had failed to provide us the details of employees.”However, Davinder Singh Punia, state president, Democratic Teachers’ Front, said, “On an average, the salary has been delayed for two to five days for teaching and non-teaching staff since October.”Meanwhile, highlighting various reforms undertaken by the Finance Department, Manpreet said the state had not gone into overdraft for even a single day in the current financial year. The state remained in overdraft for 179 days in 2016-17, 100 days in 2017-18, 63 days in 2018-19 and 47 days in 2019-20. There had been interest saving of nearly Rs 10.75 crore in 2017-18, Rs 21.7 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 5 crore in 2019-20.The present government took over at the time when the RBI had shut down the state treasury, that too at the end of financial year from March 29, 2017, to March 31, 2018, he added. The government avails immediate cash from the RBI at the existing repo rate under the Ways and Means Advances (WMA) facility. However, it has to return it within 90 days. If the WMA exceeds 90 days, it is treated as overdraft.He said the department manually built its own cash forecasting methodology for better management of state finances. The state had started investing in the consolidated sinking fund to pre-emptively mitigate the rollover risk or reinvestment risk, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finance-minister-blames-technical-glitch-for-salary-delay-194735
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, online database of govt property||The government will soon introduce GPMS (Government Property Management System), a web-based application for creating a single database of properties, including land and buildings, owned by the government in its various departments. This will make a ready database of infrastructure available with the government and assist it in making better policy decisions for optimum utilisation of infrastructure.“At the moment, we don’t have any database of government properties. In fact, we don’t know how many buildings or land we own across the state. So, we are creating a web-based application which will be launched in a month or two that will enable us to know the details of properties at the click of a button,” said Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal at a press meet on the achievements of the government.He said the database would help in optimum utilisation of resources. He said for expenditure rationalisation, the state shifted 470 government offices from private to government buildings, which led to annual savings of Rs 6.42 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-online-database-of-govt-property-194736
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Govt ‘prepared’ to tackle bird flu||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Rural Development Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said no case of bird flu had been reported in the state so far, but the government had taken all precautions to deal with the situation.Addressing a press meet at Punjab Bhawan, he said people who eat eggs and meat need not be afraid. “They just need to eat these products after proper cooking.”Monitoring sale of meat, fishMinister for Animal Husbandry and Rural Development Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the government was closely monitoring the sale of meat and fish so that sub-standard products were not sold in the marketHe said the government was closely monitoring the sale of meat and fish so that sub-standard products were not sold in the market. He also appealed to people to refrain from spreading rumours and report any such rumour to the administration.On achievements of the Animal Husbandry Department, he said a new veterinary science college had been started at a cost of Rs 92.14 crore in Rampura Phool town of Bathinda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-prepared-to-tackle-bird-flu-194737
07-01-2021||Mohali||Ex-SHO gets bail||A Mohali court today granted anticipatory bail to Kanwal Inder Pal Singh, the then SHO of the Sector 17 police station, in the alleged murder of Balwant Singh Multani.The court directed the applicant-accused to join the investigation and cooperate with the investigating officer. In the event of arrest of the applicant-accused, he would be released on interim bail after furnishing bail and surety bonds.It was also noted that the applicant-accused was not named in the FIR. It was not disputed by the public prosecutor that the only allegation against the applicant-accused was that he was the SHO of the police station concerned at the relevant time and no evidence had been produced against him so far.The special public prosecutor submitted that though challan had been presented, investigation was still underway and there may be some evidence against him in future, praying for the dismissal of the bail application. The next hearing is on January 22. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-sho-gets-bail-194738
07-01-2021||Fazilka||Drug peddlers’ gang busted||With the arrest of two persons, the police claimed to have busted a four-member gang of drug peddlers who allegedly supplied a huge consignment of heroin to Amritsar-based smugglers after getting it from Pakistan recently. The police recovered Rs 28 lakh drug money and 30-gram heroin from their possession.Ajay Maluja, AIG, State Special Operation Cell, said on a tip-off, the police arrested one Sandeep Singh of Mohar Sona village in Fazilka and Kirpal Singh of Dhab Khushal Joiya village in Jalalabad. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-peddlers-gang-busted-194739
07-01-2021||Faridkot||Kotkapura police firing: 2 SPs suspended||The Home Department has placed two SP-rank police officers — Paramjit Singh Pannu and Baljit Singh — under suspension. Both are accused in the police firing incident at Kotkapura in October 2015.The orders came two days after the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the CBI to hand over all case diaries and papers related to the 2015 sacrilege incidents to the Punjab Police within a month.Many persons had sustained serious injuries in the police firing and canecharge at Kotkapura on October 14, 2015. The incident happened in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.Pannu, then Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, and Baljit Singh, then DSP Kotkapura, were suspended on the recommendation of the DGP, Punjab.Speaking to The Tribune, a senior police officer confirmed the suspension orders. Pannu refused to comment. Both police officers are accused in a case registered under sections 307, 326, 324, 323, 341, 218, 120-B and 34 of the IPC and Section 27 of the Arms Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-police-firing-2-sps-suspended-194740
07-01-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Balwinder murder: Cops get production warrant of 2||The Tarn Taran police today got the production warrant of two prime accused, namely Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa, and Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bura, from the Delhi Police in the murder case of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh.Though the district police arrested as many as 11 accused in the case, the weapon used in the crime and the motive behind the killing have not been revealed yet. The duo had been arrested by the Delhi Police on December 7 with members of the banned terrorist group Babbar Khalsa after a brief exchange of fire in the Shakarpur area of the national Capital. Besides Gurjit and Sukhdeep, others who were arrested were Kashmir residents Shabbir Ahmad, Ayub Pathan and Riyaz.Team to reach Tarn Taran todayA special team of the district police was dispatched to Delhi a few days ago to ensure that the case was taken up before the court in Delhi with relevant facts. Jagjit Singh Walia, SP (Investigation), said the team would depart for Tarn Taran from Delhi on Thursday. The accused would be produced in the court to get their police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balwinder-murder-cops-get-production-warrant-of-2-194741
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Risk of Covid transmission low if no close contact, says study||A new research undertaken by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has found fresh evidence that the risk of airborne transmission of Corona virus is low if sufficient physical distance is maintained and prolonged interaction with an infected person is avoided.Dept issues SOPs for reopening schoolsChandigarh: After the decision of reopening of schools, the Education Department has also issued detailed guidelines for schools in areas outside the containment zones. School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said after reopening schools, online learning would continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and attendance would not be mandatory. TNSThe study, conducted in hospitals by the Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, has revealed that while the risk of exposure through airborne transmission in closed rooms is higher if more infected persons are present, in normal situation the virus is not found more than four feet away from an infected person.After 14 days, UK returnee dischargedPatiala: After waiting for around 14 days for the test result of the new Covid strain of a UK returnee, the Patiala Health Department discharged the patient. The patient had already completed the mandatory 14-day isolation. The patient had already raised questions over the untimely delay in the report from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The department had sent the sample to the NIV to confirm whether the patient was carrying a mutated strain or not. TNSThe transmission of SARS-CoV2 was initially believed to be mainly through close contact and fluid droplets sprayed while coughing, sneezing or speaking. Some studies also reported transmission among people who were suitably distanced but were present at the same time in enclosed spaces like a room or a vehicle.Final vaccine dry run in all districts todayLudhiana: Moving another step towards Covid vaccination rollout, which is likely to begin next week, another dry run to check the systems and processes put in place will be held in all 22 districts of the state on Friday. The one-day mock exercise will be the third and final trial after successful dry runs already conducted in Ludhiana, Nawanshahr and Patiala recently, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, told The Tribune on Wednesday. TNSResearchers collected 64 air samples from different locations in six hospitals in Chandigarh and Hyderabad and another 17 samples from closed rooms occupied by infected people who were without masks and asked to speak to each other. Four samples taken from Covid wards of hospitals and one from the closed room were found to contain the virus. The virus was not detected in any of the non-Covid areas.According to the research, the virus could not be picked up at a distance of even four feet when Covid-positive persons spent a short time of about 20 minutes in the room, suggesting that short duration of exposure may not put an individual at high risk. Samples collected at eight feet and 12 feet were also negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/risk-of-covid-transmission-low-if-no-close-contact-says-study-194742
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Civic body polls may be ‘delayed’ by two weeks||The election to the 118 civic bodies in the state could be delayed by at least two weeks.Against the earlier communication to the state Election Commission to hold the civic body polls by February 13, the Congress-led government is now thinking of holding the polls by the end of February, it is learnt.Rebel Cong man held in power theft caseBathinda: A former Congress leader, Harmesh Bansal Pakka, who announced to contest independently in MC polls, was arrested on Wednesday. Announcing only to contest from Ward No. 28 on Monday, Pakka had also joined the Bathinda Social Group. The cases were registered against him in 2014, 2016, 2018 and 2020. He was stealing power for domestic use. He owes a fine of Rs 7 lakh for electricity theft. TNSThough a formal announcement of the schedule for conduct of the elections is still awaited, the government would be writing to the state Election Commission after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh takes a call on the file moved by the Local Government Department.Some Deputy Commissioners have reportedly been asked to make arrangements for smooth conduct of the civic body polls, as issues related to delimitation of wards in some of the civic bodies were being sorted out.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar, who has started holding meetings of party observers to sort out friction among the aspiring candidates, said: “The party is ready to go to the polls. As per my knowledge, the elections should be held in February.”He, however, said there were issues related to reservation of wards and efforts were being made to sort out differences among different groups. “The entire exercise of shortlisting the party candidates has to be completed by January 15,” Jakhar said.The BJP had recently written to the Punjab Governor to postpone the civic body polls citing the law and order situation. The Chief Minister was quick to hit back at the BJP for making a frivolous ground of law and order situation as it was trying to divert attention from the farmers’ agitation.Last month, the CM had convened a luncheon meeting of his Council of Ministers to decide the conduct of the civic body polls. “With almost four years of governance and General Election due in 2022, the civic body polls will be a litmus test for the Congress government in urban areas and the right time to take on the BJP,” said a senior party leader.Meanwhile, Congress leader and Bathinda Market Committee chairman Mohan Lal Jhumba’s security has allegedly been withdrawn. Sources said Jhumba had objected to the MC ticket distribution for Bathinda at a party meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday. However, Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “There is no order for providing security to him, so we have not given him any security. There is no question of withdrawing it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/civic-body-polls-may-be-delayed-by-two-weeks-194743
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||High Court seeks explanation from ADJ on 5 counts in dowry case||In an out-of-the-ordinary order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked an Additional District and Sessions Judge to study an FIR and another document before coming out with an explanation on five counts in a dowry harassment case.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also issued a suo motu notice to the Fazilka SSP, an investigating officer and the complainant in the case to show cause why the FIR not be quashed against the petitioner-accused and heavy cost not imposed for falsely implicating her.Notice to Fazilka SSP, complainantJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan also issued a suo motu notice to the Fazilka SSP, an investigating officer and the complainant to show cause why the FIR not be quashed against the petitioner-accused and heavy cost not imposed for falsely implicating her.The Fazilka Additional Sessions Judge had dismissed the petitioner woman’s anticipatory bail application. Her counsel had claimed that the complainant was married to the petitioner’s younger brother in October 2011, while her marriage was solemnised in November 2005. Since then, she had been residing in Bahadurgarh in Haryana, around 300 km away.The counsel said she was not given any share in the family property in a partition soon after the complainant’s marriage because of the prevalent customs that everything goes to the sons.He said she would have asked her father or brothers for her share when the partition took place, if she was nursing greed for properties/money. As such, there was no occasion for her either to demand dowry from the complainant or instigate her brother to maltreat her.Justice Sangwan asserted the Supreme Court had repeatedly held it was common tendency to involve the family, especially the married sister-in-laws, to exert pressure, while registering an FIR for breach of trust and cruelty.“The fact was not appreciated by the Additional Sessions Judge. Therefore, it calls for an explanation as to how the anticipatory bail application of the petitioner was dismissed,” he said. Justice Sangwan asked the judge to carefully read the entire FIR and the partition deed before submitting an explanation.The judge was asked to explain whether the petitioner’s marriage was performed five years prior to the complainant’s wedding and that too at a place about 300 km away, and whether there was an occasion for her to demand dowry from the complainant after nine years, if she did not raise claim over the family property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-seeks-explanation-from-adj-on-5-counts-in-dowry-case-194744
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Govt mulls fee hike to ‘help’ Punjabi University||To bring Punjabi University, Patiala, out of a financial crisis, the government is planning to burn a hole in the pocket of students by raising fee.During a press conference here today, Minister for Higher Education Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa accepted the fact that the university was in a financial crisis. “Some inappropriate officials occupied top positions in the university, which led to the crisis,” he said.Bajwa claimed the university had not increased fee since 1996. However, when he was told that the university had in fact increased fee several times since 2003, he remained mum. He said Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, also ran on the same pattern but there was no financial crisis there. “They have started some self-funded courses, which Punjabi University was unable to do. We will plan new courses for the university,” said Bajwa.He said the government would extend all possible help to bring Punjabi University out of the financial crisis. He said required grant would be provided to bring the university back on track. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-mulls-fee-hike-to-help-punjabi-university-194745
07-01-2021||Malout (Muktsar)||MGNREGA funds misused: Sukhbir Badal||SAD chief-cum-Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal today said once elected to power in the state, the party’s government would launch an investigation into “Rs 1,000 crore MGNREGA scam” under which the Congress MLAs’ allegedly looted money meant for civil works in villages in connivance with sarpanches.Addressing party workers, Sukhbir said the Congress legislators had filled their pockets by showing imaginary work done under the MGNREGA. “Some MLAs have even established their own inter-locking tile factories. We will order an inquiry into all such cases of corruption immediately after coming to power,” he said.He further said the SAD would launch an agitation in case the Congress government dose not release outstanding dues of Rs 284 crore to sugarcane growers. “In Punjab, state assured price (SAP) for cane is Rs 310 per quintal, while in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, it is Rs 350 per quintal. The state government should revise the price with immediate effect,” he demanded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mgnrega-funds-misused-sukhbir-badal-194746
07-01-2021||New Delhi||PCS officers meet Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Civil servants of the state services from Punjab today met Union minister Jitendra Singh and requested him to direct the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) to expedite their cases of induction into the Indian Administrative Services (IAS).Responding to their request, the minister said the DoPT had constantly been striving to expedite the promotions and empanelment of officers, so that each of the officer gets his/her due in time and remains motivated to offer services to the best of his/her potential and ability.“Speaking to a delegation of senior officers of the Punjab Civil Services (PCS), who called on him with a request to expedite their cases of induction into the IAS cadre, Jitendra Singh said there was a tendency for delay in the past but over the past six years, the processes have been streamlined with optimum utilisation of modern technology,” the DoPT said in an official release.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcs-officers-meet-union-minister-jitendra-singh-194748
07-01-2021||Sangrur||Car hits vehicles, locals thrash occupants||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/car-hits-vehicles-locals-thrash-occupants-194760
07-01-2021||Sonepat||Huge waterproof tent comes up at Singhu||The farmers’ protest against the three farm laws at the Singhu border continued for the 42nd day on Wednesday. The farmers had been facing a hard time due to rain for the past three days as water entered their tents and langar area.The farmers made arrangements to brave the rain and cold wave by erecting a huge waterproof tent near the central stage at the Singhu border on Wednesday. The farmers brought waterproof tents, tarpaulin sheets, large bamboo sticks and iron pipes to the protest site.Rupinderjeet Singh of Ludhiana said they changed the tarpaulin sheet of his trolley on Wednesday as the previous sheet had been damaged due to heavy rain.Waryam Singh of Rajpura said the wood used as fuel to prepare langar got wet due to heavy rain on Tuesday, after which they covered their trolleys, langar material and wood with tarpaulin sheets.Meanwhile, Amrik Singh Bharsinghpur, district president of the Jalandhar BKU (Kadian), said they had made all arrangements to save themselves from the rain and cold wave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/huge-waterproof-tent-comes-up-at-singhu-194690
07-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||At Tikri border, farmers gear up for Thursday’s ‘tractor march’||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 6Unlike to other days, Wednesday evening was busy for Jaspal Singh, a farmer from Fazilka in Punjab, camping at Pakoda Chowk at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border as he was gearing up for ‘Tractor March’ to be taken out on the call given by the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha on Thursday.He tied a flag on his tractor, filled the fuel tank with diesel and checked the music system installed on the tractor so as to be ready for participating in the first cavalcade of 400 tractors that will leave for the Singhu border on Thursday morning. Jaspal started helping other fellow farmers too after finishing his preparations.  “Farmers, especially the youngsters, are enthusiastic about the tractor march and are also ready to lead it from the front. As the march will start at 9 am hence we have tied flags on the tractors and filled their tanks today to save time next morning. Even, music system installed on the tractor has also been checked,” Jaspal told The Tribune.He said three farmers will board on a tractor, while women protesters will not be part of this march. They would remain at protest sites to do routine affairs like attending dharna along with other farmers and preparations of langar, etc. The march would be peaceful and the tractor would move in a row, he added.Like Jaspal, other farmers too were excited about the march at Tikri and were seen discussing it with their elderly. “My tractor suddenly developed some technical issue yesterday but I got it rectified today to ensure my participation in the march,” said Jaskaran Singh, another farmer from Punjab.   Joginder Nain, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union, said the farmers would assemble at old bus stand in Bahadurgarh town in the morning. “Thereafter, they will proceed towards Aasodha village for taking the route of KMP highway to go to the Singhu border. Similarly, farmers from Singhu will proceed towards Tikri,” he added.Meanwhile, the police beefed up security arrangements on the route of the tractor march to avert any untoward incident.“Adequate arrangements have been made to maintain law and order situation during the march. No one will be allowed to take law into his hands. However, the farm leaders have also assured of taking out a peaceful march,” said Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-tikri-border-farmers-gear-up-for-thursdays-tractor-march-194583
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder orders withdrawal of Section 307 in cow dung dumping case||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered the withdrawal of Section 307 against Farm Laws protestors who dumped cow dung outside an ex-BJP minister’s house.Captain Amarinder, who also holds the Home portfolio, ordered the transfer of the SHO who had registered the`attempt to murder’ case, which is now being probed by a Special Investigative Team (SIT).The Chief Minister said the SHO had gone overboard in registering a case under Section 307 of the IPC. “There was no attempt to murder,” he said, referring to the Hoshiarpur incident, in which a group of protestors had unloaded a trolley full of cow dung in front of former Punjab minister Tikshan Sud’s residence.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister termed the arrest of Punjabi singer Shree Brar for promoting gun culture in a music video correct and justified.Promoting gangsterism and gun culture in this manner was wrong, he said, adding that the case had been registered correctly in the matter which related to an old song of the singer.Captain Amarinder made it clear that the arrest had no connection with the singer’s video in support of the protesting farmers, which was appreciable||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-orders-withdrawal-of-section-307-in-cow-dung-dumping-case-194550
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to reopen schools for Classes 5 to 12 from January 7||Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla, on Wednesday, said that following the persistent demand of parents, the state government has decided to reopen all government, semi-government and private schools from January 7 onwards.An official press note said that the timings of the schools will be from 10 am to 3 pm and students only from class V to XII will be allowed to attend physical classes in the schools.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed all school managements to strictly comply with the directions of the government, especially, the advisory issued by the health department to avert the threat of contraction of coronavirus.Read also: SOPs issued for reopening of schools in PunjabThe cabinet minister informed that the education department had taken feedback from the school heads and besides ensuring safety of the children, they have also suggested the department to reopen the schools before the annual exams for final revision of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-5-to-12-from-january-7-194535
07-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh got 'shakti' from this ingredient in latest cooking video||Diljit Dosanjh has kept his fans entertained with his hilarious cooking videos. Several tried new recipes during the nation-wide lockdown, and so did Diljit. But he took this hobby to a whole another level.The Punjabi singer won hearts with his wit and charm.The singer made another attempt at cooking as he rang on his birthday. He posted a clip on Instagram.Diljit found the perfect way to bring it in 37th birthday— by cooking. The singer posted a short clip of him cooking 'Veggies'.He chopped onions and tomatoes, and stir-fried by him. He sprinkled some smoked paprika on the veggies and referred to the spice as 'shakti', meaning 'strength'.Though, the singer didn't share a complete video with Diljit's signature funny commentary, this short clip reminded us of all the times when he made us laugh amid the dreadful pandemic.Wishes: Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has sent 'warm wishes' to Punjabi singer Diljit Dosanjh on his 37th birthday. The Chief Minister took to the microblogging website, and hoped 'Waheguru blessed him with a long life'. "Warm wishes to @diljitdosanjh on his birthday. May Waheguru bless you with a long, healthy & happy life," read the Captain's post.Also read:Diljit Dosanjh offers Kangana Ranaut his PR job; says 'don’t think Punjabis will forget what you’ve done’'You're obsessed with me', Diljit Dosanjh slams Kangana Ranaut's 'provoking farmers' commentDiljit Dosanjh takes a jibe at those who slammed 'pizza langar'; check out postDiljit Dosanjh 'quietly' donates Rs 1 crore to buy warm clothes for protesting farmers; Twitter 'salutes' himReactions: Warm wishes to @diljitdosanjh on his birthday. May Waheguru bless you with a long, healthy & happy life.   Happy birthday @diljitdosanjh bhai. ..Bless you a happy life... Aise hi mast raho bhai...  Happy Birthday Diljit Dosanjh Ji  He is our super star from north india 🇮🇳  Many many happy returns of the day happy birthday 🙌  Happy bday brother proud of you ❤️||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-got-shakti-from-this-ingredient-in-latest-cooking-video-194507
07-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh offers Kangana Ranaut his PR job; says 'don’t think Punjabis will forget what you’ve done’||Punjabi singer Diljit Dosanjh has reacted to Kangana Ranaut's latest comments against him. Diljit said that he should appoint Kangana as his public relations representative, seeing how "obsessed" she was with him. On Monday, Kangana had accused Diljit of going on vacations after fuelling the farmers' protests. To this, Diljit shared a video of an elderly woman hitting out at Kangana. He wrote in a tweet, in Punjabi, that his allegiances were, are, and will always remain with the state of Punjab. “You live with such misconceptions about yourself, don’t think Punjabis have forgotten what you’ve done. We will have our answer for you soon.”Kisaan Neyane Ni Ke Tere Mere Wargeya De Kehn Te Sadkan Te Beh Jaan Ge.. Vaise Tainu Bulekha Zyada aa Apne Barey..PUNJAB NAAL C.. HAAN .. Te Raha Ge..Tu v Hatdi Ni Sara Din Mainu Hee Dekhdi Rehni an..Ah Jawab V Leyna Tere Ton Haley PUNJABI’AN Ne.. MATT Sochi Asi Bhul Gaye https://t.co/FkyJxdWQbV pic.twitter.com/zdmxYXYWH7  Kangana responded to this with a tweet in Hindi. She wrote: “Time will tell, friend, who fought for the rights of the farmers and who against them… Hundred lies cannot hide one truth, and you will never be hated if you care for someone with all your heart. You think all of Punjab is against me? Haha don’t dream so big your heart will break.”Also read: 'You're obsessed with me', Diljit Dosanjh slams Kangana Ranaut's 'provoking farmers' commentKangana Ranaut calls Diljit Dosanjh 'local krantikari'; accuses Punjabi singer, Priyanka Chopra of 'misleading' farmersDiljit Dosanjh calls Kangana Ranaut 'mannerless' as Twitter war comes to an end; she signs off as 'Babbar sherni'Diljit Dosanjh takes a jibe at those who slammed 'pizza langar'; check out postDiljit Dosanjh 'quietly' donates Rs 1 crore to buy warm clothes for protesting farmers; Twitter 'salutes' himDiljit replied in Punjabi, “I don’t understand what her problem with farmers is. Ma’am, all of Punjab is with the farmers. No one is talking about you.” Sharing a news report about Kangana's previous attacks against him, the singer wondered if he should hire her as his PR representative.Enu Mai PR Lai Na Rakh Lava ? Dimagh Chon Tan Jaanda Ni Mai edey 😂 https://t.co/L2lA7BtXhK  Kangana, in a tweet, sarcastically praised Diljit’s efforts to stand in solidarity with agitating farmers. Reacting to Diljit’s tweet, which carried four images of him, in a snowy environment, Kangana wrote, “Wah brother!! Desh mein aag lagake kisanon ko sadak le baitha ke local karantikaris videsh mein thand ka maza le rahe hain, wah!!! Isko kehte hain local kranti... (Wow, brother. After instigating farmers and making them sit on the streets, the ‘local revolutionary’ is enjoying the winter holidays abroad. This is a true local revolution).”Wah brother!! Desh mein aag lagake kisanon ko sadak le baitha ke local karantikaris videsh mein thand ka maza le rahe hain, wah!!! Isko kehte hain local kranti... 👍 https://t.co/oXepZw633y  Also read: Punjab CM Amarinder sends Diljit Dosanjh 'warm wishes' on 37th birthday: 'Waheguru bless you with healthy, happy life'Kangana and Diljit’s war of words started last year—with him referring to a tweet posted by her on November 27—in which she wrongly identified an old woman at the ongoing farmers’ protest as Bilkis, the face of the Shaheen Bagh protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-offers-kangana-ranaut-his-pr-job-says-dont-think-punjabis-will-forget-what-youve-done-194506
