11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 2 more COVID-19 deaths, 202 new cases||Two more persons died due to coronavirus in Punjab, taking the toll to 5,447, while 202 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 1,69,225 on Monday, officials said.There are 2,858 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to a medical bulletin.Mohali reported 32 new cases, Amritsar 31 and Hoshiarpur 19, among the fresh cases witnessed in the state.A total of 265 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of total recoveries to 1,60,920, as per the bulletin.Eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 109 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 41,11,108 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-2-more-covid-19-deaths-202-new-cases-197029
11-01-2021||Sonepat||Ludhiana farmer critical after suicide attempt at Singhu border||A farmer from Ludhiana tried to kill himself at the Singhu border---the sixth incident of its kind during the ongoing farmers’ protests.Labh Singh, a farmer from from Ludhiana’s Sirthala, drank poison at the protest site, and was later admitted to the emergency ward of Sonepat’s Frank Institute of Medical Sciences. His condition is critical, sources say.There have been four suicides---a 65-year-old Sikh preacher from Karnal, Sant Baba Ram Singh, who shot himself near Kundli; a 63-year-old lawyer from Punjab’s Fazilka district, Amarjit Singh Rai, who drank pesticide at another protest site, Tikri; Kashmir Singh Dass, a Uttar Pradesh farmer in his 70s who hanged himself at Ghazipur; Amrinder Singh, who took poison at the protests at Singhu border---and one attempt---Niranjan Singh, a farmer from Tarn Taran district who tried to himself by taking pest control tablets at the Singhu border--- since the protest began.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-farmer-critical-after-suicide-attempt-at-singhu-border-197014
11-01-2021||New Delhi||Social boycott of BJP’s Punjab leaders: Is there more than meets the eye||Ever since the agitating Punjab’ farmers arrived on the Delhi borders, two names —Harjit Singh Grewal and Surjit Kumar Jyani—are on the forefront, whether it is tackling ‘jathebandis’/unions with phrases or serving as eyes and ears of the top BJP leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah.While the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the joint  platform of protesting unions, issued a statement on Sunday demanding their social boycott for their utterances against some of the union leaders, it seems a section of the Punjab BJP leadership is also becoming “increasingly jittery” over Grewal and Jyani “hogging all limelight, attention and prominence” in the ongoing imbroglio.While insecurity and jealousy are natural human instincts, including in politics, their supporters say the two leaders were "handpicked" by the central leadership "as those expected to handle the situation did not do the job".After farmers reached Delhi borders and it became evident the Narendra Modi government “underestimated” the Punjab' agitation and farmers’ determination, the situation was also seen as “failure” of those entrusted with the responsibility to “contain the situation right within Punjab and giving correct feedback” to the Centre, say observers. Jyani and Grewal were both part of the initial eight-member committee constituted by the Punjab BJP around September to talk to farmers on benefits of the three farms laws.On Sunday, farmer unions’ accused Garewal and Jyani of “crossing all limits and claiming to divide the farm unions” and appealed to people to "socially boycott them and oppose their entry to Punjab. In their last meeting with central ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash, unions had expressed anguish over the two giving them “gaalis” (abuses). But as some also point, Grewal and Jyani could not be "saying and acting the way they are without “blessings and backing” of the central leadership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/social-boycott-of-bjps-punjab-leaders-is-there-more-than-meets-the-eye-196996
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder hand-in-glove with gangster Mukhtar Ansari: Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Monday slammed the Amarinder Singh government for patronising gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari to help him evade appearance in courts in Uttar Pradesh where he is facing murder charges.Reacting to reports that the Punjab jail authorities refused to hand him over to the UP Police on the pretext of health issues, Chugh said by protecting a murder accused, the Amarinder Singh government was soaking its hands in blood.Quoting a communication from BJP MLA from Mohammadabad seat, Alka Rai, in which she accused the Congress government in Punjab of helping Mukhtar Ansari, Chugh asked the chief minister why he was trying to save this notorious criminal.Alka Rai is the wife of MLA Krishanand Rai, who was shot dead in 2005 along with six others.Ansari, sitting BSP MLA from Mau, is presently lodged in a Punjab jail in connection with an extortion case.Chugh said courts in Uttar Pradesh had summoned Mukhtar Ansari in different cases but the Congress government is shielding him and scuttling the course of law in UP.He said AICC general secretary Priyanaka Gandhi and a Ropar-based builder have been influencing the Amarinder government in the matter which was reprehensible.Chugh demanded action against the jail authorities which were hand-in-glove with Ansari in protecting him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-hand-in-glove-with-gangster-mukhtar-ansari-tarun-chugh-196976
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions persisted in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday.With a minimum temperature of four degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, Narnaul was the coldest place in Haryana.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 9.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said here.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures of 7.2, 7.9 and eight degrees Celsius respectively, up to four notches above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 9.4, 8.3, 6.3, 6.8, 7 and 8.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, the minimum temperatures of Ambala, Hisar and Karnal were 7.5, 5.2 and 6.8 degrees Celsius, respectively.The minimum temperatures of Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 7.4, 7.4 and 5.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several cities, including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Sirsa and Patiala, in the morning. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-weather-conditions-continue-in-punjab-haryana-196927
11-01-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni for BKU’s village-level committees||Kurukshetra, January 10Ahead of the tractor parade on January 26 in New Delhi, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has asked the cadre to strengthen the organisation’s base in Haryana and constitute village-level committees across the state by January 22.“A meeting of the BKU was held on Saturday. It has been decided that we would constitute committees, where the union’s base is weak. Besides, block and district office-bearers have been directed to form committees by January 22. The farmers can constitute 11 or 21 member depending upon the population of their villages,” Charuni said here on Sunday.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “There are still many blocks and villages, where the union doesn’t have committees. It is important to form committees because these help the union in circulating messages and maintaining discipline during the agitation.”Charuni gave the call to farmers to prepare for the Republic Day tractor parade. He asked them to chalk out a strategy and finalise names of people, who would reach Delhi with their tractors.Meanwhile, the BKU paid tributes to farmers, who lost their lives during the agitation, during an event organised in Barara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurnam-singh-charuni-for-bkus-village-level-committees-196752
11-01-2021||---||Farmers clash with cops near BJP protest site in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 10Angry farmers on Sunday broke barricades and clashed with the police during their protest to gherao the BJP’s venue for a sit-in at Company Bagh Chowk in Jalandhar.The BJP had on Saturday announced a sit-in to condemn the controversial statements of MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and over the deteriorating law and order in the state.However, the situation became tense when a large group of farmers, who were protesting near the Press Club Chowk, marched towards the BJP dharna site and were stopped by the police. They broke through the barricades put up by police.Sharma blames it on Cong workersProtesting farmers also tried to stop BJP state president Ashwani Sharma from entering the venue and started raising slogans against the Centre and the farm laws.The protesters also tried to push their way through the barricades and clashed with the police, resulting in some farmers receiving minor injuries. Meanwhile, the BJP president made his way to the venue amid heightened security. It took over 200 policemen to control the angry farmers.All major routes connecting to Company Bagh Chowk were barricaded. Apart from a large deployment of police personnel, 16 buses of anti-riot police, with 23 personnel in each vehicle, four JCB machines, two water cannon vehicles and four tippers were placed at the spot to prevent farmers from breaking the barricades.Kulwinder Singh, a farmer, said, “We had no intentions to indulge in violence at the BJP venue. All we wanted was to protest peacefully. However, the police blocked our way, which resulted in violence”.Condemning the police action on farmers, Kashmiri Lal, a farmer union leader, said: “We were peacefully holding the protest when the police created ruckus by placing barricades and providing high security cover to the BJP workers.” He threatened to organise a similar protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office shortly.Meanwhile, Sharma blamed Congress workers of indulging in petty politics by disrupting the law and order in the state. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) Harsimrat Singh said, “We had anticipated such a situation. Hence security arrangements were made accordingly”. Balkar Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), who was also present at the protest site, said, “The farmers broke through the barricades and the police were just trying to stop them”.When asked why the tippers were installed, he said to avoid any clash between the BJP workers and farmers, we made the necessary arrangements, including the placement of tippers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-clash-with-cops-near-bjp-protest-site-in-jalandhar-196657
11-01-2021||---||AAP’s legal help to protesters sham: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, January 10Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of backstabbing and defrauding the agitating farmers by making hollow claims of providing legal assistance to them to fight cases against actress Kangana Ranaut and certain BJP leaders, including Union Minister Raosaheb Danve.Reacting to media reports that four of the five petitioners in such cases were active AAP workers, the Chief Minister said it’s high time that Arvind Kejriwal and his cronies stopped playing their sneaky games for scoring brownie political points. “Your intent is clear. You are only trying to weaken the farmers’ agitation and playing your sneaky games at the BJP’s behest,” said the Chief Minister, adding that such theatrics on issues concerning the lives and future of the farmers were deplorable.Stooping lowAAP leaders are stooping low and using their own party workers to file petitions against BJP leaders and others to bolster their claims of providing legal help to protesting farmers. Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister“Kejriwal was always the sneaky little fellow of AAP and his other party leaders are also following the suit, spreading a web of lies to deceive the farmers of Punjab,” said Capt Amarinder. He advised Kejriwal and his associates to stop following Adolf Hitler’s propaganda technique of ‘big lies’ and stop living with a wild hope that people would believe them out of sheer disbelief that anyone could distort a truth to such an extent.The Chief Minister said after the manner in which the AAP government in Delhi implemented the farm laws at a time when the farmers were preparing to march to the national capital, the world now knows who the real agent of BJP is. “The Arvind Kejriwal government has been bending backwards to keep its masters in the central government happy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-legal-help-to-protesters-sham-capt-amarinder-singh-196658
11-01-2021||---||Ban movement of BJP leaders: Youth Cong||Chandigarh, January 10Taking a tough stand against the BJP, Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon on Saturday demanded a ban on the movement of a BJP leaders who he claimed were inciting violence and giving irresponsible statements.“If former Congress president Rahul Gandhi can be stopped from entering Hathras to meet the family of a rape victim and the entire political leadership can be put under house arrest in Jammu and Kashmir, BJP leaders who are inciting violence should also be not allowed to move around. They should be barred to exploiting the situation which can lead to unrest in the state as well as hurt the sentiments of farmers,” said Dhillon, while launching Punjab Youth Congress programme ‘Awaaz Mehnat Di’ to connect skilled workforce with the state government.Can’t incite violenceIf the entire political leadership can be put under house arrest in J&K, BJP leaders who are inciting violence should also be not allowed to move around. —Barinder Dhillon, Youth congress prezIn the campaign, the Youth Congress will collect sand from villages of people who have died during the agitation and take it to Delhi to make a map of India as a tribute to farmers.Dhillon said he would be writing to the Chief Minister as well as the DGP to house arrest or restrict the movement of BJP leaders who are confronting the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ban-movement-of-bjp-leaders-youth-cong-196659
11-01-2021||Fazilka||Protester dies of heart attack||Another farmer has fallen prey to the biting cold amid the agitation. Lal Chand, 67, a resident of Maulviwala, alias Chack Jandwala village, had gone to the Tikri border in Delhi to participate in the agitation on December 28.Lal Chand’s neighbour Rajinder Kamoj said when Chand was returning from Delhi in a train on January 7, he suffered a heart attack but recovered from it. Later, he suffered another heart attack on Saturday and passed away. Chand’s body was wrapped in a BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) flag and cremated in his native village.Earlier, Jalalabad advocate Amarjit Singh Rai ended his life at Tikri border on December 27. After that, farmers Kashmir Lal (65) and Kashmir Singh (69) from the district had lost their lives. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protester-dies-of-heart-attack-196660
11-01-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||47 dead so far: BKU (Ugrahan)||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has listed 47 farmers who have died due to health emergencies in biting cold, road accidents and suicides during the ongoing agitation against the farm laws enacted by the Centre last year.Secretary of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Shingara Singh Mann said, “Our list has 47 confirmed names of the dead. We got fresh inputs on more deaths, so we are updating our list which should be out by the weekend.”There is no official compilation of data on deaths. Most farm unions participating in the agitation agree with the figure of about 65. However, BKU (Dakaunda) puts the figure of farmer deaths at about 80 since September 2020.Pneumonia cases highThe number of pneumonia cases is high, particularly among the elderly. At the same time, there are farmers who have been killed in accidents. —Sahildeep Singh, Farmer activistVeerpal Singh Dhillon, a spokesperson of the BKU, said, “The night weather is cruel, particularly for the elderly. When they get down to relieve in the open at night or in early morning, they are exposing themselves to extreme weather. Pneumonia is common and a lot of deaths have been caused due to cardiac arrests in the cold weather.”BKU (Dakaunda) president Harmeet Kadian said, “We appeal to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandkah Committee and Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee to help the poor farmers with medical expenses. For instance, an elderly farmer was taken to a Delhi hospital late in the night last week when he complained of uneasiness. We gave him around Rs 30,000. We came to know the next day that he had died on way his home in Punjab. Actually, when he was rushed to the hospital, the staff there said he needed to pay more than Rs 2 lakh. He did not have the required money.”“The farmer called his family back in Punjab who asked him to return to his village. He died on way back,” Kadian added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/47-dead-so-far-bku-ugrahan-196661
11-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Deceased was wanted in murder case||Farmer Amrinder Singh (40), who ended his life at the Singhu border near the main stage by consuming a poisonous substance on Saturday, had left his village and started living in a Sirhind colony after a murder case was registered against him.SHO, Amloh police station, said in 2014, a case under the NDPS Act was registered against him. He and his wife were also booked under Section 302 of the IPC in Mansa and were wanted in the case. They left Fatehgarh Sahib after the murder case was registered, the SHO said. His mother said Amrinder was at the dharna site for the past 40 days. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deceased-was-wanted-in-murder-case-196662
11-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Let containers move, traders urge farmers||The North India Importers’ Association has appealed to the protesters and all farmer unions of the state to lift their blockade and sit-in in front of Adani Inland Container Depot (ICD) at Kila Raipur near Ludhiana, and allow the movement of thousands of containers.Association’s state president Ishu Bansal said the exporters, MSME and common traders were suffering huge losses due to the blockade as they had to pay ICD ground rent charges on a daily basis. Requesting farmers to view the situation considerately, he said if the blockade was not lifted immediately, importers, traders and MSMEs will become bankrupt as they had to pay Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per container per day as rent.He said traders of the state supported the farmers in their cause, but they should not be made to suffer. He urged Shipping Line Companies and ICD not to charge any extra detention and ground rent on containers which are blocked due to the protest. He also appealed to the government and everyone to save the traders and importers of the state from this crisis and to prevail upon the farmers to lift the blockade for the movement of containers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/let-containers-move-traders-urge-farmers-196663
11-01-2021||---||Parties not to hold Maghi conferences||Muktsar, January 10Due to the ongoing farmers’ stir and Covid-19 pandemic, there will be no political conference by any major political party during the Maghi Mela this year.Notably, the SAD had sought permission from the district administration to hold a political conference, but later decided to just hold a ‘path’ for the success of the ongoing farmers’ stir on the Delhi borders and cancelled the programme of a political conference. “We are not holding the political conference during the Maghi Mela. However, we will hold a ‘path’ and perform ‘ardas’ on January 12 for those who attained martyrdom during the protest,” said Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD president.Similarly, the AAP has also decided not to hold any political conference. “The senior party leaders have not yet held any meeting about the Maghi Mela political conference, thus it won’t happen. Further, our party leadership has already announced that there will be no conference during any ‘shaheedi mela’. Just like last year, some senior leaders may come to pay obeisance at the historic gurdwara on Maghi,” said Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar, constituency in charge, Muktsar, AAP.The Congress, too, has already announced that there would be no political conference on any religious occasion. “The Congress will not hold a political conference, but we will request the state leadership to send a delegation of Cabinet Ministers to Muktsar on Maghi,” said Harcharan Singh Sotha Brar, a senior Congress leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-not-to-hold-maghi-conferences-196664
11-01-2021||---||Largest peaceful farm struggle in nation’s history: Experts||Chandigarh, January 10The farmers’ movement is the largest peaceful peasants’ struggle this country has ever seen, eminent journalist P Sainath said during a seminar organised by Nation for Farmers at Chandigarh on Sunday.Stressing peaceful democratic character was extremely important, he said repealing the laws was not the end of the fight. “We will have to decide where we want to lead our agriculture. We have to choose whether it should be community-led agriculture or corporate led.”Speaking about the present regime, he said the biggest achievement of PM Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah was that they had united citizens from all walks of life. “Today, we see arthiyas speaking in favour of farmers.”He said India had become a corporate-led state. On the one side are socio-religious fundamentalists, on the other side market fundamentalists, he added.Have Failed farmersThe farmers’ income has increased just 19 times in the last 40 years, while the teachers’ income has increased around 200 times. We have failed farmers as society. —Devinder Sharma, Agriculture expertThe eminent journalist said there was a myth being created that Punjab farmers were rich. “The National Sample Survey Organisation says the average size of a household in rural Punjab is 5.42, per household the income comes to Rs 18,059 a month. So, per capita income is Rs 3,400.Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said 50 years back in the US, the Nixon regime came up with a slogan about agriculture: ‘get big or get out’. “The same thing is being practised in Punjab with these three laws,” he said.He said the farmers even in the US were in deep crisis. American farmers are under 425 billion dollars banckurptcy. “We have failed to see America’s agrarian crisis. Farmers have been deprived of their legitimate income whether in the US or India.”He said: “The farmers’ income increased just 19 times in the last 40 years, while the teachers’ income has increased around 200 times. We have failed farmers as a society.”Former Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice MS Liberhan (retd) presided over the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/largest-peaceful-farm-struggle-in-nations-history-experts-196665
11-01-2021||Muktsar||Govt  staff visit Delhi borders to lend support||Joining the growing league of supporters, a number of government employees, who originally belong to the farming families, are also visiting Delhi borders to support the ongoing protest against the central farm laws.Some employees of the Muktsar Market Committee recently went to Delhi borders, distributed chyawanprash and other items among the protesting farmers. A senior officer of the Markfed recently uploaded his photo on facebook from Tikri border protest site. Similarly, some young constables, too, have visited the Delhi borders to support the stir.Some government employees even went live on Facebook from the protest sites. “I am a government employee, but farmer as well. The farmers of Punjab, Haryana and some other states are lodging indefinite protest for their rights and it becomes the duty of every farmer to support them. They are not fighting the battle of an individual or a group, but forthe entire community. It is our right to lodge protest,” said an official.Similarly, a health department official, who spent three days at Singhu and Tikri borders, said, “In this fight against the black laws, we are all united. We are farmers first and thereafter the government employees.”Some government employees have prefixed ‘kisan’ to their names on social media platforms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-staff-visit-delhi-borders-to-lend-support-196666
11-01-2021||---||Cyclothon marks golden jubilee year of Indo-Pak war||Amritsar, January 10With the 1971 Indo-Pak war entering its golden jubilee in 2021, the Army, along with the BSF, organised a programme, as a part of the ongoing ‘Swarn Vijay Varsh’ to celebrate India’s victory over Pakistan.Besides, honouring the war veterans and kin of martyrs at the Punjab State War Memorial and Museum, a cyclothon was also flagged off by BSF DIG Bhuphinder Singh. Officers, as well as children of the Army and the BSF officers participated in the cyclothon, from the Attari border to the war memorial.Seven 1971 war heroes and the next of kin of the martyrs joined the wreath laying ceremony.Major General Raju Baijal, recipient of the Sena Medal, said the event also marked the formation of East Pakistan as the new nation of Bangladesh. “The occasion marked the brave deeds of our soldiers who sacrifised their lives in the service of the nation,” he said.Col HP Singh (retired), general manager of the memorial, said, “The memorial is the apt place to pay tributes to the soldiers of the war. An original Patton tank that was captured from Pakistan forces is also stationed here, and there is a full-fledged gallery erected at the memorial,” he said.Brigadier Joginder Singh Jaswal (retired), recipient of the Vir Chakra and the Sena Medal, who was a part of the 1971 squad, also showed solidarity with the farmers, who were protesting against the farm laws.“Constitutional dictatorship is prevailing at the Centre, worse than that at the time of the Emergency during the regime of Indira Gandhi. The farmers have been braving the adverse weather conditions. The former servicemen too face discrimination. They have been fighting to get one rank-one pension (OROP) for the past five years, but in vain. Similarly, many facilities given to the veterans have also been withdrawn. Taxes have been imposed on canteen facility,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cyclothon-marks-golden-jubilee-year-of-indo-pak-war-196667
11-01-2021||Aman Sood||Border areas take chunk out of PSPCL revenue pie||Tribune news servicePatiala, January 10For the past almost a decade, the politically sensitive border zone comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ajnala and adjoining areas continue to cause maximum losses to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) by stealing over 50 per cent of the supplied power.Led by border and west zones, power theft costs PSPCL somewhere around Rs 1,000 crore annually. PSPCL has attributed these losses to the rampant theft of energy in these divisions. In Amritsar suburban circle, the three divisions of west, Ajnala and sub-urban report losses of 55.32 per cent, 55.37 per cent and 44.34 per cent, respectively. In Tarn Taran circle, which falls in the border zone, Bhikhiwind, Patti and city divisions report losses of 79.14 per cent, 67.36 per cent and 45.64 per cent, respectively.Illegal kundis, meter tampering rampantInformation gathered by The Tribune proves that residents are stealing power worth over Rs 2.5 per day from the PSPCL supply lines, with rural Punjab leading with 66.66 per cent distribution losses using capacitors, illegal kundis and even tampering with meters. “The villagers, many of them rich landlords owning cars and even farm houses, continue to steal power using their clout with politicians and local power board officials,” said a PSPCL official, preferring anonymity.Senior PSPCL officials told The Tribune that villagers, majority of whom get free power for their tubewell motors, steal power worth Rs 800 crore per annum.Meanwhile, domestic, commercial urban consumers and industry cause losses worth around Rs 200 crore per annum. As per PSPCL records, as against the average 10 per cent of loss in distribution network, the losses are over 20 to 50 per cent in urban areas, while they are over 50 to 79 per cent in rural supply lines.“We were shocked to find that every second house in rural areas has devices fitted smartly to stop power meters or even use permanent kundis to steal power,” said a top PSPCL official.In the west zone, the Malout division of Muktsar circle report losses of 44.55 per cent, while in the south zone, Patran and Lehragaga division of the Sangrur circle has losses of 54.87 per cent and 52.49 per cent, respectively. Baghapurana divisions in the Faridkot circle have 49.98 per cent losses.VK Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said the main reason for losses in these areas is political interference in efforts by the corporation to check power theft. “Politicians call it a facility to their area consumers, while the burden of this power theft is passed on to rest of the consumers due to losses,” he said.The replacement of electromechanical meters with electronic meters and shifting of meters outside the premises has been slow due to Covid.“We have ordered strict enforcement in the entire state and there is zero tolerance for power theft. We have brought down losses and FIRs are registered against power thieves,” said A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/border-areas-take-chunk-out-of-pspcl-revenue-pie-196668
11-01-2021||---||Classes begin on Punjabi University campus||Patiala, January 10Students of Punjabi University, Patiala, will begin attending offline classes after a gap of nearly 10 months as the university administration has decided to open its doors for them.University officials said the offline classes would be restarted at all departments and centres in a matter of days beginning with science faculties on Monday. They said physical sciences, life sciences and medicine departments would open from Monday. The neighbourhood campuses, regional centres and constituent colleges would also open for all students the same day.They said the classes of professional faculties, including faculty of business studies, faculty of law and faculty of engineering and technology would begin from Thursday. The remaining faculties, including social sciences, arts and culture, languages and education and information sciences, would open from January 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/classes-begin-on-punjabi-university-campus-196669
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Gender ratio improves||With concerted efforts under the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” initiative, a steady increase in the sex ratio at birth (SRB) has been witnessed in the state, said Aruna Chaudhary, Minister for Social Security, Women and Child Development, today.Chaudhary said the gender ratio had improved by 19 points i.e. from 901 girls per 1,000 boys in 2018-19 to 920 girls in 2019-20, as per the statistics given by the Health Management Information System of the Department of Health and Family Welfare.The improvement had been noticed from 2013-14 onwards. The SRB increased to 901/1,000 during the 2018-19 fiscal from 890/1,000 in 2013-14, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gender-ratio-improves-196670
11-01-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 500-cr biz down by half in 5 days: Poultry farmers||Members of the Punjab Poultry Farmers’ Association and the Punjab Broiler Board today said their Rs 500-crore business across the state had come down to just half in a matter of five days owing to the bird flu scare.Members of the association, including Vishal Gupta from Sangrur, Vivek Sindhwani from Barnala and Jatinder Singh Laddi from Ludhiana, said there had not been a single case of bird flu in Punjab so far, but it had caused scare among consumers. They said nearly 300 poultry farmers had created set-ups with a capacity to generate 1.25 crore eggs per day but the sales had reduced to less than half.Jaswant S Setia of Jalandhar said, “Three lakh eggs were being consumed in Jalandhar alone per day but we can’t find buyers now.” Sanjiv Bansal, a Sangrur-based poultry farmer, said, “While we were selling 100 eggs for Rs 550 till last Sunday, we are selling it for Rs 350 now. A 1-kg broiler which was priced at Rs 90 is now being sold for Rs 50.” Bhupinder Singh from Patiala said, “We request residents not to believe rumours.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-500-cr-biz-down-by-half-in-5-days-poultry-farmers-196671
11-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||29 poll pleas still pending in High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has decided the oldest pending poll petition filed against Capt Amarinder Singh’s 18-year-old election from the Patiala Assembly constituency. But no less than 29 other petitions challenging the elections of both parliamentarians and legislators are still waiting for the hammer of justice to fall. It includes an election petition filed nearly 14 years ago.The Representation of Peoples Act recommends that every election petition is required to be tried as expeditiously as possible in the interest of justice. Every endeavour is required to be made on the High Court’s part to conclude the trial for an election petition within six months from the date of its presentation before the Bench.It was in 2009 that defeated Congress candidate Om Prakash Soni moved the High Court for setting aside Navjot Singh Sidhu’s election from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency.Since then the cricketer-turned-politician switched teams and became one of the Congress’ top order politician. Batting for the same party, he and Sidhu went on to become Cabinet ministers. But a decade, and several elections later, his petition is still pending.Soni had sought directions for recounting of votes, while alleging adoption of corrupt practices, including use of state machinery to promote prospects. The petition was last listed for hearing on March 20, 2020. It could not make headway following the Covid outbreak.Available information suggests one petition filed in 2007 is pending, followed by another in 2009, two in 2012, seven in 2014, three in 2017, one in 2018 and 14 in 2019. The figure may not sound astronomical, considering the total pendency of cases. As of now the High Court has a pendency of 6,37,188 cases against 5,28,340 last year.But the number of election petitions filed is far less than other cases. A petition calling in question an election is required to be presented by a candidate or an elector within 45 days from the date of election of the returned candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/29-poll-pleas-still-pending-in-high-court-196672
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to meet President for Rajoana release||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal will lead a delegation of senior party leaders to President Ram Nath Kovind to seek immediate release of Balwant Singh Rajoana.Sukhbir had yesterday sought his release as a logical follow-up of the earlier decision of the Centre to commute his death sentence to life term.A formal request has been sent to the President for an immediate audience. Sukhbir’s move stems out of recent developments in the Rajoana case, including the latest Supreme Court notice to the Government of India.He wants Rajoana to be released immediately as “the Government of India stands publicly committed to commuting his death sentence to a life term”. Rajoana has already spent more than three times the number of years a normal life convict spends in jail.Rajoana was convicted in the former CM Beant Singh assassination case in 1995 and sentenced to death by a special CBI court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-meet-president-for-rajoana-release-196673
11-01-2021||---||3-day transit remand for arms racket suspects from Madhya Pradesh||Amritsar, January 10The rural police today got three-day transit remand of the two Madhya Pradesh residents — Mahesh Silotia and Jaggu — arrested for allegedly supplying country-made weapons to gangsters and terrorists in Punjab.They were produced in an MP court, which granted their transit remand. Once here, they would be presented in a local court on Tuesday for further police remand for interrogation.The two were nabbed from MP following a tip-off during the investigation of recent weapon seizures made by the rural police. The police had recovered 12 country-made pistols along with 15 magazines from the two.The police have also initiated the process for bringing Akashdeep Singh, prime suspect in the drone module bust case by the Punjab Police in 2019, who is currently lodged in the Amritsar jail, on a production warrant.Police sources said the suspects were involved in the supply of weapons not only to Punjab but other parts of the country as well. They used to sell the weapons to notorious criminals for Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh, depending on quality.In Punjab, Rahul of Khargone village in MP was the main supplier. Rahul’s name had figured in half-a-dozen cases of seizure of illegal weapons in the recent past. His name had also cropped up during investigations into the seizure of a consignment of six pistols by the Patiala police in September.Another accomplice, Gopal Singh Sikligar of Satipurain, Khargone, has been nominated in the FIR following preliminary interrogation of the two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-day-transit-remand-for-arms-racket-suspects-from-madhya-pradesh-196674
11-01-2021||Ludhiana||Three birds found dead in Ludhiana||Amid the ongoing avian flu outbreak, carcasses of three birds, including two crows, were found at two spots in the city today, prompting the Animal Husbandry Department to collect samples for testing.Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) also issued an advisory for poultry farmers, handlers and consumers.Dr Paramdeep Singh, Assistant Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, said the dead birds had been collected for sampling. “Birds often die during this time of the year due to cold, but we can’t take chances,” he said. Neeraj Gupta, District Forest Officer (Wildlife), asked range officers to visit the sites and take stock of the situation. Paramjit Singh, councillor of ward No. 28, said two crows were found dead at the Dhandari cremation ground. Another dead bird was spotted at the Rose Garden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-birds-found-dead-in-ludhiana-196675
11-01-2021||---||Covid testing suspended at Jalandhar lab||Chandigarh, January 10In view of the need to increase surveillance for avian influenza (bird flu), the Punjab Government has restored Animal Husbandry Department’s Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, for testing of suspicious cases. The laboratory was earlier being used for Covid-19 testing.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said to maximise testing for bird flu, Covid-19 testing had been temporarily suspended at the RDDL as more than enough Covid testing capacity was available.He said the RDDL would revert to testing for Covid-19 once bird flu threat was over. He clarified not even a single sample was pending for testing at the facility.To be used for bird flu tests nowTo maximise testing for bird flu, Covid testing has been temporarily suspended at the RDDL as more than enough testing capacity is available. It would revert to testing for Covid once bird flu threat is over. —Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health, Family welfare ministerHussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said in the wake of bird flu, instructions had been issued to all civil surgeons asking them to coordinate on a regular basis with the Department of Animal Husbandry in their respective districts for any unusual death of poultry birds/migratory birds, etc. and ensure regular surveillance of wetlands, if any, in respective areas.If a suspected human case was reported, epidemiological surveillance to trace more cases would be carried out in the affected area. The government has already declared the state a ‘controlled area’ due to the outbreak of bird flu and imposed a ban on the import of live birds till January 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-testing-suspended-at-jalandhar-lab-196676
11-01-2021||---||No takers for 354 BDS seats in pvt colleges||Faridkot, January 10Dental colleges in the state are facing an unprecedented crisis with 31 per cent seats lying vacant even after three rounds of counselling for admissions.Hoping to fill some of the 354 vacant seats in 13 dental colleges, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) will conduct the fourth round of counselling on January 13. Not only self-funded private colleges, but two government colleges have also failed to fill all BDS seats.Data shows barring two private colleges — Christian Dental College (40 seats) and BJS Dental College (100 seats) in Ludhiana — none could fill up all the seats.At some private dental colleges, more than half the available seats are lying vacant. Punjab has 1,140 seats in two government and 13 private dental colleges.Of the 100 seats each, Desh Bhagat Dental College, Gobindgarh, could fill 35, Genesis Dental College in Ferozepur 48, RBDC in Mohali 56, Sukhmani Dental College, Mohali, 57, Dashmesh Dental College, Faridkot, 64, and GNDC, Sunam, 70, Adesh Dental College, Bathinda, 77, LBDC, Patiala, 85 and NDC, Dera Bassi, 88.Of the total 60 seats in SGRD, Amritsar, 48 have been filled and of the 50 seats in SKS, Ludhiana,28 have been taken.In the two government colleges in Patiala and Amritsar, of the total 90 seats, four are lying vacant.Sources in the medical university said besides high tuition fee in private colleges, the lack of popularity of BDS course could also be due to poor job opportunities in government sector.While the 15 dental colleges in the state are producing over 1,100 BDS and over 300 MDS doctors every year, it is after the gap of many years that the state Health Department had recruited 35 dental medical officers last month.Unlike MBBS, students are not willing to pay high fee for BDS course, said sources. “We are making all efforts to fill most of the vacant seats from the registered candidates in the last counselling,” said BFUHS Vice Chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-takers-for-354-bds-seats-in-pvt-colleges-196677
11-01-2021||Sangrur||Won’t end stir till we get jobs: Teachers||Nothing has changed for TET, ETT and BEd-pass youth even 10 months after they lifted their protest as they have again been sitting on an indefinite protest in Sangrur for the past 10 days.Last year, they had lifted the protests after the outbreak of Covid-19, but this time, they are adamant to continue their protests till their recruitment.“More than three years after the Congress formed the government in Punjab after making big claims of ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’, we are struggling to get jobs. The government has failed to recruit qualified youngsters while thousands of posts are lying vacant, which is affecting education across the state. Our protest will continue till the start of recruitment process as per our demands,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of the BEd Union.The BEd-pass along with members of four other unions have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of the residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla. Apart from them, TET and ETT-pass have been sitting in front of the DC office.“Today, we kept blocked the Sangrur-Ludhiana road and lifted our blockade in the evening after getting an assurance of a meeting with senior officers of the Chief Ministers’ Office as Education Department officials are not taking our protests seriously,” said Deep Banarasi, press secretary of the TET and ETT Pass Union.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government had been taking all steps to improve the education system of the state and provide employment. “We have been meeting BEd and ETT-pass youth repeatedly and have been conducting recruitment as per the requirement,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-end-stir-till-we-get-jobs-teachers-196678
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Piped water  in all villages by March 2022||Punjab will provide potable piped water to all 35 lakh rural households by March 2022 under the Jal Jeevan Mission, said Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Razia Sultana, claiming 66 per cent of the households had already been covered by December, 2020.Three districts — SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar and Rupnagar — had accomplished the target of 100 per cent piped water supply. The minister said to provide potable piped water in areas having arsenic, the department was setting up 11 water treatment projects in Moga, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, benefitting 1,103 villages at a cost of Rs 1,249 crore. Similarly, villages that could not be covered under canal-based water supply would get potable water supply.This year, the department was starting work on four projects of canal-based water in Fazilka, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur, benefitting 610 villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/piped-water-in-all-villages-by-march-2022-196679
11-01-2021||Raj Sadosh||Rs 3.2 cr dues unpaid, supply from Harike barrage to Bikaner cut||Abohar, January 10Water supply from the Harike barrage to the Gang canal (Bikaner) has been reduced, as Rajasthan has allegedly not paid maintenance charges to Punjab for the past four years.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS) spokesperson Subhash Sehgal said water discharge from the Gang canal that is considered the lifeline of farmers of the border district, Sriganganagar, known as “Punjab of Rajasthan”, had been slashed from 2,200 cusecs to 1,700 cusecs in the past three days.When the KSS approached senior officials of the Punjab Irrigation Department, they were told that Rajasthan had to pay Rs 80 lakh on account of annual maintenance charges. The dues had not been clearedfor the past four years, piling up to Rs 3.2 crore.The officials claimed that a tripartite agreement was executed at a meeting held in Shimla on September 4, 1920, between the then princely states of Bahawalpur, Bikaner and Punjab. The two states had agreed to pay the annual maintenance charges to Punjab.After the partition of Punjab in August 1947, Bahawalpur merged in West Punjab province of Pakistan and Bikaner became a part of Rajasthan. The Gang canal (Bikaner) was founded by Maharaja Ganga Singh of Bikaner, and (East) Punjab carried the responsibility of its maintenance. The Rajasthan Government had become irregular in paying its maintenance charges to the neighbouring state of Punjab, as per the officials.Sehgal said the Rajasthan Water Resources Department officials in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh had submitted requisition for funds to Jaipur, but the response was awaited. The KSS urged Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to intervene immediately, else the farmers would suffer heavy economic losses due to the slashed canal water supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-3-2-cr-dues-unpaid-supply-from-harike-barrage-to-bikaner-cut-196680
11-01-2021||Ferozepur||Heroin worth Rs 35 cr seized along border||The police have arrested a drug peddler and recovered 5 kg heroin worth Rs 25 crore in the international market besides a pistol, two magazines and 18 rounds.Pakistan currency worth Rs 1,100 has also been seized from the suspect.SSP Bhupinder Singh said following a tip-off, CIA staff sleuths had on January 5 nabbed Dalbir Singh, alias Dallu, a resident of Gatti Mathar village, in Lakho ke Behram area with 250 gm heroin. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the accused.“During preliminary investigation, it came to the fore that Dalbir had links with Pakistan-based drug smugglers and was in touch with cross-border drug peddlers through the social media,” he said.In another seizure, BSF’s 129 Battalion personnel recovered four packets of heroin weighing 2 kg in the sector. As per information, the estimated price of the recovered consignment was around Rs 10 crore in the international market. Meanwhile, two persons were arrested with 19,800 intoxicating pills in Jalalabad town of Fazilka district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-35-cr-seized-along-border-196681
11-01-2021||Bathinda||Rs 7-crore water project launched in Bathinda||A mega project, aimed at fulfilling the long-standing demand of residents of uninterrupted potable water supply in Bathinda city, was launched on Sunday. The project worth Rs 7.34 crore would primarily focus on increasing the storage capacity of potable water in the city, said Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal.The project provides for standby water motors, in case existing motors develop any technical snag. Apart from increasing the water storage capacity, the infrastructure would be developed to ensure that the residents got uninterrupted water supply, he said.The Finance Minister has been frequently visiting the city and holding meetings with party leaders and workers, in wake of the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections.Badal said after seeing the support and work done by the party workers at the ground level, it was quite clear that the Congress would register an emphatic win in the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-7-crore-water-project-launched-in-bathinda-196682
11-01-2021||Abohar||Sirhind canal to be closed for relining||The Sirhind feeder canal will be closed from January 17 to February 20.Mukhtiar Singh Rana, Executive Engineer, Canal Division, Abohar, said the relining of the canal had to be carried out urgently.The canals emanating from the headworks at Sotha, below Lalbai, New Abulkhurana, Lambi, Sukhchain and Kakhwali will be closed.He said the water supply in all canals originating from Udaikaran sub-canal, Muktsar, Rupana and Abohar would continue uninterrupted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirhind-canal-to-be-closed-for-relining-196683
11-01-2021||Amritsar||Sidhu’s key aide accused of assault||With e-Daakhil, file complaints onlineChandigarh: Launched to streamline the grievances redressal system, the e-Daakhil portal would provide consumers a speedy remedial platform with its seamless and synergised mechanism. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday said the online platform was yet another endeavour of the state government under the leadership of CM Capt Amarinder Singh towards technological advancements in the public sector. He said e-Daakhil had been developed under the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which envisaged filing of consumer disputes electronically to the Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission. TNSRevised one-time settlement policy soonChandigarh: Ahead of the civic body polls, the Local Government Department is working on a revised one-time settlement (OTS) policy for non-compoundable violations in urban local bodies. Affecting 30 lakh violations in residential and non-residential buildings in urban local bodies, the government aims at earning revenue of Rs 1,000 crore by regularising the buildings. The previous OTS policy notified in March 2019, when Navjot Singh Sidhu was the Local Government Minister, was held back as it did not find favour with the intended beneficiaries. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhus-key-aide-accused-of-assault-196684
11-01-2021||Abohar||Special letters for differently abled teachers||Professor pedals to Singhu borderFatehgarh Sahib: Bir Bikram Singh, Assistant Professor, department of physics, SGGS World University, pedalled from Fatehgarh Sahib to the dharna site at the Singhu border and returned home, covering 500 km, to support the agitating farmers. He motivated young farmers to continue their struggle. Most of his students are farmers, who had invited him at the site to boost their morale. He said he was pained to see the farmers protest in cold and chilly weather. He urged the government to repeal the farm laws. He desired to be a regular visitor to the protest site on weekends.Calendar to promote blood donationHoshiarpur: Social worker and Civil Surgeon (retired) Dr Ajay Bagga released a table calendar on blood donation. The calendar, dedicated to the cause of voluntary blood donation, was released by Sister Grace, administrator, Sacred Heart Hospital, Jalandhar, Dr Nameed, gastroenterologist, IVY Hospital, Hoshiarpur, and Meharpreet Singh from Phagwara. Dr Ajay Bagga, who is also the patron of the Punjab Chapter-Indian Society of Blood Transfusion and Immunohaematology, said the calendar featured photographs of women blood donors specially as they donate less blood. Only 10 per cent women donate blood in India, he said.Abohar, an emerging sports hubAbohar: Avneet Kaur Sidhu, while inaugurating a shooting range at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Jammu Basti) here, said when she had joined (as Superintendent of Police) at Fazilka a few months back, it was beyond anybody’s imagination that such a facility would emerge in the district. Avneet is the first woman shooter from Punjab to represent India in the Beijing Olympics-2008 and the first woman shooter from Punjab to win medals at the Commonwealth and Asian Games. She told the youth that the National Flag could be unfurled with pride either in a war or at a sports ground. It was wrong to say that Punjab lacked talent or infrastructure, she said. Special guest Sandeep Jakhar said Abohar was emerging as a hub of sports, as cricket, volleyball and football tournaments, besides marathon races, were being organised regularly.Contributed by Raj Sadosh, Surinder Bhardwaj and Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-letters-for-differently-abled-teachers-196689
11-01-2021||---||Import of poultry banned in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 8The government has declared the entire state a “controlled area” in view of the outbreak of avian influenza affecting birds, including poultry in the neighbouring states.In another major decision, the government imposed a complete ban on the import of live birds, including poultry, and unprocessed poultry meat for any purpose into the state with immediate effect till January15. The decision will be reviewed on the basis of the situation.In a press communiqué here today, VK Janjua, additional chief secretary, Animal Husbandry Department, said both the decisions were taken in consultation with Animal Husbandry Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to prevent and control the spread of avian influenza, a scheduled disease in the state. He said the decisions had been taken to control scheduled diseases under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/import-of-poultry-banned-in-punjab-195736
