14-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 10 more deaths, 214 new cases in Punjab||Punjab reported 10 more COVID-19 fatalities on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 5,473 in Punjab while 214 fresh cases took the tally to 1,69,90, a medical bulletin said.There are 2,767 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, it said.Mohali reported 43 new cases, Jalandhar 34 and Ludhiana 22, among the fresh cases recorded in the state on Thursday.         A total of 253 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,61,710, the bulletin said.Nine critical patients are on ventilator support while 99 are on oxygen support, the bulletin added.A total of 41,77,959 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-10-more-deaths-214-new-cases-in-punjab-198475
14-01-2021||---||Veterans Day: CDS felicitates 100-year-old Chandigarh veteran||Chandigarh, January 14Col Prithipal Singh (Retd), the veteran who recently celebrated his 100th birthday and has the unique distinction of serving in all three Services, was presented with a Silver Salver by Maj Gen GS Kahlon on behalf of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Veterans Day, here on Thursday.General Rawat acknowledged his rich and varied  experience, including  participation in active operations which are a source of inspiration for the younger generations.Col Prithipal Singh had served during the Second World War with the navy and after Independence, with the Army during the 1965 Indo-Pak War. In the last stage of his career, he was posted in north-east with the Assam Rifles – Z paramilitary organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veterans-day-cds-felicitates-100-year-old-chandigarh-veteran-198465
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Nothing short of repeal of farm laws will work, stresses Capt Amarinder-led Punjab govt||The Punjab government led by Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday made it clear that nothing short of repeal of the Centre’s farm laws would resolve the present crisis.The Central government is out of touch with the ground realities, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said at a meeting of the state Cabinet, whose members declared unequivocally that repeal of the farm laws was the only way out of the current imbroglio.The Council of Ministers demanded that the Centre make MSP a statutory right of the farmers, who had been getting extremely low prices for their produce for the past several days despite being responsible for feeding the nation.At the start of the meeting, the Council of Ministers observed a 2-minutes silence in memory of farmers who have died during the agitation.An estimated 78 farmers have so far lost their lives. Stressing the need for an early resolution to the agitation to prevent further loss of life, the Cabinet pointed out that the matter has already been debated and discussed in eight rounds of negotiations held between the farmers and the Government of India.Pointing out that even the Supreme Court had acknowledged the concerns of the protesting farmers, and had recognised their pain and anguish, the Council of Ministers said the Government of India should not stand on prestige and ego in this matter, which, if unresolved, could lead to devastating repercussions for the country for decades to come.If the Centre can make sweeping amendments to the laws then this adamancy about not revoking the legislations is inexplicable, said the ministers, joined by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar.In a formal resolution, the Cabinet categorically reiterated its commitment to the resolutions passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on August 28, 2020 and October 20, 2020, stressing that all the genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted.Urging the Government of India to “repeal the farm laws as agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution of India, and to make MSP a statutory right”.It welcomed the Supreme Court order staying the central legislations as acknowledgement of the concerns of the farmers of Punjab who are protesting against the farm laws, and recognition of their pain and anguish.“There is need for broad-based dialogue and proper consultation with all stakeholders as these legislations impact the future of millions of farmers across the country, and all genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted,” said the resolution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nothing-short-of-repeal-of-farm-laws-will-work-stresses-capt-amarinder-led-punjab-govt-198427
14-01-2021||Peshawar||12 police officials dismissed for negligence in protecting Hindu temple from vandalisation in Pakistan||The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial government in Pakistan has dismissed 12 police officials following an enquiry report that found them guilty of "negligence" in protecting a Hindu temple in the province, which was torched by a mob led by members of a radical Islamist party.The government also forfeited one-year service of 33 police officials in connection with the incident.The temple in Terri village in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's Karak district was attacked on December 30 by the mob after members of the Hindu community received permission from local authorities to renovate its decades-old building. The mob demolished the newly constructed work alongside the old structure.Deputy Inspector General of Police, Kohat Region, Tayyab Hafeez Cheema had appointed Superintendent of Police (Investigation Wing) Zahir Shah as enquiry officer to probe the incident and submit its report within a week's time.Shah conducted the probe against 73 police officials and recommended to dismiss 12 of them from service on charges of negligence and irresponsibility in the discharge of their official duties.“Keeping in view of the available record and facts on file, perusal of enquiry papers and the recommendations of the Enquiry Officers, they are found guilty of the charges. They show cowardice, negligence, and irresponsibility in the discharge of their official obligations. They failed to protect the Hindu Temple which caused disrepute for the Police department in the eyes of the general public," the report said.The report recommended forfeiting one-year regular service of 33 police officials. The officer also recommended writing to the Superintendent of Police, Frontier Reserve Police, Kohat for minor punishment to the remaining 28 personnel.The 12 police officials dismissed include the station house officer (SHO) and assistant sub inspector of Terri Police Station.The report said that the mob, under the supervision of Maulana Shareef, assaulted the Hindu Temple in Terri, wherein the mob burnt the said temple and damaged it without any interruption as a result of which a complaint under various sections was filed in the Terri police station.Maulana Shareef, who is in judicial custody, is said to have incited the crowd."This is highly quite adverse on their part and shows negligence, carelessness and irresponsibility on the part of delinquent hands,” the report said.Meanwhile, a delegation of MP's belonging to the minority communities on Tuesday visited the vandalised Hindu temple.The Supreme Court has ordered the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) to start reconstruction of the damaged temple and instructed authorities to recover the money for the restoration work from the attackers whose act has caused "international embarrassment" to Pakistan.On January 1, India lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the vandalisation of the temple, saying it expects Pakistan to carry out an investigation into the incident and has asked for sharing of the probe report with it.According to sources, the Ministry of External Affairs conveyed its serious concerns to the Pakistan High Commission here over the repeated instances of similar incidents and atrocities against the members of the minority community."It was also impressed upon the government of Pakistan that this was not the first time the temple was destroyed. This has been going on since 1997. We also asked for the investigation report to be shared with the ministry," a source said.Hindus form the biggest minority community in Pakistan.According to official estimates, 75 lakh Hindus live in Pakistan. However, according to the community, over 90 lakh Hindus are living in the country.The majority of Pakistan's Hindu population is settled in Sindh province where they share culture, traditions and language with Muslim residents. They often complain of harassment by the extremists. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-police-officials-dismissed-for-negligence-in-protecting-hindu-temple-from-vandalisation-in-pakistan-198380
14-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra, Bobby and Sunny celebrate extra-special Lohri; Deols in one frame; see picture||The Deol family got together to celebrate Lohri.Actor Bobby Deol shared a glimpse of his Lohri celebration with the family. He posted a picture with his father and veteran actor Dharmendra and actor-turned-politician and brother Sunny Deol.Bobby wrote that festivals were ‘extra special’ when ‘saath hon apne’ (when our own are with us)."Festivals are extra special jab saath hon Apne. Wish you all a very happy #Lohri, #MakarSankranti, #Pongal, #Bihu and #Uttarayan #Apne2," he captioned the post on Instagram.A post shared by Bobby Deol (@iambobbydeol)  Dharmendra was proud of his son’s message for the festivals celebrated across the nation, and sent his love for his 'respect for the whole nation.' The veteran actor wrote, ‘Love you Bob, for your respect and love for the whole Nation. Maa 🇮🇳 tere har tehwaar ko salaam.’Bobby will reunite with Sunny and Dharmendra on screen with Apne 2.In November, 2020, Dharmendra announced Apne 2. He wrote: "With his blessings, your good wishes, we have decided to give you APNE2."'Apne' released in 2007.With his blessings 👋👋👋👋👋 your good wishes, we have decided to give you APNE2 💝🙏 pic.twitter.com/e7JdnkHtSM  The film starred Dharmendra, Sunny Deol and Bobby Deol in lead roles. Kiron Kher, Shilpa Shetty and Katrina Kaif played female leads in the film.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-bobby-and-sunny-celebrate-extra-special-lohri-deols-in-one-frame-see-picture-198364
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Punjab and Haryana continued to reel under severe cold wave conditions on Thursday with Narnaul being the coldest place.Narnaul in Haryana shivered at 1.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold wave conditions at 3.1, 3.7 and 4 degrees Celsius, up to three notches below normal.Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa braved the chill at 3.8, 4.3 and 5.8 degrees Celsius respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 3.8 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their minimums at 6.5, 4.8 and 5.1 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 2.5, 2.1, 4.2, 3.6, 5 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in Punjab and Haryana in the morning. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-wave-sweeps-punjab-haryana-198326
14-01-2021||Patiala||Samples from Patiala poultry farms test negative for bird flu||All the 24 samples, collected by Department of Animal Husbandry, from various poultry farms near Rakhra village in Patiala village have tested negative for bird flu.The samples were collected after dead chicken were found in a field near Rakhra village, on Tuesday.The department had sent samples to RRDL lab, Jalandhar. Dr Mohinder Pal, Joint Director (Animal Husbandry), RDDL Jalandhar, said that all the samples had tested negative for bird flu.He said, “Samples from dead chicken could not be collected because they had died almost two days ago. Therefore, we had to collect the sample from various nearby poultry farms .”Meanwhile, the health team, led by the district epidemiologist, on Wednesday visited the poultry farms in the area and screened the workers therein.Health department informed that workers were checked for flu, however, none exhibited symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samples-from-patiala-poultry-farms-test-negative-for-bird-flu-198303
14-01-2021||Legal Correspondent||Governor launches documentary, calendar on Guru Teg Bahadur’s teachings, travels||Ludhiana, January 13Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore has launched a documentary and a calendar depicting the ‘spiritual journey of Guru Teg Bahadur” prepared by city-based lawyer and nature photographer Harpreet Sandhu, dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur.While launching the documentary and the calendar, the Governor acknowledged the sincere efforts of lawyer Harpreet Sandhu for initiating a pious work which reminds us of the sacred memory of Guru Teg Bahadur Sahib. The calendar will be of immense importance to spread the philosophy of the Guru through an exceptional collection of vivid historical descriptions and photographs of the sacred shrines. It will also help to spread his preachings and message of peace and universal brotherhood.He also applauded the pictorial visuals promoting historical gurdwaras, related to the Ninth Sikh Guru.The calendar and documentary are replete with high-quality colourful pictures of gurudwaras — Guru ka Mahal (Amritsar), Vayah Asthan (Kartarpur, Jalandhar district), Bhora Sahib (Baba Bakala), Thara Sahib (Amritsar), Guru Ke Mahal (Bhora Sahib, Sri Anandpur Sahib), Thara Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib), Sis Ganj Sahib (Chandni Chowk, Delhi), Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib (Delhi), Bibangarh Sahib (Ropar), Sis Ganj Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib) and Gurudwara Akal Bunga Sahib (Sri Anandpur Sahib) depicting the pious Journey of the Guru, from his birth till the martyrdom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/governor-launches-documentary-calendar-on-guru-teg-bahadurs-teachings-travels-198019
14-01-2021||---||Copies of farm laws burnt at Sector 17 Plaza||Chandigarh, January 13In a protest organised by civil society and student groups at the Sector 17 Plaza, copies of the controversial farm laws were burnt by people to mark the Lohri festival.A crowd of about a hundred people started the protest with a two-minute silence for those who died at protest sites near Delhi, where farmers from across the country are protesting the laws.Joining in, actor-politician Gul Panag shared: “The protest has now become a mass movement of sorts, much on the account of incredible music by a lot of singers such as Ranjeet Bawa, Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema.From what one hears, there has been no representation of anti-farm law voice in the four-member committee formed by the SC,” she added.Punjabi Singer Noor Chahal said: “I come from the agricultural background and can understand the pain of the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/copies-of-farm-laws-burnt-at-sector-17-plaza-198060
14-01-2021||Amritsar||SGPC takes steps to propagate Sikhism||To propagate Sikhism, the SGPC has decided to engage Sikh researchers from various universities and conduct special refresher courses. Besides, a proposal was there to set up a religious advisory committee to make the work of Sikh History Research Board more result oriented.Similarly, the history related to the establishment of the SGPC and the Gurdwara Reform Movement will be published with a contemporary approach. Apart from this, special research work dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur and the 100th anniversary of Saka Sri Nankana Sahib will also be released.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, who held meeting with Sikh intellectuals, said, “At present many publications are required to be reprinted, for which work will be done as per the valuable opinion given by the intellectuals.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-takes-steps-to-propagate-sikhism-198239
14-01-2021||---||AAP remembers ‘martyred’ farmers||Chandigarh, January 13 Dedicating Lohri to all those who lost their lives in the ongoing farmers’ protest, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today burnt the copies of the farm laws across the state.  State AP president and MP from Sangrur Bhagwant Mann said so far more than 65 of our farmer brothers were martyred in the agitation. “In this moment of farmers’ crisis, all AAP workers have decided to dedicate Lohri to our martyred brothers. They burnt more than 8 lakh copies of the black laws which killed our farmer brothers, in every village, locality and cities of every district of Punjab, at more than 16,000 places,” he said. Mann said the central government should not play with the feelings of the farmers and repeal the black laws immediately. He said it was unfortunate that even the apex court could not understand the problems of the farmers properly and they could not get justice from the court. He said AAP had been standing shoulder to shoulder with the farmers since the first day of the movement and would continue to raise the voice of its farmer brothers from the road to  Parliament. Meanwhile, Punjab AAP co-in charge Raghav Chadha on Wednesday said: “We believe that this power (to repeal laws) is with the central government and no committee or panel could do this work.”  Chadha said BS Mann on the SC-constituted committee, a supporter of the farm laws, was also a close confidante of CM Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-remembers-martyred-farmers-198182
14-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Copies of farm laws go up in flames||Ludhiana/Abohar, January 13Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farm organisations burnt copies of new agriculture laws and held demonstrations at many places in the state on Lohri as a mark of protest against the legislations.In Ludhiana, activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) celebrated Lohri by burning copies of the central farm laws at Kohara. They asserted that they were all set to take out a tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day and make their intention known to Centre that the agitation would continue till the farm laws were scrapped.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said it was perhaps for the first time in history that farmers were observing ‘black Lohri’ in protest against the anti-farmer policies of the BJP-led central government.“It is also for the first time that farmers have been sitting on a peaceful protest around the national capital for the past over 50 days in freezing conditions in a momentous show of unity against the highhandedness of the Centre. All along, the Narendra Modi government has been watching the situation like a mute spectator even after several farmers have lost their lives during the course of agitation,” said Lakhowal.He said the indifferent attitude of the central government had been evident from its adamant stand in all the meetings held between the farmer unions and central ministers. He added that the government was just buying time to tire out the protesting farmers and it had no intention of accepting their demand for the rollback of agriculture laws.Asserting that the decision of taking out a tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day was final and non-negotiable, Lakhowal claimed there was unprecedented response to the call given by the agitating farmers’ bodies to their fraternity to reach Delhi with tractors in large numbers.Meanwhile, in Abohar, farmers burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, corporate houses and actor Kangana Ranaut and copies of the three central agriculture laws.The protesters assembled at Shaheed Chowk outside Sadar Bazar, raised slogans against the central government, some big corporates and actor Kangana Ranaut and then burnt copies of the three farm laws, besides the effigies that carried pictures of Modi and others. Farmers said more batches would leave for the Delhi border soon to join the agitation.They said it was condemnable that actors were casting aspersions on the peaceful movement even when they didn’t know about farming or the bad effect of farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/copies-of-farm-laws-go-up-in-flames-198183
14-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Lawyers lend support to protesters||Lawyers of District Bar Association, Fatehgarh Sahib, led by former Bar president Amardeep Singh Dharni, today burnt the copies of three farm laws in the district court complex today and raised slogans against the central government.Dharni said they celebrated Lohri by burning the copies of the farm laws to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. On the Supreme Court’s judgment, he said the apex court should not act as mediator and maintain its dignity. He said farmers had already rejected the committee formed by the Supreme Court as all members were pro-farm laws. He said the Union government was using all options to derail the farmer’s peaceful agitation and lawyers would continue to support the cause of farmers.Meanwhile, AAP volunteers led by Narinder Singh Tiwana burnt the copies of the farm laws and termed these laws anti-farmers and pro-corporates. He also criticised the formation of a four-member committee by the SC, alleging the Modi government managed its members on the panel. He said AAP would participate in tractor rallies on Republic Day. Party workers of SAD(A) also burnt the copies of farm lawsand raised slogans against the Modi government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lawyers-lend-support-to-protesters-198184
14-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma---||At Tikri, biting cold fails to deter elderly||Tribune News Service Tikri, January 13 Amid reports of biting cold and harsh conditions making things tougher and affecting the health of the elderly farmers protesting at the Delhi borders, there are many who have proved that age is just a number. “It is cold here, but not as much as it is in our fields where we stay at night to irrigate fields around this time of the year. I have no problem in staying here,” said Mahinder Sandhu, 70, from Ealwal village. He has been at the protest site since November 27 and has not visited his house even once. Another 70-year-old protester Karnail Singh said some politicians were spreading misinformation about cold affecting the elderly. “Even youngsters have died here recently. Age has no connection with deaths. I, along with my three other friends who are above 60 years old, have been sitting here since the protest began but we haven’t faced any health issues so far,” he said. A visit to the 7-km area on the Tikri border reveals that the elderly farmers were determined to die at the protest site than go back without getting the central agriculture laws repealed. “The elderly at the Delhi borders have helped us maintain discipline. You would not see even a single youngster indulging in indiscipline. This has helped channelise the youth energy in the right direction,” said Dev Singh, 70. Though not well educated, they say they were keeping themselves updated with the latest information regarding the farm laws with the help of the youngsters, who keep themselves abreast with the latest developments using their smartphones. “We are illiterate, but still understand that the laws are against us. But why the well-educated central leaders are not able to understand this,” said Balwinder Singh, another elderly protester. Keeping themselves busy in preparing food and cleaning tractor-trailers, they said they did face problems. “It’s not a picnic for us. We face lot of problems but we have no choice. The Centre has compelled us to stay here,” said Jagmale Singh, another septuagenarian. Gursharn Kaur, 68, from Bathinda said her daughter and daughter-in-law were taking care of the house and fields with her son, while she along with her husband had been sitting at the protest site since December 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-tikri-biting-cold-fails-to-deter-elderly-198185
14-01-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||Youngsters extend help to protesters||Tribune News Service Bathinda, January 13 Tikri and Singhu borders are witnessing a social change, where hoards of Punjabi youngsters, who were until now labeled as flamboyant, materialistic and drug dependents, are reaching out to extend all help to farmers. Brother-sister duo of Bathinda Dr Manhar Kaur and Sarvfateh Singh are one such example.  Dr Manhar a dentist by profession and is providing medical help along with Dr Swaimann Singh, a cardiologist from New Jersey. Her work starts at midnight when she gets in touch with logistic volunteers from the USA working in John Hopkins and Harvard Universities. The next day is planned and execution starts with the first rays of sun. People come up to them with ailments and are given all help. While talking to The Tribune over the phone, Dr Manhar said, “More than curing a disease, they need a healing touch of words of compassion and motivation.” Sarvfateh Singh, who is pursuing a degree in product design from Los Angeles, USA, is highly motivated and works for a recently started library and facilitating supplies arriving from various sources at the Tikri border. He also spends time in live caricature sketching at the camps which he lovingly gifts to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youngsters-extend-help-to-protesters-198186
14-01-2021||Fazilka||BJP leader joins Cong over laws||BJP leader and former vice-president of the local municipal council Jagdish Biswal and his supporters quit the party today.Biswal said he quit the BJP due to the agriculture laws and its anti-farmer policies. Former councillor from ward number 16, Biswal joined the Congress in the presence of Fazilka MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya, Block Congress Committee president Surinder Kalra and Improvement Trust Chairman Ashwani Neetu Sethi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leader-joins-cong-over-laws-198187
14-01-2021||---||Rehearsal for R-Day tractor parade||Bathinda, January 13A large number of farmers today conducted the rehearsal for the proposed tractor parade on January 26 in Bathinda city on Wednesday.On tractors, jeeps, cars and motorcycles, farmers today took out the Kisan Ekta March in which they raised slogans against the Modi government. The protesters also carried flags and placards, stating “No Farmer, No Food”, on their vehicles supporting the farmers’ agitation. The march started from Model Town phase 3 and after passing through various parts of the city, it ended at Fire Brigade.Massive tractor rally in Fazilka Various organiastions, employees, students and shopkeepers participated in the march held today in the city. Even stickers supporting farmers were distributed at the spot by the organisations. Farmers also appealed to the residents to celebrate Lohri by burning the farm laws in protest.Farmers said the tractor march was a trailer and if the central government did not repeal the laws before January 26, a large number of farmers from all over Punjab would join the protesters at Delhi borders for the march.Various farmers unions also took out a tractor march in the district. A large number of tractors entered Bathinda city from various villages in support of the farmers’ stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rehearsal-for-r-day-tractor-parade-198188
14-01-2021||---||2 SC panel members CM’s aides: SAD||Faridkot, January 13Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today alleged that the Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws had two members who were known for their proximity with Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Alleging Capt Amarinder had a tactical understanding with the BJP, Sukhbir alleged the CM was dancing to the tune of the BJP and working overtime to implement the farm laws in the state.Sukhbir alleged committee member Bhupinder Singh Mann headed a faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union which had officially supported Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress in the run up to the Assembly elections in 2017. “Mann’s son Gurpartap was an official spokesperson of the Congress and was also appointed a member of the Punjab Public Service Commission,” Sukhbir claimed.He said similarly, another member Ashok Gulati had also been nominated as a member of a state committee by the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-sc-panel-members-cms-aides-sad-198189
14-01-2021||Ludhiana||Train services to remain curtailed||Due to the ongoing agitation by farmers, the Railways has extended the cancellation, short-termination (partial cancellation) and diversion of various trains in the region till January 15.Officials said the Darbhanga-Amritsar-Darbhanga Express special train would remain cancelled from January 13 to 15. Trains to be short-terminated and short-originated (partially cancelled) include the Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express and the Korba-Amritsar-Korbha Chhattisgarh Express (at Ambala Cantt) till January 15.The Mumbai Central-Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar-Bandra Trminus Pashchim Express, Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Humsafar Express, Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express, Haridwar-Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi Express and Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express would remain diverted via Amritsar-Tarntaran-Beas till January 15. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/train-services-to-remain-curtailed-198190
14-01-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda arhtiya robbed of Rs9L||Two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons today attacked an arhtiya and robbed him of Rs 9 lakh at Goniana Mandi.Victim Sanjeev Kumar told the police that he was opening his shop around 6.45 am when two unidentified persons attacked him. They threw chilli powder into his eyes and decamped with his bag containing Rs 9 lakh.Nehianwala police station SHO Buta Singh said, “The accused would be arrested soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-arhtiya-robbed-of-rs9l-198191
14-01-2021||---||Hindu leader’s killing: NIA files chargesheet against 3||New Delhi, January 13Anti-terror probe agency NIA today said it had filed a chargesheet in a local special court against three arms suppliers in the case of killing of Hindu leader Amit Sharma, president of Sri Hindu Takht, Ludhiana.Officials in the NIA said in the chargesheet, the agency had named arms suppliers Ashish Kumar, Javed and Arshad Ali, alias Munshi, all residents of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. They have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Arms Act.“The case has arisen out of the Ludhiana Police FIR dated January 15, 2017, related to the killing of Amit Sharma,” NIA spokesperson Jaya Roy said.On January 14, 2017, two unknown motorcycle-borne assailants killed Sharma as a part of an organised conspiracy hatched by terrorist outfit Khalistan Liberation Front, she said, adding that the murder was one among eight such cases of serial killings/attempted killings that took place in Punjab in 2016-2017 with a view to create terror and communal disturbance.“Investigation has established that the accused facilitated other persons in the commission of the terrorist act leading to the killing of Sharma by supplying illegal fire arms used in the crime. They had supplied illegal arms, including .32 bore pistols, which, along with other weapons/fire arms, were used in targeted killings in Punjab,” the spokesperson said.Earlier, the NIA had filed a chargesheet on May 14, 2018, against 15 accused persons in the case. They included Hardeep Singh, alias Shera; Ramandeep Singh, alias Canadian; Dharminder Singh, alias Guguni; Anil Kumar, alias Kala; Jagtar Singh Johal, alias Jaggi; Amaninder Singh, alias Mindu; Manpreet Singh, alias Mani; Ravipal Singh, alias Bhunda; Pahad Singh; Parvez, alias Farru; Malook Tomar, Harmeet Singh, alias Happy; Gurjinder Singh alias Shastri, Gursharanbir Singh, alias Pehalwan and Gurjant Singh Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hindu-leaders-killing-nia-files-chargesheet-against-3-198192
14-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court sets aside order giving relief to Veer Singh Lopoke||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 13More than two years after an appellate court set aside the trial court’s judgment convicting ex-MLA Veer Singh Lopoke in a defamation case before sentencing him to simple imprisonment for a year, the order has failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Taking up a bunch of two petitions, Justice Sanjay Kumar has set aside the appellate court’s judgment dated October 30, 2018, “insofar as it allowed the appeal of the accused and set aside the judgment dated September 18, 2013, of the Amritsar Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate”Defamation case against ex-MLA Justice Kumar was told that complainant-now Congress minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and the accused were rival candidates in the Assembly elections from Rajasansi constituency held in February 2007. On the date of the election, an advertisement was published in a newspaper allegedly depicting the complainant in a negative light and the accused was stated to be responsible for its publication. He also allegedly distributed copies of the newspaper that day.The trail court, vide judgment dated September 18, 2013, found sufficient evidence to convict and sentence the accused, leading to cross appeals. Justice Kumar asserted the accused filed an independent appeal against his conviction and sentence. But once the appellate court found sufficient grounds to allow additional evidence to be adduced under Section 391 of the CrPC in the complainant’s appeal, it could not have decided the appeals at that stage.Both appeals necessarily had to await the adducing of additional evidence so that the appellate court could take the same into account while deciding them comprehensively. Finding enough grounds to allow the application under Section 391 in the complainant’s appeal, the appellate court was not justified in dismissing his appeal as infructuous and in setting aside the judgment dated September 18, 2013, of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate. “The approach of the appellate court defies law, logic and comprehension,” Justice Kumar asserted.Before parting with the case, Justice Kumar added the appellate court would dispose of both appeals on merits and in accordance with the law, duly taking into consideration the additional evidence placed before it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-sets-aside-order-giving-relief-to-veer-singh-lopoke-198193
14-01-2021||Faridkot||Tax inspector arrested on bribery charge||The Vigilance Bureau today arrested an inspector of the Sales Tax Department for allegedly receiving Rs 40,000 as bribe. Paramjit Singh Virk, SSP, Vigilance Bureau, Faridkot, said the accused, Vikas Kumar, was employed with the mobile wing of the department in Fazilka. Deepak Goyal, owner of a plastic goods factory in Faridkot, had complained that his raw material worth Rs 4.5 lakh was impounded on January 6 on the suspicion of tax evasion. The complainant said the accused demanded Rs 80,000 as bribe to settle the case. However, the deal was struck at Rs 40,000. After receiving the complaint, the Faridkot team of the bureau nabbed the inspector red-handed while accepting Rs 40,000 as bribe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tax-inspector-arrested-on-bribery-charge-198194
14-01-2021||---||Heroin worth Rs 60 crore seized||Amritsar, January 13 The BSF seized 12 kg of heroin, worth Rs 60 crore in the international market, near the India-Pakistan border today. “We seized 12 packets of the contraband near the border fence. The area is manned by 88 Bn, BSF, Amritsar sector. A 13-foot-long PVC pipe was also found there. It was probably used to push packets across the border. No arrest has been made so far,” a BSF official said. On December 17, 2020, two attempts of heroin smuggling from across the border were foiled in the Amritsar sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-60-crore-seized-198195
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Issue warrants against BDA chief, 2 others: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the issuance of bailable warrants against Bathinda Development Authority (BDA) Chief Administrator Parminder Singh Gill, additional Chief Administrator Bikramjit Singh Shergill and Estate Officer Balwinder Kaur in a contempt case.The directions by Justice BS Walia came on a petition filed against the three by Virdevinder Singh and another petitioner through counsel Manish Kumar Singla. Justice Walia asserted none was present on the respondent’s behalf.“Issue bailable warrants in the sum of Rs 20,000 each to secure the presence of the respondents for February 8,” Justice Walia ruled. The bailable warrants were directed to be served on the respondents through Bathinda Chief Judicial Magistrate. Singla, on the petitioner’s behalf, was seeking directions for punishing the respondents for defiance of the High Court orders dated October 17, 2019. The petitioners before the court in the matter had approached the court with the grievance that possession was not handed over to them within the specified period, despite their depositing requisite 25 per cent of the total plot value. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issue-warrants-against-bda-chief-2-others-high-court-198196
14-01-2021||Archit Watts||15 years gone, Muktsar memorial yet to come up||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, January 13It has been nearly 15 years since the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) laid the foundation stone of the martyrs’ memorial dedicated to Mai Bhago and 40 Muktas on the Tibbi Sahib road here, but not even a single brick has been laid till date.The foundation stone laid by the then SGPC chief, Bibi Jagir Kaur, and the then SAD chief, Parkash Singh Badal, has gone missing. In the past, the SGPC held several meetings and gave assurances to start the construction at the earliest, but the work has not started yet.Maghi significanceOn Thursday, at Maghi Day, a large number of people are expected to pay obeisance at the historic gurdwaras and take a dip in the holy pond. However, some monuments built in the memory of 40 Muktas are crying for repair.Navtej Kauni, executive member, SGPC, said, “The proposed land is away from the main gurdwara, so we are planning to change the location of the memorial. The work is expected to start soon.”Earlier too, there was a plan to change the location of the memorial, which did not happen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-years-gone-muktsar-memorial-yet-to-come-up-198197
14-01-2021||Our Correspondent||ODF-plus tag for Abohar||Abohar, January 13The subdivisional town of Abohar, that had had attained low rankings in national surveys for four years, has been given Open Defecation Free (ODF)-plus status.According to a survey conducted by the government under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the town has been given ODF-plus status.Abhijit Kaplish, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G), who also serves as Commissioner, Municipal Commissioner, today congratulated the staff of the departments concerned.Kaplish said in the first phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission, the goal was to have toilets in each house. In the second phase, ODF-plus status was introduced for toilets equipped with all facilities. Community toilets in Abohar met all conditions to become eligible for the ODF-plus status, he said. A comprehensive drive to improve the standard of sanitation had been launched here and 25 tippers, besides hand-pulled rickshaws had been provided to ‘safai sewaks’ to collect wet and dry garbage across the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/odf-plus-tag-for-abohar-198198
14-01-2021||---||CMO steps in, work on Sangrur street resumes||Sangrur, January 13Days after The Tribune highlighted the alleged discrimination faced by the family of deceased Air Vice Marshal Gurdial Singh Punia AVSM (retd) from the Panchayat Department, the Chief Minister’s Office pulled up senior officials and got started the construction work at the street, which had been left incomplete for the past more than a year in Gurdaspura village.Punia, his father Subdedar Dhanna Singh and son Col Inderpal Singh Punia (retd) have served in the armed forces for almost a century. Last year, the Panchayat Department laid interlocking tiles only in half of the street and left the remaining muddy portion in front of the house of Punia incomplete.“Work has started after more than one year as earlier, the Panchayat Department did not take any action. We are thankful to the office of the Punjab CM for getting the work started,” said Jaspal Singh Sekhon, a resident of the area.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said after getting calls from the CMO, he had directed the department to complete the work at the earliest. “It was not in my knowledge, otherwise I would have got it done earlier,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cmo-steps-in-work-on-sangrur-street-resumes-198199
14-01-2021||Karam Prakash||300 specialist doctors go without pay for 5 months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 13Already facing a shortage of specialist doctors, the Health Department has failed to pay salaries to newly recruited doctors for over five months.The Health Department had last year recruited around 300 specialist doctors across the state. The state government, in the appointment letters, had said they would be paid as per relevant level in the 7th Central pay scale. However, the authorities didn’t clarify about the corresponding allowances of the level of scale, which is said to be the reason for the delay in releasing the salaries.The specialist doctors have already made several requests to the State Health Department to release their salaries at the earliest. A doctor said, “It has already been five months but we don’t know when we will get our salaries. This sort of administrative failure is the reason that specialists stay away from the government sector.”Another specialist, who has already written to the Civil Surgeon over the issue, said they had been getting higher salaries in the private sector. “It is humiliating that we have to plead to the government for our salaries,” he said.Dr GB Singh, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said there was lack of clarity on allowances of specialist doctors. Consequently, they had to send the file concerned to the Finance Department. He said, “As soon as we get clarity over the allowances, salaries will be released.”Finance dept to clarify||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/300-specialist-doctors-go-without-pay-for-5-months-198200
14-01-2021||Bathinda||Celebratory firing: 23-yr-old killed at Lohri event in Talwandi Sabo village||Lohri celebrations in Rayia village of Talwandi Sabo turned into mourning when a man fired a shot from his licensed revolver. The bullet hit a youth present in the function, which led to his death on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Harjit Singh (23), a resident of Pakka Shaheeda Wala village in Sirsa district of Haryana. The police have registered a case on the complaint of Harjit’s uncle. Gursewak Singh, a resident of Pakka Shaheeda village in Sirsa, said Lohri celebration of his maternal uncle Surjit Singh’s grandson was organised in Raiya village. He was accompanied by his nephew Harjit. Surjit fired a celebratory shot that hit his nephew. Hunt is on to arrest Surjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/celebratory-firing-23-yr-old-killed-at-lohri-event-in-talwandi-sabo-village-198201
14-01-2021||Barnala||Barnala gender ratio improves, ranks 3rd||While the state celebrates “Lohri” of daughters to promote the girl child, Barnala celebrates the improvement in sex ratio from 905 to 967 girls per 1,000 boys, indicating that the bias against the girl child has been on the decline in the district.Intensive awareness activities on gender issues has propelled the sex ratio at birth in Barnala from seventh position in April 2019-March 2020 to third place from April 2020-December 2020. As per data, Barnala stands third with 967 girls for every 1,000 boys. Patiala tops the state with 987girls, followed by SAS Nagar with 976. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-gender-ratio-improves-ranks-3rd-198202
14-01-2021||Fazilka||Lawyers protest rise in theft cases||Advocates continued their protest on the second day today by abstaining from courts in Jalalabad town and staging an agitation outside the SDM office against a spurt in thefts at the tehsil and court complex. They raised slogans against the police and the administration for failing to check theft cases. Association president Rohit Dahuja alleged that locks of two chambers of lawyers were broke open on Monday night. Four such incidents were reported two days ago, which resulted in a sense of insecurity among advocates and their staff. Dahuja said four inverters had been stolen from the chambers. Advocate Anish Gagneja said the police had failed to perform their duty. DSP Palvinder Singh said the police had been checking CCTV cameras and the thieves would be nabbed soon. He said the administration had been approached to ensure proper lighting in the court complex. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lawyers-protest-rise-in-theft-cases-198203
14-01-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Dense fog envelops Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 13Cold wave and dense fog threw life out of gear in Bathinda city. A thick blanket of fog enveloped the city on Wednesday morning, causing minor accidents on the roads due to poor visibility.As main and link roads were covered under thick fog, vehicles could be seen plying at minimum speed.The fog restricted penetration of sun rays in the morning and cold wind added to the chill. However, by the noon, little sunshine could be seen. Morning walkers were worst-affected. However, this weather will be beneficial for the wheat crop.Hawkers, vegetable sellers, food delivery workers and milkmen faced difficulty in carrying out their routine tasks.As per the Meteorological Department of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) regional centre, Bathinda, the minimum temperature witnessed in the city was 3°C and the maximum was 13.6°C.Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Model Town, Phase 3, said, “I had assumed that the fog will not be thick, but when I stepped out of the door, I realised its enormity. I faced difficulty while walking.”Another resident, Ankush Aggarwal, said “As per my routine, I woke up at 7 am. I could see the dense fog from my balcony. Visibility was less, so I had to cancel my morning walk. I preferred to stay indoors.”A traffic police official said, “Emergency blinkers at the front and the rear of the vehicles should be used during fog. Low-beam lights should be used. High-beam lights hamper visibility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dense-fog-envelops-bathinda-198204
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Bibi Jagir Kaur, Diljit Dosanjh among world’s 'top 100 Sikhs'||SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and actor Diljit Dosanjh have been named among the 100 most influential Sikh personalities in the world by a UK-based global Sikh organisation.Both made their debut in the latest 9th edition of “The Sikh 100” list announced by “The Sikh Group”, a global organisation recognising Sikhs from across the world.Kaur has been recognised as the second most powerful Sikh personality at the global level in 2020. The first position has been retained by Takht Hazur Sahib Jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh, who was declared the most influential Sikh in 2019 as well.Talking to The Tribune, The Sikh Group founder Navdeep Singh said: “The Sikh 100 is an annual ranking, documenting profiles of some of the most influential Sikhs from around the world and across all sectors, be it business, education, profession, media, entertainment, sports or charity.”Diljit, who supported the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws and donated a huge amount, secured the 62nd position. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bibi-jagir-kaur-diljit-dosanjh-among-worlds-top-100-sikhs-198205
14-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Presence of women strengthens stir||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 13The number of women protesters from Haryana continue to swell at the Delhi borders, where farmers from Punjab and other states have been camping for more than a month demanding the repeal of the three farm laws. The unprecedented participation of Haryanvi women has come as a shot in the arm for the agitation.Saroj Devi, a farmer who drove a tractor to reach the dharna site from Khatkar village, said, “The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don’t produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many men and women from Punjab are protesting. Why should we sit at home?”“We were inspired by women from Punjab, who halted for a night in Haryana villages on their way to the Delhi border,” she added.Why sit at home? The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don’t produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many men as well as women from Punjab are protesting. Why should we sit at home? —Saroj Devi, Khatkar village residentWomen from Khatkar, Pokhri Kheri, Baroda, Sangatpura, Barodi and Jangh Kalan Jangh Khurd had cooked meal for nearly 20,000 farmers from Punjab during their halt last month. They also played host to women farmers from Punjab.Sikkim Sheokand, a resident of Safa Kheri village, said Haryanvi women were quick in composing folk songs in accordance with events.In this case, they could be heard singing songs like “Ambani ke gahne dhare tha e bebe”, “paati se jaan” and “hum tractor leke aaye Delhi ke beech”, she said, adding that one of their self-made lyrics, “Dhokhe me bharat lootya e bebe, vadyan ki jhooth (Bharat is being betrayed by false promises o sister)” was much appreciated by one and all.She added that they had long juggled the demands of field and family, making sure both were tended to, and now hundreds of women from Haryana as well as Punjab had added another dimension to their busy lives — the protest sites at the Delhi borders.“We were impressed by the determination of women from Punjab. We, too, decided to take out time from our daily routine at home and fields and form jathas to reach the dharna site on tractor-trailers,” said another woman from Haryana.Phool Kumar, a khap leader, said, “The presence of women points towards their awakening. Apparently, they are inspired by women from Punjab,” he said, adding when women worked shoulder to shoulder with men in fields, why should they hesitate from joining the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/presence-of-women-strengthens-stir-197983
14-01-2021||Sameer Singh||At Tikri, facilities mapped out for protesting farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 13To facilitate agitating farmers navigate their way on the Delhi borders, the Punjab Club run by an NGO has created a map covering 20 km around the Tikri protest site.NRI cartographer pitches in Another map on Singhu protest site to be out soonThe map offers marked locations for facilities like medical assistance, hospitals, langar, police help, library, water tankers, portable toilets and washing machines at the protest site.To bring out the map, the club tied up with an NRI cartographer based in Germany, Tanuj Chawla, who agreed to work for free. Subheg Singh (23), one of the members of the club, said: “While we were busy supplying essential items to the protest sites on Delhi borders, we observed that farmers, especially the elderly, were having a hard time in finding locations. We then decided to have a map that could help protesters reach specific points.“The map will also come in handy if there’s a medical emergency. For instance, if somebody suffers cardiac arrest then the initial few minutes are crucial. If the location for first aid and immediate medical support at the protest site is known, it can prove to be a life-saver.”Several club members contributed to the project by sharing information among other technical details with the cartographer to ensure accuracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-tikri-facilities-mapped-out-for-protesting-farmers-198222
14-01-2021||Toronto||Navdeep Bains quits Justin Trudeau govt||Canadian PM Justin Trudeau has made a former astronaut his new foreign minister in a Cabinet reshuffle sparked by the sudden resignation of high-profile Indian-origin Canadian Sikh minister Navdeep Bains.He is unlikely to run in the next election. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navdeep-bains-quits-justin-trudeau-govt-198133
14-01-2021||---||Farmer unions burn copies of farm laws on Lohri||Sonepat/Bahadurgarh, January 13A day after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws, farm leaders protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders marked Lohri today by burning copies of the laws and reaffirming their resolve to continue their protest until the laws were repealed.Protest calendarJan 20: Victory pledge on Guru Gobind Singh’s Parkash DiwasJan 23: Gherao of Raj Bhawans across the countryJan 26: Kisan tractor paradeOne lakh copies of the three laws were burnt at the Singhu border alone, said Paramjeet Singh of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha.The farm leaders said they burnt the copies of the laws as a mark of protest against the Centre’s adamant attitude and reiterated their decision to not appear before the four-member panel formed by the Supreme Court on Tuesday.Several bonfires were lined up at the Delhi-Haryana stretch, the nerve centre of the farmers’ agitation. The protesting farmers raised slogans, sang songs of resistance and hope as they burnt copies of the farm laws.Earlier today, leaders of farm unions decided to go ahead with their protest calendar and said they would gherao Raj Bhawans across the country on January 23 to demand the repeal of the laws. They said they would also mark “women farmers’ day” on January 18, take a pledge of victory on January 20 (Guru Gobind Singh’s Parkash Diwas) and hold kisan tractor parade on January 26.Meanwhile, leaders of 32 farm unions from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states gathered at Kisan Andolan office in Kundli near the Singhu border to burn copies of the laws.Many farmer leaders, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, also participated.“We have marked the Lohri festival by burning copies of the farm laws to mark our protest against the Centre. Earlier, we had celebrated Dasehra by burning effigies of the Prime Minister,” said Manjeet Singh Rai, a farm leader from Punjab.“We request the government to repeal the farm laws, so that we can return home soon,” he added.Balkar Singh, a farmer from Sangrur in Punjab, said the festival of Lohri was quite different this time. “It is for a big cause. The festival has become a mark of togetherness for farmers of a number of states.”Farmers at the Tikri dharna site near Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district of Haryana reiterated their vow to “fight to the finish” on Lohri, which marks the harvesting of rabi crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-on-lohri-198179
14-01-2021||GS Paul||SGPC chief Jagir Kaur, actor Diljit Dosanjh among influential ‘Sikhs 100’ list||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 13SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has made a debut in the latest edition of ‘The Sikhs 100’ list released by The Sikh Group – a UK-based global Sikh organisation.Kaur was positioned second among the powerful 100 Sikhs on global level in 2020, next to Takht Hazur Sahib Jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh, who retained the top position.Talking to The Tribune, founder of The Sikh Group Navdeep Singh said that ‘The Sikh 100’ was an annual ranking, documenting profiles of some of the most influential Sikhs from around the world and across all sectors, including business, education, profession, media, entertainment, sports and charity.“Out of 26 million Sikhs, they were chosen in the current list.  Though, we do not honour them physically, yet our aim was to share the real stories of inspiration so that all generations of Sikh community should be encouraged to aim high, be passionate and excel in all aspects of their lives,” said Navdeep Singh.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh held their positions at third and fourth places, respectively, among the 100 Sikhs chosen for the list.Diljit Dosanjh, the actor who recently hogged limelight for his unconditional support to the farmers’ agitation too qualified to be in the list for the first time.Cricketer-turned-Politician Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal may not lose a chance to hit out at each other on political front, but the two share a common platform when it comes to being ‘powerful’ Sikhs on global level. Both Sidhu and Sukhbir have retained their places in the list. While Sukhbir is placed 18th on the list, Sidhu’s name figures at the 30th place.The list also comprises names of former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, Union Minister Hardeep Puri, former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, former MP Tarlochan Singh, Pingalwara Society president Dr Inderjit Kaur, Padam Shree Baba Sewa Singh Khadoor Sahib and Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale.The list also includes the first Sikh and non Muslim Senator in the Afghan Parliament Anarkali Kaur, Canadian Minister Harjit Singh Sajjan, Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Satwant Singh, Dubai based social activist SPS Oberoi and USA based EcoSikh president Dr Rajwant Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-chief-jagir-kaur-actor-diljit-dosanjh-among-influential-sikhs-100-list-197925
14-01-2021||Mathura||Protesting farmers don't know what they want, says BJP MP Hema Malini||Farmers agitating at the borders of Delhi don't know what they want, said veteran actor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Mathura, Hema Malini, and added that they are only protesting because someone had asked them to do so."It is good that the Supreme Court has stayed the laws. This will hopefully calm the situation. Farmers are not willing to come to a consensus even after so many talks. They do not even know what they want and what is the problem with the farm laws. This means that they are doing this because someone asked them to do it," Hema Malini said.She also said that it was 'not nice' to see towers being vandalised in Punjab."Punjab has suffered a lot of losses. It was not nice to see them (farmers) vandalise towers. The government has called them for talks repeatedly, but they don't even have an agenda," she added.Speaking about the COVID-19 situation, she reminded people that the pandemic is not yet over and masks should be used and safety protocols followed."Corona is not yet over. Some people from our party passed away due to the disease. The general public should continue to be more cautious. If we roam around freely (without precautions) it will increase again. Especially with this new bird flu, everyone should take care of themselves and their family," she said.The actor-turned-politician further said that she would definitely be vaccinated when her turn comes."Good that the vaccine is here now. I will definitely get the vaccine when my turn comes. The opposition has also said some things. Whatever the government says they have to say just the opposite," she said. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-dont-know-what-they-want-says-bjp-mp-hema-malini-197844
14-01-2021||New Delhi||On Lohri, protesting farmers in Delhi burn copies of new agri laws||Agitating farmers on Wednesday burnt copies of the contentious farm laws to mark the festival of Lohri.One lakh copies of the three agri laws were burnt at the Singhu border alone, said Paramjeet Singh of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Lohri is widely celebrated in Punjab and Haryana to mark the harvesting of Rabi crops. People traditionally celebrate it by circling around bonfires, throwing food items—peanuts, puffed rice, popcorn etc—into the fire, singing folk songs, dancing and feasting on the festive food.Also readFarmers in Punjab, Haryana burn copies of farm laws on Lohri“The celebrations can wait. We will celebrate all these festivals the day our demand of repealing of these black laws are met by the Centre,” said 65-year-old Gurpreet Singh Sandhu who hails from Haryana’s Karnal district.Several bonfires were lined up at the Delhi-Haryana border stretch, the nerve centre of the farmers’ agitation. The protesting farmers raised slogans, sang songs of resistance and hope as they orbited the bonfire, burning copies of farm laws and praying for the success of their protest.“This Lohri is filled with struggle,” said Rajbir Singh, a 34-year-old farmer from Punjab’s Barnala district.“It is minus the fun, the song and the dance we used to have back home on Lohri. But I am happy to be here and celebrate it with my family of farmers this time.”                 “Today, we have burned the copies, tomorrow the Centre will burn them. They have to, we will make them do it,” he added.Many farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, also threw copies of the farm laws in the bonfire, created on the premises of the Kisan Andolan office.Earlier in the day, farmer leader Manjeet Singh Rai said they would celebrate Lohri by burning the copies of farm laws at all protest sites in the evening.Meanwhile, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting farmer unions, is hold a meeting to discuss the next course of action.This comes a day after the protesting farmer unions asserted that they would not appear before the Supreme Court-appointed panel, alleging it was "pro-government", and said they would not settle for anything less than the repeal of the three contentious laws.The unions also raised doubts over the neutrality of the members of the committee even as they welcomed the top court's order to stay the implementation of the laws.The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders and set up the four-member committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmer unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations.Also read: Protesting farmers don't know what they want, says Hema Malini; adds 'Punjab has suffered a lot of losses'Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) system for their crops.Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-lohri-protesting-farmers-in-delhi-burn-copies-of-new-agri-laws-197840
