15-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 12 more deaths, 242 new cases in Punjab||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 5,485 in Punjab with 12 more fatalities while 242 new cases took the infection count to 1,70,191 on Friday.There are 2,739 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to a medical bulletin.Mohali reported 37 new cases, Ludhiana 35 and Patiala 33, among the fresh cases witnessed in the state.A total of 257 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of those recovered to 1,61,967, as per the bulletin.Thirteen critical patients are on ventilator support, while 88 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 41,97,346 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-12-more-deaths-242-new-cases-in-punjab-198971
15-01-2021||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court panel on farmers’ agitation in limbo||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 15The Supreme Court’s four-member committee on farmers’ agitation appears to be in limbo after the lone farmers’ representative and Bharatiya Kisan Union National President Bhupinder Singh Mann recused himself in view of criticism from his own union which sacked him from its primary membership.Legal experts told The Tribune that the panel can’t start its work until it’s reconstituted and the vacancy is filled with a farmers’ representative in place of Mann.“The Supreme Court will have to nominate some other person in the committee. Since setting up of the committee is a unilateral action on the part of the court, only the court can find a replacement for Mann,” senior counsel Vikas Singh, who is appearing a PIL petitioner seeking guidelines on agitations, said.Advocate Virag Gupta said, “the Supreme Court may modify its previous order and allow the committee to continue with only three members or name Mann’s replacement. Since Kishan Unions have expressed their willingness to continue talks with the government it may keep its order on hold or even refer it to a Constitution Bench.”While staying the implementation of the three farm laws being opposed by farmers who have blocked key entry points to Delhi since November 26, 2020, a three-judge Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde had on January 12 set up a four-member committee to hear the various stakeholders’ views.Beside Mann, the other three members of the committee were Pramod Kumar Joshi (Director, South Asia international Food Policy), Agricultural Economist Ashok Gulati and Shetkari Sanghatana leader Anil Ghanwat.They were mandated to talk to the agitating farmers on the Farmers (Empowerment & Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance & Farm Services Act 2020, Farmers Produce Trade & Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act & Amendment to Essential Commodities Act and file a report before the court in two months.Advocate AP Singh, who is representing some farmers’ bodies in the case, said, “it was bound to happen as most of the members were pro-farm laws and their views were already known. Mr Mann is being guided by his conscience.” Asked about the future of the committee, he said, “We are planning something…You will come to know about it soon.”While forming the four-member panel, the top court had expressed the hope that it “may create a congenial atmosphere and improve the trust and confidence of the farmers.”It had said that “a stay of implementation of all the three farm laws for the present, may assuage the hurt feelings of the farmers and encourage them to come to the negotiating table with confidence and good faith.”The top court had said that “this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others.”However, contrary to the court’s expectations, the farmer unions refused to budge from their position and continued to demand complete repeal of the three farm laws, leading to failure of the ninth round of talks with the government on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-panel-on-farmers-agitation-in-limbo-198957
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Arrangements in place for COVID-19 vaccination drive in Punjab, Haryana||All arrangements are in place in Punjab and Haryana for the launch of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on Saturday with healthcare workers to be given the shots first, officials said on Friday.Health workers will comprise doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and sanitation workers, they added.Fifty-nine sites have been identified in Punjab and 77 in Haryana for the vaccination drive on Saturday, the officials said, adding that the vaccines will be administered to 100 beneficiaries at each site.Punjab has received 2.04 lakh doses while Haryana has got 2.41 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, which have already been sent to the respective districts in both the states for the voluntary inoculation drive.“Among healthcare workers, there are doctors, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, paramedic staff, sanitation workers, whether they are regular or on contract, working in hospitals,” Punjab’s Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal said.Punjab has around 1.74 lakh health workers, he added.The vaccines will be administered four days a week, Lal said.Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said only the registered beneficiaries, whose data has been uploaded on the CoWIN site—an online platform for monitoring the delivery of the COVID-19 vaccine—will be vaccinated.The sites that have already received the first doses of the vaccine shall necessarily plan for the second doses post 28 days according to protocol, he said.In the first phase, health workers will be administered the vaccine.After the health workers, the vaccine will be administered to the frontline workers, including policemen, paramilitary forces’ personnel, sanitation workers and disaster management volunteers.Thereafter, people above 50 years of age and those aged below 50 years with co-morbid conditions will be covered under the inoculation drive, officials said.Haryana Director General, Health Services Suraj Bhan Kamboj said 77 sites have been identified for Saturday’s inoculation drive in the state, which has around two lakh health workers.In Chandigarh, there will be four sites for administering the COVID-19 vaccine.Chandigarh has received 12,000 doses of the vaccine. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrangements-in-place-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-punjab-haryana-198930
15-01-2021||Patiala||Sidhu blames Modi govt for FCI’s weakened financial state||Former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu blamed the National Democratic Alliance government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Food Corporation of India’s rising debts and its current weakened state.Sidhu, who was part of the Punjab cabinet until his fallout with Congress chief minister Amarinder Singh, attributed the FCI’s attrition to the government’s policy of poor allocation.FCI was set up in 1965 primarily as an instrument to help move buffer stock of crops into the Public Distribution System. “It has now been killed with the clear intention to help rich corprates,”  he saidFCI’s debt, he said, stood at Rs 91,000 crore from the time it was set up to 2014. “It has now gone up to 4 lakh crore,” he said.This, Sidhu said, was mainly because its expenditure exceeded its allocation.“The reason for rising debts is that only half of allocations are now given to FCI. Rs 1,84,000 crore was allocated and was curtailed further by 20 to 30 percent in past year. That is how FCI is getting to worse. Now FCI has to take loans from national small saving fund which controls savings of farmers, provident fund, small saving certificates of poor people,” he stated.He also accused the central government of providing undue help to corporate houses like the Adani group.   “Silos of Adani in many states are of 8.5 lakh metro Tonne capacity. Government gave 30 year contract to his companies and railway lines and 5 per cent stock in silos will fetch him 100 percent rent of stored. Maximum support price (is given) to Adanis, which is an out of turn arrangement and an increase in rent with market rate. Why not have such an arrangement for farmers,” he said. Later, the Shanta Kumar committee that was set up to review and restructure the FCI recommended an arrangement with the Adani group to have its silos converted into procurement centres, Sidhu said. “This will kill arhtiya system. Procurement will only be done by Adanis,” he said.“Government wants to give 25 lakh metric tonne storage that too on FCI land across the country. No one from the government wants to answer this,” Sidhu said.He also accused the central government of trying to reduce the number of people entitled to foodgrains from the public distribution system. “67 per cent of Indian poor gets PDS wheat and paddy from FCI will reduce to 40 percent. Without any survey the government wants to reduce number of poor getting PDS distributed food grains,” he said. He said that the Centre’s decision to give cash subsides instead of food is step towards helping corporate houses, who will sell the produce to the poor at existing market prices.“Who has stored foodgrains? When the poor get money and go to market to buy it, they will ultimately have to buy from the same corporates who will control foodgrains and even storage”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-blames-modi-govt-for-fcis-weakened-financial-state-198891
15-01-2021||Raipur||CoBRA commando from Ludhiana shoots self in Chhattisgarh||A commando of CRPFs elite unit CoBRA allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district during an anti-Naxal operation in the wee hours of Friday, police said.As per preliminary information, Head Constable Harjeet Singh (40), belonging to CoBRAs 206th battalion, shot himself with his service rifle when a squad of his unit was out on an anti-Naxal operation in Chintagufa police station area, Sukma Additional Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma told PTI.A team of the 206th battalion of Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) had launched the operation from its Temelwada camp on Thursday night based on inputs about movement of Naxals and laid an ambush on Koyalmeta hill, located over 450km from state capital Raipur, he said.During the operation, Singh allegedly shot himself and died on the spot, Sharma said, adding his body is being shifted to a local hospital.Prima facie the incident seems to be a suicide and an investigation is underway to ascertain the exact reason that prompted him to take the extreme step.“However, police will also probe whether he misfired from his service rifle”, Sharma added.Singh was a native of Ludhiana district in Punjab.The CRPF is deployed in south Bastar for anti-Naxal operations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cobra-commando-from-ludhiana-shoots-self-in-chhattisgarh-198860
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||There was no let-up in cold weather conditions in Punjab and Haryana on Friday with Bathinda being the coldest place at 3.8 degrees Celsius, an official of the Meteorological Department here said.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several places in the two states in the morning, reducing visibility and causing inconvenience to commuters.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 6.8 degrees Celsius and Patiala 6.4 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperatures in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara and Gurdaspur were 7.8 degrees Celsius, 6.2 degrees Celsius, 5.7 degrees Celsius and 11.8 degrees Celsius respectively.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 4.8 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively.The mercury settled at 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.8 degrees Celsius, 7.6 degrees Celsius and 6.7 degrees Celsius in Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-198849
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||BSF shoots dead Pakistani intruder along International Border in Punjab’s Amritsar||A Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the BSF along the International Border in Punjab's Amritsar district, an official said on Friday.The force personnel noticed suspicious activity near the border fence on Thursday night, said the BSF official.Sensing threat, troops shot him dead at around 8.30 pm, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-shoots-dead-pakistani-intruder-along-international-border-in-punjabs-amritsar-198828
15-01-2021||Amritsar||Lohri festivities turn tragic as 30-year-old youth shot dead||The Lohri festivities turned tragic for the family of a 30-year-old youth who was shot dead by several persons following a dispute over the playing of DJ at high volume on the occasion of Lohri in the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area here on Wednesday evening. The victim, identified as Jagdish Singh (30), was a SAD activist. He was married around a month ago.The police have arrested one person, identified as Balwinder Singh alias Billa, here on Thursday while police teams were conducting raids to arrest the remaining suspects.Besides Billa, the police have booked his three sons — Mandeep Singh, Sukhchain Singh and Amanchain Singh — Laddi and around 12 unidentified persons in the case. The accused were also associated with the SAD, said the police.Bhupinder Singh, father of the victim, told the police that the accused were playing DJ on the rooftop while flying kites during the festival of Lohri. They had called their friends also. He said they were using abusive language during the function and Jagdish Singh objected to using such language. At this, they got enraged and Billa, along with other accused, attacked him. They shot at him, leaving him critically injured. He was rushed to hospital where he died.Police officials immediately reached the spot and started investigation. The accused fled the spot after locking their houses.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said Billa was arrested on Thursday and raids were on to nab the remaining accused. Gurwinder Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said the accused and the victim belonged to the same party. He said due to the death of municipal councillor Harpreet Singh Goldy of Ward No.37 under which the area falls, the by-election in the ward was announced.The victim, however, supported an independent candidate after he failed to get the ticket from the party. He said this was a bone of contention between the accused and the victim which led to the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lohri-festivities-turn-tragic-as-30-year-old-youth-shot-dead-198708
15-01-2021||Amritsar||Police demand fast-track trial in hooch case||The Tarn Taran police have requested for fast-track trial in cases registered in connection with the hooch tragedy that killed more than 100 persons, leaving many visually impaired. The courts had started physical hearing of cases after nine months, the police said. District Police chief Dhruman Nimbale confirmed that at present, the cases were under trial. “We have filed challans in three separate cases registered in Tarn Taran. The Amritsar rural police and the Batala police have also filed challans in the respective courts and cases are under trial,” he said, “We have appointed a special public prosecutor with the approval of the state government,” said Nimbale. The case should set an example that those involved in illegal liquor trade would not escape the law, he said. The court had sought permission of the Punjab and Haryana HC in this regard, as per the sources. The police had busted around three modules involved in supplying methanol and extra neutral alcohol in the region, which was further mixed with water to manufacture hooch. The police had arrested around 70 bootleggers at that time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-demand-fast-track-trial-in-hooch-case-198561
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer union sacks Bhupinder Singh Mann||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann) today sacked Bhupinder Singh Mann from the primary membership of the organisation. The decision was taken unanimously in a meeting of the core committee held in Khanna.BKU (Mann) state president Baldev Singh Mianpur said Mann had never shown interest in the farmers’ struggle. “He was even inclined to join the Supreme Court-appointed committee despite our organisation’s opposition, which is against the interest of the farmers,” he said.He alleged Mann didn’t participate even in a single protest. “We have also parted ways with the all-India coordination committee, which Mann was heading,” Mianpur said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-union-sacks-bhupinder-singh-mann-198562
15-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Dr Bagga is Red Cross managing body member||Run in memory of war heroesFerozepur: In the memory of 1971 war heroes, a 5-km run was organised by 136 Battalion of the BSF from Barreke village to Hussainiwala joint check post. DIG Surinder Mehta said BSF personnel and their families and various schools participated in the event. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-bagga-is-red-cross-managing-body-member-198565
15-01-2021||---||Cabinet again calls for scrapping of  agri laws||Chandigarh, January 14The Punjab Cabinet in its meeting on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution calling upon the Narendra Modi-led BJP government to repeal the central farm laws, reiterating that nothing less than taking back the legislations would resolve the present crisis.Amid strong voices of the Council of Ministers to send across a strong message to the Union Government, the meeting led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh passed a formal resolution stating: “There was a need for a broad-based dialogue and proper consultation with all stakeholders as these legislations impact the future of millions of farmers across the country”.The Cabinet categorically reiterated its commitment to the resolutions passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on August 28, 2020 and October 20, 2020, stressing that all genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted. Urging the Government of India to “repeal the farm laws as agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution, and to make MSP a statutory right”. It welcomed the Supreme Court order staying the central legislations as acknowledgement of the concerns of the farmers of Punjab who are protesting against the farm laws, and recognition of their pain and anguish.The ministers also demanded that the Centre should make MSP a statutory right of the farmers, who have been getting low prices for their produce despite being responsible for feeding the nation.The Council of Ministers, after detailed discussion, took note of the Supreme Court order of January 12 staying the implementation of three farm legislations. It pointed out that even the Supreme Court had acknowledged the concerns of the protesting farmers and recognised their pain and anguish. The Council of Ministers said the Government of India should not make it a prestige issue. If the matter remained unresolved, it might lead to devastating repercussions for the country for decades to come. If the Centre could make sweeping amendments to the laws then this adamancy about not revoking the legislations was inexplicable, said the ministers, joined by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar.At the start of the meeting, the Council of Ministers observed a 2-minute silence in the memory of farmers who have died during the agitation. An estimated 78 farmers have so far lost their lives. Stressing the need for an early resolution to the agitation to prevent further loss of life, the Cabinet pointed out that the matter has already been debated and discussed in eight rounds of negotiations held between the farmers and the Government of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-again-calls-for-scrapping-of-agri-laws-198540
15-01-2021||Archit Watts---||Farmers take centre stage at Maghi Mela||Tribune News Service Muktsar, January 14 The three farm laws took centre stage in the Maghi Mela here today. Though no political party held any event, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a conference on Malout Road.  Despite biting cold and fog, a large number of farmers, including women and elderly people, came to the venue – the SGPC land, where the SAD (Badal) usually holds its political conference.  The organisers had not even erected any tent and the farmers sat in the open. A majority of them were holding the farmer union flags, wearing green turbans and mufflers. Notably, the farmers had just last night announced to hold the conference. BKU (Sidhupur) state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said: “We are not going to win Delhi in a single day on January 26. The fight will last until the farm laws are repealed. Thus the march has to be carried out in a peaceful manner. Even the farmers will take out similar marches at the district headquarters on Republic Day.” He added, “The ongoing stir is a non-political movement. Nearly 450 farmer unions are part of this stir and collectively take every decision.”  Meanwhile, some youngsters took out a protest march in the town, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, too, mobilised people to participate in the tractor march on January 26. Meanwhile, Deputy Speaker and Congress MLA Malout Ajaib Singh Bhatti, Gidderbaha MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring along with the district leadership of the party paid obeisance at the gurdwara Darbar Sahib here today. AAP MLAs led by farmer wing head Kultar Singh Sandhwan, too, paid obeisance at the gurdwara and  prayed for the success of the ongoing farmers’ stir and partook langar. State AAP president Bhagwant Mann, who was supposed to join the MLAs, was not present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-take-centre-stage-at-maghi-mela-198541
15-01-2021||---||Back from Tikri, farmer dies of cardiac arrest||Muktsar, January 14 Farmer Iqbal Singh (45) from Gandhar village here, who actively participated in the ongoing farmers’ protest against the farm laws at the Tikri border for almost two weeks, died of cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Bathinda on Wednesday night. Sources said Iqbal Singh had returned from the Tikri border three days ago after developing some health issues. He was admitted to a hospital in Bathinda where he passed away last night. A number of people, including the activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) attended the cremation. Some village residents said Iqbal Singh owned about three acres. The deceased is survived by his wife and a physically disabled son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-from-tikri-farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-198542
15-01-2021||Sangrur||Malerkotla residents elated over nod to acquire palace||The decision of the Punjab Cabinet to acquire and use the Mubarik Manzil Palace of Malerkotla has revived the dashed hopes of area residents and Begum Munawwar-ul-Nisa, the successor of Malerkotla Nawab, to preserve the heritage structure.“Nawab Sher Mohammad Khan of Malerkotla had raised his voice in favour of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh against the Subedar of Sirhind. By taking this decision, the state government has taken a long-pending step,” said Narinderpal Singh, Head Granthi, Gurdwara Haa Da Naara, Malerkotla.As per the announcement by the CM’s Office, the expected financial liability involved in purchase of the protected monument is around Rs 5 crore.To facilitate the acquisition of the palace, the Punjab Government will provide Rs 3 crore to Begum Nisa, the owner of the property, as consideration for transferring the property with all its rights to the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-residents-elated-over-nod-to-acquire-palace-198543
15-01-2021||GS Paul---||Stir delays reopening of Jallianwala Bagh||Tribune News Service Amritsar, January 14 As the impasse between the Centre and farmers over the farm laws continues, the reopening of the Jallianwala Bagh has got delayed. The Ministry of Culture carried out the restoration work and allied services worth Rs 19.36 crore, supervised by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and executed by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Ltd. An ASI official, preferring anonymity, said it was incumbent on the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust to take the final call. The arrangements for the requisite power load have also not been made yet. After additions such as special light arrangements, documentary telecast, lazer show and a light and sound show, the power load has increased. Earlier, the electric load capacity was 100 kv and the transformer’s capacity was 120 kv. After the additions, for 220-250 kv, a 330-kv transformer is required. “The first phase of work that was planned under renovation has already been completed. The site could not be opened because of two constraints. Firstly, the power requirements have not been met. Through the tendering process, a firm was shortlisted, but the work has not been allotted yet. Secondly, the decisions are to be made by the trust to proceed further,” he said. The memorial has been lying closed since February 15, 2020. The first phase of the facelift project was targeted to be completed by the first week of April 2020, ahead of the commemoration of 101st year of the massacre on April 13. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also the chairman of the trust, was expected to be the chief guest on the occasion then. However, it was stalled due to the lockdown. The deadlines of June 15, July 31 and August 15, 2020 could never be met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stir-delays-reopening-of-jallianwala-bagh-198544
15-01-2021||---||Railways cancels, diverts more trains due to protests||Moga, January 14  The Northern Railway has cancelled, short-terminated and diverted many trains in Punjab due to the ongoing agitation of the farmers.  The Darbhanga-Amritsar special train journey commencing on January 15 will remain cancelled, so will be the Amritsar-Darbhanga special train on January 17. The Sealdah-Amritsar special train journey on January 15 and 17 will also remain cancelled. The Nanded-Amritsar express train’s journey commencing on January 15 will be short terminated at Chandigarh. Consequently, the Amritsar-Nanded will short originate from Chandigarh on January 17 and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh-Amritsar-Chandigarh.  The Korba-Amritsar express train will be short terminated at Ambala on January 15. Consequently, the Amritsar-Korba express train will short originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala on January 17.  The Mumbai Central-Amritsar express special train will be diverted to run via Beas- Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 14. The Amritsar-Mumbai Central express special train will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas on January 15.  The Bandra Terminus-Amritsar express special will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 14 while the Amritsar-Bandra Terminus express special will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Taran Taran- Beas on January 15.  The Amritsar–Jaynagar express special train will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas on January 15. The Jaynagar-Amritsar express special train will also be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 15. The New Jalpaiguri - Amritsar express special train will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 15. The Jaynagar-Amritsar express special train on January 15 will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railways-cancels-diverts-more-trains-due-to-protests-198545
15-01-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot doctor who lost legs saving mishap victims honoured||A doctor who had lost both her legs while helping persons injured in a vehicle pile-up on the Amritsar-Bathinda highway on December 10, 2019, has been honoured by many social organisations.Head of the anatomy department at Dashmesh Dental College in Faridkot, Dr Anupama Gupta is wheelchair-bound ever since the accident happened.Recalling the story of her valour, Bhai Kanhaiya Cancer Roko Society president Gurpreet Singh Chandbajha said “With her colleague, Dr Gupta spotted a road mishap involving a goods carrier and a tempo traveller, leading to a pile-up. She stopped her car and rushed to help the injured. When she was trying to pull out an injured person from a mangled car, a truck coming from the rear hit her, badly crushing both her legs.” — TNSEarlier story: Amritsar woman tried to help pile-up victims, lost her both legs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-doctor-who-lost-legs-saving-mishap-victims-honoured-198546
15-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma---||At protest sites, Punjabi hospitality at its best||Tribune News Service Sangrur, January 14 The Punjabi spirit of hospitality has come to the fore during the ongoing protest against the central farm laws at New Delhi borders. The individual hospitality in particular is at its best as protesting farmers are leaving no stone unturned to make guests at borders feel at home. Besides running langars and making covered spaces jointly for visitors at various venues, majority of farmers have erected tents adjoining their tractor-trailers and demarcated portions in their respective covered spaces for guests, kitchens and for themselves.  “Our villagers have a covered space for around 25 persons here alone in our tent and trailer. While 15 are staying permanently, the remaining space is being used by the guests. If anyone comes from our village, farmers try their level best to provide him/her all required facilities,” says Rupinder Singh and Jaspreet Singh from Ealwal village while standing near pole number 45 at the Tikri border.  Though many take food in langars, for relatives who come to meet farmers, cooking of food and preparation of tea are done in trailers. For the convenience and to help guests in locating them, majority of farmers have put up big banners and even boards with their details like village and district names. “It’s a fact that many of our relatives are coming here on our assurance that we would take care of them. Many times, in this biting cold, I have slept beneath the trailer after putting fiber sheets around to make space for our guests. It’s our responsibility to ensure guests do not face any problem here,” says Barjinder Singh from Bathinda. Besides, farmers also have chairs and cots lying for guests to sit during the daytime as all do not prefer to visit the stage. This open space becomes the discussion area for family issues, news and other issues with guests. The same space is being used to cut vegetables before cooking inside tents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-protest-sites-punjabi-hospitality-at-its-best-198547
15-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||3 FIRs filed over illegal nakas collecting ‘goonda’ tax, High Court told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14Just about a year after the state of Punjab denied the existence of unlawful checkpoints or barriers near some mining sites in Ropar, it has now gone back to register three FIRs against different persons “according to their prima facie role found in illegal setting up of nakas for collecting goonda tax”.As the matter came up for resumed hearing, an affidavit to this effect by Mining Director Rahul Bhandari was placed before the Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma. It added senior police and administrative officers had been assigned duties for inquiring, checking, preventing and supervising the nuisance related to mining in the area.‘Frame guidelines for officials’The Bench expressed prima facie satisfaction with the progress made till date but also directed the state to consider the feasibility of framing comprehensive guidelines on assigning duties amongst police and administrative officials clearly defining their duties vis-à-vis issues pertaining to mining, including transportation of mineralsThe Bench expressed prima facie satisfaction with the progress made till date but also directed the state to consider the feasibility of framing comprehensive guidelines on assigning duties amongst police and administrative officials clearly defining their duties vis-à-vis issues pertaining to mining, including transportation of minerals.The Bench added numerous provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and the Punjab Minor Mineral Rules, 2013, had been referred to in an affidavit. But none of them appeared to sufficiently address the issues raised in the previous orders passed by the court. Elaborating, the Bench added it showed that three-month period was sought to make certain amendments in the rules to effectively deal with the issue regarding setting up of illegal nakas.Similarly, it had been stated that a web portal, to be launched shortly, was being developed where provisions for online complaints would be made. A few more amendments in the rules had been proposed in line with the rules framed by the state of Haryana. “Consequently, we direct the state of Punjab to apprise the court on the next date of hearing about the actions taken subsequent to proposals made in its affidavit dated December 15, 2020, and specify the necessary amendments to be made,” the Bench added.A damning report on the presence of illegal checkpoints was earlier submitted by a judicial officer before the High Court, stating that royalty was charged/collected by the crusher owners from the trucks/tippers carrying sand and gravel at the start of their journey and a slip issued to the vehicles was crosschecked at the illegal checkpoints. It was to ensure that no vehicle passed through the routes without paying royalty. The officer was asked to step in after the state counsel’s claim regarding the absence of illegal checkpoints and barriers near the mining sites was “vehemently controverted” by counsel Mansur Ali on behalf of petitioner Bachittar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-firs-filed-over-illegal-nakas-collecting-goonda-tax-high-court-told-198548
15-01-2021||Amritsar||20,000 doses of Covid vaccine reach Amritsar||The district received its first lot of Covid vaccine Covishield here today before the launch of the immunisation programme from January 16.Health authorities said they had received around 20,880 doses of the vaccine, which had been stored at the regional vaccine centre specially set up for the purpose at the district health headquarters.The administration has made ample security arrangements, including a six-member team of the Punjab Police, to guard the centre round the clock. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said on the day of the launch of the immunisation programme, a total of 100 doses would be administered to Health Department employees who were in direct contact with Covid-infected patients.He said after immunisation of department employees, the frontline warriors such as police personnel, sanitation workers and others would be given the doses.The district health administration has set up a total of 26 immunisation centres, including six in rural areas and nine at private health facilities.However, on January 16, the immunisation programme would be run at only three centres — district Civil Hospital, Government Medical College and Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences. District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said vaccines were completely safe and people should not believe in social media rumours. “As a precaution, medical teams supervised by medical officers and equipped with ambulances will remain present at all centres during the administration of doses,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-000-doses-of-covid-vaccine-reach-amritsar-198550
15-01-2021||---||Widow of disabled soldier moves court for grant||Chandigarh, January 14 An 80 year-old-widow of a soldier permanently disabled during the 1971 India-Pakistan war has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking grant of Rs 50 lakh. Taking up the matter, Justice Rekha Mittal issued notice to the State of Punjab and Director, Defence Services Welfare Department, for March 1. Late Naik Subedar Mukand Singh of Fatehgarh Panj Grain village in Malerkotla, a gunner in the Indian Army, was permanently disabled in the 1971 war following a mine blast. He breathed his last in February, 2002. During his lifetime, he submitted representations to the Punjab Government for the allotment of 10 acres under the Punjab Package Deal Properties (Disposal) Rules, 1976. His widow Swaran Kaur continued the struggle after his death. Her counsel HC Arora said the state issued notification dated October 19, 2016, for the grant of Rs 50 lakh due to unavailability of land for allotment.  In 2017 and 2018, the Defence Services Welfare Department released such grant to at least seven permanently disabled soldiers of 1962 India-China war and 1965/1971 India-Pakistan wars. But Swaran Kaur was left out. It was orally conveyed to her by officials concerned that she, as a widow, could not claim such a grant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/widow-of-disabled-soldier-moves-court-for-grant-198551
15-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||Balwinder murdered over personal enmity, say police||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 14The interrogation of gangsters Gurjit Singh Bhaa and Sukhdeep Singh Bura has strengthened the police theory that Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu’s murder was an outcome of some personal enmity and was not a targeted killing, as being claimed.According to the police, their primary target was “someone else” who did not belong to Tarn Taran and interrogation was on to identify him.Bhaa and Bura, along with three Kashmiri youth, were brought on a production warrant from Delhi by the Tarn Taran police on December 7.“Yeh personal hai, isko karna hai (This is personal and you have to do it),” were the words of Sukhmeet Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, to his accomplices Bhaa and Bura. Wanted in Balwinder murder case, the duo was arrested by the Delhi Police following a brief exchange of fire in the Shakarpur area on December 7. Three Kashmiri youths and alleged operatives of the Hizbul Mujahideen were also nabbed with them.A senior police official said the interrogation carried out so far revealed that Balwinder was not their primary target. However, they killed him at the instance of Bhikhariwal.“The exact reason for the murder would be confirmed only after Bhikhariwal was brought on a production warrant,” he said.He was recently deported from Dubai and arrested by the Delhi Police. The Tarn Taran police have initiated the process for his production warrant also.“The police may also add sections of the Unlawful Activity Prevention Act (UAPA) in the murder case due to the involvement of Bhikhariwal and his alleged links with terrorists,” he added.Investigations revealed that the three HM operatives of Kashmir were linked with gangsters for smuggling narcotics. The three youths were to deliver around 1 kg of heroin to the gangsters. Nevertheless, the police official added that they were still digging the Khalistani angle in the case as the family members had claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balwinder-murdered-over-personal-enmity-say-police-198552
15-01-2021||---||Voter count in Punjab reaches 2.9 crore||Chandigarh, January 14More than eight lakh persons have applied for registration, deletion or correction in the voter lists across the state. As many as 4.36 lakh new voters are now registered with 1.71 lakh names deleted during special summary revision. The number of voters in the state has gone up from 2.6 crore to 2.9 crore.Chief Electoral Officer Dr S Karuna Raju, while addressing an online meeting to the representatives of political parties today, said under the final process of special summery revision, the final publication of the voter lists would be done on January 15. Thereafter, the final copy of the voter lists would be handed over to political parties, he added.The Chief Electoral Officer said the election year for the state would begin from January 15 for which the voter awareness campaign was to be intensified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voter-count-in-punjab-reaches-2-9-crore-198553
15-01-2021||---||Bathinda school staff seek 6-month dues||Bathinda, January 14 The teaching and non-teaching employees of Government Sports School, Ghudda, Bathinda, have not received salary for the past six months. They have been holding protests in front of the school for over eight days. There are 55 staff members, including teachers, coaches, clerks, ground markers, sweepers and caretakers, who have been working on DC rates, daily wage rates, as well as outsourcing and contract basis.  Harjinder Singh, an employee, said, “Our persistent attempts to get salary from the authorities concerned have been in vain. We have submitted a memorandum of our demands and brought the matter into the notice of the district administration. All we get to hear is that they have forwarded the file to the higher authorities, but haven’t received funds from them.” “It has become difficult to bear household expenses and the staff has started taking money on credit from their acquaintances. The government must understand our plight and release our salary,” said Gagandeep Singh and Gurpal Singh, other employees. B Srinivasan, Deputy Commissioner, Bathinda, said, “We have brought the matter into the notice of the higher authorities. We expect to get funds in a week, following which the pending arrears will be released.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-school-staff-seek-6-month-dues-198554
15-01-2021||---||Two gangsters held, weapons seized||Moga, January 14In a breakthrough, the Moga police arrested two gangsters associated with the notorious Sukha Lamhe group, which is involved in many criminal cases in the state.Those arrested have been identified as Resham Singh, a resident of Mohalla Pandori, Sultanpur Lodhi, Kapurthala, and Sahil Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Surat Nagar, Maksudan Road, Jalandhar.Senior Superintendent of Police Harmanbir Singh Gill said a country-made .32 bore pistol with four cartridges, a .315 bore country-made pistol with four cartridges, a country-made .12 bore pistol with seven cartridges and 1,100 intoxicating pills had been recovered from them.1K pills recoveredSenior Superintendent of Police Harmanbir Singh Gill said a country-made .32 bore pistol with four cartridges, a .315 bore country-made pistol with four cartridges, a country-made .12 bore pistol with seven cartridges and 1,100 intoxicating pills had been seized from the accusedIn charge of CIA Staff Kikar Singh arrested the shooters at a police checkpoint on the Mehna-Bhagawan road in the district. Subsequently, a case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them at the Mehna police station.Harmanbir Gill said the gangsters first identified well-off persons, mostly in Ferozepur, Faridkot, Moga and Jagraon area of Ludhiana district. Gangster Prabh of Canada and his group used to threaten these persons on the phone and tell them to pay ransom. In case they refused to so, these shooters used to attack them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-gangsters-held-weapons-seized-198555
15-01-2021||Aman Sood||3 held, probe ordered against SHO in Ghanaur mining case||Tribune News ServiceGhanaur, January 14Three days after The Tribune reported about the rampant illegal mining in Ghanaur villages, the Patiala police today arrested three persons after registering a fresh FIR against one Amritpal Singh and a few others. The police also ordered a departmental inquiry against the Shambhu SHO for "botched-up" probe into the previous cases.Those arrested have been identified as Malkiat Singh, Jagroop Singh, both brothers, and Mangal Singh.Investigations revealed that despite two FIRs registered against the same site for the same offence in the past, illegal mining continued in the area unabated.The fresh FIR has been registered under Section 379 of the IPC and various sections of the Mining Act.Sources said following pressure from senior cops, an FIR against the same mafia was earlier registered in August and later in October 2020 and work came to a standstill. "With farmers busy with protests against the farm laws, the mafia, in connivance with local cops, became active in the area again," a villager alleged."Every night, trucks and cranes would enter the village and no one would bother to check permits," another villager alleged.Shambhu SHO Gurmeet Singh said the first FIR was registered before he had joined the office. "After the second FIR, we wrote to the mining department to check permits of the company involved in mining, which were later found fake. The company started mining at the same spot again recently," he said.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said he had ordered a departmental probe against the Shambhu SHO for not being able to check illegal mining despite the same site being booked thrice. "Even the probe following the first two FIRs is dissatisfactory," he said.Gurmeet said: "I am yet to receive any information about a departmental inquiry against me. We had got a letter from the DGP office in the past to ensure that the company involved in the local railway project works smoothly. The same company is involved in illegal mining in the area." Duggal said: "Further action will be taken after the SHO is questioned. Illegal mining will not be tolerated."Fact file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-held-probe-ordered-against-sho-in-ghanaur-mining-case-198556
15-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Villagers block sand trolleys in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, January 14Residents of 14 villages along the Beas today staged a dharna at Patti Safdalpur village and blocked the passage of eight trolleys that had come to load sand.The villagers said though mining was allowed along 4 acres, they had done markings up to 10 acres along the riverbed and were digging up to 15-ft deep. They said they had held a protest earlier as well and the contractor had told them that they would work at the site only till December 25.“They stopped working for eight days but came back again. The site where they are digging is just 600 ft away from dhussi bandh and just about 300 ft along a temporary bandh, which we constructed on our own for the safety of our crops two years ago. We pooled Rs 20 lakh and built this bandh at our own expense. Ever since we raised this additional bandh, our crops have remained safe,” said Labh Singh, a farmer.The farmers who today lodged the protest were from Baaja, Patti Safdalpur, Hussainpur Durowal, Hussainpur Nurowal and Sujo Kalia villages. Swaran Singh Sujo Kalia, another farmer, said: “We are apprehensive that the damage the mining mafia is doing will change the course of the river and direct the water towards our villages. Farmers in 2,000 acres on this side, including ours, had bore the brunt in the 1988 floods. We do not want anything like that to happen again.”He said: “It took us a long time and endless efforts to redirect the river for our safety. It is now that we have begun reaping the benefit of what we had been sowing. It took us so long to resettle after the devastation. But the mining mafia is damaging the riverbed to such an extent that all our efforts in the past will go waste. No one from the administration is coming to our rescue despite the fact that we made the announcement from the gurdwara about today’s protest.”Kamaljit Singh, XEN, drainage, Kapurthala, said: “It is an approved mining khud. Still, we will get the area checked tomorrow and do the needful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/villagers-block-sand-trolleys-in-kapurthala-198557
15-01-2021||r Correspondent---||Residents up in arms against liquor unit||Fazilka, January 14 Residents of 15 villages are seeing red over the setting up of a liquor plant at Hiranwali village here. The villagers have formed the “Sharab Factory Virodhi Sangharsh Committee” to take forward their protest. Sarpanches, panches and villagers of Hiranwali, Beganwali, Kikarwala Roopa, Khui Khera, Bodiwala Pitha, Ramkot, Kabulshah Khubban, Kerian, Bandiwala, Banwala Hanuwanta and Jandwala Kharta villages held a protest against the proposed unit. They said they would intensify their agitation if the proposal was not shelved. Hiranwali village sarpanch Anil Kumar Jhinja said the construction of proposed liquor factory had started on 28 acres in the village. It was being set up by a Congress leader, he said. Former Fazilka BJP MLA Surjit Kumar Jyani has also opposed the move. The villagers said toxic waste generated at the plant would lead to environmental pollution. The villagers pledged to go to any extent to get the proposal reversed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-up-in-arms-against-liquor-unit-198558
15-01-2021||---||Relax eligibility norms for BDS seats: Colleges||Faridkot, January 14While the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has extended the last date for admissions to BDS course from January 15 to January 30 keeping in view the vacant seats, some dental colleges in the state have now urged the ministry to lower the NEET eligibility criterion by 20 percentile points.The demandIn the fourth round of counselling on Thursday, there were only 20 applicants against 358 vacant BDS seats in the state. The dental colleges are not hopeful of getting many students even in the fifth and the extended round of stray counselling until the eligibility criteria were relaxed.At present, minimum of 50 percentile in NEET for general category and 40 for the SC/ST/OBC category is required to seek admission to the BDS course. The colleges want the eligibility criterion to be lowered by 20 percentile points. Last year also, a large number of BDS seats had remained vacant and the qualifying percentile for the general category candidates was lowered from 50 to 40. For the SC/ST/OBC candidates and persons with locomotory disability of lower limbs, the qualifying percentile was lowered from 40 to 30 and 45 to 35, respectively. The relaxation had led to 147 more enrolments.Sources in dental colleges said the DCI had recommended to the Health Ministry for extension of admission date along with the demand of lowering the percentile eligibility. The ministry is still contemplating on lowering the percentile eligibility, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/relax-eligibility-norms-for-bds-seats-colleges-198560
15-01-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sarpanch, predecessor killed in clash in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak (Gurdaspur), January 14The crematorium at Machhrala village in the Dera Baba Nanak Assembly segment turned into a battleground on Thursday with Congress sarpanch Manjit Singh gunning down his predecessor and distant cousin Hardayal Singh, also a Congress man. Minutes later, he was shot dead by the kin of the deceased.The groups clashed over the distribution of grant by Cabinet Minister and local MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to improve facilities at the village crematorium.Three persons sustained serious injuries. Police sources claimed scores of rounds were fired by the warring groups. Even as Randhawa appealed for peace, a senior officer said the situation remained tense.SSP Rachpal Singh, SP (D) Tejbir Singh Hundal and SHOs of Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian and Kotli Surat Malhi reached the trouble site within an hour. Sources said sitting sarpanch Manjit Singh was overseeing construction work along with his aides when his predecessor reached there with his supporters. An argument ensued following which Manjit Singh, who was carrying his licensed revolver, opened fire.Minutes later, relatives of the deceased shot the sarpanch point-blank. Both Manjit and Hardayal were rushed to an Amritsar hospital where they were declared dead. A case of murder and various Sections of the Arms Act has been registered at the Dera Baba Nanak police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sarpanch-predecessor-killed-in-clash-in-gurdaspur-198640
15-01-2021||Sonepat||Haryanvi ‘ragnis’ keep farmers’ morale high at Singhu||With no end to the deadlock between the Centre and farmer unions in sight, emotions are running high among the protesters camping at the Delhi borders in the bone-chilling cold. In this trying time, a makeshift performance pavilion has come up in a small space at the Singhu border where a group of Haryanvi artistes can be seen singing ‘ragnis’ (folk songs) to keep the spirit of protesters high.A seven-km stretch on the highway has become a “bhaichara” spot for thousands of protesters from Punjab and Haryana. Sitting around bonfire, they can be seen discussing the future course of action. Although the number of farmers from Punjab is high at Singhu, their Haryanvi counterparts are also coming forward to extend support.Ballads of protestThe sound of ‘gharcha’, a musical instrument made by adding rubber cover on the pitcher, and harmonium, can be heard in tractors and trolleys. A corner of the protest site reverberates every day with ‘ragnis’, which tell the tales of resistance.The sound of ‘gharcha’, a musical instrument made by adding rubber cover on the pitcher, and harmonium, can be heard in tractors and trolleys. A corner of the protest site reverberates every day with ‘ragnis’, which tell the tales of resistance. Some elderly could be seen enjoying the Haryanvi traditional music and ‘ragnis’ with hooka puffs.Jagjeet Singh of Patiala said, “We are thankful to our brethren from Haryana who have extended support to us. We will not go back home till the repeal of the farm laws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryanvi-ragnis-keep-farmers-morale-high-at-singhu-198537
15-01-2021||---||BKU sacks Bhupinder Singh Mann||Chandigarh, January 14Bharti Kisan Union (Mann) on Thursday sacked Bhupinder Singh Mann from the primary membership of the organisation.The decision was taken unanimously in a meeting of the core committee held in Khanna.Baldev Singh Mianpur, state president of BKU (Mann), said Mann has never shown interest in farmers' struggle. "He was even inclined to join the Supreme Court-appointed committee despite our organisation's opposition, which is against the interest of the farmers," he said.He alleged that Mann didn't participate even in a single protest. "We have also parted ways with the all-India coordination committee, which Mann was heading," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-sacks-bhupinder-singh-mann-198459
15-01-2021||New Delhi||If govts can last 5 years, so can farmers' protest, says BKU leader Tikait||As the farmers' agitation against the newly passed agricultural laws by the Centre entered its 50th day on Thursday, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait wondered if a government can hold office for five years, why can't the farmers' protest go on for the same period of time.He said this while responding to a question on the proposed duration of the agitation."The government can function for five years, why can't the movement go on? We respect the Supreme Court's decision but are not happy with the committee (set by the apex court). Our movement will continue till the government withdraws the farm laws," he told IANS.Also read:Tractor march from Delhi borders on January 26 to be peaceful, says RajewalBhupinder Mann recuses himself from SC panel on farm lawsSpeaking on the preparations for programmes planned by the farmers on January 26 on the occasion of Republic Day, Tikait said they have started procuring tricolours.He said that the farmers' organisations, led by Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, have decided to continue all the other previously announced programmes to intensify the movement, including taking out a parade across the country on Republic Day."Our preparations for the January 26 event are complete. We will have a meeting to see where we can hold the parade in Delhi," he said.Meanwhile, the farmers' protest continued on Thursday for the 50th day, led by leaders of about 40 farmer organisations of the country under the banner of United Farmers' Front at the demonstration site along the borders of Delhi—Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border.Eight rounds of negotiations with the Central government over the contentious farm laws by the farmer leaders have been inconclusive.The Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of these laws after hearing various petitions filed for new agricultural laws.The apex court also constituted a committee of experts, consisting of four members, to resolve the issue.However, the farmer organisations are unhappy with the Committee, saying its members have been an advocate of the newly passed farm laws. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/if-govts-can-last-5-years-so-can-farmers-protest-says-bku-leader-tikait-198377
15-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||While shooting in Punjab, actor Janhvi Kapoor faces farmers’ protest||Shooting of actor Janhvi Kapoor's film "Good Luck Jerry" briefly came to a halt in Bassi Pathana here, after a group of farmers insisted that she make a comment on the ongoing farmers' protest.Kapoor is shooting for the film, produced by filmmaker Anand L Rai's Colour Yellow Productions and directed by Sidharth Sengupta, in Punjab.According to Sukhminder Singh Chauhan, DSP, Bassi Pathana, the incident happened on Monday after 20-30 farmers reached the movie sets for a "peaceful" protest."The shooting had stopped for two-three hours on January 11. There wasn't anything major. Around 20-30 people had reached the set. It was a peaceful agitation."All they wanted was assurance of support from them (the actors). When they did, the shoot was resumed. It was mutually resolved. Now the shoot is going on smoothly," Chauhan told PTI on Wednesday.On Monday, the "Dhadak" actor shared an Instagram Story in support of the farmers. Unlike other posts, Instagram Stories disappear after 24 hours from the time they are published."Farmers are at the heart of our country. I recognise and value the role that they play in feeding our nation. I hope a resolution is reached soon that benefits the farmers," Kapoor had written.Braving the cold and rains, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered a stay of the implementation of the three new farm laws hoping this will end the prolonged protests by the farmers and also constituted a four-member panel of agriculture experts to resolve the impasse between their leaders and the Centre. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/while-shooting-in-punjab-actor-janhvi-kapoor-faces-farmers-protest-198309
