17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Five more Covid deaths, 240 new cases recorded in Punjab||Five more COVID-19 fatalities were recorded in Punjab on Sunday which pushed the death toll to 5,504, while 240 new cases took the infection count to 1,70,605, a medical bulletin issued here said.There are currently 2,617 active COVID-19 cases in the state, it said.Of the new cases, Mohali reported 54 cases, Ludhiana 33 and Jalandhar 31.A total of 195 coronavirus patients were discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 1,62,484, as per bulletin.Ten critical patients are on ventilator support while 52 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 42,38,428 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-more-covid-deaths-240-new-cases-recorded-in-punjab-199832
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail at many places in Haryana, Punjab||Cold weather conditions continued to persist at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with temperatures hovering below the normal limits.According to Meteorological Department officials, Narnaul in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a low of 2.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limits.Hisar, too, experienced a cold night at 3.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches, while Sirsa, Bhiwani and Rohtak registered below normal minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.7 degrees, and 5.6 degrees respectively.In Punjab, Bathinda recorded below normal minimum at 3.4 degrees, while Faridkot and Gurdaspur, too, recorded below normal lows at 5.5 degrees and 7 degrees Celsius respectively.Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot and Adampur recorded respective minimum temperatures of 7.3 degrees, 7.6 degrees, 7.4 degrees, 8.6 degrees and 7.5 degrees.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius.During the past few days, maximum temperatures, too, have been hovering 6-10 notches below normal at most places in the two states and Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the Met officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at most places in the two states.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-at-many-places-in-haryana-punjab-199740
17-01-2021||New Delhi||‘Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye’, sung by Mohali sisters on farmers’ agitation, gets thousands hits online||Even as "Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye", a song written, composed and sung by the two young sisters on the ongoing farmers' agitation continues to grab thousands of hits on social media from people across the world, the duo maintains that while all the praise has been extremely encouraging, what matters most is that people across barriers have been able to relate to it."We never thought that the song (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kEkwK5zS5A) would become so popular. The feedback from everyone has been very kind. However, what is most heartening is the fact that even those involved in the agitation—from leaders to protesters have liked it immensely," says Simrita.While both Simrita and Ramneek have post-graduate degrees in Hindustani classical music, the duo admits that they are not essentially lyricists. "But these circumstances were different. We were deeply troubled by the fact that thousands of farmers were out in the open at a time when we were sitting comfortably in our quilts," says Ramneek.The duo, residents of Mohali, whose parents come from an agricultural background insist that they (parents) have been very quite encouraging. "They have been extremely supportive and happy that we have been singing in support of the protests. In fact, ever since childhood, they have pushed us to find our place in our chosen field," Simrita adds.They feel that the most striking aspect of the movement for them has been the fact that Punjabi mothers have been encouraging their children to go out in this cold and join the protests. "And that says so much -- about their spirit and heart," feels Ramneek. Feeling that social media has been instrumental in making youngsters' join the agitation, Simrita adds that considering its deep penetration among youngsters, it has been successful in presenting multiple facets of the agitation. "It has given so many new perspectives unlike the mainstream media which is struck on a single narrative. Most people of our generation are heavy social media users. It has definitely succeeded in bringing about a very different level of awareness and engagement," stresses Simrita For them, the agitation has 'grown' in different ways in a short while."While during the initial days, we mostly saw the elderly protesting, very soon, a large number of youngsters joined the protests. Interestingly, one sees a sizable number of women protesters," says Ramneek.Talking about the perfect coordination between them, Simrita smiles that it is not limited only to music. She loves to cook, and "I am a foodie," she says. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sun-dilliye-ni-sun-dilliye-sung-by-mohali-sisters-on-farmers-agitation-gets-thousands-hits-online-199734
17-01-2021||Mumbai||Bigg Boss 13 fame Himanshi Khurana getting over Rs 1 crore to judge Punjabi reality show?||Himanshi Khurana is all set to reinvent herself on reality television. After becoming an overnight reality TV star on Bigg Boss 13 as a contestant, Himanshi will now be seen as a reality TV judge.Unconfirmed reports state she will get around Rs 1 crore-1.5 crore for judging the modelling talent hunt show Miss PTC Punjabi 2021, following the pan-India popularity she acquired on Bigg Boss 13.Incidentally, she was a finalist on the show in 2011."What a nostalgic feeling of judging Miss PTC Punjabi 2021, where I myself was a finalist. I thoroughly understand the adrenaline rush that one undergoes while competing. That feeling of going out there representing yourself on stage it is a mixed feeling of being nervous and overwhelming at the same time," said Himanshi."This time too, I will be getting the same feeling, the only difference is this time I'll be on the other side of the chair. I hope, just as I won the hearts as a participant I'll do the same as a judge. May the best one win," she added. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bigg-boss-13-fame-himanshi-khurana-getting-over-rs-1-crore-to-judge-punjabi-reality-show-199705
17-01-2021||Singer Rabbi Shergill reflects on Punjabi music — the hits||Rabbi Shergill says every protest movement has its songs||Punjab has been a difficult place for me. I don’t live in it but feel it lives in me. Sometimes like a warm memory, at others a dreadful one. Despite being born and bred in Delhi, living smack in the middle of the nation’s capital, in my mind for the longest time I lived on the fringes of Punjab, in some forlorn outpost. Despite living 8 km away from Ghalib’s haveli, I idolised Shiv Batalvi and Bulle Shah. I mourned the wilting of the Punjabi Delhi under the UP-Bihar onslaught. I consciously spoke Punjabi with my friends, secretly condescended to the Punjabis who had forgotten ‘real’ Punjabi values, almost never pausing to ponder over my debt to the city that hosted us. Such was the seduction and glamour of ‘Punjabi’ culture. Which mostly was just a code for Jat culture. Punjabis may have been refugees here once, but were now its lords. There was no sign of their once-miserable existence here anymore. The slums that once housed us at Kingsway Camp or Old Rajinder Nagar had given way to stacks of builder floors spilling onto roads and endless squiggles of car-lines. People living in the new shanty-hells weren’t ‘us’.Is it the right time to be critical? My counter-question would be: How many more religion-invoking, caste-hyping, war-mongering pop songs can we afford in a multi-ethnic, multi-faith, nationwide, delicate mass movement where a trigger-happy State is begging the cosmos for a mistake?And even within this rabble of privilege, there were private perceptions of hierarchy. “Sandhu-Sidhu ikk baraabar, Gill zaraa ucheraa” — my grandmother took great relish in delivering the punchline to a folk tale that proclaimed our clan superior to its two nearest rivals for pre-eminence.Self-congratulation infused our language, public posture, verily all outward communication. Self-critique was a private shame only to be indulged in away from public view. Despite living in a tapestry of castes, languages and communities, our referencing was almost always to the self. A very limited self.music firmament.Later, same patterns of behaviour glared me in the face at the societal level as well. We were incapable of taking a backward step. Realpolitik was cowardice. Only wilful annihilation honourable. And then there was the history. Entire realms staked for moral gains two generations later; promptly squandered in a single generation; holocausts, internecine warfare, bickering, monumental gallantry, unfathomable pettiness, 18 raids of Delhi but no plan to actually rule it. If there was a plan, it wasn’t always clear to me. But maybe I was looking through the wrong glasses. Maybe the objective was never to create an external raj, but a kingdom of God within, like Jesus said.law over violence and gun culture in his songs.But through it all, there was the poetry. And music. A current of denunciation runs through almost all classical Punjabi poetry, from Baba Farid to Bulle Shah. So much so that it doesn’t seem like a separate category at all; just a ready-at-hand idiom.But along with sky-high aesthetics, social insights, one of its biggest achievements was the examination of self. It went a long way in pushing it deep into our collective consciousness and congeal into the bedrock of suggestions that formed our historical character.It’s the lack of those attributes that grate the most in today’s protest music. It may be hewn from the familiar rock of Guru Nanak and Sultan Bahu, yet feels weird to touch. It’s strange to note that non-Jat Punjabi music rarely, if ever, references any limited clan-self and through that becomes a tool for inclusion and maybe even social cohesion, whereas the reference to Jats in music, especially contemporary music, is almost always a call for othering.Jats are no more the subaltern and therefore the self-hyping that once shored them up psychologically in an ancient paradigm, transforms into overreach in the modern one. Why do we still do it? Because it feels good. But not everything that feels good is indeed good for us. Or others. Clichés serve a purpose after all.A focused sampling of today’s protest music hits reveals an assembly-line template: mid-tempo guitar/piano/synth riffs, set to hip-hop beats with the occasional dhol/dholaki and algoza/tumbi accompanying almost the same melody. But actually, it’s the sameness in lyrical content that’s mind-numbing. The call to violence, love for owning land masked as love for land, simplistic invocations of Sikh history, Jat identity… If Bulla is an ocean, today’s protest music can sometimes feel like a puddle.But it is of its own choosing. It’s not as if the singers don’t feel the text or the voices lack pathos, or even that lyrics don’t aspire to poetry. It ticks all of those boxes; it’s in othering tracts of its own ontological being and an intellectual laziness that the ‘problem’ lies.Punjab is not its arable land, Punjabiyat is not its Jat subculture, Punjabi history is not just the last 350 years. It’s more than that. It’s in recognising, respecting and reflecting the vast body of Punjabi thought, that perhaps Punjabi music — protest and otherwise — can do justice to its legacy. Where’s the critical eye for own role in the ongoing denouement? That 1 kg of Basmati rice sucks up 5,500 litres of water has been known for decades, but where’s the anthem to bell that cat? Criticism is dangerous business, but it is the essence of art. Without that, our noble musical intentions run the danger of becoming slogan-flakes.But the flip side is, it is tremendously popular, notching up millions of views in double time, galvanising youngsters, ensuring a constant stream of youth into a movement run by septuagenarians. My worry is regarding the chasm between expectations of the leadership and that of its pop-loving cadres. Also, music is the terms of agreement between co-citizens, it has a moral obligation to be inclusive. There are exceptions to this, sure, but nowhere in the significant enough numbers to lend it redemption.But its edifying effects on Punjab and India cannot be denied. Punjabi musicians have come out and taken a stance. Contrast it with the deafening silence elsewhere in India and it’s clear that its heart is in the right place, it’s just got to expand that and let those it has unknowingly excluded — in. Every movement needs its songs; I suspect they may play a crucial, even decisive, role in its ultimate fate. It is an enormous responsibility. I urge my artist-friends to approach the studio like the sanctum sanctorum of our shared democracy’s high temple. Punjab is at its shining best when it is at the vanguard, fighting for more than itself.Is it the right time to be critical? To this, my counter-question would be: how many more religion-invoking, caste-hyping, war-mongering pop songs can we afford in a multi-ethnic, multi-faith, nationwide, delicate mass movement where a trigger-happy State is begging the cosmos for a mistake?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rabbi-shergill-says-every-protest-movement-has-its-songs-199617
17-01-2021||Sarika Sharma||Remembering Tera Singh Chan, who brought IPTA to Punjab||India was at war with China in 1962 and, along with several other Leftist leaders, Tera Singh Chan was jailed over the suspicion that his sympathies lay with the Communist neighbour. At the same time, ironically enough, inspiring the masses on radio was his song “Eh pyaari Bharat maa”. Punjab newspapers took note of the dichotomy and the government was forced to release Chan. As we celebrate the poet-playwright’s birth centenary this year, his writings are still inspiring — like his poem “Desh de kisaan, aa gaye vich maidan” reverberating at the Delhi borders that are witnessing an unprecedented farmers’ movement.Born at Campbellpur (now Attock) in west Punjab on January 6, 1921, Chan is credited with taking Punjabi theatre to the masses with the Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA) and starting the literary organisation, Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha.IPTA was formed across various parts of India in 1943, but a committee wasn’t formed in the culturally strong state until 1952 when Chan organised its Punjab chapter along with a host of like-minded people. Playwright Atamjit says, “Since IPTA was formed with the basic idea of people’s theatre, it connected masses with theatre in Punjab.”Atamjit says Chan wasn’t primarily a director. “In those days, there were no theatre directors. It was always an actor or writer who had to don the mantle of director. Being a poet and prose writer, he brought strong scripts to theatre, closely working with Jagdish Fariyadi and Joginder Singh Baharla.”The most famous of his works is the opera (geet naat) ‘Lakadd di Latt’, a poignant story of an Armyman who comes back from World War II with a wooden leg. His other important plays included ‘Phoolan da Saneha’, ‘Sanjha Veda’ and ‘Saazish’.Thespian Sanjeevan, who heads IPTA Punjab, says that while Gursharan Singh is remembered for taking his plays to rural areas of Punjab, he was actually contributing to what IPTA had begun under Chan. The major names who worked with him included singer Surinder Kaur, Niranjan Singh Mann, Preet Maan, Gurcharan Boparai and Kanwaljit Suri.Punjabi critic Raghubir Singh Sirjana, who is also Chan’s son-in-law, says he was the first one to hold ticketed theatre shows at Preetnagar in Amritsar. He also took Punjabi plays to Hyderabad, Calcutta and Patna. However, Chan didn’t write much towards the later part of his life, nor did he direct theatre plays, says Sirjana. “He was more into organisational stuff, first as secretary of Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha and then as its general secretary.” He remained general secretary of IPTA till 2003.Atamjit still remembers how Chan kept the literary and theatre scene in Chandigarh abuzz in his organisational role. “Once, he was to be hospitalised on a day that he had organised an event in the city. So, before getting admitted, he arrived at Tagore Theatre, checked the arrangements and only then headed for the hospital. Such was his dedication,” he shares.Sirjana says Chan’s own life was an ideal example of secularism. “He sported a beard but lived and died an atheist. His family was truly cosmopolitan — I was a son-in-law from another caste, a daughter-in-law is Muslim, another is Jat. The sons and daughters married into different castes and different regions of Punjab and India.”This progressive nature was typical to his work too. A song from ‘Kaag Samay da Boleya’, his anthology of poems, says the times are changing and the widow is once again wearing her jewellery. It was a radical idea, and his works were brimming with them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remembering-tera-singh-chan-who-brought-ipta-to-punjab-199619
17-01-2021||Patiala||CoWIN app glitch cited for poor turnout||Of the 300 chosen frontline health workers, only 62 turned up on the inaugural day of vaccination in Patiala. Amid the poor response, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said he was the first to get vaccinated in the district so as to make others follow suit. He said, “To bust the apprehensions among the frontline health workers, I was the first person to get the jab. The vaccine is safe, therefore, health workers should get the shot without any fear.”Sources said health workers were apprehensive of the side-effects due to which a majority of them decided to skip the vaccination today and wait for the second phase. Meanwhile, some health workers were of the view that as they had already recovered from Covid, skipping the vaccination was not a risk. However, health officials blamed the technical glitch in the CoWin portal for the poor response. Due to the glitch, messages to beneficiaries could not be sent in time and they had to be telephonically informed about the vaccination, they said.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said, “Since it was the first day of the rollout, the number was low. I am sure the figure will be better on Monday.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cowin-app-glitch-cited-for-poor-turnout-199569
17-01-2021||---||Punjab civic body poll on Feb 14||Chandigarh, January 16The State Election Commission today announced civic body elections in Punjab on February 14. State Election Commissioner Jagpal Singh Sandhu announced the schedule for elections or byelections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats.With the announcement, the model code of conduct has come into force with immediate effect within the municipal areas of the municipalities where elections will be held. The code will stay in force till the completion of the electoral process.Sandhu said the process of filing of nomination papers would commence on January 30 and end on February 3. The papers would be scrutinised on February 4, while these could be withdrawn till February 5, which would also be the date of allotting of poll symbols to candidates.Campaigning would end at 5 pm on February 12 and voting would take place from 8 am to 4 pm on February 14. The counting of votes would be done on February17.As many as 145 returning officers and 145 assistant returning officers had been appointed for conduct of elections. Thirty IAS or PCS officers would be appointed as election observers and six IPS officers as police observers to ensure free and fair conduct of elections. He said 400 members would be elected for the eight municipal corporations and 1,902 for 109 municipal councils or nagar panchayats in the state.In a first, 50 per cent of the seats had been reserved for women in the municipal elections as per the Punjab Government instructions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-civic-body-poll-on-feb-14-199556
17-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Abohar farmers conduct rehearsal for Delhi march||Abohar, January 16Several farmer unions on Saturday conducted the rehearsal for the proposed tractor march near Delhi borders on Republic Day against the contentious central agriculture laws. A tractor march was taken out from three villages, which converged on the new grain market here.Senior activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), (Qadian) and Lakhowal discussed a roadmap for the departure to the national capital to join the historic tractor-march that would be monitored by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha there.BKU (Lakhowal) state secretary Subhash Godara, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district secretary Sukhmander Singh and BKU (Qadian) district secretary Makhan Singh said hundreds of farmers had shown interest and got themselves listed for the participation in the tractor march planned at Delhi borders. We will not tolerate any hurdle that the Haryana Government might try to create on our way, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-farmers-conduct-rehearsal-for-delhi-march-199557
17-01-2021||---||Capt Amarinder kicks off fair price shops’ allotment||Mohali, January 16CM Capt Amarinder Singh virtually launched a scheme for allotment of 7,219 fair price shops (FPS) under Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission (PGRKAM) on Saturday.The Chief Minister handed over allotment letters to five beneficiaries from Roopnagar. Simultaneously, 370 allotment letters were distributed among the beneficiaries in 64 Municipal Committees by various ministers, MLAs and other dignitaries across the state, in the first phase of the scheme.The Chief Minister said the initiative would be instrumental in improving the economic condition of people, besides strengthening the public distribution system. He urged the allottees to ensure that the ration meant for the poor reached the genuine beneficiaries without illegal diversion of foo grain. He further said nearly 30,000 beneficiaries (average family of four) would benefit from the scheme.The Chief Minister told the Food Department to look for ways to supplement the income of FPS owners by facilitating these outlets as points of sale for additional consumer items. He complemented the ration depot holders for their contribution to the state’s battle against Covid-19 by operating shops during the lockdown, ensuring hassle-free supply of free food grains. During the lockdown, 17 lakh food kits were distributed free of cost among the poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-kicks-off-fair-price-shops-allotment-199558
17-01-2021||---||Jobless plan door-to-door drive to expose govt ‘lies’||Sangrur, January 16 Jobless members of five unions, under the banner of the Joint Front of Unemployed,  have announced a campaign against the government in the constituency of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla to protest the   failure of the state government  in giving them jobs.   Members of B.Ed and TET Pass Union, All Punjab 873 DPE Teachers Union, 646 PTE Teachers Union Punjab, Unemployed Art and Craft Union Punjab and Unemployed Multipurpose Health Union Punjab have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of Singla’s residence for the last 17 days.   “We will launch a campaign in the coming days. We have decided to  visit each house of the Sangrur constituency to expose the lies of the Punjab Government and its ministers. Despite our meetings with them and their assurances, the government is not starting the recruitment process,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president of the B.Ed and TET Pass Union. On Saturday, members raised slogans against the state government and announced to intensify their agitation. “After covering Sangrur, we will launch a similar campaign in other constituencies,” said Dhilwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-plan-door-to-door-drive-to-expose-govt-lies-199559
17-01-2021||Our Correspondent||SAD: Farmers dying, Centre indifferent||Tarn Taran, January 16SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal condemned the Union Government for not working sincerely towards ending the farmers’ agitation, even though more than 70 lives have been lost.He warned the Modi government to be ready to pay heavy price in case the issue was not resolved soon. He alleged that the Centre was not sincere and only trying to tire out the famers.“It was intimidating farmers by issuing notices to them through various agencies like the NIA. Farmers are not anti-nationals. We condemn this,” said Sukhbir while addressing a gathering at Ghasitpur village, 18 km from here.Meanwhile, Manjit Singh Ghasitpur, the former district president of the Congress, declared to join the SAD during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-farmers-dying-centre-indifferent-199560
17-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma---||50 days on, no dearth of supplies at farmers' protest sites||Tribune News Service Sangrur, January 16 As the farmers’ protest against the central agriculture laws continues to intensify at the Delhi borders, so is the enthusiasm of those serving free food to them. “We have started this langar with the blessings of Guru Nanak Dev and we have never faced shortage of any item. In fact, we have to ask donors to stop sending ration as we do not have any vacant space left to adjust more. We have enough ration to run langar for months,” said Gurmeet Singh, a youngster at the Tikri border. Haryana residents, too, are serving kheer and other food items to all farmers round the clock. “Youngsters are supplying fresh milk to us daily and sometimes we prepare kheer even thrice a day,” said Anil Kumar from Haryana.  Apart from langars, there is non-stop delivery of water bottles, dry fruit, lassi, hot milk, tea, water (in small and big bottles), pakoras, jalebis and panjiri. “Numerous trucks, trailers, and tempos pass by distributing various food items daily. When I used to come here in the past, I used to buy a glass of water for Rs 10, but now we have so many bottles of mineral water that we can even wash our hands with it,” said Sukhdev Singh, a farmer from Sangrur. A group of youngsters distributing bottles of water said they were from Hoshiarpur district and an NRI had purchased 10 tonne water for protesters. “It’s not just us. There are many more providing essential commodities to the protesters for free,” said Satinder Singh, another youngster.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50-days-on-no-dearth-of-supplies-at-farmers-protest-sites-199561
17-01-2021||Bathinda||Nambardars pledge support to farmers||The Punjab Nambardar Union’s Bathinda wing has vowed full support to the farmers’ call for the tractor march on Republic Day at Delhi. Union members said they would carry out a tractor march in different villages in the district on Sunday as preparation for the main march on January 26.Union president Meharjitinder Singh said: “We will prepare ahead of the tractor march on Republic Day at Delhi. We will hold a tractor march covering many villages in the district on Sunday to mobilise support for the march on January 26. While some selected members would take part in Delhi march, those staying back would take part in the protests.”“We stand shoulder to shoulder with protesting farmers and demand that new agricultural laws be repealed as they would not affect only agriculture sector, but also almost every other sector directly or indirectly linked to it,” added Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nambardars-pledge-support-to-farmers-199562
17-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Study Supreme Court verdicts, file synopsis: High Court to Judge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 16For almost 15 years, police officials Amarjit Singh, Jaswant Singh and Kabal Singh faced unwanted and unnecessary criminal prosecution in a murder case only to find the dead man walking. Ordering Rs 1.5 lakh compensation for the three, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Ludhiana Additional District and Sessions Judge to virtually do some homework.Considering that the Judge failed to exercise jurisdiction, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan directed him to go through at least 10 Supreme Court judgments, including two by Constitutional Bench, on interpretation of anticipatory bail provisions. He was asked to submit within 30 days a written synopsis to the Director, Chandigarh Judicial Academy.“A murdered man was found alive. Still 15-year-long agony of the petitioners-accused was not buried by the courts below,” Justice Sangwan asserted.Castigating the Judge and another judicial officer, Justice Sangwan asserted the National Judicial Academy and Chandigarh Judicial Academy were holding seminars and imparting training that judicial consciousness demanded real and substantive justice. There was nothing illegal if a court, in quest of truth and justice, passed an order acknowledging the constitutional right of a citizen in an exceptional case.The constitutional vision of imparting justice by the district judiciary encouraged the courts to be an instrument to establish a welfare state based on an equal justice to all. But the Ludhiana Additional Sessions Judge and Judicial Magistrate First Class failed to exercise jurisdiction.Complainant Naginder Singh’s son, an accused in a drugs case, had escaped from police custody in 2005. But Naginder Singh came out with his son’s murder story and received Rs 2 lakh in compensation. The “murdered” man was, however, arrested on August 30, 2019.A cancellation was filed before the magistrate. But the complainant came out with a protest petition, which was treated a criminal complaint and petitioners were summoned to face trial. Justice Sangwan added trial court ignored the fact that the petitioners filed an application to dismiss protest petition as the summoning order was procured by playing fraud with the court.Nothing precluded the trial court to dismiss the protest petition. The Additional Sessions Judge dismissed the anticipatory bail plea even after being told the petitioners were being prosecuted in pursuance to a fraud.Setting aside the protest petition and summoning order, Justice Sangwan ordered discharge of the petitioners in the FIR registered in August 2010 at Dehlon police station in Ludhiana district.Justice Sangwan ordered the prosecution could initiate proceedings against two witnesses and the complainant and recover Rs 2 lakh from him or his legal representatives. The costs of Rs 50,000 each, too, could be recovered from them after paying it to the petitioners.Dead man walking: Rs1.5L relief for 3 cops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/study-supreme-court-verdicts-file-synopsis-high-court-to-judge-199563
17-01-2021||---||Revisit info on guilty cops, Additional Chief Secretary told||Chandigarh, January 16Less than a month after the Punjab Government admitted that no less than 103 convicted police functionaries were continuing in service, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked an Additional Chief Secretary to have a relook at the information. Justice Arun Monga also made it clear the filing of a false affidavit — “if that be so” — by such a senior state functionary was a matter of serious concern.The direction came after counsel for a petitioner submitted that entire information sought by the court had not been disclosed in the affidavit dated December 10, 2020, filed by Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home. He added only a half true picture had been projected. Some of the serving police officials/ officers were deliberately being shielded and specific instances were enumerated in replication by the petitioner.Matter of concernFixing the case for next week, Justice Monga directed emailing of the order’s copy to the Additional Chief Secretary who deposed the affidavit, while asking him to personally look into the matter and ascertain if any of contentions by the counsel were correct and if he was given filtered/misleading information.The affidavit made it clear some police officials in service were even convicted in drug cases, but were continuing after the suspension of conviction. The affidavit added one police official, sentenced to life imprisonment in a kidnapping and murder case under Sections 364, 342, 302, 201 and 120-B of the IPC, was serving sentence in the Patiala Central Jail. “In this regard, information may please be taken from the litigation branch office of the DGP, Punjab,” it said.Policing the police, Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal had earlier called for details of accused and convicts in uniform. The Bench had asked the Additional Chief Secretary to file the affidavit setting out the details of FIRs registered against the serving police officers of all ranks in the state.Justice Grewal had made it clear the affidavit was required to mention the nature and status of the FIRs, along with the current posting of the officers. It would also elaborate upon the number of officers still continuing in service even after being convicted by a court of law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revisit-info-on-guilty-cops-additional-chief-secretary-told-199564
17-01-2021||Vishav Bharti||Tepid response on Day 1, only 2 turn up in Ferozepur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 16The first day of the Covid vaccination drive witnessed a poor response from the frontline healthcare workers across the state.Among the districts, Ferozepur got the coldest response. As many as 300 doses were to be given but the district could find only two healthcare workers who were ready to be vaccinated.Similarly, in Barnala, 200 doses were to be administered at two centres but only 15 could be given. In Pathankot, 16 doses were administered against a target of 100; in Moga, 25 against the target of 200; in Fazilka, 26 against 200; and in Bathinda, 36 against 300.At some places, even doctors refused to take the shot, citing “questionable” credentials of the vaccine. In Mohali district, there were three centres, one each in SAS Nagar, Dera Bassi and Banur. These centres were asked to administer 300 doses but only 36 healthcare workers came forward. Among these, most were workers from private health centres. In Banur, just eight health workers came forward, all of whom were from private hospitals.Ludhiana is the only district which could administer over 40 per cent of the doses, with 214 out of 500 coming forward. However, that too was possible as senior health officials from Chandigarh were camping in Ludhiana, said sources.When contacted, Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, accepted that the response on the first day was not as per their expectations. “There were two reasons. First, we started a little late. Second, people showed reluctance but when doctors came forward to take the shot and shared their videos, the situation started improving but by 4.30 pm, we had to wind up,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tepid-response-on-day-1-only-2-turn-up-in-ferozepur-199565
17-01-2021||---||5 vaccinated in Punjab CM’s presence||Mohali, January 16Five healthcare workers (HCWs) got a Covid jab in the presence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here, who virtually kicked off the process to inoculate 1.74 lakh workers in the first phase.Dr Sandeep Singh, Dr Charan Kamal, Dr Dimple Dhaliwal Srivastva, computer operator Asha Yadav and Class IV employee Surjit Singh were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in the presence of the CM at the Civil Hospital here.Interacting with mediapersons, Captain Amarinder Singh said it was his desire to get vaccinated first but in accordance with the directives of the Government of India, only HCWs could be covered in the first phase. “I will definitely get myself vaccinated in the next phase,” he said.He said the vaccine would be administered to the HCWs first, followed by the Army and police personnel, in line with the guidelines of the Government of India. He said the number of daily cases had come down from the peak of 3,700 to 242. The target was to bring them down to zero, he said.Health workers divided||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-vaccinated-in-punjab-cms-presence-199566
17-01-2021||Amritsar||Vaccine safe, says minister||A total of 78 health workers were administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the district on Saturday. The district authorities conducted the vaccination drive at the Civil Hospital, Government Medical College and the Community Health Centre in Verka.  Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni was present on the occasion.  He said the vaccine was completely safe so people should not worry.  The district health authorities stated that none of the recipients reported any problem after getting the injection. The district had earlier received 20,000 doses of the vaccine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccine-safe-says-minister-199567
17-01-2021||Bathinda||AIIMS head goes first in Bathinda to allay fears||As per the Health Department’s directions, as many as 300 health workers were to be vaccinated at three sites in Bathinda district today. However, only 34 turned up to get vaccinated.To allay any apprehensions, Bathinda AIIMS Director Dr DK Singh was the first person who got himself vaccinated, followed by Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon who exhorted people not to fall prey to rumours against the Covid vaccine that were being circulated on social media platforms.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal was also present during the rollout of the vaccine at the District Hospital in Bathinda.Dr Meenakshi, District Immunisation Officer, was among the first female health workers who got herself vaccinated. She said, “This vaccine is completely safe and after being administered, I didn’t feel any uneasiness or side-effects.”Civil Surgeon Dr Dhillon said, “Things will definitely improve with time and more people will come for vaccination in the coming days. To allay people’s fear, we got ourselves vaccinated first.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aiims-head-goes-first-in-bathinda-to-allay-fears-199568
17-01-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||64% health workers take jab, poor show in Punjab||A sanitation worker from AIIMS-New Delhi today became the first Indian to get the Covid-19 vaccine shot moments after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the world’s largest inoculation drive following an emotional address.Also read: As many as 1,91,181 health workers were vaccinated by 16,755 personnel at 3,351 sites across the country. The mammoth exercise that seeks to cover 30 crore at-risk people by July. The inoculation coverage on the opening day was 63.7 per cent of the three lakh target beneficiaries. Delays in uploading beneficiary lists and non-scheduled vaccinations were the operational challenges reported today, said the government, assuring these would be fixed. Delhi reported 52 adverse events, including one serious, while Haryana reported 13.Will compensate for side-effects: BiotechBharat Biotech, the developer of Covaxin, said on Saturday that it would compensate those who report serious side-effects after receiving the shot. The vaccine recipients, including all health staffers at AIIMS, Delhi, signed a consent form that specified the compensation for a “serious adverse event” would be paid by Bharat Biotech. TNSThe drive evoked a lukewarm response in Punjab with only 21.97 per cent of the targeted frontline workers (1,286 out of 5,853) taking the shot. State Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said they expected a better response in the coming days. In Haryana, the inoculation rate stood at 78.4 per cent — 5,907 of 7,533 healthcare workers. The count stood at 61.46 per cent in Himachal Pradesh, with 1,536 of the targeted 2,499 being vaccinated.UN warns against ‘vaccinationalism’United Nations: As the world Covid toll crossed 2 million, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the pandemic’s impact had worsened due to lack of a global coordinated effort. He said “vaccinationalism” by governments would delay a global recovery. PTIManish Kumar, the first Indian to be inoculated (with Covaxin) at AIIMS, said there was nothing to be scared of.Three hours after he got the shot, he said he was feeling fine. “The vaccine delivery was painless and there were no side-effects or breathing troubles,” he said.Dr Reddy’s gets nod for Sputnik Ph-3 trialAIIMS Director Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog Member (Health) VK Paul took the Covaxin shot after Manish and urged everyone to “embrace the vaccine.”Security guards to Serum Institute chief Adar Poonawala, several Indians took the Covid vaccine, boosting public confidence and saying the vaccine was the only hope against Covid and for economic recovery.30 crore at-risk people to be covered by July | Haryana reports 13 adverse events | Delhi 52, including one seriousIn an isolated case, resident doctors at RML, a central government hospital, voiced concerns about Covaxin saying they wanted Covishield.Eleven states (Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and UP) received both Covaxin and Covishield stocks and had the freedom to allocate vaccines across sites.The rest of the states, including Punjab, HP, J&K, Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Chandigarh, received only Covishield. Earlier today, the PM was teary eyed remembering the previous year when mothers were separated from children and families could not perform last rites of the deceased as Covid played havoc with lives.“These vaccines will give us a decisive victory in our fight against Covid,” the PM said, hailing Indian scientists as “saints” and terming the Indian resolve against the virus as one of confidence and self-reliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/64-health-workers-take-jab-poor-show-in-punjab-199544
17-01-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||NIA asks over 12 people linked to farm stir to appear before it as witnesses in SFJ case||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, Jan 16Anti-terror federal probe agency NIA has sent notices to over a dozen farm leaders, Sikh activists and journalists from Punjab, who are associated with the protest against Centre’s three farm laws, to appear before it as witnesses in a case pertaining to Sikhs for Justice (a banned outfit) legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and his other associates.The move, among the protesting farmers, is seen as an attempt by the government to derail the agitation by intimidation.The farmer representatives, who held the ninth round of negotiations with the government on Friday, took strong exception and registered their objections to the notices being sent.Earlier four persons were sent notices, including a Ludhiana-based bus operator, a nut bolt manufacturer and a cable operator.Also read: Mehbooba terms NIA as ‘Government of India’s pet’It is learnt from sources in the agency that the NIA had served summons on over a dozen individuals, including Punjabi actor Deep Siddhu’s brother Mandeep Singh Siddhu through WhatsApp. They have been asked to appear before it on different dates from January 17 to 19.A source in the NIA said, “The notices have been sent in connection with a case registered by the agency in Delhi on December 15, 2020, under the provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), sedition, criminal conspiracy and other charges against SFJ’s legal adviser Pannun and his associates, including UK resident Paramjit Singh Pamma and Canadian resident Hardeep Singh Nijjar among others.”“The notices are sent under Section 160 of the CrPC to call them as witnesses in the case, as those who are being summoned appeared acquainted with the circumstances of the case and asked them to appear before the investigating officer (IO) for examination,” said the source.Confirming the list of persons, who have been sent notices, sources in the agency said they included Jasveer Singh, a resident of Muktsar, who had been working with a Sikh channel; commentator and journalist Baltej Pannu from Patiala; Karnail Singh Dasuha from Hoshiarpur; Surinder Singh Thikriwal from Barnala; Inderpal Singh Judge from Ludhiana; Nobeljit Singh from Hoshiarpur; Palwinder Singh from Amarkot; Pardeep Singh from Ludhiana; Paramjit Singh Akali from Amritsar; and Ranjit Singh Damdami Mint from Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-asks-over-12-people-linked-to-farm-stir-to-appear-before-it-as-witnesses-in-sfj-case-199427
