19-01-2021||Sangrur||Gang war ‘averted’, two arrested, 10 pistols with 50 cartridges seized in Sangrur||The Crime Investigations Agency (CIA) Sangrur on Tuesday claimed to have averted a gang war in area by arresting two members of a criminal gang and seized 10 sophisticated pistols with 50 live cartridges.While sharing the details, Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni informed that their police party from CIA Sangrur has arrested two members of a gang allegedly headed by gangster Bagga Khan, alias Bagga Takhar, from Adamwal road Malerkotla last evening.“The arrested have been identified as Aslam Khan and Mohd Sajad. Our party seized two pistols of 32 and 30 bore with 10 live cartridges. Later our team seized eight more pistols of 32 bore with 21 live cartridges of 32 bore and 19 cartridges of 30 bore. In total, we have seized total 10 pistols with 50 live cartridges from their possession and an Alto car,” said SSP Soni.The SSP disclosed that both the arrested members have been facing many cases in various police stations. The SSP also informed that during preliminary investigations, it has come to light that the arrested members were trying to attack the members of their rival gang in the area.“Bagga Khan is in Amritsar Jail and had his members succeeded in harming the members of their opposite gang , it could have triggered a gang war. We are conducting thorough investigations to trace their other accomplices and source of confiscated weapons,” said SSP Soni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-war-averted-two-arrested-10-pistols-with-50-cartridges-seized-in-sangrur-200680
19-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar has an aggressive message for Rohanpreet Singh’s ex-girlfriends in this Instagram reel||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh’s latest Instagram reel has a message for Rohanpreet’s ex-girlfriends.On Sunday, the Indian Idol judge shared a hilarious reel where she was seen sitting next to her husband. The video captures Neha’s reaction to all the ex-girlfriends who left Rohanpreet and are now trying to get in touch with him again.Lip-syncing to their song, ‘Ex-calling’, Rohan and Neha request the 26-year-old’s former love interests to not call him “since they were the ones who left him for somebody else”.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  Neha starts singing, and gets quite aggressive, and then Rohanpreet tries to calm her down. Neha is about to punch the screen, when Rohan calms her down in a playful manner.The video has 1.2 million likes on Instagram.Commenting on Neha’s post, Rohanpreet urges his wife to let go of anger and love the song since he loves her.Actress and dancer Avneet Kaur, who also starred in the music video of Ex Calling, commented on Neha’s latest reel and called the duo as the “couple cutest of all”.Fans and followers showered the singing couple with compliments and red heart emojis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-has-an-aggressive-message-for-rohanpreet-singhs-ex-girlfriends-in-this-instagram-reel-200634
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||Minimum temperatures hovered a few notches above normal limits at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday, Meteorological department officials said here.Common capital Chandigarh recorded a low of 7.1 degrees Celsius, up two notches against the normal, they said.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a low of 8.4 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal, while Pathankot, Bathinda and Gurdaspur, too, witnessed above-normal minimum temperatures at 7 degrees Celsius, 7.4 degrees Celsius and 9 degrees Celsius, respectively.Amritsar's minimum settled at 5 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal, while Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius, Rohtak 7.1 degrees Celsius, Karnal 8.1 degrees Celsius, Bhiwani 7.7 degrees Celsius and Sirsa 8.2 degrees Celsius, the officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-200633
19-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Read why Sunil Grover cannot get angry with Kapil Sharma||Kapil Sharma and Sunil Grover are one of the most loved comedy performing duo. The two featured on ‘The Kapil Sharma Show’, however, ever since they had a fallout they have never collaborated again.Sunil first walked out of Comedy Nights with Kapil in 2014.Despite being a few years of not collaborating professionally, the comedian-actors have nothing but praises for each other.In a recent interview, Grover revealed that he cannot be angry with Sharma.When asked the reason, Sunil stated that Kapil is too funny to be angered on. Meanwhile, Grover was also quizzed what he likes about Kapil, to which he replied, "His promptness".On the work front, Sunil has featured in Tandav, which recently released on Amazon Prime Video. The series has come under fire for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/read-why-sunil-grover-cannot-get-angry-with-kapil-sharma-200627
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Modi govt should serve NIA notice on Arnab, not farmers: Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday criticised the BJP-led Union government for serving notices to the “peacefully” protesting farmers through the National Investigation Agency (NIA) while letting off journalist Arnab Goswami.“If anyone deserves to be investigated by the NIA right now it is Arnab Goswami who not only breached the Official Secrets Act but also compromised national security by sharing classified details with others,” Jakhar said in a statement.He urged farmers to bring up the matter in their meeting with Union ministers on Wednesday, saying it was their children who worked in the defence forces whose security had been jeopardized by Arnab.The PPCC President said that the information was apparently leaked to Goswami on national security issues by some moles sitting in the PMO or the defence ministry. Those moles needed to be identified and exposed, as they pose a very grave risk to the national security, he said, adding that strong action needed to be taken to deter leaks in future.Jakhar asked what if the secret information prior to Balakot strike which Goswami shared with his friend would have landed with the Pakistani Army.“It would have jeopardized the life and security of our air force personnel,” he remarked, while adding, instead of making the people of the country elated, as Goswami claims in his Whatsapp conversations, it would have led to grief and tragedy.He advised the Modi government that instead of serving NIA notices to the peacefully protesting farmers, it should serve it to Goswami and summon him for questioning.“What has come out is just parts of a single conversation and we don’t know to what extent Goswami has used this information to manipulate his channel’s TRP”, he pointed out, suggesting that Goswami might also be acting as a double agent.He’s positioning himself as the first one on the spot at Pulwama when a ghastly attack on our brave security forces happened there, points towards his knowing what Pakistan was up to.The PPCC president said, the government of India will never take action against Goswami but has instead been targeting the peaceful farmers in sheer frustration.“Intimidating of farmers through the use of NIA not only shows its moral bankruptcy but also proves how jittery the Modi government is”, he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/modi-govt-should-serve-nia-notice-on-arnab-not-farmers-jakhar-200600
19-01-2021||---||MLA Simarjit Singh Bains condemns NIA notices to farmer leaders||Ludhiana, January 18LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains has condemned the National Investigating Agency’s (NIA) notices to a number of persons participating in the farmers protests.The MLA from Atam Nagar constituency said, “The NIA has sent notices to a number of persons for participating and supporting the protest. This act is a murder of democracy. The NIA is acting on the instructions of PM Narendra Modi to create fear among the people. But, the Centre should understand that the people of Punjab are not afraid of such notices.”Notably, a large number of farmers have been protesting on Delhi borders against the new farm laws. The farmer unions have announced that if the farm laws are not repealed, they will hold a tractor march in Delhi on January 26. “The more the government tries to intimidate the farmers, Kisan Andolan will get more strengthened”, said Bains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mla-simarjit-singh-bains-condemns-nia-notices-to-farmer-leaders-200497
19-01-2021||Mohali||Farmers’ tractor rally stopped from entering Chandigarh||Farmers’ tractor rally, which started from Mohali, was stopped from entering Chandigarh and proceed towards Sector 17 by the UT Police today.Hundreds of farmers on tractors and harvester combines were to pass through Sector 17, but large number of policemen and paramilitary force deployed at the Mullapur barrier did not allow them to enter Chandigarh.However, due to mutual understanding between the police and farmer representatives the tractor march was later allowed to pass through Sarangpur, Dhanas, Sectors 38 and 39 and re-enter Mohali.Farm labourers, youth, elderly and children on tractors and harvester combines participated in the rally. The youngsters said they would hold a tractor and harvester combine march on Republic Day in Delhi.Lakhveer Singh, a protester, said three farm laws passed by the Central Government favoured corporate houses, which will finish the farming community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-tractor-rally-stopped-from-entering-chandigarh-200422
19-01-2021||Mohali||SAD bid to woo back rebels||Amid growing resentment among SAD workers, some of whom have resigned over the distribution of the part ticket for the MC elections in Mohali, SAD observer for Mohali district Prem Singh Chandumajra is making all-out efforts to woo them back.According to sources, Chandumajra is trying to establish personal contact with these leaders to woo them back into the party.28 leaders had tendered resignationAfter the expulsion of former Mayor Kulwant Singh from the party, 28 SAD leaders, including office-bearers and former councillors, tendered their resignation on Sunday. They had announced that they would contest the municipal elections under the banner of the Azad Group, led by the former Mayor.Despite repeated attempts, Chandumajra could not be contacted as his phone remained switched off.However, senior SAD leader and former MLA NK Sharma said there had been some misunderstanding among the rank and file of the party over the selection of candidates. He said Chandumajra was trying to personally contact 28 leaders, including district Youth Akali Dal president Parvinder Singh Sohana and hoped that the issue would be resolved soon as these leaders had been party loyalists for the past so many years.After the expulsion of former Mayor Kulwant Singh from the party, 28 SAD leaders, including office-bearers and former councillors, tendered their resignation yesterday. They had announced that they would contest the municipal elections under the banner of the Azad Group, led by the former Mayor.Former councillor and president of the women cell, Mohali, Kuldeep Kaur Kang, who had also resigned from the party, met SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today and apprised him of the situation. She said she apprised him of the grievances of the party cadre in Mohali regarding the candidates declared by the committee, headed by Chandumajra. She said Badal demanded the list from her and assured her that he would look into the matter.Meanwhile, former Mayor Kulwant Singh said they would hold a meeting soon to announce the candidates for the Azad Group. He said the SAD leaders who had resigned had decided to contest the elections as Independents in the MC elections, schedule for February 14. He said they had opened their election office in Sector 78 and were gearing up for the elections.In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad Group (Independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of the Congress, he was elected the Mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined the SAD. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. Last week, the SAD had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors) for the elections, but on January 11, 22 of them sided with Kulwant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bid-to-woo-back-rebels-200340
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||NGO official feted for road safety work||Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, chief functionary of the Patiala Foundation, was awarded for his work in road safety by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in New Delhi today. The National Road Safety Month was inaugurated today at the Vigyan Bhawan.Ahluwalia received appreciation for designing innovative ‘Children Challan Book’ for schoolchildren. The Patiala Foundation has been accorded the ‘special consultative status’ by the United Nations Economic and Social Council. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-official-feted-for-road-safety-work-200323
19-01-2021||Bathinda||District planning board chief resigns||Senior Congress leader Jagroop Singh Gill today submitted his resignation from the post of chairman, District Planning Board.Gill said he was being given the ticket for the MC polls by the party, so it was not right to hold two positions. Owing to this reason, he had resigned from the post, he said.Gill also claimed that when he had taken over the post, he had announced to open a government school in the trans-railway area. He was happy that he was able to fulfil this demand of people, Gill said.He said a hi-tech school would come on 2.25 acres for Rs 4.5 crore at Arjun Nagar in the city. He said the Education Department had registered the land at Rs 2.34 crore and work on this would start soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/district-planning-board-chief-resigns-200324
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Adjourn case against Sukhbir Badal beyond March 23||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the trial court to adjourn a defamation case against Punjab’s former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal beyond March 23 — the next date of hearing before the Bench.The direction by Justice Jaishree Thakur came after advocate RS Dhaliwal, appearing before the Bench on behalf of respondent-complainant Rajinder Pal Singh, sought time to file a reply. A spokesperson for religious organisation Rajinder Pal Singh had filed a complaint alleging defamation and other offences.Sukhbir, through senior advocate Ashok Aggarwal and counsel HS Brar, was seeking quashing the complaint. Directions were also been sought for quashing the summoning orders and non-bailable warrants. Brar, in the petition, submitted the complaint under Sections 499, 500, 501 and 502 of the 1PC, dated January 31, 2017, and the subsequent orders, were an abuse of the process of law. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-adjourn-case-against-sukhbir-badal-beyond-march-23-200325
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Congress hears out dissenting voices||With the State Election Commission announcing the schedule for the civic body elections, the Congress has stepped up efforts to woo various pressure groups before finalising the final list of candidates.Amid reports of a large number of contenders staking claim to the party ticket in Batala, Jaito, Moga and Pathankot, the state-level election committee has started hearing out defiant voices. The elections are being held in 109 municipal councils/nagar panchayats and eight municipal corporations.Sources in the party said PPCC Chief Sunil Jakhar and chairman of party’s state-level election committee Lal Singh held a series of meeting with party leaders from Batala, Pathankot and Moga to sort out differences.Jakhar said a meeting was held today with observers appointed by the party. He said the candidates would be finalised in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-hears-out-dissenting-voices-200326
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Robber killed in gunfight, 4 held in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, January 18A robber was killed and four of his accomplices were nabbed by the police after an hour-long encounter near Patti, 25 km from here, today.Gang involved in 30 casesTwo policemen — Bikramjit Singh and Sarabjit Singh — both from Home Guard, sustained bullet injuries in the cross-firing and were taken to a private hospital in a serious condition. The slain robber, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Jatta village allegedly consumed some poisonous substance after being surrounded by the police. Those arrested were identified as Jagjit Singh Jaggi of Naushehra Pannuan, Gurpreet Singh Fateh of Bhullar, Gurjinder Singh of Manakpura and Sukhwinder Singh of Gandiwind Dhattal village. All of them sustained injuries and were admitted to the Patti Civil Hospital, where their condition was stated to be stable. According to the police, the gang had robbed seven petrol stations in the border areas on Sunday evening.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said police teams had been looking for them after seven back-to-back robberies at petrol stations in the district on Sunday.The gang equipped with firearms carried out more robberies today — a chemist was shot at during a hold-up at Naurangabad village, while another man was fired upon at Dhotian village, before a petrol station was looted at Jamarai village. After their Swift Desire car ran out of fuel, they snatched a car at gunpoint from a motorist, Kultar Singh, at Dehra Sahib. Alerted by the victim, police from different stations engaged them in a pursuit. The car was signalled to pull over at a checkpoint near the Sarhali Mandan railway crossing, but the occupants reversed it and tried to speed away. In the process, the car landed in the fields.The occupants opened fire at the police, injuring one of the cops. The police retaliated, injuring Jagjit, while his accomplice Gupreet also fell to the ground. Later, Gupreet allegedly consumed some poisonous substance and died. The three others fled towards the fields and entered a marriage palace. The police teams surrounded the palace and asked them to surrender, said the SSP. The accused, however, continued to fire injuring another cop. After an hour-long cross-fire, the accused surrendered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/robber-killed-in-gunfight-4-held-in-tarn-taran-200305
19-01-2021||Faridkot||3 dera men declared PO in sacrilege case in Faridkot||The court of Judicial Magistrate Suresh Kumar on Monday declared three Dera Sacha Sauda followers proclaimed offenders in a sacrilege case.As accused Harish Dhuri, Pardeep Kaler and Sandeep Bareta, reported to be the central committee members of the dera, did not appear before the court even today, the court declared themproclaimed offenders.To procure their appearance before the court, the police had pasted the copies of proclamation of the accused at the bus stand and Satnam Shah Chowk in Sirsa and the notice board of the court on December 18, 2020. However, they did not appear before the court today.All these office-bearers in the dera are accused in connection with the theft of ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015.As per the investigation by the SIT, the accused along with dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim were the part of conspiracy in the theft of the ‘bir’, which led to Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents.The SIT claimed to have conducted searches in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to nab the accused but failed.The Faridkot court’s order on Monday came about two weeks after the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed the CBI to hand over all evidence gathered by it to the SIT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-dera-men-declared-po-in-sacrilege-case-in-faridkot-200306
19-01-2021||---||Sumedh Singh Saini chargesheeted in attempt-to-murder case||Faridkot, January 18The special investigation team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents of October 14, 2015, today filed another chargesheet against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the court of the judicial magistrate here.‘Part of conspiracy’Saini has been chargesheeted in a case of attempt to murder. The case was registered under Sections 307, 323, 324, 326, 341, 201, 218, 120B and 34 of the IPC and Sections 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Kotkapura police station on August 7, 2018.Earlier, on January 15, the SIT had filed a chargesheet against the former DGP and IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing incident. In the Kotkapura police firing case, Saini was nominated as an accused on October 10 last year.While two anti-sacrilege protesters were killed in the Behbal Kalan police firing incident, many protesters were allegedly maimed and injured in the Kotkapura police firing incident on the same day.The FIR in the Kotkapura incident was registered about 3 years after the happening. This case was registered on the recommendation of the Justice Ranjit Singh (retd) Commission. In this FIR, the police had registered the case against unknown persons on the complaint of Ajit Singh, one of the injured persons in the firing. Later, the SIT had nominated many police officers, including IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal and former SAD(B) MLA Mantar Singh Brar as accused in the case.The SIT has already filed three chargesheets in the Kotkapura firing incident. The first chargesheet was filed against Umranangal and former SSP Charanjit Sharma in May 2019.The second chargesheet (supplementary) was filed in June 2019 in which six persons, including former Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar, were named as accused. In the third chargesheet, the SIT had named then SHO and Kotkapura DSP for the offence of tampering with the evidence in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-singh-saini-chargesheeted-in-attempt-to-murder-case-200307
19-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Drug addict ‘kills’ granny||Woman, 2 sons asphyxiatedFerozepur: A woman and her two children died due to asphyxia at Hamadwala village in Mallanwala block on Sunday night. Victim Harpreet Kaur, 35, had reportedly placed a hearth in the bedroom to keep it warm. However, she along with sons Sahilpreet Singh, 12, and Ekamjot Singh, 5, died of suffocation caused by carbon monoxide. Her husband Jagjit Singh is currently settled in Malaysia. Father-in-law Kewal Singh said the matter came to light when he woke up in the morning and looked out for Harpreet. OCCM popular, ‘survey incorrect’Ludhiana: The Punjab Congress on Monday rejected a survey conducted by a TV news channel, saying it was far from reality at the ground level. The party reiterated that Capt Amarinder Singh continued to remain the most popular CM and was set to return for another term. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu ridiculed SAD chef Sukhbir Singh Badal for trying to gloat over the survey that “deliberately and mischievously seemed to have shown Congress CMs, including Capt Amarinder, in poor light”. The minister questioned the very purpose of the survey at this stage. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-addict-kills-granny-200327
19-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Gurnam Singh Charuni issue settled, says farmer morcha||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 18Ending the controversy around hosting opposition parties, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni today admitted that the political meeting had been held in his personal capacity. He announced that he would not share the platform with any political party till the farmers’ agitation was on.He said this while appearing before the six-member inquiry committee constituted by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). After Charuni made the admission in writing, the coordination committee decided to close the matter.Earlier, the SKM constituted the committee comprising Darshan Pal Singh, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Yogendra Yadav, Hanan Mollah, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjeet Singh Dallewal to conduct the inquiry.Charuni clarified his stand before the committee. He gave in writing that the meeting on Sunday was organised in his personal capacity and the SKM was not associated with it in any manner.Charuni assured the committee he would not attend any political meeting till the farmers’ agitation continued. He assured the committee that he would continue to be associated with the SKM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurnam-singh-charuni-issue-settled-says-farmer-morcha-200355
19-01-2021||Jalandhar||Ensure food to ex-cop, kin warned||A day after The Tribune highlighted the plight of a 91-year-old former constable who complained of not being fed by his relatives, the Kapurthala police today visited Sat Prakash’s home and directed his relatives to provide him proper food, shelter and adequate facilities.City police station SHO Surjit Singh Pattar directed the family to clean up his room regularly, and give him proper food and clean clothes, failing which action would be initiated against them. “His room was found dirty and he was wearing soiled clothes. We warned the family against action if he was not taken care of. He is now being given proper food and warm bedding. I have given my contact number to Prakash and will check on him every week,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-food-to-ex-cop-kin-warned-200328
19-01-2021||Aman Sood||Mining mafia targets new sites; Opposition demands ED probe||Tribune News ServiceGhanaur, January 18Following reports by The Tribune highlighting illegal mining in Ghanaur and nearby villages, the police and mining department officials are now visiting the sites being targeted by the mafia.Senior officials in the mining department confirmed that new sites, from where illegally dug sand worth crores was missing, were being reported.Besides Rajgarh, Nanhera, Chamaru and Bathonian, residents of many new villages were now reporting illegal mining in the area. “The miners have left deep pits in the area, which can lead to mishaps,” said a villager in Ghanaur.“The modus operandi is simple. The politically inclined owner would allow mining on his land. Miners will dig deep pits, sometimes over 25-ft deep, to take out sand worth lakhs from an acre. Later, it would be shifted to construction sites. Mining officials, police and even villagers would pocket bribe to turn into mute spectators,” said a mining official of the irrigation department who had recently been given charge to check illegal mining.An official team visited Mardanpur village today. Sources said the role of all officers deputed to check mining in the past three years needed a thorough probe. “All this sand worth crores of rupees did not vanish in just few months. It was plundered for years and no one acted,” a source said.Ramandeep Singh Bains, XEN, Drainage (cum-mining officer), Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, said following complaints, a team visited Mardanpur village and took measurements of the total mining done illegally.“We have already fined the land owner in Chamaru and Bathonia Kalan villages and will now fine Mardanpur land owners too,” he said, adding that they had now been provided a separate police team to carry out raids.Leader of Opposition in Vidhan Sabha Harpal Cheema said he was surprised why the Enforcement Directorate had not taken any cognisance of the matter. “We will raise the issue in Vidhan Sabha and also write to ED officials to probe the matter,” he told The Tribune.An ED official confirmed that they were keeping an eye on all such illegal mining-related developments. “I can’t comment more,” he said.CM failed to control it in own backyard: SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mining-mafia-targets-new-sites-opposition-demands-ed-probe-200302
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 vaccination drive called off in two districts in Punjab on Day 2||The second day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive yet again drew lukewarm response from state healthcare workers.At some vaccination centres, the Health Department had to cancel the drive on account of poor response.In Moga, only 16 came forward against targeted 200, while in Barnala, only 39 persons were vaccinated at its three centres. At one of the centres, not a single worker was ready to get the dose.The response was even worse in Mohali and Gurdaspur, where the drive had to be called off. A senior medical officer said they were pressurised by state health officials to do forceful vaccinations on Saturday. “However, today we refused to do so,” he said.In the first phase, frontline healthcare workers are being given the vaccine. The workers, especially from the government sector, are showing reluctance, with some questioning the efficacy of the vaccine.On the first day of the drive on Saturday, 5,853 healthcare workers were to be administered the vaccine at 59 dedicated sites in the state. However, only 1,286 (21%) workers came forward. At some places, even doctors refused to take the shot questioning the efficacy of the vaccine.Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, could not be contacted for comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-vaccination-drive-called-off-in-two-districts-in-punjab-on-day-2-200304
19-01-2021||---||Universities, colleges to fully open in Punjab from January 21||Chandigarh, January 18The Punjab Government has decided to reopen all government, aided and non-aided colleges, including government and private universities, from January 21.All higher educational institutes have to follow the guidelines issued by the Punjab Government regarding Covid-19 from time to time. The Higher Education Department has issued a detailed letter to all universities and colleges in this regard.Students can opt for offline classes universities and colleges after taking all safety measuresAn official spokesperson for the state government said as per the guidelines, in the interest of students, the educational institutions should conduct classes through both offline and online medium and conduct semester/annual examinations through offline medium only.At the same time, students would be allowed to take classes as per their choice and no institute should compel them to attend the classes physically.The spokesperson further said hostels should be opened in universities and colleges after following the Covid-19 instructions. Hostel rooms should be allotted per student or according to the size of the room keeping in view the required distance/safety and priority should be given to final-year students at the time of allotment.The mess/canteens, etc. in the educational institutions should be opened as per the instructions of the health department taking all necessary safety measures.The spokesperson further said it’s mandatory for all universities and colleges to ensure compliance of guidelines/instructions issued by the Punjab Government, Centre Government and the Higher Education Department regarding Covid-19 from time to time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/universities-colleges-to-fully-open-in-punjab-from-january-21-200300
19-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Barnala hospital dumps ‘free’ drugs; 2 probe panels in 3 days||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, January 18Three days after a huge pile of medicines meant for free distribution among patients was found dumped on the Dhanaula civil hospital premises, the Barnala Civil Surgeon today formed another committee to look into the issue.Earlier being conducted by a panel of government doctors of the same hospital, the probe will now be carried out by district immunisation officer Dr Rajinder Singla, assistant civil surgeon Dr Neera, a drug inspector and the chief pharmacist.On January 15, residents spotted piles of medicines — reportedly sent by the government for free distribution among patients — dumped on the hospital premises and reported the matter to Barnala Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka and Civil Surgeon Dr Harinderjit Singh Garg.“Today, we met members of the new inquiry committee and have demanded immediate transfer of the Dhanaula hospital staff as we have received information that they were tampering with the official record to show that the medicines were actually distributed among patients. It’s really shocking that such costly medicines were dumped and patients were forced to purchase from shops outside the hospital,” said Lok Insaf Party senior vice-president Mahinder Pal Singh Dangarh.Local residents warned of an agitation if the authorities failed to conduct a fair and fast inquiry. “Various organisations want to launch an agitation in front of the hospital. We will wait for some days. If the inquiry committee tries to save the accused, we will start an indefinite protest,” Dangarh said.Civil Surgeon Dr Garg said: “Earlier, a committee was constituted for preliminary inquiry. But, the new committee will prepare a detailed report after analysing all aspects.” Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka confirmed that he had directed Dr Garg to conduct a thorough inquiry. “It’s a serious issue as medicines were dumped on the hospital premises instead of being distributed among the needy patients. Nobody would be spared,” he added.Staff tampering with record, shift themWe want the hospital staff transferred immediately as they are tampering with the official record to show that the medicines were actually distributed among patients. It’s really shocking that such costly medicines were dumped and patients were forced to purchase those from outside. Mahinder Pal Singh Dangarh, Senior Vice-President, Lok Insaf PartyDetailed report soonEarlier, a committee was constituted for preliminary inquiry. But, the new committee will prepare a detailed report after analysing all aspects. Dr Harinderjit Singh Garg, Civil SurgeonCulprits won’t be sparedIt’s a serious issue as medicines were dumped on the hospital premises instead of being distributed among the needy patients. Nobody will be spared. TPS Phoolka, Deputy Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-hospital-dumps-free-drugs-2-probe-panels-in-3-days-200301
19-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Ensure cancellation reports filed timely, DGP told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 18Expressing “strong disapproval” over the non-filing of cancellation report despite the lapse of several years, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the state Director-General of Police to issue instructions to “all concerned” for appropriate time-bound action on decisions to submit untraced/cancellation reports before the court concerned.The direction by Justice BS Walia came in a case where a cancellation report was not submitted more than eight years after the decision. Justice Walia directed the DGP to also take appropriate action in the matter to fix responsibility for non-filing of the cancellation report before the trial court, after observing that the decision was taken in the matter on October 3, 2012.“Compliance report with regard to directions to the DGP, Punjab, be submitted to this court within six weeks from today,” Justice Walia said.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Gurwinder Singh and other petitioners. In their plea against the state of Punjab and another respondent, they were seeking the quashing of FIR dated June 29, 2012, registered for voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means under sections 323, 324, 148 and 149 IPC at the Maqsudan police station in Jalandhar, along with all consequential proceedings, on the basis of compromise.The state counsel, on instructions from a police official, said a cancellation report was prepared by the SHO concerned on October 3, 2012, but was not submitted before the trial court to date. In case time was granted by this court, the same would be filed before the trial court within two weeks.Justice Walia added the statement was to the satisfaction of the counsel for the petitioners, who stated that the petition in the circumstances might be disposed of as such. “In view of the position, the instant petition is disposed of by directing the Senior Superintendent of Police, Jalandhar (rural), to ensure the filing of the cancellation report before the trial court, in accordance with law, within two weeks from today,” Justice Walia added.Before parting with the case, Justice Walia asserted the petitioners would be at liberty to move an application for enforcing compliance in case the needful was not done within the stipulated time period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-cancellation-reports-filed-timely-dgp-told-200299
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Allow farmers’ march on R-Day, SAD urges Centre||The SAD today asked the Centre not to deny the constitutional right for a peaceful march in Delhi to law-abiding farmers of the country on January 26. The call came at the end of a three-hour meeting of the core committee of the party held at the party headquarters here today.Harcharan Singh Bains, Principal Adviser to the SAD president, said the meeting considered the government’s dragging of its feet over permission for the peaceful democratic march as “grossly violative of the very Constitution which the Republic Day symbolises”. “The farmers of the country have already declared that their peaceful march will be a celebration of the spirit of the Constitution for which the nation celebrates Republic Day. The march by farmers will in fact be a reminder that India is a democratic Republic and is neither a monarchy nor a dictatorial set-up,” said a resolution passed at the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-farmers-march-on-r-day-sad-urges-centre-200296
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Central agencies being misused, alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today condemned the notices being sent by the central agencies to farmers, social workers and organizations, and termed the development shameful.State AAP president and MP Bhagwant Mann said it was reprehensible to use central agencies to suppress the farmers’ movement, who were fighting for truth and justice. He said it was a disgraceful act of the government to send notices to those supporting the agitation.Mann said the Narendra Modi-led central government had first tried to tarnish the image of the movement by calling farmers terrorists, Khalistanis, agents of Pakistan, China and whatnot and now it was trying to weaken the agitation through government agencies.“The Modi government has double standards. On the one hand it is negotiating with the farmers and on the other it is sending notices through NIA to intimidate their leaders and supporters,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/central-agencies-being-misused-alleges-aap-200297
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-IAS officers of Punjab to send quilts for protesting farmers||Former IAS officers of Punjab today decided to send quilts, blankets, pillows and tarpaulins worth Rs 3 lakh for the protesting farmers at the Singhu border.A decision to send these items was taken in a meeting held here today and presided over by SS Boparai and RI Singh. Officers expressed their apprehensions regarding the adverse effects of the three agriculture Acts on farmers and the agriculture sector. The former officers expressed concern regarding the threat to the federal structure of the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-ias-officers-of-punjab-to-send-quilts-for-protesting-farmers-200298
19-01-2021||Bathinda||BKU activists lay siege to DC office in Bathinda||Responding to the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha under the ongoing farmers’ agitation, women activists of the BKU (Sidhupur) today protested outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here.In a show of strength, women conveyed the message that the role of women in half of the world’s population was no less than that of men in any field. He said whenever rights’ struggles were or would be waged in any corner of the world, ‘nari shakti’ would promptly demonstrate its existence.Accusing the central government of adopting a dictatorial attitude, the activists urged it to give up its stubbornness and address the demands of the farmers on a priority.Farmer leader Angrej Singh Kalyan said the Modi government was testing the patience of the farmers through repression. He said they would continue to persevere till their objective was realised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-activists-lay-siege-to-dc-office-in-bathinda-200293
19-01-2021||---||One more farmer dies in Bathinda||Muktsar, January 18Parminder Singh, 22, a farmer from Aulakh village who had returned from the Tikri border a few days ago, today died at a private hospital in Bathinda.Villagers said the deceased farmer had gone to the Delhi border on January 8. He was taken ill while protesting at the Tikri border. On his return, he was first taken to a hospital in Muktsar and then shifted to a Bathinda hospital where he breathed his last.The deceased is survived by his brother, father and mother. Parminder’s family owns nearly three acres and owes money to private lenders as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-more-farmer-dies-in-bathinda-200314
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||NIA notices to farmers show BJP’s desperation, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Condemning the issuance of notices by the NIA to several farmers and their supporters in the midst of the anti-farm laws agitation, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said such arm-twisting tactics would not weaken the resolve of farmers to fight for their rights and their future.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterDon’t provoke themThese measures will not succeed in destroying the resolve of the farmers, rather the Centre will end up provoking a stronger reaction from them.“Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists?” asked the Chief Minister, slamming the BJP-led government at the Centre for resorting to such reprehensible and oppressive tactics in their desperation to undermine the peacefully protesting farmers’ fighting spirit.“These measures will not succeed in destroying the resolve of the farmers, rather the Centre will only end up provoking a stronger reaction from them,” Capt Amarinder said and warned that BJP’s most powerful minds would not be able to control the situation if things got irretrievably out of hand.I strongly condemn the issuance of NIA notices to various farmers and their supporters in the midst of the anti-farm laws agitation. Do our farmers look like secessionists and terrorists? Instead of resolving the issue, @BJP4India is resorting to harassment of our farmers.  It was obvious, said the Chief Minister, that the BJP-led NDA government neither cared for the farmers and their concerns, andnor understood their psyche. “Punjabis are fighters by nature. They are imbued with the fighting spirit which makes them among the best warriors in the world,” he said, addingthat the Centre’s coercive actions would only provoke the farmers from Punjab to react negatively.Capt Amarinder expressed shock over the Government of India’s unrelenting opposition to the farmers’ genuine and justified demands and its total failure to empathise with the cause and concerns of the farmers who have been braving the cold in Delhi, with many of them succumbing to the harsh weather and prolonged exposure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-notices-to-farmers-show-bjps-desperation-says-capt-amarinder-singh-200295
19-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Bhagat Singh’s niece leads protesters to Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 18“Sade buzurg larde si. Angrezan ne sadi property zapt kar lai. Andolan vele offer ditti property vapas kar denge. Par buzurgan ne keha – property rakho, desh naal gaddari nahi kar sakde. (Britishers seized our property. They offered to return it during the movement. But our elders told them: Keep the property, we won’t betray our nation.)”Gurjit Kaur Dhatt, the 68-year-old niece of Bhagat Singh, said this, reminiscing about the rich legacy of the freedom struggle, on Mahila Kisan Diwas today.Gurjit Kaur, Bhagat Singh’s nieceHistory repeating itself after 100 yrsMy grandmother Mata Vidyawati (Bhagat Singh’s mother) used to tell us about the charged atmosphere at home during the Pagri Sambhal Jatta movement... it’s after 100 years a similar movement (farmers’ protest) has risen.She is leading a jatha of 150 women from Ambala Jattan, Mangarh and Garhdiwal among other villages in Hoshiarpur which set out for the Singhu border from the Ambala Jattan village as part of the nationwide initiative of women to express solidarity with the protesters.Gurjit Kaur is the daughter of Bhagat Singh’s sister Bibi Parkash Kaur who died on September 28, 2014, the day Bhagat Singh attained martyrdom, at Toronto.“This is a very important occasion for us. My grandmother Mata Vidyawati (Bhagat Singh’s mother) whom I lived with until I was four, used to tell us about the charged atmosphere at home during the Pagri Sambhal Jatta movement. My mamaji (Bhagat Singh) and nanaji all worked only for the country. It is after 100 years that a similar movement has risen. At that time, my family was fighting against a similar set of black laws from the British. When mamaji died, my mother was 10 years old, but until her last breath she remained passionate about the movement and sacrifices. If she were alive, mother would have been here.”Harbhajan Singh Dhatt, the husband of Gurjit Kaur, said: “I have visited the Delhi border several times. My wife too was keen on visiting the protest sites, especially on Mahila Kisan Diwas. The revolution is in her blood.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagat-singhs-niece-leads-protesters-to-singhu-border-200290
19-01-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Khalsa Aid nominated for Nobel Peace Prize||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 18United Kingdom-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Khalsa Aid has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for its humanitarian work.Canadian MP Tim Uppal, Mayor of Brampton Patrick Brown and the MPP for Brampton South Prabmeet Singh Sarkaria have officially nominated Khalsa Aid for the Nobel Peace Prize.Ravi Singh, Founder, Khalsa AidDeeply humbledWe are deeply humbled by this nomination. Everything we do is because of our amazing teams and volunteers all around the globe. We are grateful for this historical nomination.In the letter written to Berit Reiss-Andersen, Chair, The Norwegian Nobel Committee, Tim Uppal has stated that Khalsa Aid is an international NGO with an aim to provide humanitarian aid in disaster areas and civil conflict zones around the world.It also stated that Khalsa Aid became the first-ever cross border international humanitarian aid organisation based on the Sikh principle of recognising the whole human race as one.Further, it states that it was founded by Ravinder (Ravi) Singh, who was stuck by the plight of the refugees in Kosovo in 1999. The charity has been providing support around the world to victims of natural and manmade disasters such as floods, earthquakes, famines and wars for over 20 years.Uppal also writes that Khalsa Aid, inspired by the Sikh ideology of ‘Sarbat da bhala’ (well-being of all), has been helping all those in need regardless of race, religion and border.He also said Khalsa Aid represented exactly the kind of international cooperation and commitment the world needed in today’s times.We are completely humbled to receive the Nobel Peace Prize nomination from @TimUppal, @patrickbrownont and @PrabSarkaria 🙏🏽 https://t.co/wwDyE5nWUo  Ravi Singh reacted on social media, saying, “We are deeply humbled by this nomination. Everything we do is because of our amazing teams and volunteers all around the globe. We are grateful for this historical nomination.”It is worth mentioning that Khalsa Aid has been actively serving the farmers who have been protesting at the Delhi borders for 53 days. It has also set up a Kisan Mall at the Tikri border.On January 16, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) issued summons to Khalsa Aid’s India director Amanpreet Singh and other trustees and asked them to depose before the agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalsa-aid-nominated-for-nobel-peace-prize-200291
19-01-2021||Tribune Reporters||Women power to fore against farm laws||Barnala/Fazilka, January 18To observe ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’, thousands of women today converged on the grain market at Dhanaula town in Barnala and raised their voice against the central farm laws. Protesters said they chose Dhanaula because BJP leader Harjeet Singh Grewal belongs to this town.“The implementation of black farm laws will further burden the debt-ridden farmers of Punjab and impact the farming community adversely. BJP leaders like Grewal are trying to weaken our protest, and we would not allow that to happen at any cost,” said Manjit Kaur Barnala, spokesperson for BKU (Ugrahan).Another woman leader, Gupreet Kaur, alleged the BJP-led central government first implemented the farm laws without any consultation with farmers and now its leaders were trying to convince farmers by distorting the facts about laws.“The central government has been elected not by corporate houses, but the common man. It is hell-bent on destroying the agriculture sector,” alleged Komal Khanauri, BKU (Ugrahan) leader during the event.Women and other activists of BKU (Ugrahan) from Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, Ludhiana, Mansa and Barnala districts participated in protest.“Our protests at all venues, including New Delhi borders and Punjab, are gaining strength by the day and more and more residents are joining us. We would compel central government to rollback the black laws” said Jarnail Singh Badra, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan) Barnala.In Fazilka, a large number of farmers, including hundreds of women, participated in a massive protest held outside the residence of BJP coordination committee chairman Surjit Kumar Jyani at his native Katehra village to observe ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’ today.The protest was led by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan. After the failure of several rounds of talks with the central government, all factions of the BKU have decided to observe ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’ to honour women for their incredible contribution in the protests.Woman farmer leaders Gurpreet Kaur Jethuke from Bathinda and Kuldeep Kaur from Moga and Khet Mazdoor leaders Krishna Devi and Gurmel Kaur while addressing the gathering alleged that their rights were being snatched by the Centre and the three laws would ruin the farming community.Kokri Kalan condemned BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jyani and Harjeet Singh Grewal for their alleged anti-farmer stand. He said the protests against these leaders would continue. He demanded the repeal of the contentious laws, power amendment Bill and stubble pollution related ordinances.Meanwhile, the farmers also observed a two-minute silence to pay tributes to farmers who have lost their lives during the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-power-to-fore-against-farm-laws-200292
19-01-2021||Gurbax Puri||Robber shot in police encounter in Tarn Taran, 5 others nabbed||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, January 18A robber was gunned down while his five accomplices were nabbed by the police following an encounter near Kairon village on the Tarn Taran-Patti road here on Monday.Home Guard jawan Sukhwinder Singh was injured in the encounter. He was admitted to a private hospital where his condition is said to be critical.The robbers were nabbed by the police after seven instances of looting of petrol pumps in the district on Sunday. The gang that was equipped with firearms again started a string of robberies on Monday. They shot at a chemist at Naurangabad village leaving him injured. Then they shot another man at Dhotian village. After their car ran out of petrol, they snatched a car from a man near Dera Sahib village. On getting information, police chased them. To dodge the police, they entered a marriage palace where a function was on.The police cordoned off the marriage palace. On seeing the police, the robbers fired at them, leading to panic among the people present at the marriage hall.In the encounter that ensued one of the robbers was killed and the others nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/robber-shot-in-police-encounter-in-tarn-taran-5-others-nabbed-200147
