21-01-2021||New Delhi||Biopic to be made on world’s oldest marathon runner Fauja Singh||The life journey of Fauja Singh, who is the oldest marathon runner in the world, will be made into a biopic titled ‘Fauja’. The film will be directed by Bollywood director Omung Kumar B of ‘Mary Kom’ fame.According to Deadline, the life of the world’s oldest marathon runner will be the subject of a biopic from a trio of established Indian creative’s.The biopic will be directed by Omung Kumar B, who will also produce it alongside Kunal Shivdasani whose credit include the 2008 thriller ‘Hijack’, and Raaj Shaandilya, who previously wrote and directed the 2019 comedy film ‘Dream Girl’.The screenplay for ‘Fauja’ is being adapted from the book titled ‘Turbaned Tornado’ written by Khushwant Singh and published by Rupa Publications. Vipul Mehta, of the Gujarati blockbuster ‘Chal Jivi’ fame, is currently penning the script for the biopic.As per Deadline, Omung Kumar whose film ‘Mary Kom’ won the Indian National Film Award for Best Popular Film in 2014 said, “The story of Fauja Singh depicts the insurmountable odds stacked against him and what sheer power of will can make of someone who is challenged medically, by age and by society.”Kunal Shivdasani, the producer of Fauja Singh’s biopic added, “It is a beautiful story about a man whose life takes him on an epic journey making him a world icon as he discovers his passion for running marathons; eventually that guided him to make an impact on the world by bringing about a change to humanity.”The movie will tell the tale of how the 108-year-old Fauja Singh, popularly known as the ‘Sikh Superman’, stunned the world by shattering a number of records as a marathon runner in multiple age brackets. Since making his debut at the London marathon in the year 2000 at the age of 89, Singh has completed it six more times and has also finished marathons in Toronto, New York and several more cities. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biopic-to-be-made-on-worlds-oldest-marathon-runner-fauja-singh-201721
21-01-2021||---||Tepid response to COVID vaccination drive in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 21The response to the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Punjab remains below the desired level with only 38 per cent of the targeted health workers getting the shot on Thursday.According to a Health Department data, only 4,852 health workers got themselves vaccinated out of the target of 12,872 on Thursday. During previous sessions of the drive on Saturday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, 1,327, 1,992, 2,249 and 2,003 health workers came me forward for vaccination, respectively. Punjab is among the states that received lukewarm response to the vaccination drive on the day of its roll out.The health officials had attributed hesitancy among government sector health workers as one of the reasons for it. During Thursday’s vaccination drive at 134 sites in Punjab, Ferozepur, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Fazilka districts turned out to be poor performers with the coverage ranging from seven to 11 per cent, as per the data.Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur saw maximum health workers getting the shots. Meanwhile, the state Health Department has started reaching out to health workers who have doubts over the safety of the vaccine. “We are telling health workers that there is no need to worry and they should come forward and get themselves vaccinated,” said an official. Doctors are getting themselves vaccinated to boost the confidence of health workers who are still hesitant to get the shots, said the official. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu too instructed civil surgeons to increase the number of sites as well as beneficiaries in order to accelerate the vaccination drive across the state.While presiding over a review meeting, the health minister said the state government has already increased the vaccination sites from 59 to 134 so as to ensure maximum coverage of health workers.In a statement here, Sidhu said a feature of “allot beneficiary” has been added in the vaccinator module.The feature has been added to facilitate maximum utilisation of the staff deployed at the session sites so that they can cater to the optimal number of beneficiaries per session.He said earlier, only such additional beneficiaries could be added whose names already existed in the database generated by the CoWIN portal for a particular session but now there is a provision to add new beneficiaries at the sites as well for inclusion in the ongoing session.Sidhu said the state had received 2.04 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine on January 12 and 1.96 lakh doses on January 19 while a total of 12,467 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tepid-response-to-covid-vaccination-drive-in-punjab-201712
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||53,000 poultry birds to be culled at two farms in Mohali||Around 53,000 birds of two poultry farms in Punjab’s Mohali are to be culled after some samples from there tested positive for avian flu, a senior official said on Thursday.The reports of samples taken from two poultry farms at Behra village in Dera Bassi in Mohali were received from the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases lab in Bhopal on Wednesday.“The culling of around 53,000 birds will either start today evening or tomorrow,” said VK Janjua, Additional Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry and Dairy).As per the Government of India guidelines, the birds of poultry farms located within one km of an infected farm have to be culled.There was no other poultry farm other than these two within one km radius, an official said.The department has constituted 25 teams for the culling drive, he added.After culling, the poultry birds would be buried, he said.The samples taken from two poultry farms had tested positive for H5N8 strain on Wednesday.The samples from these poultry farms were sent to NIHSAD for confirmation on January 15 after the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar suspected them to be positive for bird flu.These two poultry farms are layer farms where birds are reared for eggs.Punjab had sounded an alert earlier this month after bird flu cases were reported from several states and Union territories in north India, including Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/53-000-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-at-two-farms-in-mohali-201673
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Australian High Commissioner Barry O’Farrell calls on Capt Amarinder||Australia’s High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell on Thursday called on Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and the two had a “great discussion” on several issues.The discussion revolved around further deepening of cooperation in agriculture, water and education, revitalising economies post COVID-19 and cricket.After the meeting, Singh said he discussed the way forward to further deepen ties between Australia and Punjab.“Was pleased to meet@AusHCIndia Barry O’Farrell AO to discuss the way forward to further deepen ties between Australia and Punjab. Also, spoke of how proud we are of our diaspora living in Australia,” Singh later said in a tweet.Was pleased to meet @AusHCIndia Barry O'Farrell AO to discuss the way forward to further deepen ties between Australia and Punjab. Also, spoke of how proud we are of our diaspora living in Australia. pic.twitter.com/1jXx7lnhnj  The high commissioner thanked Amarinder Singh for a “great discussion on how we can revitalise our economies post COVID-19”.“Thank you Punjab Chief Minister@capt amarinder ji for a great discussion on how we can revitalise our economies post COVID-19, and further deepen our cooperation in #agriculture, #water and #education. #diaspora # dosti,” the high commissioner said in his tweet.Thank you Punjab Chief Minister @capt_amarinder ji for a great discussion on how we can revitalise our economies post COVID-19, and further deepen our cooperation in #agriculture, #water and #education. #diaspora #dosti (1/2) pic.twitter.com/5U38eLf7qC  In another tweet, Barry O’Farrell mentioned that he also enjoyed conversation about the contribution to Indian cricket by the grandfather and father of Amarinder Singh, the erstwhile Patiala royal.“Also, enjoyed our conversation about your grandfather Maharaja Bhupinder Singh’s and father Maharaja Yadavinder Singh’s contribution to the Indian #cricket — one played several first-class cricket matches for India & the other played a Test match in 1934,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/australian-high-commissioner-barry-ofarrell-calls-on-capt-amarinder-201655
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Akali Dal workers burn effigies of Modi, Shah across Punjab over NIA notices||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Thursday burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah across the state to protest against the “gross misuse of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against peacefully protesting farmer leaders as well as all those who are supporting the farmers’ agitation”.YAD president Parambans Singh Romana, while leading the agitation at Bathinda, said both the Prime Minister and the Home Minister should learn a lesson from history.“Punjabis have always risen as one against repression and the more the BJP-led central government tries to suppress the peaceful agitation the more Punjabis will bounce back to counter the aggression,” he said.Romana condemned the recent notices sent by the NIA to all those who had extended help to the farmers’ agitation. He said be it those helping in transport, Langar or by way of financial aid - everyone was being targeted. “This is against the mandate of the NIA which was formed to probe terror links”.The YAD president said all this was happening because the Punjab government led by Capt Amarinder Singh “was dancing to the tunes of the centre with the Chief Minister even taking orders directly from Amit Shah.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-akali-dal-workers-burn-effigies-of-modi-shah-across-punjab-over-nia-notices-201653
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures fall at many places in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions returned to Punjab and Haryana on Thursday as the minimum temperatures dropped slightly at many places in the two states after hovering above normal for the past few days, Meteorological Department officials here said.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 3.4 degrees Celsius, they said.Adampur and Pathankot, too, experienced a cold night at 3.5 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius.Faridkot, Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Halwara also braved the chill with a minimum temperature of 5.5, 5.8, 5.5 and 6.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Narnaul recorded a low of 4.6 degrees Celsius.Hisar registered a low of 6.7 degrees Celsius while Bhiwani recorded a minimum temperature of 6.2 degrees Celsius.Rohtak, Ambala and Karnal recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6, 7.9 and 8 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-fall-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-201635
21-01-2021||Jhajjar||Punjab residents prepare to join tractor rally from Tikri to Delhi||Haakam Singh Walia, a man employed at a private insurance company in Sangrur, has applied for a three-day leave, from January 24 to 27,  to participate in the proposed tractor march from Tikri border to Delhi on January 26.Walia joins many others in Punjab who are making arrangements to join the farmers in the march against the contentious farm laws. They are disposing of their work in advance to ensure their participation in the tractor parade. Significantly, women, along with their children, too are readying to become a part of the event.Also read: Govt gives Rs 5 lakh each to families of 4 Ludhiana farmers who died during protestJashandeep Singh, a farmer from Mansa, returned to Punjab from Tikri on Tuesday so that he could fertilise his wheat crop a few days in advance to join the tractor parade on Republic Day. Jaspal Singh from Fazilka (Punjab) said he decided not to attend the wedding of his cousin brother in Muktsar on January 27 given the tractor parade. The success of march has now become a prestige issue not only for the farmers but also for may others in Punjab.“I will go to Muktsar on January 22 to meet the cousin and other family members before the wedding to express my inability to attend the marriage. Not only me but those supporting the farmers have made up their mind to be part of the tractor parade to show their strength as the parade will decide the direction of the agitation,” said he.   Great enthusiasm among Punjab residents was sufficient enough to predict the success of the tractor parade, he added. Amit, another farmer from Sangrur, said since the parade is likely to be historical so everyone wants to become its witness.“A large number of women along with children too will leave for Tikri from Sangrur and other districts. Special buses have been arranged for them,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-residents-prepare-to-join-tractor-rally-from-tikri-to-delhi-201627
21-01-2021||Sonepat||It’ll be peaceful tractor rally, reiterate farmers||After the Supreme Court refused to entertain the Delhi Police plea seeking directions to stop the tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day, the protesters at the Singhu border today reiterated that the tractor parade would be peaceful and that thousands of tractors from Punjab would start for the Delhi borders on January 23 and 24.Yogendra Yadav, convener, Jai Kisan Andolan, said: “The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s main objective is to hold the tractor parade peacefully.”Meanwhile, farmers have started decorating their tractors, while some have pasted posters which describe the contribution of farmers to the nation’s development.Moga farmers Simarjeet Singh and Gurpeet Singh, who reached the Sonepat railway station on Tuesday night, said they were returning home and would come back on January 24 along with the tractor rally.Simarjeet said, “People in Punjab are busy preparing for the parade. About 25 tractors from each village will reach Delhi borders.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/itll-be-peaceful-tractor-rally-reiterate-farmers-201354
21-01-2021||Jhajjar||Three more protesting farmers die||Two farmers participating in the ongoing agitation at Tikri border lost their lives in the past 24 hours. A Punjab farmer, identified as Dhanna Singh (65) of Tunda village in Patiala, died reportedly of cardiac arrest at Tikri border in the wee hours of Wednesday. A Rohtak farmer — Jai Bhagwan (42) of Pakasma village — who had consumed poison at Tikri yesterday succumbed during treatment at a hospital in Delhi today.Sources said Dhanna had been camping in Bahadurgarh for the past several days. He went to bed on Tuesday as usual but did not wake up this morning. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh where he was declared brought dead.Jai Bhagwan had consumed poison near the main dharna spot at Tikri. In the suicide note, he said he was a small farmer and many peasants had taken to the streets to protest against the farm laws.Sonepat: A 34-year-old farmer died reportedly due to cardiac arrest at Kundli on Wednesday. He has been identified as Jagjeet Singh of Ludhiana’s Dhatt village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-more-protesting-farmers-die-201356
21-01-2021||Palwal||Intimidation of protesting farmers won’t work: Deepender Hooda||Congress MP Deepender Hooda today accused the BJP government of adopting “devious” tactics to intimidate protesting farmers.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has sent notices to people associated with the farmers’ protests in connection with a case related to an organisation called Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).“The Congress will continue to support the agitation till the anti-farmer laws are repealed. Farmers and soldiers of the country have never bowed to rulers, who have introduced the new laws forcibly,” he said in the district’s Antoha village.The Rajya Sabha member claimed farmers had the right to celebrate the Republic Day and the Independence Day. He justified the decision of farmers’ union to take out a tractor march in the Capital on the Republic Day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/intimidation-of-protesting-farmers-wont-work-deepender-hooda-201358
21-01-2021||Moga||Cong veteran passes away||EC to launch e-EPIC planChandigarh: In a historic initiative, the e-EPIC (electronic electoral photo identity card) programme will be formally launched by the Election Commission (EC) on January 25, marking the occasion of National Voters’ Day. Voters can now view and print the digital voter card on their registered mobiles. TNS45 kg poppy husk seizedAbohar: The police on Wednesday seized 45 kg of poppy husk by intercepting a car that had Haryana registration number and was using the flag of a farmers' organisation. The accused belonged to Fazilka and Ferozepur districts. Driver Darshan Singh (42) from Fazilka, Sher Singh (36) of Jalla Lakhe Ke Hithar village in Jalalabad and Kala Singh (33) of Tharasingh Wala Hithar in Ferozepur were arrested. OCTwo phones found in jailFerozepur: Two mobile phones were recovered from the Central Jail premises which were probably tossed over the outer wall from the roadside. Sukhwant Singh, Assistant Jail Superintendent, said during routine checking, a packet was recovered near the garden area on Tuesday night. "When checked, two phones (keypad mobiles without SIM cards) were found in the packet. Besides, a packet of tobacco was also recovered. Possibly, someone from outside threw the packet inside the jail premises," he said. OCTwo die in accidentsAbohar: Two persons died in two separate incidents here. Arun Kumar (50) of Gobind Nagari, who was working as a labourer in the wholesale vegetable market near Fazilka Road, was attacked by a stray bull. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, but he succumbed to injuries. A farm worker, Kirpal Singh (75), died on the spot when an unidentified vehicle reportedly hit his cycle when he was going back to Panjkosi village on Tuesday evening after collecting labour charges from a cotton grower. OC5 held for killing fruit sellerFerozepur: The police have arrested five accused in a blind murder case that occurred on January 4. In the incident, a few unidentified assailants had shot a fruit seller, Chetan Doomra (35), in front of his wife and children. Doomra and his family were returning to their house in a car when the assailants, who were driving a Fortuner, struck. They fired 12 rounds, killing the victim on the spot. SSP Bhupinder Singh said a special team led by SP(H) Balbir Singh was constituted to investigate the matter. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-veteran-passes-away-201473
21-01-2021||---||Parkash Purb of Guru Gobind Singh celebrated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parkash-purb-of-guru-gobind-singh-celebrated-201472
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu cases at 2 Punjab poultry farms, culling from today||Three samples from two Dera Bassi poultry farms have tested positive for bird flu strain H5N8. The Department of Animal Husbandry has started preparations for initiating a culling drive at the infected poultry farms tomorrow.The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, has confirmed the presence of H5N8 virus strain in the samples.H5N8 strainThe samples were from Alpha Poultry Farm having 55,000 birds and Royal Poultry Farm having 60,000 birds at Behra village in Dera Bassi. A sample taken from a dead crow at Balongi (Mohali) has also tested positive for H5N8 strain.On January 15, the Mohali administration sent a suspected case of bird flu from the area to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, from where it was sent to Bhopal institute for further investigation.NRDDL Joint Director Mohinder Pal Singh said, “The culling will be undertaken at commercial poultry farms in the 1-km radius of the affected site.”VK Janjua, Additional Chief Secretary, Animal Husbandry, said they had constituted 25 teams of five members each for the culling drive. Each team includes a veterinary doctor. “Though we are waiting for directions from the Centre, 50,000 birds will be culled at the two farms in the first phase,” he said.He said they had already started taking samples from poultry farms situated in the vicinity of the infected farms.On Tuesday, a wild goose found dead in Rupnagar had tested positive for bird flu, which became the first case of bird flu in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bird-flu-cases-at-2-punjab-poultry-farms-culling-from-today-201340
21-01-2021||New Delhi||Rapper, a truck driver’s son, lifts spirits at Ghazipur||“Haq de haqook di ladai, aj hisse sadhe ayi, itteh koi nahi Sikh, te koi nahi hai isai, na hai Hindu, na hai Muslim, itteh sab hai bhai bhai”.Clad in a denim jacket and shades, a 26-year-old is busy recording a song. Armed with a borrowed SLR and helped by his friend Gursewak Singh who is doubling as his professional cameraman, Karandeep recorded his first rap in one go.“Don’t know how it went, but I am keen to release this song on my YouTube channel soon,” the Hapur lad said minutes after completing his first mega project. Karandeep, whose father Ravinder Singh is a truck driver in Hapur, came to the protest site for the first time.A trained vocalist, who has been recording covers of popular songs and releasing those on his YouTube channel ‘Karrandeep’, an extra ‘R’ in the name is only for a different effect, says the song titled ‘Kisan di Takrir’ was his way to get attached to this historic farm protest.“My kin have farms in Punjab. I wanted to do my bit. My brother encouraged me to go to the protest site. So, here I am doing what I always wanted to do,” the postgraduate said.“Today was the first time I visited a protest site. I came here (Ghazipur) as this is only 50 km from my place,” he explained. His journey from a cover artiste to an upcoming rapper had a few obstacles. Not having a good quality camera was his big headache. “My brother has a high-end phone, but I couldn’t get it as he is away,” Karan said.“Finally, a friend gave me his SLR. I wanted to contribute and even if it doesn’t work out, I will not give up,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rapper-a-truck-drivers-son-lifts-spirits-at-ghazipur-201347
21-01-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Cremated 30 virus victims, yet no R-Day honour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20At a time when the fear of Covid-19 forced families abandon their deceased kin, a patwari based in the Sultanwind area of Amritsar came forward to perform the last rites.Kartar Singh Lehari cremated as many as 30 bodies last year. Though people hailed him as a fearless person, someone who kept humanity over his own life, the 51-year-old patwari feels let down by the government, which had promised to honour him.His name does not find mention on the list of those to be commended on Republic Day. “I did what I did for humanitarian reasons, not for some reward. But it hurts when you are promised something but denied,” he says. It was in April last year that Kartar took upon himself to cremate the body of Padma Shri Nirmal Singh Ragi, when he died after contracting the virus. Since then, he cremated the bodies of many such victims. He would first counsel the people not to abandon their loved ones, but when they still expressed reluctance, he would do the needful. “Of the 30 people I cremated, I paid for the last rites of 19. The then Amritsar DC had promised to recommend my name for an award,” he claimed.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Amritsar DC, said the file recommending the name of Kartar Singh was sent through a wrong channel. “It remained pending with the Additional DC. I am examining the matter and will try my best to do the needful,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cremated-30-virus-victims-yet-no-r-day-honour-201471
21-01-2021||---||Punjab CM: Akalis, AAP spreading lies on agri laws at Centre’s behest||Chandigarh, January 20With media highlighting an RTI response contradicting the Centre’s claim on the farm laws, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday alleged it was now obvious that the Akalis and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had been spreading lies in collusion with the BJP-led central government to damage the interests of the farmers.Media reports, citing a reply by the Planning Commission to a Right to Information (RTI) query, suggest that the farm ordinances were promulgated and introduced in Parliament in June 2020 without the report of the chief ministers’ committee being ever appraised by the Governing Council of NITI Aayog.This, said the Chief Minister, was in stark contrast to the claims of the central government, which both the SAD and AAP had been parroting in an apparent bid to promote the BJP’s anti-farmer agenda.Minister of State for Food Danve Raosaheb Dadarao had claimed before the Lok Sabha that the high-powered committee had approved the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which Capt Amarinder had categorically rejected.Capt Amarinder said far from basing the farm laws on the discussions and decisions of the CMs’committee, the fact, as validated by the RTI response, was that the committee report had not even been placed till now before the Governing Council of the NITI Aayog.“Once the report is made public, everyone will now know who said what in the committee meetings, where Punjab was not even a part in the first one, while the second discussed some financial issues with Manpreet Badal in attendance and the third only participated by secretary-level officials, he added.The CM lambasted the opposition parties over their campaign of “lies, deception and misinformation to promote their collective agenda of instigating the people against the democratically elected Congress government in the state”.“Their bundle of lies have been completely exposed by the RTI response,” he added, slamming the BJP, the SAD and AAP for misleading the nation on such a sensitive issue which had triggered massive unrest and had the potential of disturbing the peace of his state and the country.Lashing out at former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal for questioning Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on the basis of this false propaganda, the Chief Minister said she continued to spread the lies even after the RTI response was extensively published in the media. More than two days after the media reports on the RTI, Harsimrat had on Tuesday continued to brazenly allege that Captain Amarinder had consented to the farm laws as part of the committee.Dubbing the SAD as a fake champion of the farmers, he demanded an unequivocal apology to the people of Punjab by Harsimrat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-akalis-aap-spreading-lies-on-agri-laws-at-centres-behest-201302
21-01-2021||Abohar||Accord  high priority to agri sector: Farmers||A large number of farmers and people from all walks of life participated in a function held at Maujgarh village recently to mark the 10th death anniversary  of Surinder Jakhar, four-time chairman of the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited. Participants were of the view that in a country, which is predominantly agricultural and overpopulated, it was necessary to accord higher priority to agriculture. The prosperity of agriculture would raise the income of the majority of the rural population, said one of the participants. “If the farm sector does not grow at a faster rate, there will be discontentment among the masses, which is not healthy for the smooth functioning of the government. For growth it is necessary to minimise political as well as social tension,” said a participant. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accord-high-priority-to-agri-sector-farmers-201303
21-01-2021||Archit Watts---||8 Muktsar protesters die within fortnight||Tribune News Service Muktsar, January 20  In the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi borders, as of now eight farmers from Muktsar have lost their lives within a fortnight. The first death was reported on January 7, when Chanan Singh, a 55-year-old farmer from Kakhanwali village, who had returned from Tikri border after developing some health issues, died here. Thereafter, on January 10, Harpinder Singh, 45, from Abul Khurana village died at a hospital in Ludhiana. He, too, had developed some health issues at the Tikri border. On January 11, Jagdish Singh, a 61-year-old farmer, from Lundewala village reportedly died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri border. On January 12, another farmer, Avtar Singh, 79, from Lohara village here reportedly died of cardiac arrest while sleeping in a trailer at Tikri. On the same day, another elderly farmer, Jagtar Singh, from Barkandi village here died of cardiac arrest at his residence here. He, too, hadn’t been keeping well ever since he came back from the Tikri border.   On January 13, Iqbal Singh, 45, from Gandhar village here, who actively participated in the ongoing farmers’ protest at Tikri for almost two weeks, died of cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Bathinda. On January 16, Bohad Singh, 35, from Bhitiwala village here, too, died of cardiac arrest in a trailer at Tikri. On January 18, a 22-year-old farmer, Parminder Singh, from Aulakh village here, who had taken ill while lodging protest at Tikri, died at a private hospital in Bathinda. Meanwhile, SAD president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal today visited the residence of deceased Bohad Singh at Bhitiwala village. He assured the family of all possible help. He is visiting the residences of farmers who lost their lives in the ongoing protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-muktsar-protesters-die-within-fortnight-201304
21-01-2021||---||Opposition must unite in House over laws: Congress||Chandigarh, January 20Not allowed by farmers to use their platform against the Central laws, Punjab Congress Chief Sunil Jakhar has urged the party high command to unite all political parties on one platform to take on the BJP in the upcoming Budget session of Parliament.“The role of the Punjab leadership and MPs from the border state becomes important as it was the first state to speak up against the black laws and even rejected the Central legislations in the state Assembly session,” Jakhar said while appealing to farmers to understand that the fight to repeal the laws had to be ultimately fought in Parliament.Ministers join party leaders at DelhiCabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on Tuesday joined the Congress leaders, including MPs Ravneet Bittu, JS Gill and Gurjeet Aujla, who have been protesting the farm laws for over45 days.Party MP Gurjeet Aujla, who is among the MPs sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar, said the farmer leaders had been successfully carrying on their agitation but its impact in other states was not being felt.“Farmers cannot wait till the 2024 General Election. Unless MLAs and MPs of Opposition parties in other states mobilise public opinion, things will not move. The BJP is trying its best to paint the farmers as anti-national by issuing them NIA notices, as it knows that the real fight is in Parliament.”Party MP Ravneet Bittu said with a brute majority, the BJP was behaving like a dictator. “All Opposition MPs must unite to take on the BJP. The farmers cannot go inside Parliament. They should guide us,” Bittu said.Meanwhile, Punjab ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria joined the party dharna at Jantar Mantar on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-must-unite-in-house-over-laws-congress-201305
21-01-2021||---||IMF chief’s effigy burnt in Mansa||Bathinda, January 20Punjab Kisan Union members today staged a protest and burnt an effigy of International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva at Hirewala village in Mansa for the institution’s backing of the contentious new agriculture laws.Members of the farm union also raised slogans against the IMF and central government, demanding the cancellation of the central farm laws.The protesting farmers also conducted rehearsals at Saharna, Deluana, Nangal Kalan and Khara villages ahead of tractor march scheduled on Republic Day in Delhi.Surjit Singh Kot Dharmu, a state committee member of the union, said, “We condemn the statements given by the IMF that seeks to advocate the new central farm laws. Such statement by an international institution would tantamount to unnecessary interference in the internal affairs of our nation. The central government, in the garb of implementing these new farm laws, wants to give the control of agriculture sector to corporate houses.”Addressing a gathering of protesters, Gurjant Singh, another leader of the union exhorted that each and every farmer must send at least one member of their family to participate in the tractor march on Republic Day so that the show solidarity could create maximum pressure on the central government to repeal the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/imf-chiefs-effigy-burnt-in-mansa-201306
21-01-2021||Fazilka||Unions protest as leader sacked for taking part in stir||A large number of activists of the MGNREGA Karamchari Union, Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan Mid-Day Meal Office Karamchari Union, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), Asha Workers’ Union and Technical Services Union staged a protest outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) here today. They were protesting removal of Amritpal Singh, Punjab general secretary of the MGNREGA Karamchari Union, posted at the Jalalabad block by the district administration for participating in farmers’ agitation at Delhi a few days ago. They also blocked the Fazilka-Abohar national highway outside the DC’s office. Keshav Goyal, Fazilka SDM, reached out to the agitating leaders and assured that Amritpal Singh would be reinstated by January 22. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-protest-as-leader-sacked-for-taking-part-in-stir-201307
21-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Farm union flags in demand,100-200 sales daily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 20Ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the demand for farm protest-related flags has surged in the market.While local printing press dealers said 100-200 flags on farmers’ protests were being sold on a daily basis, there weren’t any such takers for the national flag as of now. Besides, members of various farm unions said despite making over 1,000 flags daily, they weren’t able to meet the demand.Considering the tractor march scheduled for the Republic Day, many vehicles in the state are sporting flags of different farm outfits. Subsequently, apart from the farmers, the demand has doubled among locals too.Pushkar Raj, a volunteer of the Kirti Kisan Union, who has been preparing flags of his union for the past three months at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall, said, “Since mid-October, we have been designing and making flags for our union. Till now, we have made over 30,000 flags and are making 1,000-1,500 daily.”Similarly, Jasbir Kaur, another volunteer, said they had a team of eight members who worked in shifts to prepare the flags. “The satin fabric is ordered from Amritsar. When we don’t get readymade flag-shaped clothes, we stitch them here. Afterwards, we have a painting board embedded with the logo of the union. We place the stitched flag there. It takes five-10 minutes to prepare one flag. Apart from flags, we also have stickers for bikes, cars and other vehicles. While we also supply our flags to Delhi and Haryana, the demand has increased manifold locally. At least five to six flags are being demanded from one family of farmers,” she added.Narinder Kumar, a wholesale dealer of printing solutions and novelty items at Partap Bagh, said the demand for flags and stickers of farmers’ protest had increased in the past three weeks. “However, as schools and colleges are closed due to Covid, the demand for the Tricolour is dismally low. In addition, people are ordering farm union flags in bulk,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-union-flags-in-demand-100-200-sales-daily-201308
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Not scared of ED, charges baseless, says Cabinet Minister Dharamsot||Lashing out at Delhi Chief Minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal for his “doublespeak” on the contentious farm laws, Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot today said everyone was fully aware of the “hypocritical character” of Kejriwal as his words and actual facts were always completely different.Accusing Kejriwal for adopting double standards on the farm laws, Dharamsot said neither Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh nor any of his Cabinet colleagues were scared of the Enforcement Directorate. He asked wasn’t Kejriwal the first person to implement these laws in Delhi?The minister said the track record of Capt Amarinder Singh showed that he had always been at the forefront to safeguard the interests of Punjab without any fear of losing power. On the other hand, Kejriwal’s dual stand on the SYL issue was known to everyone, said Dharamsot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-scared-of-ed-charges-baseless-says-cabinet-minister-dharamsot-201309
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Mining mafia has govt patronage,  alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today alleged that the mining mafia was plundering the state’s wealth and filling its coffers under the patronage of the state government.  Senior party leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Legislative Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema and Dinesh Chadha said the mining mafia was growing rapidly in the state. The AAP leaders said it was astonishing that the mining mafia had built its own roads and installed pipes to draw water from the river, but the state administration was not taking any action in this regard.  To force the government to eradicate the mafia, they said the AAP would launch an agitation against the mafia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mining-mafia-has-govt-patronage-alleges-aap-201310
21-01-2021||---||Raise rate of gunny bags, demand rice millers||Muktsar, January 20Due to acute shortage of gunny bags this season, the Centre has asked the state government to use 1.52 lakh bales of used bags to pack rice. The price of each gunny bag weighing 580 gm is fixed at Rs 22.However, the tenders of each gunny bag in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh are done at Rs 34 and Haryana is likely to buy each used gunny bag at Rs 30 for rice packaging.Citing this disparity, rice millers in Punjab are saying that they are unable to buy bags of the specifications given by the Centre at such “low price”. The poor quality gunny bags would affect the quality of rice and would obstruct payment, they claimed.Bharat Bhushan Bansal ‘Binta’, president, Punjab Rice Industry Association, said: “We are facing acute shortage of gunny bags and will be unable to deliver the custom milled rice to the government by March 31. In the past, we used to pack rice in the bags provided by the Centre. However, this year, there is shortage as the government has provided us 20-30 per cent bags. Now, as per a fresh notification, we have been asked to buy each used gunny bag weighing 580 gm. It is impossible to buy a good quality bag at such low price. It will deteriorate the quality of rice and when FCI officials will inspect the stock at the depots, they will raise objections and stop payment.”He said: “We request the state government to take up our genuine demand with the Centre so that action is taken at the earliest. Further, the Centre has fixed the price of each gunny bag at or above Rs 30 in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.”Notably, Punjab has 4,370 rice mills and a fresh gunny bag costs around Rs 55. Each bale has 500 gunny bags.Some rice millers said they were even unable to spend money on buying the used gunny bags at this stage. “We will get the payment next year. Like Madhya Pradesh, here too, the state government should buy the bags and provide to all of us,” they said.Ravi Bhagat, director, Food and Civil Supplies Department, said: “Some rice millers met me today and discussed their problem. I will take up the matter with the Centre and request a revision in the price of gunny bags. The MP government has approved the tender to buy each bag at Rs 32-34, but the Centre has not released the payment yet.”Hansraj Singla, president, Haryana Rice Millers and Dealers Association, said: “A senior official has told us that each used gunny bag will be bought at Rs 30. However, the official order is yet to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raise-rate-of-gunny-bags-demand-rice-millers-201311
21-01-2021||Aman Sood||Amid flu scare, waterbird census continues||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 20Amid bird flu scare following the death of a migratory bird in the state recently, the Asian Waterbird Census continues in Punjab. Also, the Wildlife Department has formed a special committee of experts after one positive case was reported from the Siswan wetland.The Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab, along with the WWF-India, bird experts, scientists, researchers and amateur birdwatchers, is assessing and documenting the status of water birds migrating to the key wetlands of Punjab in winter.Experts say they have assessed and documented the status of water birds at the Nangal and Ropar wetlands in Rupnagar district. They are now assessing the Ranjit Sagar and Keshopur wetlands in Pathankot district. The WWF and wildlife department experts will further survey the wetlands of Kanjli and Harike in Kapurthala and Ferozepur districts, respectively, this week.“We have not found any suspected flu symptoms in birds. Barring an odd case of a bar-headed goose, birds at almost all wetlands of the state look healthy,” said Geetanjali Kanwar, coordinator, aquatic biodiversity, WWF-India. “The migration of water birds is on. The exact estimate and comparison with last year’s count will be completed soon,” she said.Meanwhile, the carcass of the bar-headed goose was sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, where it tested positive for bird flu. “We have put all our teams on high alert and a committee of experts has been formed to collect reports from field officers,” said Basanta Rajkumar, Chief Conservator of Forests.“We are keeping a close tab on migratory birds at all wetlands and a team, comprising experts from various departments, is monitoring the situation,” he said.“We are not taking any chances and regularly collecting samples. There is nothing to worry,” he added.Rare black-tailed godwit spotted at Harike||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-flu-scare-waterbird-census-continues-201312
21-01-2021||---||47% BEd seats still vacant in colleges||Patiala, January 20The state has seen a fall in students opting for BEd courses in various colleges under Punjabi University, Panjab University and GNDU this year. Officials said of the 21,088 seats available in 212 colleges, merely 11,113 have been filled. The officials attributed it to the lack of jobs after the course and the rising trend among youngsters of going abroad.The officials at Punjabi University, who conduct counselling for the colleges under the three universities, said 9,975 seats, about 47 per cent of the total seats, were vacant. Dr Gurpreet Singh Lehal, co-coordinator of the counselling, said, “Over 25 per cent seats in five government colleges are vacant along with 44 per cent of seats in 15 government-aided colleges and 48 per cent seats in 192 private colleges in the state.”Lack of jobsDr Lehal said a number of colleges could not admit even a single candidate, while 27 colleges failed to admit more than 25 per cent students.Dr Jasraj Kaur, coordinator of BEd counselling said, “The colleges have been given freedom to fill vacant seats on their own by giving preference to candidates who had already registered with Punjabi University for admission by January 27.” She said the seats had now been merged and those who could not get their preferred subject combination at their desired college would be able to avail it at the other.Dr Simrat Kaur, principal, Government College of Education, said students’ interest in the course dropped after it became a two-year course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/47-bed-seats-still-vacant-in-colleges-201313
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Schools open for Classes 3, 4 from Jan 27||School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today said following the persistent demand of parents, the state government had decided to reopen all schools for Classes 3 and 4 from January 27. He said students of Classes 1 and 2 would be allowed to attend schools from February 1. “Timings will remain the same, from 10 am to 3 pm, and parents will have to give written consent before sending their wards to schools,” he said. Singla also directed education department officials and school managements to ensure proper cleaning of premises and classrooms and follow the Covid-19 safety norms. “Detailed guidelines will also be issued soon,” Singla added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schools-open-for-classes-3-4-from-jan-27-201314
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab objects to cut in Rural Development Fund||The government has taken a strong exception to the cut in the Rural Development Fund (RDF) imposed by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Food on paddy procurement.The Centre has reduced the RDF from 3 per cent to 1 per cent, as an interim measure. In its letter sent to the state government yesterday, the ministry had sought information on the use of the RDF, before releasing the balance amount.Food and Supply minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told The Tribune that it was sad that the Centre was resorting to such measures. “On one hand, the Centre says they will not do away with the APMC Act, and on the other, they are not willing to give the RDF. This is double-speak on their part. The RDF was being given to the state for more than four decades, and its denial now is not acceptable,” he said.Meanwhile, the AAP, too, has objected to the cut. Bhagwant Mann, state unit chief, said the Centre was taking revenge on the state for the farmers’ movement against the agricultural laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-objects-to-cut-in-rural-development-fund-201315
21-01-2021||Sameer Singh||Year on, Bathinda labour court still non-functional||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 20Litigants have been suffering as hearing of cases is not taking place at the labour court (industrial tribunal) in Bathinda for the past one year.After the Additional Sessions Judge retired in January 2020, no new appointment or transfer took place, leading to piling up of cases. There are more than 900 cases pending in the labour court in Bathinda that caters to seven south Malwa districts, and no new cases are being filed.900 cases pendingLitigants from Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazillka, Ferozepur, Moga and Mansa file cases in the labour court at Bathinda. The reader at the court said daily 30 to 35 cases were being given dates of hearing that were one to two months away.Sham Lal Jindal, a labour law consultant, said, “Litigants keep asking us when the new judge will be sent here. New cases can’’’’t be filed as hearing is not taking place in the absence of the judge. I have many cases pertaining to non-payment of salary from Bathinda, Muktsar and Moga, while other advocates have cases related to job termination and other industrial disputes. Our work has also been affected for the past one year.”Advocate Ashok Bharti, who takes up cases filed at the labour court, said, “We request the High Court of Punjab and Haryana to appoint the judge at the court or transfer somebody here, so that litigants do not suffer and their cases can be heard and settled soon. Many litigants keep enquiring about their cases over phone calls. Some visit in the hope of speedy redressal.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “I will take up the matter with authorities concerned and try to get it resolved on priority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/year-on-bathinda-labour-court-still-non-functional-201316
21-01-2021||Patiala||SDO: Unauthorised sewage line led to diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura||The diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura that left over 97 persons ill reportedly broke out due to an unauthorised sewage line and use of hydraulic ram pumps in the area.It is learnt that the affected area had an unauthorised sewage line that was leaking at two points, leading to stagnation of water. At the same time, drinking water supply was stopped and due to negative suction, sewage water got mixed with the drinking water.Sewage, drinking water got mixedSub Divisional Officer Karandeep Singh said: “The affected area had a private sewage line that was not authorised. We have traced the two points in the sewage line that were leaking and repair work has been started.”Meanwhile, 21 more persons reported ill on Wednesday, taking the total count to 97. The health department has reportedly collected six stool samples so far.Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, said: “The outbreak has already started receding. Today, 21 patients, mostly children, had come with a stomach ache. The condition of none of the patients is serious. However, surveillance of the affected area will continue.”Rajpura had reported a diarrhoea outbreak in 2019 when two persons had died and 100 took ill. When asked about the frequent outbreaks in Rajpura block, Dr Gagan Grover, state programme officer, said: “Epidemiologically, small towns are always prone to such outbreaks, owing to lack of well-planned sewage lines. Areas which are low lying are also prone to such contamination as water flows backwards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sdo-unauthorised-sewage-line-led-to-diarrhoea-outbreak-in-rajpura-201317
21-01-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Docs ‘refuse’ to treat rape victim, DC orders probe||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, January 20Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq has initiated a probe into the alleged callousness of Civil Hospital doctors, including the Senior Medical Officer (SMO), in conducting the medical examination of a 10-year-old rape victim following a verbal complaint by SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal.The SSP informed the DC “that the doctors were stonewalling the medical examination by offering lame excuses, a development which could lead to a law and order problem”.Civil Surgeon: SMO did nothing wrongCivil Surgeon Dr Varinder Jagat jumped to the defence of the SMO by contesting the police version. He said, “If a patient is stable, he or she can be referred to a hospital in whose jurisdiction the crime had occurred. In this case, the SMO did the right thing.”A section of residents said this showed the inept attitude of government doctors in providing medical services. On Sunday, a 10-year-old girl was raped in a village falling under the jurisdiction of Dhariwal police subdivision. The cops registered an FIR after which DSP (Dhariwal) Kulwinder Singh Virk deputed lady officer Anju Bala to accompany the victim and her mother to the Gurdaspur Civil Hospital to get the mandatory medical examination conducted.Much to their embarrassment, SMO Dr Chetna allegedly refused to do so citing ‘jurisdictional problems’. She claimed the victim should be examined at the government hospital in Kahnuwan in whose jurisdiction the crime occurred.The SMO’s refusal sparked off a strong protest from SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal who claimed that “according to rules, where there is a high probability of a law and order problem arising, jurisdictional boundaries do not matter”.Anju Bala then brought the victim to the Kahnuwan hospital where the doctor on duty also declined to conduct the examination “citing some flimsy reason”.Sensing that doctors were not interested in helping them out, the girl and her mother did the disappearance act. After a couple of hours, they were traced to Puranashala and were again brought to the Civil Hospital where yet again the minor girl was “given the cold shoulder”.Exasperated, the SSP approached the DC and Civil Surgeon Dr Varinder Jagat. The DC said he had asked the Civil Surgeon to submit a report. “Prima facie, it appears there is negligence on the part of doctors. Physicians cannot abdicate their responsibility by taking refuge in ‘jurisdictional limits,” he said. The SSP said the doctors had indeed erred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/docs-refuse-to-treat-rape-victim-dc-orders-probe-201318
21-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana tops in vaccine drive||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 20Ludhiana, which had assumed the dubious distinction of being the ‘Covid capital’ of Punjab due to maximum cases and deaths, has topped the state in the ongoing first phase of the vaccination drive.Against the state’s dismal inoculation rate of 31.26 per cent recorded in the first three days after the nationwide campaign was launched on January 16, Ludhiana covered the highest 57.22 per cent targeted beneficiaries till January 19.Moga at bottomWith 9.16% vaccination, Moga stood at the lowest rank on the vaccination drive list, followed by Barnala (10.97%) and Ferozepur (11.34%)As many as 887 healthcare workers from both government and private sectors got the jab against the target of 1,550, while Punjab vaccinated 5,567 of the targeted 17,808 beneficiaries.While CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s home district Patiala stood second with 47.77 per cent inoculation, Hoshiarpur stood third with 45.89 per cent coverage. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s home district Mohali remained at 11th position with 30 per cent achievement. The worst three performing districts were Moga with 9.16 per cent vaccination, Barnala (10.97 per cent) and Ferozepur (11.34 per cent).The drive picked up on Wednesday with the coverage rate shooting up to 56.77 per cent. Since the government health centres were closed for the day due to public holiday, 34 session sites were created in private hospitals where 2,003 of the day’s targeted 3,528 registered priority members were inoculated. To give further momentum to the programme, the health department has created more than 300 session sites in the state for Thursday.“We will begin the inoculation drive at all community health centres, subdivisional, and district civil hospitals besides over 100 private hospitals from tomorrow,” said Hussan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.After visiting a private hospital in Faridkot to oversee the ongoing vaccination, Hussan said the manifold increase in the number of session sites from Thursday would raise the coverage rate considerably.“We are committed to vaccinating and protecting all 1.8 lakh registered healthcare workers in the first phase,” he said. Attributing the lukewarm response to glitches in CoWin application besides hesitance and apprehension among healthcare workers, Hussan said senior doctors such as civil surgeons and SMOs were coming forward to get themselves vaccinated and motivated their subordinates to get the jab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-tops-in-vaccine-drive-201319
21-01-2021||---||2 national awards for Talwandi  Sabo power plant||Bathinda, January 20Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), Banawaali, one of the largest thermal power plants in the state, has won two awards at the prestigious 20th edition of the National Awards for Excellence in Corporate Governance conducted by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).The TSPL was adjudged the ‘best governed company’ and Mansi Bhutani, its secretary, was conferred with the ‘governance professional of the year’ award.Vikas Sharma, CEO and whole-time director, TSPL, said, “These awards stand testimony to our deeply ingrained value system.”The ICSI awards recognise the impeccable performance of corporates and professionals in the arena of corporate governance.Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal was the chief guest at the award function. Justice AK Sikri, former Supreme Court judge, was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-national-awards-for-talwandi-sabo-power-plant-201320
21-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||MC poll: SAD names Abohar candidates||Abohar, January 20 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has taken a lead in announcing candidates for 25 of the 50 Abohar wards ahead of the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections. The process for filing nomination papers will start on January 30. Kanwarjit Singh ‘Rozy’ Barkandi, SAD district observer and Muktsar MLA, said the second list would be released soon. “Our poll strategy is to get a majority in the corporation,” he said. In the first list, the party has re-nominated three former councillors — Anjali Chhabra, Gurmeet Kaur and Manju Bala — while clearing names of over 10 women to contest the polls. Prominent names in the list are Navneet Kaur, wife of youth wing district president Harbinder Singh Harry, and Paramjeet Kaur, wife of Urban Circle-2 president Ajit Singh Rinku.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mc-poll-sad-names-abohar-candidates-201321
21-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Court sentences man to life term for murder, ‘raps’ IO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20A Bathinda court has awarded life imprisonment to a man for killing a student.Immediately after firing at 18-year-old Raminder Singh on February 10, 2019, accused Lalit Kumar called up Manik Garg, a welfare society volunteer, “most probably” to move the injured to a hospital. Garg shifted the victim to hospital, but did not disclose the caller’s phone number in his testimony to help the accused. For misleading the court, he disclosed some other number.Officer introduced false eyewitnessesThe court observed the police officer investigating the case helped the accused. Inspector Davinder Singh introduced false eyewitnesses to procure the acquittal of the accusedThe investigating officer, too, was helpful. Sentencing Lalit Kumar to life imprisonment for murder, Bathinda District and Sessions Judge Kamaljit Lamba observed that investigating officers cook up false evidence to procure conviction in criminal cases. But Inspector Davinder Singh introduced false eyewitnesses to procure the acquittal of the accused.Lamba asserted it was often said: “A judge does not preside over a criminal trial merely to see that no innocent man is punished, he also presides over to see that the guilty does not escape; one is as important as the other.” He said the court, with its own powers under the Code of Criminal Procedure, asked for call details and tower location, only to realise that the investigating officer had collected the details, but not produced in court along with the challan for reasons best known to him.After going through the evidence, Lamba asserted, “As per the call details, the deceased and the accused were together on the date of the incident. The accused had a licensed weapon. This court can assume that something untoward had happened, which could have triggered the volatile and hostile incident.” Lamba said the prosecution case against the accused was further strengthened from the evidence of recovery of the victim’s mobile phone. The other vital evidence was the recovery of the victim’s blood-stained jacket from the accused.Before parting with the case, Lamba directed issuance of a show-cause notice to Garg to explain as to why a complaint not be lodged against him for committing perjury.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-sentences-man-to-life-term-for-murder-raps-io-201322
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Liquidated firm’s land auction faces trouble||The controversial auction of 31 acres of prime land of liquidated JCT Electronics could run into rough weather with Punjab Infotech staking claim of Rs 161 crore as the unearned profit from the sale of property. The Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), the government undertaking that estate management on behalf of Punjab Infotech, has staked claim of Rs 45.28 crore as unearned profit as 50 per cent of the sale value by selling the property for Rs 90 crore. Sources said Punjab Infotech in the communication to PSIEC has clearly stated that going by current reserve price, the unearned profit should be Rs 161 crore and transfer of the land to the purchaser would be subject to its policy. The meeting of the Board of Directors of Punjab Infotech to approve or disapprove the sale is pending. It has postponed its meeting on the role of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) Limited for not staking Rs 161-crore claim as the unearned profit to be paid on the sale of 31 acres of prime land of liquidated JCT Electronics in Mohali. It instead agreed to claim Rs 45.28 crore as 50 per cent of the sale value. The Finance Department has also raised an objection to the PSIEC’s decision. Officials point out that any decision of the PSIEC to stake the claim of unearned profit on the sale of plot has to be taken with the approval of the Board of Directors of Punjab Infotech, the land allotment government agency. A government officer said, “Punjab Infotech had allotted land to JCT Electronics 26 years ago on leasehold basis for 99 years. As per the lease deed clause, 50 per cent of unearned increase was applicable at the time of the sale of the plot on the basis of prevailing reserve price. In this case, the prevailing reserve price in the area was Rs 21,500 per sq yard.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquidated-firms-land-auction-faces-trouble-201323
21-01-2021||---||Punjab government to reopen primary sections from January 27||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20Punjab government will reopen its primary schools on January 27,  a press release from the government said on Wednesday.The press release quoted Punjab’s School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla of having cited persistent demands from parents to reopen primary schools.Classes 3 and 4 will resume in-person classes from January 27, and Classes 1 and 2 will start on February 1. Classes will resume full time from 10 am to 3 pm. Students need parents written permission to attend classes in person.  Schools have been told to clean and sanitise classes and strictly follow COVID-19 protocol issued by the central government, the press release said.The state government will release a detailed set of guidelines to district education officers, which they will have to circulate among both private and government-aided schools.   Schools are already conducting in-person classes for Classes 5 and up. Students need parents’ authorisation to attend these classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-to-reopen-primary-sections-from-january-27-201215
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Thousands throng gurdwaras on Guru Gobind's 'Prakash Purb'||Thousands of devotees paid obeisance at gurdwaras across Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh on Wednesday to commemorate the 354th birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh.Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708) founded the 'Khalsa Panth' or the community of the pure at Anandpur Sahib in 1699.Religious fervour was quite evident at 'Harmandar Sahib', the holiest of Sikh shrines also known as Golden Temple, in Amritsar in Punjab and other historic gurdwaras across the region as devotees began to assemble since early morning hours to offer prayers and listen to the 'kirtan' or hymns set to music.The Golden Temple complex was adorned with lights to mark the occasion.A heavy rush of devotees was also seen at Takht Kesgarh Sahib gurdwara in Anandpur Sahib town, around 85 km from here, since early morning. It was at this place that Guru Gobind Singh founded the 'Khalsa Panth'.Hundreds of people also offered prayers at Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Panchkula, adjoining Chandigarh, which is associated with the visit of the 10th Sikh Guru.Religious processions were taken out at various places in the region on the eve of the Guru's birth anniversary. 'Langars' or community kitchens have been set up at gurdwaras to feed the devotees.Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion and urged them to follow the Guru's teachings and to maintain peace and harmony. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-pictures-thousands-throng-gurdwaras-on-guru-gobinds-prakash-purb-201199
21-01-2021||Mohali||Dera Bassi and Mohali report bird flu cases; total cases in Punjab reach 3||Samples from Alpha Poultry farm—with 55,000 livestock—and Royal Poultry farm—with 60,000 livestock—in Dera Bassi’s Behra village have tested positive for bird flu (HSN8) at the Bhopal laboratory.A sample of a dead crow taken in Mohali also tested positive.With two new cases reported on Wednesday, the number of confirmed samples of bird flu  in Punjab has reached three.On January 15, the Mohali administration had sent a suspected case of bird flu from the area to a Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar. For further investigation, it was sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal.  NRDDL, Jalandhar, Joint Director, Mohinder Pal Singh said: “The culling will be undertaken in the two poultry farms as of now”.A goose found dead a week ago at Siswan dam reservoir of Mohali had also tested positive on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-bassi-and-mohali-report-bird-flu-cases-total-cases-in-punjab-reach-3-201165
21-01-2021||New Delhi||Modi pays homage to Guru Gobind Singh on his 'Parkash Purab'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid homage to Guru Gobind Singh on his birth anniversary and said the 10th Sikh Guru's life was devoted to creating a just and inclusive society."I bow to Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji on the pious occasion of his Parkash Purab. His was a life devoted to creating a just and inclusive society," Modi said in a tweet on the occasion of the 354th birth anniversary of the Sikh guru.Guru Gobind Singh was unwavering when it came to upholding his principles, he said."We also recall his courage and sacrifices," the Prime Minister said and tagged a video of his address in the past highlighting Guru Gobind Singh's efforts for creating an inclusive society and his valour."The Guru Sahibs have a special Kripa on me that the 350th Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji took place during the tenure of our Government. I recall the grand celebrations in Patna, where I also had the opportunity to go and pay my respects," Modi said.He also tweeted his messages in Punjabi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/modi-pays-homage-to-guru-gobind-singh-on-his-parkash-purab-201124
