24-01-2021|| Chandigarh||COVID-19: Two more deaths, 200 new cases in Punjab||Punjab reported two more coronavirus fatalities and 200 fresh cases on Sunday, pushing the overall figures to 5,555 deaths and 1,71,930 infections, officials said.There are 2,256 active COVID-19 cases in the state now, according to a medical bulletin.Among the fresh infections, Mohali reported 35 cases, Faridkot 28, and Ludhiana 26.A total of 232 coronavirus patients were discharged in a 24-hour period after recovering from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 1,64,119, as per the bulletin.As many as 10 patients are on ventilator support while 63 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 43,66,353 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-two-more-deaths-200-new-cases-in-punjab-203134
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: Amarinder hits back, calls AAP deceitful, desperate||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh dismissed rival Aam Aadmi Party’s claims that he had prior knowledge of the contents of the controversial agriculture laws saying that they were baseless allegations that showed the “extent of their desperation”.Amarinder said in a statement he issued on Sunday evening that AAP, whose leader Raghav Chada held a press conference earlier in the day, was making yet another “desperate attempt” to woo back the state. He also accused AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, of hitting rock bottom to promote his agenda in a state that had “unceremoniously rejected” his party in 2017. “If they think that by sharing a doctored video they can befool the people of Punjab then AAP leaders are even more ignorant about this state then I had believed them to be,” said the Chief MinisterHe claimed that the Punjab government was not included in the original list of a high-powered committee of chief ministers set up for consultations on three controversial laws on June 15, 2019, and said his name was included in the final list dated August 7, 2019, only after he wrote to the central government. “These dates are clearly mentioned on the documents shared by their spokesperson himself,” he pointed out. “Don’t you understand the difference between Punjab not originally being included in the Committee and being named a member after I personally wrote to the Centre on the issue? How does flaunting the final list, in which Punjab was included after my intervention prove me wrong?”“Had AAP bothered to share the complete videos of my statements, the truth of what I have been saying would have been endorsed, which is obviously why they have carefully doctored my recorded statements.”He claimed that because of a delay in including Punjab on the committee, the state missed the first meeting. He listed two mother meetings after that---one that discussed financial matters that his finance minister Manpreet Badal attended, and the last one in which only the state’s Agriculture Secretary was invited to participate.“All this is a matter of record, which AAP clearly does not believe in checking out,” he said. He also claimed that the agenda of these meetings did not list farm laws or any new legislation.“This was again a matter of record,” he said, pointing to the Terms of Reference of the committee and adding that his cabinet colleague Badal had already released the minutes of the committee meeting.“Your fake claims and allegations will not negate the truth of facts that are on record,” he told the AAP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-laws-amarinder-hits-back-calls-aap-deceitful-desperate-203122
24-01-2021||Jalandhar||CM Amarinder knew of agriculture laws since Aug 2019, didn’t inform farmers: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party Delhi MLA and co-incharge of AAP Punjab Raghav Chaddha said on Sunday that Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh knew about the farm laws and was privy to the terms of reference of the high-powered committee constitutes to make and discuss the laws in August 2019, yet he remained silent for a year and did not share the information with the state peasantry.Chadha also said the chief minister knew about the terms of reference clearly mentioned in the office memorandum, which he claimed would mean large scale privatisation and corporatisation of agriculture in the country.Chadha, who claimed he was sharing information received by his party through an RTI, said Punjab chief minister didn’t oppose the farm laws well in time, when they could have been withdrawn.Speaking to the press here on Sunday, Chadha said: “Captain Amarinder Singh said he did not have any information regarding the laws and he or the state was not a member of the committee. He also said the finance minister was sent to the formal meeting because it was financial issue. But the RTI makes it clear that as per an office memorandum dated August 7, 2019, that the chief minister was the seventh member of the high powered committee of CMs constituted by the Prime Minister. He was privy to what the laws entailed since August 2019”.Reading out from the RTI Chadha said, the Prime Minister approved the revised constitution of a High Powered Committee of Chief Ministers for the ‘Transformation of Indian Agriculture’ on August 7, 2019.Chadha added in the agenda of the committee, the terms of reference included key three points--- Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2017; Agricultural Produce and Livestock, Contract farming and Services (promotion and Facilitation Act), 2018; and “to examine various provisions of the Essential Commodity Act and situations that require essential commodity act”.He added: “The further points of the terms of reference also detailed the privatisation of agriculture”.Chadha said: “This means Capt Amarinder Singh was aware the laws would lead to the breaking of mandis, weakening or finishing of the MSP law and largely the privatisation of agriculture. He was aware the laws would lead to hoarding and the enslavement of farmers but he chose not to speak about them for a year nor inform farmers or farmer unions”. “The document was given to every committee member. The AAP questions him why he chose not to tell and prevent the passing of the law? We also ask the CM to share one document with us where you opposed the terms of reference for the laws. If farmers knew the laws, the passing of them could have been stopped beforehand,” he said.When questioned whether the AAP thinks Punjab chief minister attended the meeting on the laws, Chadha says: “We have not received the minutes of the meeting but since the chief minister was aware of the several points of the terms of the reference of the high powered committee, he clearly knew what the law entailed. And even if we suppose his finance minister attended the meeting at Delhi clearly the CM must have been intimated of what happened”.The other chief ministers who were members of the high powered committee were then Mahrashtra chief minister Devendra Phadnavis, Haryana’s CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath, Orissa Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union Agricultural Minister Narendra Tomar and Niti Ayog member Ramesh Chand, AAP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-amarinder-knew-of-agriculture-laws-since-aug-2019-didnt-inform-farmers-aap-203075
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab and Haryana||Minimum temperatures hovered above normal limits in Punjab and Haryana on Sunday and a thick blanket of fog engulfed most places in the two states, reducing visibility levels.While night temperatures hovered above normal, cold weather conditions persisted during the day at most places.According to Meteorological Department officials here, Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2 degrees Celsius.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 6 degrees Celsius, while Ludhiana and Patiala too recorded above normal minimum temperatures at 8.6 degrees Celsius and 8.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Pathankot (8.1 degrees Celsius), Adampur (8.9 degrees Celsius), Halwara (8.1 degrees Celsius), Faridkot (7 degrees Celsius) and Gurdaspur (8 degrees Celsius) also recorded above normal minimum temperatures.In Haryana, Ambala (9.9 degrees Celsius), Hisar (7.4 degrees Celsius), Karnal (9 degrees Celsius), Narnaul (8 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (10.4 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (9.2 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (7.4 degrees Celsius) recorded above normal minimum temperatures.The MeT officials said fog engulfed various places, including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Sonipat, Bhiwani, Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-and-haryana-203070
24-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh’s ‘Aankhon Ki Gustakhiyan’ leaves fans in awe; see Instagram reel||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh’s latest Instagram video has left fans melting. The two sang their hearts out to an old Bollywood song ‘Aankhon Ki Gustakhiyan’.The couple were seen twinning in white. The video has over 1.4 million likes.The 32-year-old singer shared the Instagram reel on late Saturday night, and wrote: “#AnkhonKiGustakhiyan Maaf hon!!!! #NehuPreet being Filmy Again @rohanpreetsingh #NehaKakkar #ReelItFeelIt.”A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  Last week, Neha had shared another real which had a message for Rohanpreet’s ex-girlfriends.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)  Meanwhile, Neha tied the knot with singer Rohanpreet Singh in October, last year, as per the Sikh wedding ceremony Anand Karaj. The singer's name on her verified Instagram account now reads "Neha Kakkar (Mrs Singh)".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-and-rohanpreet-singhs-aankhon-ki-gustakhiyan-leaves-fans-in-awe-see-instagram-reel-203044
24-01-2021||New Delhi||Tomar’s stern message to unions and 'gratitude' to Punjab officials for 'acting as bridge'||The government’s strategy for the day was set much before farmers’ unions walked in the conference hall for the eleventh round of talks. While asking unions to reconsider its “best offer” on the three contentious farm laws, the BJP-led Centre on Friday also made public a video of Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s stern message to them where he was seen outlining ethics for such discussions.As he called the curtains on the meeting, Tomar was also seen acknowledging the role of Punjab government officials in the Centre’s talks with the unions. Congress’ Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government had last year countered the Narendra Modi-led Centre’s three farm laws.Tomar said: “I am happy that during this entire course (of discussions) Central and Punjab government officials helped us by being present during the talks…so that they could become a bridge between us (the Centre and unions) and find a solution, the hard work that was expected from them they put in that. For that, I am thankful to the Central government and Punjab government officials.”  Notably, the four-hour-plus meeting yesterday saw discussions for barely 30 minutes (some 20-odd minutes before the break and around 10 minutes after that when Tomar made his statement). If unions believe that during the three-hour-plus long break the government was considering giving them another offer, they are mistaken. The government wanted to give them some more time to reconsider their decision, officials say.   Sources say the government’s strategy for the day was set soon after the farm unions went public with their decision to not accept its proposal of 18-month suspension of the three contentious laws. Tomar also made clear “his angst” over the unions’ decision to do when a meeting had been planned between them and the government.While making clear that suspension of laws was the “best offer” he had for them, Tomar also gave the unions a talk on the ethics of negotiations between two sides. “Normally, no new agitation is announced during the talks…..However, you (unions) kept coming for talks and also kept declaring new agitations”. In another strong observation on their current status, he said: “they could not move forward because the vision that should have been there during the discussions was lacking”. Later, he also told the media that “resolution is not possible when sanctity/purity of an agitation is lost”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tomars-stern-message-to-unions-and-gratitude-to-punjab-officials-for-acting-as-bridge-203001
24-01-2021||Neha Saini||Narendra Chanchal: A simple man with a heart of gold||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23“He was fond of singing Bulleh Shah’s poetry and every time he performed on stage, his list of admirers grew by numbers. His simplicity remained with him throughout his journey as an artiste.” Veteran theatre thespian Suresh Pandit, who had worked with late Narendra Chanchal during his days as a struggling singer, remembers his peer fondly. Chanchal passed away on January 22, in Delhi, after a prolonged illness.His demise brought out emotional reactions from senior artistes in city, especially with whom he had worked. “The last time we met was in 2014, when he was in city for his annual jagran programme at Shakti Nagar. We shared a cup of tea and talked about the bygone days,” said Pandit.Between 1964-65, when Chanchal was trying to make his name as a budding singer, he used to compose music and perform in between acts during theatre plays. He worked extensively with Punjabi playwright Gursharan Singh, composing for his plays. “Whenever there was a break in between the acts in a long play, Narendra and Jatinder Kaur, who is a senior actor, used to give singing performances. Both were young budding artistes and had joined the same group. He used to perform ghazals, sufi kalam and popular hindi film songs,” Pandit remembered.For many who were associated with the bhajan legend, it was city’s collective loss. “He started by performing aartis and bhajans in temples as a child. As a youngster, every evening he used to sit with his friends at the nearby halwai shop and sang songs of popular artistes of those times. He was passionate about singing in a way that he never aspired for showbiz, but only appreciation. He helped many others realise their dreams,” shared Ashwini Kumar, Chanchal’s brother-in-law, who is a retired government officer and lives in Namak Mandi.When his talent caught Raj Kapoor’s eye in the film ‘Bobby’, his instant fame made him spend more time in Mumbai. “He was grateful for the film so much that he nicknamed his eldest son Siddharth as Bobby,” recalled Ashwini. Nearly every household in Shakti Nagar (in pic), where his home is, has his photographs and calender. “He used to stroll and meet people in the neighbourhood whenever he used to visit. From young to old, he had a connection with everyone here,” said Vicky Datta, a resident of Shakti Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/narendra-chanchal-a-simple-man-with-a-heart-of-gold-202928
24-01-2021||Sonepat||U-turn by nabbed man, claims was forced to lie||In a twist in the “plot” to disrupt Republic Day rally, the youth “nabbed” by the farmer leaders for creating mischief last evening has turned the tables on them by claiming he was thrashed by them and forced to narrate a concocted story to the media.The farmer leaders, present during the press meet yesterday, have denied the accused’s statement before the police.The ‘conspiracy’Farmer leaders had paraded a youth nabbed by them. He reportedly confessed about a “conspiracy” to disturb the rally and eliminate four prominent farmer leaders. He claimed that there were 10 people in the team and they were getting instructions from Rai SHO Pradeep.Farmer leaders Jagjeet Singh Dallewal and Harender Singh Lakhowal said, “We knew that he would make a u-turn from his statement and the same thing has happened today. That’s why we produced him before the media late last night where he made the statement without any pressure,” said Dallewal.However, in a press meet, Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said they had conducted a DSP-level inquiry into the allegations. He said it was alleged that Rai SHO Pradeep had sent him but there was no cop by his name at Rai police station.The youth has been identified as Yogesh Rawat (21) of New Jeewan Nagar of the city. He hails from Uttarakhand.“We have also conducted his medical check-up in which the doctor mentioned some injury marks, especially on his back,” the SP said. There is no criminal record against Yogesh.As there are allegations against the police, a letter has been sent to the DC to get an impartial inquiry conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/u-turn-by-nabbed-man-claims-was-forced-to-lie-202834
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||60 km, 5 routes, nod for Republic Day rally: Farmers||The farmers’ unions today claimed to have got permission from the Delhi Police to hold a tractor parade on Republic Day even as the latter said the talks over the matter “are in final stages”.Also read:A senior police official said since it was a sensitive matter, a decision on allowing the rally would be taken only after details of the route, registration number of vehicles and owners’ identification were shared with the authorities.Charuni: Don’t oppose netas at R-day eventsGS Charuni, Haryana BKU president, on Saturday appealed to farmers and their supporters not to oppose Haryana ministers/political leaders at Republic Day events. He said farmers would continue opposing the ministers at rallies and events on other days. “I request you not to oppose any minister or political leader invited to unfurl the Tricolour on Republic Day,” he said in a video message.A union leader claimed they had agreed not to organise the tractor parade on the Delhi’s Outer Ring Road while the police authorities had agreed to remove the barricades from the Singhu and Tikri borders to facilitate the movement of tractors. The protesters would use five routes.2 more farmers deadRajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union, who was part of the meeting with the police authorities, said the farmers would hold the parade on a 60-km stretch, half of which was inside the national Capital.“Citing intelligence reports, the police told us that they were expecting a rush of 70,000 to 1 lakh tractors. The police were worried about the impact of the parade on the main Republic Day event if we followed the Outer Ring Road route. While we agreed to change the route, the police assured us of cooperation,” Singhwala claimed.Among others at the meeting with Dipender Pathak, Special CP, and Surender Yadav, Joint CP, were Dr Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Raminder Singh Patiala.As per the last Census, Punjab has five lakh tractors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/60-km-5-routes-nod-for-republic-day-rally-farmers-202695
24-01-2021||---||Marriage ‘shagun’ up, girls to get Rs 51K now||Chandigarh, January 23Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has announced a hike from Rs 31,000 to Rs 51,000 in the “shagun” amount for the marriage of daughters of construction workers in the state from April 1, 2021, besides approving Rs 1,500 in financial aid to such workers or their family members who test positive for Covid.Chairing the 27th meeting of the Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Welfare Board through video conference on Friday evening, the CM eased the process of availing the “shagun” benefit. He approved modification in the existing conditions to make valid marriage certificates issued by any religious body — gurdwara, temple and church — acceptable for the purpose.While 50 per cent payment can be availed in advance, the rest will be provided on submission of the marriage certificate by the competent authority under the revised rules. Daughters of those registered with the BOCW Welfare Board are eligible under the scheme.In another major decision, the CM announced compensation worth Rs 2 lakh in case of death of a worker in an accident while being involved in any construction activity even if he/she is not registered with the construction board, provided he/she is otherwise eligible to be registered as a construction worker.According to an official spokesperson, Capt Amarinder also announced extension in time frame from the existing six months to one year for submission of application for benefits under various welfare schemes as many workers could not apply in time due to the Covid situation.Further, the construction workers have been allowed to prefer an appeal to the Secretary Board within a period of 120 days instead of 90 days in case their pension application is rejected by the screening committee.Under the Balri (Female Child) Birth Gift scheme, the Board has also decided to enhance the time limit for submission of application from six months to one year from the date of the delivery of the girl child of the beneficiary.In another relaxation to rules for availing benefits under various schemes, construction workers can now submit any two of the four government documents — Aadhaar, PAN, voter and ration cards. Many workers could not avail benefits earlier for lack of a birth certificate, which was the only acceptable proof prior to this amendment.Other major decisions…||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/marriage-shagun-up-girls-to-get-rs-51k-now-202835
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||No ‘At Home’ at Raj Bhawan||There will be no ‘At Home’ function at Raj Bhawan on Republic Day this year. A spokesperson for the Raj Bhawan said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the event for this year’s Republic Day to be hosted by the Punjab Raj Bhawan, Chandigarh, stood cancelled. The decision was taken in view of the compliance of the healthcare protocols issued by the Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-at-home-at-raj-bhawan-202836
24-01-2021||Moga||8-year-old girl crushed to death in Moga||An eight-year-old migrant girl, working as a beggar, was crushed to death under a private bus at the Moga bus stand on Saturday evening. Pushed into begging alms from passengers at the bus stand by her parents and relatives, the deceased girl, identified as Poonam from Gujarat, never went to school.  Eyewitnesses said Poonam was among a group of five-six children who came to bus stand and the main square of the city daily for begging along with their family members. After the girl was killed, the local police rushed to the spot and took the body into custody.  The body was sent to the district hospital for a postmortem, which would be conducted on Sunday. The bus was impounded, but the driver was eluding arrest till the filing of this report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-year-old-girl-crushed-to-death-in-moga-202837
24-01-2021||Deepkamal Kaur---||Colleges start releasing degrees to SC students after govt assurance||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, January 23 A week after the state government directed all colleges withholding degrees of Dalit students to release them or face cancellation of affiliation, almost all colleges have begun issuing the degrees to students. The colleges did so after the state government promised the managements that pending funds would be released in the accounts of the authorities and not the students. The colleges, however, said they had been given a verbal assurance only. While CT Institute has reportedly released degrees to 500 SC students, Doaba College, where the SC students had yesterday held a protest for the same reason, also released degrees to around 70 students. The colleges had earlier withheld degrees of the beneficiaries of the SC Post -Matric Scholarship Scheme saying the state would give reimbursement in their accounts and it would not be easy to chase them to get back the dues. The degrees of some of the passouts had not been given for the past three years and they had been lodging the protests outside the campuses.  The matter gained limelight recently after a protest was held at the CT Institute in which the passouts allegedly hijacked the campus and locked the offices.  CT Institutes chairman Charanjit S Channi said, “It is only a verbal assurance and we hope the government keeps its promise. We have also been promised that the pending grant of Rs 309 crore that came from the Centre will be disbursed by March. Besides, there also is a commitment that half of the Rs 1,850 crore due for the past three years on account of scholarship amount will be released soon, while the pending dues will be given in installments.”  Doaba College Principal Naresh Dhiman said, “We released all pending degrees to the SC students last evening but we still are not sure as to when and how the government will release our dues. It was a good scheme and in the benefit of the downtrodden but some wrong decisions have badly hit the financial condition of most colleges, which are now on the verge of closure and are not even able to pay salaries to the staff.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/colleges-start-releasing-degrees-to-sc-students-after-govt-assurance-202838
24-01-2021||Moga||Moga poll: SAD, AAP lists out||The SAD today announced a list 44 candidates for the upcoming Moga MC elections slated for February 14. Senior Akali leader Tota Singh said the remaining six candidates would be finalised in the next couple of days. There are 50 wards in Moga and the SAD has decided to contest all. The AAP also released a list of 30 candidates. The selection of the remaining 20 candidates was underway. The Congress selection committee held a meeting under the chairmanship of Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in Ludhiana to select candidates. However, the names could not be finalised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-poll-sad-aap-lists-out-202839
24-01-2021||---||Farmers break through barricades, protest at Manoranjan Kalia’s meeting venue||Bathinda, January 23Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today broke through the barricades put up by the police near a venue where former minister and BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia was holding a meeting with party leaders.Upon reaching the hotel where the meeting was underway, protesters, including a large number of women, raised slogans against Kalia and demanded the repeal of the farm laws.BKU leader Mothu Singh Kotra said: “We have already announced that BJP leaders would face protests across the state until the farm laws are repealed. Today morning, we got the information that BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia was holding a meeting with party workers at a hotel in the city, so we came here to protest.”Lashing out at the central government, Kotra said: “The Centre has brought these farm laws for the big corporate houses in the garb of agriculture reforms. These laws will hit the agriculture sector and farmers hard, that’s why these laws should be repealed.”The Bathinda police had made elaborate security arrangements for the BJP meeting at a private hotel in the city. All roads leading to the hotel were cordoned off to keep the protesters at bay.Even SP (City) Jaspal Singh, DSP (City) Aswant Singh and Tehsildar Sukhbir Singh Brar along with a huge police force were present at the spot. BJP state media co-in charge Sunil Singla said: “Manoranjan Kalia, who has been appointed party in charge for the Bathinda MC elections, today held a meeting with the party district core committee. In the meeting, he held discussion on the prospective candidates for all 50 wards in the city.”He added that Kalia also held meetings with mandal presidents and BJP district mahila morcha at different venues. On December 26, when state BJP president Ashwani Sharma visited the city and held a meeting with the party workers, at that time also farmers staged a protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-break-through-barricades-protest-at-manoranjan-kalias-meeting-venue-202840
24-01-2021||Sangrur||Won’t accept R-Day honours, say freedom fighters’ families||Family members of freedom fighters under the banner of the Freedom Fighters Successors’ Organisation, Punjab, today celebrated the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Sangrur by holding a state-level function.They announced not to accept any honour from the government on Republic Day to express solidarity with protesting farmers against the central laws.“Today, during a state-level function, we decided that we will not receive any honour from the government during Republic Day functions across Punjab to extend our support to protesting farmers. Our members are already participating in various protests against the farm laws,” said Harinder Khalsa, organisation president.Meanwhile, tempers ran high in the city when police and officials of the civil administration stopped the family members of freedom fighters and members of social organisations from marching towards an under-construction sports ground, named after a Congress leader. The protesters wanted to uproot the foundation stone of the park to rename it after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to pay tributes to him on his birthday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-accept-r-day-honours-say-freedom-fighters-families-202841
24-01-2021||Amritsar||One more dies at Singhu border, cremation today||A farmer from the Majitha area, who had been at the Singhu border since January 11, passed away today. Rattan Singh of Kotli Dhole Shah village near Kathunangal was associated with the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. Talking to The Tribune over phone, Sarwan Singh Pandher, a leader of the committee, said: “Rattan Singh had fallen ill last night. He had an upset stomach and was vomiting persistently.” He said the farmers helped him get medical aid. “Rattan Singh told the fellow farmers at 8 am today that he was feeling better and would like to sleep. But when he kept on sleeping and did not wake up, his companions checked on him. By that time he had passed away,” said Pandher. The body is being transported to his native village where he would be cremated on Sunday. “The farmer leaders are coming to attend the cremation from Delhi. They would again go back because of the scheduled tractor parade,” he said.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-more-dies-at-singhu-border-cremation-today-202842
24-01-2021||---||Ex-servicemen hold roadshow, say will join protesters at Delhi borders on R-Day||Bathinda, January 23Ex-servicemen from Bathinda and Mansa districts today. carried out a roadshow from Bathinda to Mansa in support of the farmers’ agitation against the central agricultural laws.Responding to the farmer unions’ call for Republic Day, they announced that they would be participating in the parade in the national capital in a show of solidarity with the protesters. The cavalcade of vehicles started from the Thermal Lake in Bathinda and after crossing through several parts of the city reached Mansa.Darshan Singh, an ex-serviceman from Mansa, said: “We stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their struggle against the new agricultural laws. We strongly condemn the obdurate stance of the central government and firmly stand with farmers’ demand for the rollback of the new laws.”Captain Jeet Singh (retd) said: “We are also making plans to join farmers on Republic Day at Delhi borders. We also appeal to the union government to make payments of pending DA installments to retired armed forces personnel and other central government employees.”Ex-servicemen stated that the farmers’ agitation needed to be strengthened further. They appreciated farmers for keeping their protest apolitical and, most importantly, peaceful. Ex-servicemen extended their full support to farmers for keeping the agitation peaceful in the future as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-servicemen-hold-roadshow-say-will-join-protesters-at-delhi-borders-on-r-day-202843
24-01-2021||Patiala||Farmers halt shooting of Janhvi Kapoor’s ‘Good Lucky Jerry’ in Punjab||Following a protest by some farm union members, shooting of actor Janhvi Kapoor’s upcoming movie “Good Luck Jerry” was halted here today for the second time this month.On January 11, farmers had gathered outside the venue in Bassi Pathana city of Fatehgarh Sahib and sought her opinion on the farmers’ protest against the three agriculture laws.Shooting was on near Civil Lines this morning when the farmer groups raised slogans against the crew. “Bollywood is quiet on our issue, and we want answers,” said a protester.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-halt-shooting-of-janhvi-kapoors-good-lucky-jerry-in-punjab-202844
24-01-2021||---||Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria faces protest over missing ‘saroops’||Amritsar, January 23Activists of Sikh organisations protesting against the 328 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib from the publishing house of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) held a protest outside the residence of Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria here on Saturday.They protested by holding an hour-long ‘Gurbani Kirtan’ outside the residence of the minister. The activists belonged to the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal and Akal Bunga.Former Darbar Sahib Hazuri Ragi Bhai Baldev Singh Wadala said they were holding a ‘Kirtan Darbar’ in front of the residences of nine Cabinet ministers to impress upon the government to register criminal cases against SGPC officials who were behind the missing ‘saroops’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-sukhbinder-singh-sarkaria-faces-protest-over-missing-saroops-202845
24-01-2021||GS Paul||Soon, savour ‘steaming hot’ langar at Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23The preparation of langar at the Golden Temple would now be more efficient, eco-friendly and cost-effective.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has planned to introduce steam mechanism to cook the langar items, on the lines of one introduced at Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj Sahib Baba Deep Singh at Chattiwind Chowk in Amritsar in 2017.On an average, the Golden Temple’s kitchen feeds a a whopping number of devotees — nearly 60,000 daily.Keeping in view the round-the-clock operation, a high-capacity steam boiler plant would be installed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee langar hall kitchen at the Golden Temple complex.The boiler can be operated through burning of wood logs, compressed natural gas (CNG) or liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). The steam to be generated in the boiler will be circulated through pipes to the special vessels, which store water on the surface that upon being heated cook food. Each vessel will have a capacity to prepare at least two and a half quintal of food at a time. The new methodology will further help sewadars' cook and serve food in time. Usually, a majority of the working staff is made up of volunteers.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the mechanism would not only curtail the fuel cost and the preparation time by half in comparison with the traditional cooking method, but also won’t emit any heat or smoke in the langar preparation room.The ‘sewa’ (voluntary service) of setting up the project has been assigned to Sant Baba Baljinder Singh, head of Gurdwara Rara Sahib.He said the equipment would be imported from Germany. “Apart from being efficient and cost-effective, the steam methodology helps maintaining the nutrition value of the food. The methodology has the facility of auto-cut once the boiler reaches the requisite temperature,” he said.Since the work on providing the CNG supply line to the Golden Temple is underway, it would be more efficient to run the steam cooking system in the shrine kitchen.More efficient, cost-effective||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-savour-steaming-hot-langar-at-golden-temple-202846
24-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Women returnees from UAE reluctant to file cases against travel agents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 23A majority of the 11 women, aged between 28 years and 50 years, who were repatriated from the UAE after allegedly being duped by travel agents is reluctant to file police cases against them.Hailing from different districts of the state, the women are now demanding their hard-earned money back from travel agents. Their families’ poor economic condition is holding them back from filing cases against the agents.Rajinder Singh, SHO, Airport police station, said the police had not recorded any statement of the Dubai returnees as no one approached them. Each returnee had given between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh to travel agents on the promise of a job.The eight rescued Punjabi women, who returned from Dubai yesterday, had gone to work as a domestic help on a promised monthly salary of Rs 25,000. However, their hopes were dashed when they found 500 women of different nationalities, including the Philippines, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, vying for the job.They were pitted against others, who were better prepared, at the centre of Tadbeer company, involved in arranging house-keeping jobs in Dubai homes.“Sheikhs visited the centre to select maids for household chores but they interacted with only those who had the basic knowledge of English or Arabic.” In this respect, women from Philippines were the most sought-after lot.A widow and mother of two said they were kept at an accommodation guarded by women officials of the company. On specific days alone, they were taken to the centre for hiring and later brought back. They were offered meals — rice and chicken — twice a day. The quantity was barely enough to keep them alive, she said.The women kept asking the officials to send them home if there were no jobs. However, company owner Baba Yasim demanded Rs 1.50 lakh from each for release and return of their passports. Yasim claimed he had paid the amount to Wasim, an agent, who had brought the women from the airport upon arrival.SPS Oberoi, head of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said Filipinos were preferred to Indians as the former could work for longer hours and communicate in English or Arabic.Jobless, poorly fed in Dubai||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-returnees-from-uae-reluctant-to-file-cases-against-travel-agents-202847
24-01-2021||---||2,500 volunteers to monitor pace during January 26 tractor rally||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 23As many as 2,500 volunteers will maintain discipline during the Republic Day tractor march against the three farm laws.Tractors line up on national highwayPreparations for the tractor parade are in full swing in Punjab and Haryana villages. Hundreds of tractors are reaching the Delhi borders everyday. Long queues of tractors, tractor-laden trailers and tableaus related to farming were witnessed on NH-44.Farmer activists will lead the march from their borders and the volunteers from all 40 farmer groups will be in special colour jackets.A day after the 11th round of inconclusive talks with the Union Government, farmer unions have started preparations for the tractor parade.During a meeting at the ‘Kisan andolan’ office at Singhu on Saturday, farmer leaders directed all unions to prepare a list of 100-125 youths for volunteer duty. Earlier, the unions had prepared a long list of volunteers, which was cut short today, said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal).He said a discipline committee had been formed for the purpose. “Once we receive the rally route plan, volunteers will be assigned duty,” Lakhowal added.He said tractor drivers from Punjab would be given training such as maintaining the speed of the vehicle and not to overtake other tractors, said Lakhowal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-500-volunteers-to-monitor-pace-during-january-26-tractor-rally-202777
24-01-2021||---||Don’t oppose politicians at R-Day events: BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni||Kurukshetra/Ambala, January 23Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh on Saturday appealed to the farm activists and BKU supporters not to oppose the politicians during the Republic Day events in Haryana.Protesting against the farm laws, the BKU had earlier announced to oppose the BJP and JJP leaders during their events and entries to villages. In view of the farmers’ agitation, the Kurukshetra district administration had also changed the venue of the Republic Day function from the Thanesar grain market to the sports ground of Kurukshetra University.In a video message, Gurnam Singh Charuni said: “Political leaders and ministers are scheduled to unfurl the national flag on January 26 at different locations. I request all that we don’t have to oppose them during the Republic Day event anywhere in the state. Disruption of event on the occasion of Republic Day can send a wrong message. If they attend any other programme or hold rallies anywhere else then the farmers will oppose them.”Meanwhile, thousands of farmers on tractor-trailers, with Tricolour and BKU flags installed, left for Delhi from Ambala on Saturday. The farmers gathered at the New Grain Market in Ambala Cantonment, near Mohra, on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway.A farmer leader said: “Farmers from Block-1 and Block-2 gathered at Mohra while those from Naraingarh and Shahzadpur will join the march near Shahabad in Kurukshetra. The farmers will continue to protest till the three black laws are not withdrawn.”The farmers accused the Centre of adopting tactics to delay the agitation. They said the farmers had been protesting to get the laws repealed and they would not return until the demands were met.Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) district vice-president and a retired senior non-commissioned officer from Air Force Gulab Singh said: “The number of tractors here are beyond expectations. Every day thousands of tractors have been passing through the national highway to reach Delhi. Not only tractors, but SUVs, two-wheelers and other vehicles are also being used by the farmers to reach Delhi to participate in the tractor march.”Meanwhile, the traffic on the national highway continued at a snail’s pace due to the long queues of tractors plying on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-oppose-politicians-at-r-day-events-bku-chief-gurnam-singh-charuni-202784
24-01-2021||---||Hundreds of tractors from Punjab cross Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 23Hundreds of farmers from Punjab and Haryana on Saturday crossed the city in hi-tech tractors and tractors-laden trailers to participate in the Republic Day parade.The tractors carried the flags of various unions and posters with the slogans of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”, “No Farmer No Food” and “Kaale Kannon Radd Karo”.Kanwar Singh from Ludhiana said, “Considering the kind of enthusiasm among people, a huge number of tractors are expected to be part of the parade. From Ludhiana alone, hundreds of tractors today left for the Delhi border.”Angrej Singh, another farmer from Ambala, during a brief halt on NH-44, said, “Our tractor parade will be peaceful. We want to send across a message that farmers from all states are united against the three agriculture laws.”Ram Singh from Patiala, who was on his way to the Delhi border with two tractor-laden trailers, said, “The R-Day parade is just a trailer. If the government did not consider our demands, we will intensify the protest.”Sources said not only farm activists, but a large number of youths having no connection with any organisation were going to participate in the parade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hundreds-of-tractors-from-punjab-cross-karnal-202786
24-01-2021||---||Mansa protester dies of cardiac arrest at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 23Another farmer from Punjab, identified as Harvinder (48) alias Bhola Singh from Mansa, died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh borderon Saturday.Camping near Pakoda Chowk for the last several days, he was found unconscious by fellow farmers around 3:30 am. They took him to the local Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him “brought dead”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-protester-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-at-tikri-202793
24-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers agree to hold Republic Day rally on Delhi’s inner roads||Farmers’ unions and Delhi Police have reached a consensus over a Republic Day Tractor Parade that farmers will hold on January 26—a development that comes after several rounds of talks. According to the new arrangement, farmers will steer clear of the Outer Ring road on January 26 and will instead hold their rally on the inner roads of the city,  Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, vice-president of Kirti Kisan Union who was part of a meeting between farmers' unions and Delhi Police, said. READ: Decision to allow farmers' parade only after completing modalities, say Delhi PoliceThe parade will now take place in five routes and on a stretch of over 60 km, at least 30 of which will be inside Delhi.The routes, he said, will be announced later.The breakthrough came after Delhi Police have agreed to remove their barricades from Singhu and Tikri borders to allow the rally to enter Delhi, the leader said.Police intelligence reports estimated 70,000 to 1 lakh tractors to be part of the farmers' rally, the leader said.“They said that it may take 48 hours to complete the march and asked us to reconsider the route as it may sabotage the official Republic Day parade,” Singhwala said.Delhi Police and farmers had been stuck in an impasse over routes for the past few days.  Farmers had previously announced that they were holding the parade in the Outer Ring Road, causing Delhi Police to worry about the impact it would have on the central government’s Republic Day Parade.Dr Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Charuni, and Raminder Singh Patiala represented the farmers in the meeting with Delhi Police's Special Commissioner Dipender Pathak and Joint Commissioner Surender Yadav.Sources said that the farmers' leaders who had gone for the meeting had been told to not walk out of the negotiations.“In a breakthrough with police officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders were able to jointly finalize routes for the Kisan Republic Day Parade. Preparations are in full swing for disciplined conduct of the same. Response from farmers and their supporters has been tremendous from all over the country,” the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said in a statement.“Farmers across the country supported the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to celebrate Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's birthday as "Azad Hind Kisan Diwas". Today, farmers protested in different places for demanding the repeal of three farm laws and legalising MSP,” the statement, which bore the name of Darshan Pal Singh, said.“So far at least 151 peoples (sic) have lost their lives in this movement. We extend our deep condolences to all martyrs,” the statement said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agree-to-hold-republic-day-rally-on-delhis-inner-roads-202623
24-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers reach Singhu border with tractor-laden trailers||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 22Farmers from Punjab have started reaching the Singhu border to participate in the tractor parade scheduled for January 26. They say thousands of tractors from Punjab would be pressed into service for the Republic Day parade on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi.What caught the attention of passersby was that each tractor-trailer was loaded with two tractors. No stone will be left unturned to make the parade a success, said Jalandhar farmers who reached Singhu today.“We have brought 35 tractors loaded in trailers to save diesel,” said Jitender Singh Basi of Talwand village in Jalandhar district.Farmers have pasted stickers on tractors which read, “Puchda ni koi Congresiyaan yaan te Akaliyaan nu, lokin maarde ne salute Dilli jandi traliyaan nu (Congress and SAD leaders are nowhere in the picture, people salute trolleys going to Delhi).”Jitender said the tractor parade would be peaceful.Another farmer from Talwand village, Kanwaljit Singh Johl, said: “Only soldiers and farmers serve the country. Others do politics. This is why farmers have put the national flag on tractors.”“Around 25 tractors from every village of Punjab will be pressed into service for the tractor parade. As Talwand village is big, farmers on 85 tractors from my village will reach Singhu,” claimed Jitender Singh of Talwand village.Vikas Singh, Lovely and Pankaj of Balbera village in Kaithal district said preparations for the tractor parade were in full swing in their villages. They would hold the protest march peacefully, said Vikas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-reach-singhu-border-with-tractor-laden-trailers-202464
