26-01-2021||GS PAUL||Republic Day celebrated at Attari border sans spectators||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 26As India celebrated its 72nd Republic Day, the flag-hoisting, ceremonial drill and Beating Retreat was held at the joint check post at Attari.BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana graced the occasion which was incidentally his maiden visit to Punjab after assuming the charge.The occasion was celebrated in a low-key affair due to Covid-19 restrictions.The usual patriotic spirit of the occasion was a miss due to the absence of general spectators. Only the BSF troops and close associates of the defence and family members were allowed to sit in the gallery.Asthana also addressed the troops.Keeping in view the repeated instances of infiltration and smuggling attempts, the BSF is plugging the loopholes at the India-Pakistan border, he said.“BSF is the first line of defence committed to defending the country. We are in the process of upgrading every aspect of the operations of the BSF and our technology, including the anti-drone technology,” said Asthana.About the action being taken, post-detection of a tunnel near the fence in Jammu’s Pansar area, Asthana anticipated that more such tunnels could be there to push trained armed militants and other forbidden material into India. “The tunnel was a fact. We are constantly in the process of detecting more tunnels which are being used for not only pushing the contraband but also infiltration to India from the other side,” he said.A cross-border tunnel — around 150-metre-long and 30-foot-deep — was unearthed by the Border Security Force along the International Border in Jammu on January 23, the fourth such tunnel found in the past six months.Nonetheless, the BSF and Pakistan Rangers conducted the joint coordination parade as the tradition goes but the gallery was devoid of spectators in view of Covid-19 threat.The cultural programme was conducted, including the live band displayed by the BSF. The students of historic Khalsa College, Amritsar, performed bhangra and gidha on the occasion.The exchange of sweets with the Pakistani counterparts too was avoided due to the pandemic protocol.The BSF and Pakistan Rangers have not been exchanging sweets on special occasions at the border since India abrogated Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019.The troops at Attari-Wagah border had last exchanged sweets on Eid-ul-Fitr and on Republic Day in 2019.India and Pakistan had suspended the entry of spectators in view of Covid-19. On the Indian side, only the flag-lowering ceremony is conducted at sunset.Since March 7 last year, public was not allowed at the Attari border, though Pakistan has reopened its door for spectators from Wagah. Since then, Pakistan Rangers have been holding their daily military parade and ceremony on the normal course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/republic-day-celebrated-at-attari-border-sans-spectators-204033
26-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma||BKU Ugrahan to continue ‘peaceful’ protest against farm laws||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 26The members and leaders of BKU Ugrahan were counting their men and machinery on Tuesday evening at the Tikri border and remained hopeful that all their men would return safely to the camp as they neither gave a call to move towards the Red Fort nor they supported any violence.“From the start of protest, I and other leaders of our organisation have been trying our level best to maintain peace because we know that political parties are hatching conspiracies to derail our protest,” BKU Ugrahan chief Joginder Ugrahan told The Tribune.  Also read: How extremist elements hijacked farmers' rally and Deep Sidhu’s role in chaos“It’s a big fight against the Central government and could only be won with peace not by violence. None from our organisation went to the Red Fort today nor did we create any other law and order problem,” said Joginder Ugrahan.Also read: Tractor parade becomes violent; farmers enter Red Fort, hoist flagHe though condemned the police action against protesters in Delhi. “We strongly condemned police action against protesters in New Delhi. If anyone from our organisation has inadvertently entered Delhi, I have asked them to come back to our camp at Tikri because our peaceful protest will continue here. We will announce our next action in coming days” said Ugrahan.Also read: MHA orders additional forces in Delhi as farmers lay siege to the Red Fort, break Tikri Border barricadesBKU Ugrahan working president Jaswinder Soma Longowal said that as per their route they started their protest towards Najafgarh from Bahadurgarh but cops created problems for them. “Despite facing problems from policemen, we completed our march and a majority of our men have reached back to our camp at the Tikri border while others are on their way back. Not a single member of our organisation went to the Red Fort as we had not given any call and undertook the march as per the pre-decided route,” said Longowal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-ugrahan-to-continue-peaceful-protest-against-farm-laws-204020
26-01-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Farmers’ bodies blame govt agencies for violence in Delhi||Ludhiana, January 26Bharti Kisan Union-Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal has condemned the violence at some places in Delhi and gathering of crowd at Red Fort on Republic Day while attributing all this to government agencies and a group of farmers sympathetic to the Narendra Modi government.Talking to The Tribune from Singhu border on telephone, Lakhowal said it was a well thought out plan to provoke violence and defame the peacefully agitating farmers. He said the leaders of the farmers’ organisation leading the tractor march were deliberately diverted on the wrong route by police and self-styled volunteers so as to enable them reach the Red Fort and create disturbance.Read also: MHA orders additional forces in Delhi as farmers lay siege to the Red Fort, break Tikri Border barricadesHe reiterated that the farmers’ agitation was and would remain completely peaceful while making an appeal to all the farmers to return back to their respective borders to continue the fight against injustice.Harmeet Singh Kadian, leading the other faction of BKU, also made similar remarks. He said it was a government conspiracy to bring in activists of Kisan Sangharsh Morcha – a body known for its leaning towards NDA and BJP, so scuttle the farmers’ agitation. Kadian maintained that farmers had remained peaceful from day one of the agitation and would remain so.He urged the farmers to remain vigilant against any such attempt to create disturbance and not to be misled by any false propaganda with regard to agitation, which, he added would continue till the three farm acts were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-bodies-blame-govt-agencies-for-violence-in-delhi-204016
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal condemns violence in Delhi||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday condemned the incidents of violence in Delhi as some farmers entered into the city and clashed with the police, saying the party stands for peace and communal harmony and believes in democratic values.Read also: MHA orders additional forces in Delhi as farmers lay siege to the Red Fort, break Tikri Border barricades32 farmer unions from Punjab not responsible for violence: RajewalThe party also appealed to the people to maintain peace and calm at all costs, a statement said.Meanwhile, an emergency meeting of the SAD core committee will be convened on Wednesday to consider the situation arising out of the incidents in the national capital. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shiromani-akali-dal-condemns-violence-in-delhi-204012
26-01-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmers hold tractor parade in Hoshiarpur||Farmers took out a tractor parade in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and shouted slogans against the Centre for bringing “black” farm laws.The parade was taken out in many parts in the district, including Hoshiarpur, Hariana, Garhdiwala, Tanda, and Mukerian towns.The farmers were led by Harbans Singh Sangha, member of Azad Kisan Committee Doaba.The vehicles of farmers carried flags and banners in support of their agitation.The farmers claimed that their tractor parade remained peaceful. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-tractor-parade-in-hoshiarpur-204007
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana and Punjab||The minimum temperatures continued to hover below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday, with Narnaul reeling at 1.8 degrees Celsius.Narnaul in Haryana recorded four degrees below normal minimum temperature. Hisar, too, experienced a cold night recording a low of 3 degrees Celsius, down five notches below normal, the meteorological department here said.Bhiwani (4.9 degrees Celsius) and Ambala (5.4 degrees Celsius) also recorded below normal minimums.In Punjab, Ludhiana reeled under a biting chill recording a low of 3.2 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal.Amritsar recorded a low of 3.8 degrees Celsius, down one notch while Patiala's minimum settled at 4.7 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal range.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius, one below normal.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures also hovered well below normal limits in the two states, including Chandigarh. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-and-punjab-204001
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab on high alert after tractor rally turns violent in Delhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has put the state on high alert---a development that comes hours after clashes broke out between farmer protesters and the Delhi Police during a tractor rally in the national capital.The chief minister, who also condemned the violence and asked protesters to leave Delhi and return to their protest site, has ordered Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure law and order in the state remains undisturbed at any cost, a press release said on Tuesday.Violence broke out in several places in the national capital as farmers defied a preset route for the rally and clashed with police at several places, including ITO, Nangloi Chowk and Murbaka Chowk.Groups of protesters also breached the Red Fort.A protester was killed in the chaos at the ITO. Delhi Police claim that he died after his tractor overturned.  The press release quoted the chief minister as saying that farmers should continue their protest as peacefully as they had done in the past few months.Farmers have been protesting three controversial farm laws that the Parliament passed in September last year. Protests against the three laws---he Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act---escalated in November, when pitched camps on the borders of Delhi demanding a complete repeal of the laws. Farmers fear that the three laws will weaken the mandi system and leave them open to exploitation to both private and corporate interests. The central government claims they have nothing to worry about. The deadlock continues despite several rounds of talks between farmer representatives and the central government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-on-high-alert-after-tractor-rally-turns-violent-in-delhi-203994
26-01-2021||New Delhi||Police use baton charge, tear gas on farmers at Nangloi Chowk||The Delhi Police resorted to baton charge and firing of tear gas shells on farmers at Nangloi Chowk in West Delhi as they tried to deviate from the pre-agreed route to enter the national capital during their protest.The agitating farmers broke cement barricades at Nangloi Chowk and Mukarba Chowk following which the police used heavy tear gas shells to disperse the unruly crowd, an official said.He said police personnel used tear gas to disperse groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point as they tried to take out a march on the Outer Ring Road much ahead of the allotted time.A different group of farmers also entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the city. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-use-baton-charge-tear-gas-on-farmers-at-nangloi-chowk-203978
26-01-2021||Patiala||Capt Amarinder honours frontline workers, police personnel for 'outstanding service'||On the occasion of the 72nd Republic Day, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday felicitated 24 doctors/health workers for rendering exceptional services during the Covid crisis, besides honouring six police personnel for their distinguished services. He also handed over 'Sanads' to six beneficiaries of BASERA scheme for slum dwellers as a token gesture.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister's Office, Captain Amarinder Singh honoured 24 medical doctors/health workers as Corona warriors, in recognition of their exceptional service during turbulent times of Covid-19. These were former Civil Surgeon Dr. Harish Malhotra, Dr. RPS Sibia, Dr. Vishal Chopra, Dr. Rupinder Bakhshi, Dr. Jatinder Kansal, Dr. Nidhi Sharma, Dr. Sumit Singh, Dr. Lavleen Bhatia, Dr. Tript Kaur Bindra, Dr. Balwinder Kaur Rekhi, Dr. Harjit K Singh Chawla, Dr. Amandeep Singh Bakhshi, Dr. Sachin Kaushal, Dr. Svati Kapoor, Dr. Simarjit Singh, Dr. Rajwinder Singh, Dr. Komal Parmar, Male Staff Nurse Sapinder Pal Singh, In-charge Isolation Ward Gurkiran, Ward Attended Jogeshwar Rai, Staff Nurse Sarbjit Kaur, ANM Aneeta, Ward Attended Rajkumar and Physiotherapist Diwan Nasrudin.The Chief Minister's Medal for outstanding devotion to duty was presented by him to six police officers, namely AIG Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, DSPs Gurjit Singh, Gurcharan Singh and Arun Sharma, Inspector Inderjit Singh, ASIs Pawan Kumar and Kashmir Singh.To mark the occasion, the Chief Minister also handed over ‘Sanads’ to six beneficiaries viz. Sohan Lal, Jahan Singh, Khaleel Ahmed, Ram Lal, Nitesh Kumar and Narinder, as a token gesture to give 335 slum dwellers from Patiala proprietary rights under Phase-I of `BASERA’ SCHEME.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-honours-frontline-workers-police-personnel-for-outstanding-service-203967
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana join nation in celebrating Republic Day||Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday joined the nation in celebrating the 72nd Republic Day amid tight security arrangements.Also read: In pictures, ITBP jawans march with Tricolour at a height of 17,000 feetPolice and home guard contingents took part in parades held in district headquarters in the two states and their joint capital Chandigarh.Also read: Nation celebrates 72nd Republic DayOfficials said all coronavirus-related safety guidelines were followed during the functions.Also read: My heart is with farmers on Republic Day: AmarinderPunjab Governor VP Singh Badnore unfurled the national flag at a state-level function in Mohali.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hoisted the Tricolour in Patiala, while his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar unfurled the national flag in Panchkula, the officials said.Also read: India's colourful heritage comes alive in Republic Day Google doodleBoth Singh and Khattar conveyed their greetings to people on the occasion."Let us celebrate the diversity of our Republic by remembering the immense sacrifices & contributions of our farmers, soldiers, scientists and many others. #RepublicDay is a solemn occasion to reaffirm the pledge for preserving our democratic rights guaranteed by our Constitution," Singh said in a tweet.Also read: Not having made it as chief guest, Boris Johnson greets India on Republic DayHaryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala unfurled the national flag in Ambala. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-join-nation-in-celebrating-republic-day-203959
26-01-2021||Patiala||Violence will negate the goodwill of peaceful protests, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condemned the violence that broke out at the farmers' parade in Delhi, and appealed for farm. Amarinder, who had said earlier in the day that his "heart was with the farmers" and that he hoped the parade passed off peacefully, asked the protesters in a tweet to leave Delhi and return to the borders. He said in a tweet: "Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate the goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves and suspended the Tractor Rally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi and return to borders (sic)". He had previously appealed to the central government to give in to the farmers' demands. He also repeated his previous claim that the Centre had deliberately kept Punjab out of the high-powered committee initially as they knew that the voices of protest would rise from here, and declared that “these voices will continue to rise” till the farmers’ interests are secured.Punjab was included in the committee only after he personally wrote to the Centre on the issue, said the Chief Minister, making it clear that neither he nor his government was ever asked or consulted about the Farm Laws.Also read: Capt Amarinder honours frontline workers, police personnel for 'outstanding service'Appealing to the Prime Minister to fulfil the demands of the agitating farmers, who are sitting at Delhi’s borders for the past two months, the Chief Minister said the Farm Laws are “completely wrong as they are against federalism since Agriculture is a State subject under Schedule 7 of the Indian Constitution.”Also read: Nation celebrates 72nd Republic DayUnfurling the Tricolour here at Raja Bhalindra Singh sports complex, the Chief Minister recalled the contribution of Baba Saheb BR Ambedkar, who had drafted the Constitution which remains the bedrock of the nation’s governance till date.READPunjab, Haryana join nation in celebrating Republic DayNot having made it as chief guest, Boris Johnson greets India on Republic Day||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/violence-will-negate-the-goodwill-of-peaceful-protests-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-203953
26-01-2021||---||‘Celebrating the ones who feed us’||Amritsar, January 25Poems were sung and a drama was also staged to mobilise support for protesting farmers, during a programme titled, ‘Celebrate the People Who Feed Us!’ held here on Sunday.Organised by the Majha House, it was attended by students and members of the civil society. Prolonged farmers’ stir, demanding repeal of three new farm laws became a part of the narrative of the contemporary Punjabi poetry in its varied forms such as jugani, mirza and boliyan.Guru Nanak Dev University Prof Sarbjot Behal penned a jugani, highlighting the plight of farmers. Similarly, Dr Arvinder Pal Singh Chamak composed Mirza, which highlights the shared common culture of farmers hailing from two Punjabs, one in India and another in Pakistan. Farmers from Pakistan’s Punjab had stood in solidarity with Indian farmers both of whom believe that service to the world is their religion, said Dr Chamak.A panel of six youths debated on farmers’ problems, prospective solutions and negative impact of farm laws on agriculture, already beset with high input cost and dwindling income.Four young poets, Sayyad Ludhianvi, Parminder Singh, Manpreet and Lovepreet narrated the poetry in Punjabi in support of the farmers. A play was also staged on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/celebrating-the-ones-who-feed-us-203874
26-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Riding high on wheels & emotions, 47-yr-old Punjab biker stuns commuters with stunts||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 25The daredevil bike stunts by a Punjab farmer, Balwinder Singh, have turned out to be a major attraction for commuters on the way to the Tikri border. The 47-year-old biker has now expressed his wish to perform at the farmers’ tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day on Tuesday.Balwinder, hailing from Samana town of Patiala district, started his journey on his Royal Enfield motorcycle on Monday and is expected to arrive at the Tikri border tonight. Crossing through Jind via the Rohtak highway, he has already stunned commuters along the route.He said he had been performing bike stunts for the last 15 years on certain occasions. Carrying the flag of a farmers’ organisation in his hand, Balwinder drove the bike in the standing or sleeping positions while maintaining balance. He said he would like to perform these stunts at the tractor parade on Tuesday, if he was given an opportunity to do so.“I started the 225-km journey from my home to the Tikri border on Monday morning and will reach by the evening. On the way, I have been practising the stunts for the Tuesday’s parade. This is my style of extending support to the agitation,” he added.Balwinder said obviously, there was risk in performing the bike stunts and should not be copied by others. “I have practised for 15 years to perform these stunts,” he said, adding that he liked the gravity defying stunts performed by the personnel of the Indian forces during the Republic Day parade.However, with the reports saying that the there won’t be any bike stunts at the Republic Day parade this year due to the Covid guidelines, Balwinder can be a show stealer at the farmers march if given an opportunity to perform, said a motorist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/riding-high-on-wheels-emotions-47-yr-old-punjab-biker-stuns-commuters-with-stunts-203660
26-01-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Unfazed, they march ahead||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 25Patriotism is the fuel that drives farmers and the Singhu border has emerged as their “Mecca” or so it seems during a drive down the GT road leading to New Delhi.Vehicles of all hues and sizes carrying the young, the old and the middle-aged are converging at Singhu to make the Republic Day tractor rally against the three farm laws a success, while the passion and the verve of those camping there or arriving in tens of thousands since yesterday is almost infectious.Everyone is driven, nobody is untouched. Only one sentiment stands out — unity despite the diversity. The Tricolour is everywhere along the highway. The flag flutters atop tractors pressed into service from all over Punjab and Haryana.All the way from Amritsar, Jarnail Singh, accompanied by his wife and two infants — one-year-old son and two-year-old daughter — left his hometown yesterday, stayed in Karnal for the night and proceeded to Singhu today.“We want to be part of the historic tractor rally because we can’t sit back on such a momentous occasion. We have to contribute our might. When my children grow up, they would remember that they fought for a cause. We would not have to cut a sorry figure when they would ask us what we did when the farming fraternity was taking a hit. The farm laws are unacceptable and this is our way of expressing that we stand with those spearheading the movement,” he said.In Panipat’s Razapur village, its sarpanch Mangal Singh has started a 24-hour langar for those in transit. Those on their way to the Singhu border stop to grab a bite and drink steaming hot tea to beat the cold.“Panchayat members saw tractor-trolleys moving towards Singhu all through the day and the night. That made us start the langar sewa for our brethren who are fighting for us. The entire village has come together. Those coming from Punjab are leaving behind plenty of ration for those following them,” he said.Travelling in a group of 29, Gurpreet Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib said they were well-stocked for the next few days. “We are carrying 400 litres of diesel because we don’t trust this government. If it orders closure of fuel stations, we will be left stranded,” he said.The group was travelling in three trolleys. One of them was carrying two tractors. “If one tractor breaks down, we will have a spare one. We cannot miss the chance to participate in the rally. We can’t be sitting ducks when it comes to the laws which have been thrust upon us,” Gurpreet said.At Singhu, the camaraderie remains intact. The selfless service continues to flow by way of community kitchens at every km or less and nobody is a stranger. The entire crowd is woven together in only one religion — being a farmer — and that sentiment drowns all other differences. The “Kisan Gantantra Parade” is everybody’s baby and no farmer is shirking responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unfazed-they-march-ahead-203661
26-01-2021||---||1.25 lakh tractors will enter Delhi, claim farm leaders||Sonepat, January 25The stage is set for the ‘Kisan Tractor Parade’ in Delhi against the three farm laws. Farmer leaders here claimed that around 1.25 lakh tractors will enter Delhi for the rally from Singhu border. Thousands of farmers are reaching Singhu on their tractors and other vehicles continuously for the last three days to participate in the rally.Farmer leaders had received an NOC from the Delhi Police to hold a tractor parade in the Capital with unlimited number of tractors for unlimited time, claimed Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU. All preparations for the rally are completed, “do’s and don’ts” before and during the rally, finalised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, are sent to all farmer groups, he said.The farmer leaders will gather at the central stage near Singhu border at 8 am on Tuesday morning and will move towards Delhi around 10 am, said Lakhowal.As many as 1.25 lakh tractors will participate in the rally and it will take around three days to complete the march in the Capital, he added. As many as 3,000 volunteers in green jackets will be controlling the speed of tractors and the march will move in a single lane, keeping one lane free for to deal with any untoward incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-25-lakh-tractors-will-enter-delhi-claim-farm-leaders-203668
26-01-2021||Gurdaspur||Cane growers join brethren in Delhi||Sugarcane farmers are the latest to join the agitation against the three agricultural laws at the Delhi borders.Though they do not take their produce to the APMC markets and are assured the State Advised Price (SAP), thousands of farmers from this sugarcane-rich district are making a beeline to Delhi in tractor-trailers to stand by their protesting brethren. They say “if the government doesn’t support paddy and wheat-growing farmers today, sugarcane growers could be the next target tomorrow.”So far, 300 tractor-trailers, each carrying 10-15 farmers, have already left for the national capital to take part in the January 26 rally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cane-growers-join-brethren-in-delhi-203605
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Post on fuel station closure fake: ADGP||The Cyber Crime Cell of Punjab Police today started proceedings to take legal action against rumour mongers spreading fake news about closure of petrol stations across the state to thwart farmers’ tractor rally.Terming the post fake, Additional Director General of Police, Public Relations and New Age Media, Amardeep Singh Rai said the state government had never issued any notice to close petrol stations. He warned of stern action against those spreading false information.The ADGP said notices were being sent to Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms to remove the post, which was unauthorised. “The Cyber Crime Cell is tracing the rumour mongers who made this post viral on social media,” said the ADGP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-on-fuel-station-closure-fake-adgp-203606
26-01-2021||Bathinda||NRIs plan two car rallies in Canada today||Ahead of the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on January 26, non-resident Indians (NRI) from Punjab have announced car rallies in Canada’s Brampton and Calgary on Republic Day. In Brampton, the rally will be held from Soccer Centre to the Indian passport office, while a similar rally will be taken out from Calgary to Edmonton in support of the farmers.Paramjeet Singh of Calgary said: “The Indian farming community will undertake a protest to show solidarity with Indian farmers in their struggle against the draconian farm laws.” Indian farmers had been protesting peacefully for the past several months by gathering in open spaces, facing the vagaries of winter weather, resulting in the loss of precious lives. However, the Indian Government was adamant on not repealing the laws, he said.“We will also ask the provincial legislature to convey our sentiment to the Canadian government to take up the matter at their level with Indian counterparts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nris-plan-two-car-rallies-in-canada-today-203607
26-01-2021||nangal||SAD names nine candidates||The SAD on Monday released the names of nine candidates for the upcoming municipal council elections here. The local civic body has 19 wards.Party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema said Palwinder Singh, Sapna Rani, Daljit Kaur and Sanju would be the party candidates from ward nos. 2, 3, 5 and 6, respectively. The names of remaining candidates would be released soon, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-names-nine-candidates-203608
26-01-2021||---||AAP releases list of 121 candidates||Chandigarh, January 25The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today released another list of 121 candidates for the upcoming local bodies’ elections in the state.In a joint statement issued here today, AAP’s state in charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, and state president and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann said the fresh list was for 20 municipal bodies.These included Rayya, Sultanpur Lodhi, Kotkapura, Moga, Patran, Malerkotla, Dera Bassi, Mandi Gobindgarh, Jaitu, Faridkot, Amargarh, Ahmedgarh, Zirakpur, Sri Hargobindpur, Guru Har Sahai, Zira, Maur, Muktsar, Bhikhiwind and Jandiala Guru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-releases-list-of-121-candidates-203582
26-01-2021||---||Car falls into canal, couple rescued||Chamkaur Sahib, January 25A couple had a miraculous escape when their car fell into the Sirhind canal on the Neelon road, near here, today.Gurdeep Singh and his wife Munni Devi from Dhamian village in Hoshiarpur district were rescued by passersby soon after their car fell into canal.According to SHO Gursewak Singh, the couple were on their way from Ludhiana to Ropar when Gurdeep lost control of the car and it plunged into the canal near Dholara bridge around 4 pm.As the water level in the canal was lower today, the victims managed to come out of the car and climb onto its roof. Some passersby noticed the two and rescued them before calling the police, said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/car-falls-into-canal-couple-rescued-203584
26-01-2021||Tribune Reporters||‘No development’, Kotkapura residents ban leaders||Faridkot/Ferozepur, January 25In the run -up to the municipal elections, residents in some localities have started hoisting black flags atop their houses and put up flex boards announcing a ban on the entry of politicians and boycott of the poll, saying no development work had been carried out in their localities during the past 15 years.“No political leader should approach us for votes” reads a flex board in ward no. 6 and 12 of Prem Nagar, Kotkapura.The residents are showing their anguish with all political parties and told the candidates not to enter their area to seek votes as they had decided to boycott the elections until their basic demands were met.“Residents waited for basic amenities such as drinking water, drainage and concrete roads but the wait is proving to be unending,” said Manoj Kumar, a resident of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar here.The residents have put up hoardings and banners against politicians on the entrance of their streets here as well.The district administration admits some hoardings have come up in Kotkapura. “Though we advise people to exercise their right to franchise, putting up such flex boards or hoardings is not a violation of the code of conduct,” said a senior functionary.Meanwhile, residents of the Bharat Nagar area of ward no. 1 in Ferozepur have also decided to boycott the municipal council elections in support of the farm agitation. Baba Sham Singh, an elderly, said the residents took the decision keeping in the mind the pain the farmers were suffering at the Delhi borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-development-kotkapura-residents-ban-leaders-203578
26-01-2021||Archit Watts||For 77 MC wards, BJP gets 46 applications||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, January 25Against the total 77 municipal wards in Muktsar, Malout and Gidderbaha towns in Muktsar district, the BJP has so far got only 46 applications for allotment of party ticket in the municipal elections. Though the party leadership claimed that it will contest the elections in all wards, some workers are demoralised due to the ongoing farmers’ stir over the three farm laws.Rajesh Pathela ‘Gora’, president of the BJP in Muktsar district, said, “Some workers are disappointed due to the farmers’ protest. We have conveyed their feelings to our state chief Ashwani Sharma in the meetings held twice in Chandigarh. Now, the next meeting will take place on January 29 in Ludhiana. At present, I have got 20 applications from Muktsar, 17 from Malout town and nine from Gidderbaha town. More applications may come in next few days. We will field candidates in all 77 wards in the district. The tickets are yet to be announced.” Notably, Muktsar town has 31 wards, Malout 27 and Gidderbaha 19. The election will be held on February 14.A senior BJP leader of Muktsar said, “Our probable candidates are individually meeting area residents. The formal campaign will start once the candidates are announced. Further, the campaign has been delayed because of the stir. However, it will gain momentum in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-77-mc-wards-bjp-gets-46-applications-203579
26-01-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Process for new PPCC body to begin in March, says Harish Rawat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 25AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat today said the process to announce the new body of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) would begin in March, soon after elections to the civic bodies in the state were over.“The party leadership has decided that it will not wait for the farmers’ agitation to end before announcing the new body of the state party unit,” Rawat said, adding: “Due to the adamant attitude of the BJP and the Prime Minister, the farmers’ agitation has been prolonged.”He said not only the PPCC body, but the party was also preparing a calendar of its political activities and would be unfolding it in the coming months.Condemning the attack on party MP Ravneet Singh Bittu at the Singhu border yesterday, he said it was the handiwork of unscrupulous elements and no farmers’ body was involved in it.Rawat said the farmers’ agitation had taken shape of a “Jan Andolan” and the day was not far when the Narendra Modi-led government would have to bow before the farmers. Regarding BJP’s strategy to play “divisive politics”, Rawat said it was not working in Punjab. To counter the urban- rural divide politics, he said Punjabis understood the saffron party’s design. The Congress was also trying to make people aware that the three farms laws would result in further price rise of essential commodities.The Congress leadership in the state was well aware of the parties that could eat into its vote share among Dalits and urban Hindus.In reply to a charge that the Congress by supporting farmers was addressing Jat voters, Rawat said the new farm laws affected the entire state and the country, not just one community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/process-for-new-ppcc-body-to-begin-in-march-says-harish-rawat-203580
26-01-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj||Gunny bags in short supply, milling affected||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 25The rice mill industry in the state is facing acute shortage of gunny bags required to fill the custom-milled rice to be delivered to the FCI. If they do not get the bags in time, not only the delivery of the rice will be delayed, the entire milling process will also come to a standstill.Nakesh Jindal, press secretary, punjab rice millers’ associationGOVT BEING UNFAIRThe government has provided only 30% of the required gunny bags. It has directed millers to arrange the remaining gunny bags on their own whereas the government will make payment at the rate of Rs 22/bag, but it’s too low. Nakesh Jindal, press secretary, Punjab Rice Millers’ Association, said the rice industry in the state was likely to close down due to the shortage of gunny bags. “The government has provided only 30 per cent of the required gunny bags and has promised in writing to release 20 per cent at the time of the storage of the paddy,” he said.He said instead of releasing it, the government had directed the rice millers to arrange the gunny bags on their own and the government would make the payment at the rate of Rs 22 per bag.He said though the Centre had authorised the state government to get the milled rice filled in the used gunnies, the Centre had offered too low a price for the same as the bags were available for Rs 45 per bag, whereas the government itself purchased it for Rs 65 per bag.He said the association strongly condemned the new policy of the government as it would result in huge financial loss.He said the rice milling process was being affected badly and as per the agreement with the government, the millers were supposed to complete the milling process by March 31 and with the delay in the milling process, the millers would suffer financial losses. He called upon the government to take necessary steps immediately to avoid losses to the millers for no fault of theirs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gunny-bags-in-short-supply-milling-affected-203609
26-01-2021||Amritsar||Joint parade with Pak, but no exchange of sweets at Attari||Due to Covid-19 restrictions, no spectators will be allowed to enter the joint check post to watch the festivities of the Republic Day programme at the Attari border.Nonetheless, the BSF will conduct a joint parade with its Pakistan counterparts. There will be no exchange of sweets ‘owing’ to the Covid-19 threat. A senior BSF official told The Tribune that unlike the programme held on August 15, the Republic Day would witness a full parade in coordination with the Pakistan Rangers.“Due to the Covid pandemic, no spectator will be allowed to enter the check post at Attari. The programme will start at 3.40 pm. Three cultural programmes, including live musical band by the BSF, will be presented. The culture programme will be conducted by students of Khalsa College, Amritsar. This will be followed by Beating the Retreat ceremony which will last for 15 minutes,” he said.The BSF and Pakistan Rangers have not been exchanging sweets on special occasions at the border since India abrogated Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/joint-parade-with-pak-but-no-exchange-of-sweets-at-attari-203586
26-01-2021||---||Akali nominees move Punjab and Haryana High Court fearing rejection of papers||Chandigarh, January 25No less than 30 candidates for the Moga Municipal Corporation elections belonging to the Shiromani Akali Dal today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court expressing apprehensions that their nomination papers would be rejected arbitrarily and illegally at the behest of the Moga MLA.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj, their counsel HS Brar claimed that the apprehension of Harwinder Kaur Gill and other petitioners was well-founded. It was based in the background of large-scale rejection of nomination papers of the candidates belonging to the opposition parties during the elections in 2018 and 2019.Brar added directions were required to be issued to the respondents not to reject the papers of the petitioners. Directions were further sought to the respondents to issue NOC to the petitioners to enable them to file their nomination papers in the forthcoming elections as they were fully eligible.Brar added they fulfilled the conditions of registration provided under the provisions of the Punjab State Election Commission Act and were not disqualified from being chosen as municipal councillors.Seeking directions for video-recording the nomination process, including scrutiny of the documents, Brar also prayed for directions to record the happenings outside the booth on the polling date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-nominees-move-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-fearing-rejection-of-papers-203610
26-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Sad that staff forced to move court for medical bills: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court described as “sad and unfortunate” the fact that the employees were forced to seek judicial intervention for release of already sanctioned medical reimbursement.Referring to two petitions filed by employees of the Abohar Municipal Corporation (MC) for reimbursement of the sanctioned amount, Justice Anil Kshetarpal asserted it reflected a very sorry state of affairs in the civic body.Justice Kshetarpal also directed the MC commissioner to examine the aspect before taking appropriate steps, while making it clear that the court would be compelled to pass stringent orders otherwise.Justice Kshetarpal further directed the respondent-MC to release the amount of sanctioned medical reimbursement to the petitioners. For the purpose, Justice Kshetarpal set a four-month deadline.The matter was brought under the judicial scanner after Suman Kumari and Bimla Kumari filed two petitions against the state of Punjab and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, their counsel submitted that the petitioners prayed for direction to the respondents to release the amount of medical reimbursement of the bills which had already been approved. The petitioners claimed that they were employees of the Abohar MC.Issuing a notice of motion on the petitions to the state and another respondent, Justice Kshetarpal added the order had been passed without hearing the Abohar MC. As such, it would have the liberty to move an application for recall of the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-that-staff-forced-to-move-court-for-medical-bills-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-203585
26-01-2021||Satya Prakash||Final chance to decide on Balwant Singh Rajoana plea: Supreme Court to Centre||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 25The Supreme Court on Monday gave a last chance to the Centre to take a call on the mercy plea filed by Balwant Singh Rajoana for commuting the death penalty awarded to him in former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh’s assassination case.A Bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, which had earlier asked the government to decide the petition before Republic Day, gave two more weeks after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the government was examining the issue.Mehta said it would not be prudent to decide the matter at this juncture as it could have some repercussions in the present situation. As Mehta sought three weeks, the CJI shot back, “Why three weeks? What is happening Mr Mehta... A three-week period is unreasonable. We asked you to decide before January 26.”Mehta said, “The decision going either way will have some repercussions in the present circumstances.” The Bench agreed to grant two weeks as the last chance for the government to decide the matter. On behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi opposed Mehta’s request, saying, “The man (Rajoana) is in jail for 25 years. His mercy plea has been pending for over eight years.” “He is in jail for killing a chief minister,” replied Mehta. Convicted of assassinating Beant Singh in 1995, Rajoana has been in jail for 25 years awaiting his execution. The former Punjab CM and 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh in 1995. Rajoana was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court.Maintaining that pendency of appeals by co-accused has no bearing on Presidential pardon granted to a death-row convict, the Supreme Court had on December 4 questioned the Centre over delay in sending proposal to the President for commuting Rajoana’s death penalty.Once the Centre has decided to recommend Presidential pardon for a death row convict, the pendency of appeals of his co-accused can’t be a reason to delay the clemency proceedings, it had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/final-chance-to-decide-on-balwant-singh-rajoana-plea-supreme-court-to-centre-203583
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||AIG Khakh among 8 to get CM medal||On the recommendations of the government, the Governor today announced award of CM’s Rakshak Padak to ASI Subash Chander for displaying the highest level of courage by saving the life of a citizen.The Governor also announced the names of eight officers, including AIG Counter Intelligence (Jalandhar zone) Harkamal Preet Singh Khakh, for CM Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty. The other officers are DSP City Bathinda Gurjit Singh; DSP (SSOC, Amritsar) Harwinderpal Singh; DSP (SSOC, SAS Nagar) Gurcharan Singh; DSP (STF, Border range, Amritsar) Arun Sharma; Inspector Binderjit Singh, ASI (LR) Kashmir Singh, and ASI Pawan Kumar. The government also announced “Praman Patra” for 13 police officials for outstanding duty during Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aig-khakh-among-8-to-get-cm-medal-203574
26-01-2021||Bathinda||Stadium inaugurated in Mansa||Cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla today inaugurated a sports stadium in Datewas village and a nature park in Mansa.Chief guest at a function by the Department of Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training, he honoured 50 ration depots, 35 self employed youth and five disabled persons who opted for self employment under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stadium-inaugurated-in-mansa-203611
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Republic Day honours for 21 cops||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on the eve of 72nd Republic Day announced the names of the Punjab Police officers/officials to be awarded with Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) and Police Medal for Meritorious Service (PMMS).Three officials from Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) — DSP Intelligence Bikramjit Singh Brar, ASI Sukhwinder Kumar and HC Parwinder Singh — have been awarded with PMG. ADGP (Prisons) Praveen Kumar Sinha and IGP (Financial Investigation Unit) Ananya Gautam will be conferred with PPMDS.Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, Rakesh Agrawal and four PPS officers — SSP Vigilance Bureau Ludhiana Rupinder Singh, SP Headquarters SBS Nagar Manvinderbir Singh, DSP Bassi Pathana Sukhminder Singh Chauhan and DSP Punjab Police Academy Phillaur Ashok Kumar — are among 16 police officials selected for PMMS. Remaining officials are Inspector Prabhjit Kumar, Inspector Kulwant Singh, SI Som Nath, SI Nirmal Singh, SI Avtar Singh, SI Sukhjit Singh, ASI Jaspal Singh, ASI Parminder Kumar, ASI Daljit Singh, ASI Shinder Pal and ASI Anil Kumar. — TNSAWARDED THRICEA recipient of the Police Medal for Gallantry twice in the past, DSP (Intelligence) Bikramjit Singh Brar is up for the honour once again. Given Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation last year, he is the first officer from the state to get the honour and the only officer from the state to bag three Police Medals for Gallantry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/republic-day-honours-for-21-cops-203575
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||45 do-gooders to be feted||The state government today released a list of 45 personalities who performed their duties perfectly with passion in various fields.An official spokesman said Pradeep Kumar, fire officer, Municipal Council, Dera Bassi, has been selected for bravery. Sonu Sood, Sonu Maheshwari, Chairman, Youth Welfare Society, Bathinda, Kuldeep Singh Mann, Secretary, Swami Ganga Nand Bhuri Wale International Foundation, Dham Talwandi Khurd, Jagraon, Anil Bharti, Ludhiana, Tarjit Singh, driver, Tehsil Office Amritsar-21 have been selected for social service.He said for occupational expert, Sarabjit Singh, Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa, senior veterinary officer, Batala, Gurdaspur, Dr Ajit Dua, Dr Rupinder Bakhshi, Sarabjit Kaur Sohal, president, Punjab Sahitya Akademi, and Bansi Kaul have been selected.For excellent services during Covid, Dr KK Talwar, cardiologist, consultant, Health and Medical Education, Punjab, Dr Raj Bahadur, orthopaedic, Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, Dr Rajesh Kumar, executive director, SHSRC, Dr GD Puri, dean and professor, Department of Anesthesia, PGI, Dr Pulb Ray, professor, Department of Microbiology, PGI, Dr Biswa Mohan, professor, Department of Cardiology, DMC Ludhiana, Dr Clarence J Samuel, vice-principal, Community Department, CMC Ludhiana, Dr Neelam Marwaha, former head and professor, transfusion medicine, PGI, Dr Ambuj Rai, professor, Department of Cardiology, AIIMS, Dr Vishal Chopra, professor and head, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, GMC, Patiala, Dr Raminder Pal Singh Sibia, professor and head, Department of Medicine, GMC, Patiala, Dr Veena Chtarath, professor and head, Department of Anesthesia, GMC, Amritsar, Dr Sandeep Kataria, attending anesthesiologist, Department of Anesthesiology, Bronxcare Health Care System, 1650 Grand Concourse Bronx, New York, Dr Anoop Singh, Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Lennox Hill Hospital, 77 Avenue Greenwich Village, New York, and Dr Ajit Kumar Kayal, consultant anesthetist, St George's NHS Foundation Trust, London, among others have been selected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/45-do-gooders-to-be-feted-203576
26-01-2021||---||Padma Shri for Patiala orthopaedist, Ludhiana businesswoman||Patiala/Ludhiana, January 25A Patiala orthopaedist and a Ludhiana businesswoman are among five from Punjab to receive this year’s Padma Shri — the fourth-highest civilian award — announced by the Union Government on the eve of Republic Day today.Dr Ratan Lal Mittal, a former Professor and Head of Orthopaedic Department at Government Medical College, Patiala, is known for performing rare clubfoot surgeries free of cost. Dr Mittal has done cutting-edge research on severe, rigid and neglected clubfoot deformities — highly prevalent in lower and middle income countries, including India.Dr Mittal, while talking to The Tribune, said: “This is the result of my 60 years of hard work. I feel satisfied now.”Octogenarian businesswoman Rajni Bector rose from her backyard business with a paltry investment of Rs 300 to become an undisputed business tycoon. The IPO of her company — Mrs Bectors Food Specialities — made history by getting oversubscribed 198 times and listed at 74 per cent premium on the offer price. “I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my services,” she said.The other recipients of the award are Prakash Kaur (social work), Lajwanti (art) and Kartar Singh (art).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/padma-shri-for-patiala-orthopaedist-ludhiana-businesswoman-203577
26-01-2021||Ludhiana||Bal Puraskar for Ludhiana girl||Namya Joshi, a Class 8 student of Sat Paul Mittal School, has done the region proud as she has been conferred with the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021, the highest civilian award for an individual below 18 years.“I have got the recognition in the field of innovation for my work on ‘Minecraft’,” she says. ‘Minecraft’ is a skill-based learning programme, which gives teachers and students a platform for better understanding and makes learning interesting. A keynote speaker at ‘KEOS 2019 – a global education conference’ in Jyvaskyla, Finland, she has got many national and international achievements to her credit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bal-puraskar-for-ludhiana-girl-203571
26-01-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh: AAP behind attack on Ravneet Singh Bittu, Kulbir Singh Zira at Singhu border||Patiala, January 25Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said the attack on a state Congress MP and MLA at the Singhu border was not the handiwork of peacefully protesting farmers but of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers, “whose only agenda was to weaken the farmers’ fight by creating trouble at the behest of the BJP”.“AAP workers present near the ‘Kisan Sansad’ attacked and manhandled Punjab Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLA Kulbir Singh Zira. No one but AAP is responsible for the attack,” he said.They (AAP) should understand that this country was thriving on ‘lokshahi’ (democracy) and not ‘dhakkashahi’ (push and shove),” said the Chief Minister, on the sidelines of various events here in Patiala. “Intelligence reports indicate that AAP workers had intermingled with farmers and assaulted the Congress leaders. AAP’s desperate attempts to undermine me and my government in Punjab are becoming more and more brazen by the day. After their efforts to spread false propaganda and lies about the Congress government in Punjab failed to mislead the farmers, they resorted to violence against Bittu and Zira,” the CM added.Meanwhile, taking his government’s flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ and ‘Karobar Mission’ forward, the Chief Minister today launched a mega self-employment loan mela from Patiala as a culmination to the special loan melas held across the state, wherein 1.70 lakh youth were assisted in getting self-employment loans from various banks. No hand in protest: AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-aap-behind-attack-on-ravneet-singh-bittu-kulbir-singh-zira-at-singhu-border-203572
26-01-2021||---||Jallianwala martyrs’ exact count to be researched: Punjab Govt||Amritsar, January 25Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today virtually laid the foundation stone of a memorial at Anand Amrit Park in Amritsar dedicated to the centenary of the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre.On the occasion, he announced a Jallianwala Bagh Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and a literary festival dedicated to the memory of those who lost their lives in one of the world’s biggest humanitarian tragedies. “The sky frequents daily to weep here, the arrows still sting in Punjab’s heart…” he read from Rukshanda Jaleel’s poem on the massacre.The kin of the martyrs were specially invited for the occasion and a special urn was provided to them to bring the soil of their ancestral houses. Those who remained untraceable were represented by their village panchayat members. Of the 492 martyrs published in the list with the Office of the Amritsar DC, only 29 could be contacted so far.The list of the dead and injured prepared by the British for the purpose of awarding compensation has several discrepancies. Lying at the DC’s office, it has 501 people on the list with many marked as “unidentified” and several serial numbers kept blank. This list was squeezed to 492.As the exact number of deaths is still not known, the CM asked Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to ensure that research into the data was completed so that the exact number could be ascertained and small memorials could be built at their native villages. The memorial is expected to be completed and dedicated to the people on Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-martyrs-exact-count-to-be-researched-punjab-govt-203573
26-01-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farm union flags come up on residences, shops||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 25Residents in cities and villages of the region have started putting up farm union flags outside their houses and shops as a mark of support for the farmers’ agitation and the proposed tractor parade on Republic Day.Rising above party lines, people have joined hands in support of farmers. Green and yellow flags of farm unions can be seen in almost every house. At Multania village in Bathinda, flags, stickers and banners in yellow, green, white and black colours are visible almost everywhere.Harsewak Singh, former sarpanch of Multania village, said: “Villagers have risen above party lines in support of the farmers’ agitation. This is the issue of our bread and butter, so the entire village is supporting them.”Jagsir Singh, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader, said: “Earlier, when we used to tell people to hold unions’ flags, they would be hesitant, but times have changed now. The same people now want these flags. They like taking photos with the union leaders as if they are celebrities. This is the power of the agitation.”Will wave black flags, say Jobless teachersSangrur: Unemployed members of five unions have announced showing black flags to chief guests in four districts during the Republic Day functions to protest the “failure” of the government in giving them jobs. “Our members will show black flags to chief guests during Republic Day functions in Sangrur, Barnala, Mansa and Bathinda. Thousands of posts of teacher are vacant, but the government is not recruiting youth for all posts,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president, BEd and TET Pass Union. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-union-flags-come-up-on-residences-shops-203587
26-01-2021||Vishav Bharti||Marchers cheered on by young & old||Tribune News ServiceShambhu, January 25As rows of tractors, bikes and cars with red, saffron and green flags atop take a turn at the curve, the echo of ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’ gets louder. Fists go up in the air and signs of victory are flashed. This is National Highway-44 at Shambhu, where once existed a toll barrier.Tamanna Tiwari, a young architectHere in solidarityI have never participated in a protest. I am here to show solidarity, as the laws need to go.This is the same place where two months ago, concrete barriers set up by the police were pushed aside as the farmers marched towards Delhi.Now celebrating the unique festival of unity, all barriers have ceased to exist, between urban and rural, farmers and traders, Punjab and Haryana.Tamanna Tiwari, a young architect from Ambala, has driven down to Shambhu to cheer on the marching caravans. “I have never participated in a protest. I am here to show solidarity, as the laws need to go,” she says, holding a green and red flag.The movement has also found resonance with the old. Raj Kumar, a retired employee from Ambala’s ITI, approaches passing vehicles to offer sweets. “I have spared a small amount from pension to be a part of this struggle.”The struggle has inspired many unemployed youth to go back to their roots. Sandeep Singh, a young man from Gurditpura village, near Doraha, says his father used to lease out his farmland. “After the movement, I have fallen in love with farming. I want to be called a farmer,” he says.Inner roads, too, are brimming with people, waiting to welcome the marchers with langars. There are “foot soldiers” too. Sunny from a Ludhiana village says he along with three friends started their foot march at 8 am. “After walking for four hours, we got a lift on a tractor-trailer near Khanna,” he says.Asked what has inspired him to head to Delhi, he says: “It is a fight for our existence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/marchers-cheered-on-by-young-old-203588
26-01-2021||Aman Sood||Driven by cause, it’s now or never for young farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 25Braving the chill and fog, thousands of farmers are on the road with only one destination in mind — Delhi — to participate in the January 26 tractor parade. Long tractor queues on the entire national highway run up to the national capital borders.All through the route, people are seen showing flags, waving and even bursting crackers to boost the morale of the Delhi-bound farmers. Even at 11.30 pm, residents are seen standing alongside the Sonepat roads, some with candles while others waving at the passing farmers.Enthusiasm of Mansimrat Singh Riar, a youth from Naina village in Patiala who travelled the entire Sunday night to reach the border, encapsulates what is the driving force behind the farmers’ agitation. With a farmer union’s flag flying high in front of his tractor, the music system on the vehicle plays songs from ‘Bhag Milkha Bhag’, a film on the life story of famous athlete Milkha Singh. The song “Zinda hai toh…” perfectly describes the farmer’s struggle against the three laws. “We are not on a picnic. We have left the comforts of our home and family members for a cause. The struggle is of principles. We will die or win this,” says Riar, who has been to the Delhi borders almost four times in the past over a month.At Ambala, the cavalcade of tractors led by Riar stopped over at a dhaba for dinner. The dhaba owner refused to charge anything. “My friends and I are serving our farmer friends. It is our humble contribution,” says Depanshu Kambhoj who belong to Sanaur.Near Panipat, a former Chief Engineer, JS Dullat, along with his friends, is on his way with ration and other items loaded in their contingent of 20 tractors. “I retired as an engineer but my veins have a farmer’s blood. This is the second time I am going to Delh,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/driven-by-cause-its-now-or-never-for-young-farmers-203589
26-01-2021||---||Ensure rally is peaceful, Capt Amarinder Singh appeals to farmers||Chandigarh, January 25Terming their Republic Day tractor rally a testimony to the celebration of the Indian Republic and its Constitutional ethos, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the farmers to ensure that the event remained peaceful just as their anti-farm law protests have been so far. He urged the Centre once again to heed the troubled voice of the farming community.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterWe stand by youWe stand by every farmer of the state. Besides compensation and job for one family member of each of the deceased farmers, we shall extend any other help their families may need. We shall also continue to reach out to the families of those still camping at the Delhi borders“Peace has been the hallmark of your (farmers’) democratic protests all these months, and should remain integral to your agitation in the days ahead, including the R-Day tractor rally into the national capital,” he said in his message on Republic Day eve.Lamenting that the federal structure was facing one of its biggest threats, the CM said the manner in which the three farm laws were pushed through, without debate or discussion, cannot, and should not be accepted in the world’s largest democracy. The Centre had no power to legislate on a state subject, which agriculture is, and the implementation of the farm laws violated every principle of our Constitution and the federal structure, he added. The CM said farmers’ collective fight, in which his government was standing shoulder to shoulder with them, was aimed at protecting the federal core of the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-rally-is-peaceful-capt-amarinder-singh-appeals-to-farmers-203593
26-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma||For Republic Day, all roads lead to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 25Cavalcades of tractors today clogged the roads leading to Delhi as thousands of farmers protesting against the farm laws headed towards the national capital for the proposed tractor parade on Republic Day.Balwant Singh, a farmer‘Will stay there after the parade’After the R-Day parade, we all are prepared to protest at New Delhi for months. We do not have any other option as the central government is unwilling to repeal the black laws.Punjabi songs like “Waaris Nalue Da”,” Fateh”, “Pecha Pai Gaya Centre Naal” and other inspirational numbers play on tractors as farmers patiently wait to move ahead.“I have seen many agitations, but it’s the first time that we are witnessing such a massive support. From our villages, majority of farmers are heading to New Delhi to participate in the tractor march,” says Balwinder Singh, a farmer from Maura village.Despite being aware of the free supply of all essential commodities at Delhi borders to protesters, farmers are still carrying their ration, wood, LPG cylinders and several other items as many plan to stay at borders after the tractor parade.Earlier tractors and other vehicles going to the capital, had flags with “Kisan Ekta Jindabad”, “No Farmer, No Food”, “End of MSP, will kill farming” written on them, now the Tricolor is also visible along with them.“Thousands of tractors have already reached Delhi borders and many more are on the way. All are determined to protest peacefully on Republic Day,” says Rajpal Singh, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader from Mangwal village.In several villages, there are many families which have sent more than two members to participate in the parade. Gurpreet Singh, sarpanch of Kauhrian village, says: “Around 60 per cent men of our village have gone to New Delhi. There are many more villages in our area from where more than 40 to 50 percent residents have gone to Delhi.”Cops, bureaucrats offer tacit supportMuktsar: Bureaucrats and police officers hailing from the farming families are supporting the tractor parade in Delhi. Some have changed their profile pictures on WhatsApp, while others have uploaded pictures of their children carrying placards supporting the farmers on other social media platforms. An SP-rank police officer (posted in the Malwa region) said, “My daughter has to recite a poem in a competition on Republic Day. So, she decided to recite a poem on farmers because standing up for a cause is also patriotism.” TNSBathinda traders protest arhtiyas’ remarksBathinda: Tempers ran high at Goniana mandi in Bathinda on Monday when scores of traders from the Aggarwal community carried out a protest march after some arhtiyas from the Jat community allegedly made some objectionable remarks about them. In a video clip that has been circulating on the social media, arhtiyas can be seen asking the traders’ community to come out of the comforts of their homes and support farmers in their agitation against the new farm laws. The Aggarwal community lodged a police complaint and demanded immediate action in the matter. TNSTractor rally will be peaceful, says SADChandigarh: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday said he was confident that the tractor parade on Tuesday will be a peaceful event. “The participants in the farmers’ struggle so far have demonstrated an unprecedented discipline. It is remarkable that hundreds of thousands of people have been protesting for over two months now in a peaceful manner, despite provocations and conspiracies against them.” Sukhbir urged the Government of India to ensure that the police and other law-enforcing agencies deal with the march with utmost “sensitivity and patience.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-republic-day-all-roads-lead-to-delhi-203604
26-01-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana businesswoman Rajni Bector bags Padma Shri||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 25From an unknown name to a name that counts today. Thus reads the success story of an octogenarian Ludhiana businesswoman, Rajni Bector, who rose from her backyard business with a paltry investment of Rs 300 to successfully raising a whooping Rs 541 crore from the market, and become an undisputed business tycoon.The IPO of her company—Mrs Bector's Food Specialities—having made history by getting oversubscribed 198 times and listing at 74 per cent premium on the offer price, is fast becoming the buzz word in the business world. Unfortunately on this day three years ago she lost her husband, Dharam Vir Bector.Recognising her contribution to the trade and industry, the Union Government on Monday conferred the prestigious Padma Shri to Rajni. She was among five recipients from Punjab, who have been honoured with the fourth highest civilian award.“I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my services,” said the proud recipient of the Padma Shri.Making a modest beginning, Rajni began her in-house baking and ice-cream shop after doing a baking course at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in early 80s, but till the time her businessman husband bought her a professional ice-cream churner by putting in an investment of Rs 20,000 in mid-80s, this tall, fair, and rather impressive woman was yet to earn any profit.The Rs 20,000 investment made her business grow by leaps and bounds and in another 5 years, her brand Cremica, which she derived from her lavish use of cream as a key ingredient in her delicacies, grew to a remarkable Rs 5-crore turnover. Mrs Bector soon became a household name and her firm clocked a turnover of Rs 20 crore in 1995.Her meteoric rise crossed all boundaries when all leading international and national brands – McDonald’s, Café Coffee Day, Barista, Air India, Indian Railways, Taj Group, Hindustan Unilever, ITC, Spencer’s, Big Bazaar, Mondelez, Domino’s, Papa John’s, Pizza Hut – became her direct customers buying from her — buns, burgers, breads, biscuits, ketchups, dips, spreads et al, widening manifold the horizons of her sales network.Ludhiana became a permanent abode for Rajni after she was married to Dharam Vir at an early age of 17. At that time, she was studying at Miranda House in Delhi, where her family had settled after moving from Pakistan post-Partition. She was born in Karachi in 1940 and was brought up in Lahore. Having left her studies midway in Delhi, Rajni completed her graduation after marriage.It was in mid-70s when all three sons of the Bectors – Ajay, Akshay and Anoop – left them for boarding classes in Mussoorie that Rajni moved out of her house and took up baking classes at PAU. Soon, she started putting up stalls of her newly acquired baking delicacies at fetes of schools and colleges besides local fairs.Specialising in pizza making, Mrs Bector, as she is popularly known, started giving demos of baking and making pizzas at the all-woman kitty parties and other social gatherings in the ‘Manchester of India’ in late 70s when pizza was still a novelty, and only Nirula’s in Delhi and Hot Millions in Chandigarh, used to sell this Italian dish at premium prices.Joining the elite club of Ludhiana tycoons after Mittals of Bharti, Munjals of Hero, Oswals of Monte Carlo and Guptas of Trident, Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities today claims 12 per cent share in India’s total biscuit exports.Besides exporting products to 64 countries across 6 continents in the world, the 25-year-old company, established on September 15, 1995, also supplies bakes and cakes to retail consumers in 26 states across India. Up to March 31, the company had a far reaching supply chain for biscuits and breads through its 196 super-stockists and 748 distributors, further supplying to customers through 4.58 lakh retailers and 4,422 preferred exclusive outlets.Relatively unknown and the inconspicuous Ludhiana woman’s towering personality, hard work, grit, and focus has finally paid dividends and she emerged as a business tycoon with her entity posting the best listing gain this year after Burger King and Happiest Minds, which gained 130 per cent and 123 per cent, respectively.Basking in the glory of its spectacular success in the stock market, the company plans to capitalise on growth in the packaged food industry.Given its brand positioning in north India and wide distribution network across the globe, the company plans to utilise net proceeds of the issue for part-financing the expansion of its Rajpura manufacturing facility with the introduction of a new production line for biscuits, and for general corporate purpose. Achieving the benefit of listing on the stock exchanges was also on the priority list of Ludhiana lady’s home-to-brand company, which markets a wide range of biscuits and breads under the brands—“Mrs Bector’s Cremica” and “English Oven”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-businesswoman-rajni-bector-bags-padma-shri-203547
26-01-2021||Patiala||Punjab cop bags third police medal for gallantry; first to win three||Bikramjit Singh Brar, one of Punjab’s most decorated cops, is up for a Police Medal for Gallantry.Brar, whose policeman father was killed in 1988 during the peak of Punjab’s militancy, was part of a list of names for police medals that the central government released ahead of the Republic Day.This would be Brar’s third Police Medal for Gallantry and was previously given Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation last year. He is the first cop from Punjab to given the Home Minister’s medal and the only one in Punjab to have won three gallantry awards.He also becomes the only policeman to have won both gallantry awards and the Union Home Minister’s medal.All three of these awards were for his role in the arrest of Punjab’s dreaded gangsters.His name was shortlisted from a list that Punjab had sent earlier.He won his first gallantry award in 2011 for his role in the arrest of members of the dreaded Rajeev Raja Gang and the second in recognition for his role in the arrest of the dread gangster Vicky Gounder in 2018.  Gounder was shot dead by a Punjab Police team two years after the infamous Nabha jailbreak.He won the Union Home Minister’s medal, an award instituted last year, for his role in bringing down a dreaded gangster named Ankit Bhadu on February 7, 2019, at Zirakpur. The gangster faced several criminal charges in Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana. A man and his two minor daughters that the gangster had abducted were also rescued.He has narrowly escaped three murder attempts in the course of his service.Now a Deputy Superintendent of Police in Mohali, Brar, a national-level boxer, first joined Punjab Police as an ASI in 2003, and has been instrumental in the arrest of several gangsters, including ex-cop and international wrestler Jagdish Bhola, who was sentenced to 24 years in prison in 2019 for his role in a multi-crore drug racket.Brar’s father Baldev Singh Brar was the Superintendent of Police (Detective) in Patiala when he was shot dead while taking a morning walk in 1988.“I am honoured to get this award and I do not have words to thank my seniors and colleagues in my team who have always been my strength,” Brar said. “The price you pay for doing your job is sometimes high, but then being a cop was never an easy task.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cop-bags-third-police-medal-for-gallantry-first-to-win-three-203496
26-01-2021||---||MHA announces 946 police medals; northern states bag 128; J-K tops with 71||New Delhi, January 25The government on Monday announced a total of 946 medals for the police persons in the country, which will be awarded to them on the occasion of Republic Day with two personnel - one each from Jharkhand Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) - receiving the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously.Among the majority of the 207 Gallantry awards, 137 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in Jammu and Kashmir, 24 personnel for their gallant action in Left Wing Extremism affected areas and one personnel for their gallant action in North-East Region.Among the states and Union Territories, the northern region bagged 128 medals in different categories with Jammu and Kashmir topping the list with 71 medals, followed by Punjab (21), Delhi (17) Haryana (14) and Himachal Pradesh (5).  Among the personnel from the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) receiving the awards, 132 are from CRPF, 71 are from BSF, 26 from CISF and 17 are from ITBP.Among the investigative agencies, 31 personnel have been awarded with the medals, while NIA received 6 and the Intelligence Bureau got 34.These medals are given in four categories with the highest one being the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, followed by Police Medal for Gallantry and then police officers are awarded for their distinguished and meritorious services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mha-announces-946-police-medals-northern-states-bag-128-j-k-tops-with-71-203472
26-01-2021||Satya Prakash||SC gives Centre 14 days to decide on Rajoana's mercy plea||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 25The Supreme Court on Monday gave a last chance to the Centre to take a call on the mercy plea filed by Balwant S Rajoana for commuting the death penalty awarded to him in former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh''s assassination case.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde -- which had earlier asked the government to decide Rajoana's mercy petition before the Republic Day -- gave two more weeks after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the government was examining the issue.The Solicitor General said it would not be prudent to decide the matter at this juncture as it could have some repercussions in the present situation.As Mehta sought three weeks, the CJI shot back, "Why three weeks? What is happening Mr. Mehta?...Three-week is unreasonable. We asked you to decide before January 26."The Solicitor General said, "The decision going either way will have some repercussions in the present circumstances."The Bench agreed to grant two weeks as a last chance for the government to decide the matter.On behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi for petitioner opposed Mehta's request, saying, "The man (Rajoana) is in jail for 25 years. His mercy plea has been pending for over eight years.""He is in jail for killing a chief minister," replied Mehta.Convicted of assassinating Beant Singh in 1995, Rajoana has been in jail for 25 years awaiting his execution. The former Punjab Chief Minister and 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh in 1995.Rajaona was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court. His mercy petition under Article 72 of the Constitution is hanging fire for eight years.The Supreme Court had on January 8 asked the Centre to decide by January 26 Rajoana's plea for commuting the death penalty awarded to him in former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh''s assassination case.It had said the decision had to be taken before the Republic Day which was a "good date"."We will give two-three weeks. You should complete the process before January 26. January 26 is a good day.  It will be appropriate if you take a decision before that," the CJI had said.Maintaining that Pendency of appeals by co-accused has no bearing on Presidential pardon granted to a death-row convict, the Supreme Court had on December 4 questioned the Centre over delay in sending proposal to the President for commuting Rajoana’s death penalty.Once the Centre has decided to recommend Presidential pardon for a death row convict, the pendency of appeals of his co-accused can’t be a reason to delay the clemency proceedings, it had said."Appeal of other co-accused has no relevance to the decision to commute the death sentence of some convicts taken to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev," it had noted.The court’s comments had come after the Centre said the proposal to commute death sentence was not sent to the President as appeal of other co-accused was pending and the convict himself hadn't filed an appeal.Citing Devender Pal Singh Bhullar’s case, the petitioner has claimed that the "Delay caused by circumstances beyond the prisoners’ control mandates commutation of death sentence.” The inordinate delay caused agony and adversely affected his physical and mental health, Rajaona contended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-gives-centre-14-days-to-decide-on-rajoanas-mercy-plea-203439
26-01-2021||---||Samyukta Kisan Morcha issues advisory for farmers’ Republic Day parade||Chandigarh, January 25Samyukta Kisan Morcha has issued instructions for the farmers’ Republic Day parade to be held in New Delhi.Instructions for Farmers' Republic Day ParadeFriends, we are about to make history. Never before in history have the people of this Republic been part of a parade of this nature on the Republic Day. Through this parade, we have to tell about our plight to the country and the world. We have to bring forth the truth about the three Anti-Farmer Laws. We've to take care that this historical parade is not stained at any cost. Our victory lies in the parade being taken out in a very peaceful manner; without any unwanted events taking place. Remember, that our aim is not to conquer Delhi, but to win over the hearts of the people of this country.Keeping this in mind, Samyukta Kisan Morcha has come up with some unanimously agreed instructions for the parade. Please share it with as many people as possible and in case of any confusion, reach out to the leaders of your respective organisations or call on the helpline number 7428384230.Preparations before the parade1. Trolleys will not be allowed in the parade. Only Tractors and other vehicles will be allowed. Trolleys with special tableaux may be exempted. Please arrange for the safety of the trolley from the behind.2. Pack 24 hours of ration and water with you. Make sure you have proper arrangements for protection from cold. It might be required if you are stuck in a traffic jam.3. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha appeals that every tractor or cart should be fitted with the flag of the farmers’ organizations as well as the national flag. There will be no flag of any political party.4. Do not carry any weapon with you, not even sticks. Do not use banners with any provocative or negative slogans.5. If you wish to inform of your participation in the parade, give a missed call on 84483 85556.Instructions to be followed during the Parade1. Farmer leaders will lead the parade in their vehicles. NO car/tractor shall overtake their vehicle. Please follow the directions of our traffic volunteers dressed in green jackets.2. The route for the parade has been pre-decided and marked. Police and traffic volunteers will guide you. Any car/tractor found deviating from the route will be acted against.3. SKM has decided that if any car/tractor halts/occupies an area without any reason, that car/tractor will be removed by volunteers. All the cars/tractor in the parade will return to the starting point after completing the parade.4. A maximum of 5 people including the driver can ride on one tractor. No one will ride on the bonnet, bumper or roof of tractors.5. All tractors must proceed in a line and there will be no overtaking throughout the Parade. Please don't overtake the vehicles of farmer leaders leading the parade.6. Please don't play music in the tractor. This will ensure that all announcements are heard by everyone in the parade without any hindrance.7. Use of any drugs before or during the parade is prohibited. If you find anyone found in possession/consuming drugs, please report it to the nearest traffic volunteer. 8. Please remember that our intent is to gracefully carry out the Parade and win the hearts of our fellow citizens. Please take special care that we have to treat women with utmost respct. Policemen are also farmers in uniform, we don't have to fight with them. All mediapersons, notwithstanding which channel they belong to; must be treated with respect. 9. Please do not pollute the surroundings by throwing garbage on roads. You are kindly advised to carry a bag for disposal of waste.Guidelines for EmergencyKisan Ekta Morcha has made provisions for emergency of every kind, so do not panic if there is any problem, just follow these instructions:1. Ignore any rumors. If you want to check something or verify something, then have a look on the Facebook Page of Kisan Ekta Morcha to verify the truth.2. Ambulances will be available on parade routes. Arrangements have been made with hospitals. If there is a medical emergency, call the helpline number or inform the nearest volunteer.3. In case of any issue with the tractor or the car, place it on the side and contact the Volunteer or call the helpline.4. Helpline number of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will be open for 24 hours for this parade. If you have any question or want to inform something, please call immediately.5. If there is any incident, then you can report it to the police control room at number 112.Helpline number 74283 84230||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukta-kisan-morcha-issues-advisory-for-farmers-republic-day-parade-203399
26-01-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||White gold glitters for farmers||IN an affirmation of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime, the purchase of more than 80 per cent of the cotton in mandis of Punjab by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is helping farmers get higher prices from private traders and industrialists these days. Farmers have sold cotton for as high as Rs 6,000 per quintal against the MSP of Rs 5,515.Read also: Yield drop no damper“I got Rs 5,900 per quintal for my yield this time. My friend from a neighbouring village told me that he got Rs 6,000 a few days ago,” says Dharinder Pal of Kanakwal village in Bathinda district. The CCI entered the mandis last year after a gap of five years and gave good prices to farmers. Last year’s profits motivated the farmers to plant more cotton this season. The CCI again made the bulk of the initial purchase, prompting private parties to pay even higher.Cotton farmer Sukhpal Singh from Kot Shamir says, “I have not yet sold my cotton produce. However, I have been told that the prices have fallen by about Rs 100 compared to rates yesterday. This is not alarming because the prices have not fallen below the MSP. I am assured of a good sale.”Rattan Singh, a farmer based at Bucho in Bathinda district, says private traders and industrialists do not enter the market early, when the crop arrives, hoping that the crop might sell cheaper than the MSP. “It sold cheaper during the years the CCI did not come to the mandis. They anticipate that that farmers would sell cheaper in case they did not get the MSP in the initial days. The story turned out to be different this year. Paddy and wheat are the only crops that get assured MSP on the list of 20-odd crops. So, the government entering the market could give a better deal to farmers of other listed crops as well.”He adds, “Assured MSP holds the key to resolving the current standoff between the Central government and the farmers. If the government can ensure MSP on all listed crops, it will change the face of Indian farming. We need more organisations like the CCI.”The general manager of CCI (Punjab), Neeraj Kumar, says, “The entry of the CCI has definitely given a boost to procurement as farmers are fetching rates above than the MSP. This has led to a situation where the purchase of cotton by the CCI has stopped as farmers are getting a better deal. The rates had fallen during the years the CCI chose to stay out of the market. Last year, when the CCI announced its re-entry into the mandis, farmers still had apprehensions. They grew only 12.03 lakh bales. Spurred by the handsome dividends last year, farmers grew nearly double the crop this year.According to Kumar, private players are buying cotton because of a sizeable increase in the demand at the international level. They are getting good rates internationally and are also learnt to be storing stocks to sell later, expecting a rise in prices, he adds.Till January 18, 2021, the CCI had purchased about 22.3 lakh quintals against about 8 lakh quintals by the private parties out of the total arrivals. The bulk purchase by the CCI has led to a major decline of 55 per cent in the total procurement by the private players this year. It was 17.8 lakh quintals last year and is about 8.01 lakh quintals this time.The CCI procures only Bt cotton. The desi (ordinary) cotton is purchased by private parties. A total of 9,481 quintals of desi cotton has been procured by private traders this year. The desi variety is used largely for domestic purposes like fillings for pillows, quilts and soft toys.The cotton MSP fixed by the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP) for 2020-21 is Rs 5,515 (medium staple) and Rs 5,825 (long staple) per quintal.The success story of cotton this year will be incomplete without mentioning the efforts by the state government, particularly amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Since Bt seed is produced in southern states, it was a hard task to transport a stock of 20-25 lakh seed packets during the lockdown, when there were strict travel restrictions.For the first time, the seeds were transported from the southern states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu by rail rakes. The challenge of supplying seeds from rail rakes to farmers was also handled well, with farmers getting the seeds, fertilisers and pesticides on their doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/white-gold-glitters-for-farmers-203330
