29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM condemns Singhu border violence||Condemning Friday's violence by "some miscreants" at Singhu border, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to conduct a thorough probe to identify the "so-called locals" who had purportedly broken through tight security cordons to attack farmers and their property.“Were they really locals,” asked the chief minister, seeking a proper investigation to identify the "trouble-makers" and ascertain where they came from.“I can't believe that the local people could have turned against the farmers like this. Miscreants might have been brought from other places by vested interests to foment trouble,” he said, adding that locals calling the farmers "traitors" was not something he could believe to be true.  Calling for an "immediate end to the vilification campaign launched against farmers" in the wake of the Red Fort violence, the chief minister warned that maligning the farmers in this manner could cause the morale of the armed forces, 20 per cent of which is from Punjab, to go down.Spreading false information against the farmers can create divisions, which can cause problems for Punjab, he further warned, as per an official statement here. “What is happening and what happened at Singhu today is what Pakistan wants,” said Singh, pointing out that he had been warning for a long time that Pakistan will try to exploit the unrest over the farm laws to disturb Punjab's peace.That was what I had discussed with the Union Home Minister Amit Shah during our meeting due to which a lot of noise was raised, he said, adding that he had told Shah that drones were coming from Pakistan with weapons, drugs, etc. and while many had been caught in Punjab, some would have passed through.  Central agencies should investigate into possible Pakistan role in the recent disturbances and violence during the farmers' agitation, he said.  The chief minister advised the farmers as well the central government to continue engaging in dialogue to resolve the problem.       “I could have resolved the issue by now,” he said, adding that the resolution of the issue needed both sides to talk as friends and not enemies.  "There needs to be a genuine settlement," he added.  Pointing out that Punjab had seen bad times during its terrorism days, Singh said any further disturbance would not be desirable.He also hit out at those calling the farmers names and said that people have different ideologies but you can't brand them Leftists, Maoists, Naxals, and Khalistanis in this manner.  Reacting to allegations that he was behind the farmers' agitation, Singh said: "The tragic part is BJP indulging in all this without trying to understand why farmers are angry, why they don't want the laws”. “We have small farmers and removal of MSP or ending the Arhtiya system will hit them hard,” he said, adding that the central government does not understand the psyche of the farmers of Punjab.However, he made it clear that while Punjab's farmers might have led the agitation initially, the movement had now spread across the country.  Asserting that his sympathies, and those of his government and party were with the farmers, which is why they had passed their own bills in the state, Singh said every farmer in the country has his/her heart at the borers of Delhi. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-condemns-singhu-border-violence-205138
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||After gap of 10 months, pre-primary classes to restart at all Punjab schools from Feb 1||Punjab School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said following the conditional approval of the state government, pre-primary classes at all government, aided and private schools would restart from February 1.The Punjab School Education Department had on Wednesday announced to restart primary classes at all schools from January 27.Students of classes 3 and 4 will be allowed to attend school from January 27 while those of classes 1 and 2 will return to their classrooms from February 1, it had said.Earlier this month, the state government had reopened schools for classes 5 to 12.With this, all schools will be fully functional in the state for the first time after the institutions were shut down in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The cabinet minister claimed that as parents had firmly supported the decision of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government on reopening of schools, he has directed the Education Department officials and school managements to strictly comply with the COVID-19 safety guidelines issued by the government.The minister said that schools would be functioning from 10 am to 3 pm after an interval of almost 10 months due to the pandemic.        He said the detailed safety guidelines have been sent to the schools for strict compliance. Singla said that as the students of pre-primary classes are kids, the department officials and management have been directed to remain more attentive towards them to ensure their safety.In an official statement here, he said that the schools have been asked to prepare special seating plans keeping social distancing norms in mind apart from compliance of other safeguards including masks and handwash on regular intervals.Singla said classes 3 to 12 have been reopened in a phased manner and teams have been regularly visiting all schools randomly to make sure that safety norms and guidelines are being observed.He said that they have been asked to sensitise school principals and other officials regarding do's and don'ts regarding the pandemic.Singla said that principals and school teachers have also been directed to reach out to parents through various means of communication including public address systems to make them aware of the safety norms.He said the department officials, schools heads and teachers had worked hard to reach out to the students for their education through online mediums during the past ten months.Despite several odds, they succeeded in their mission which saved precious time for students and now final revision would be done in the classrooms, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-gap-of-10-months-pre-primary-classes-to-restart-at-all-punjab-schools-from-feb-1-205121
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||99.5 pc of Punjab’s poultry farms free from bird flu: Animal Husbandry Minister||Punjab Animal Husbandry Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Friday said 99.5 per cent of poultry farms in the state were free from bird flu, out of the total samples tested so far.He said that only 0.5 percent of the farms have been found to be infected with the avian influenza after results came from the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar.“99.5 per cent of the poultry farms in Punjab are free from bird flu,” he said, as per an official statement here.He expressed hope that the state would soon be completely free from bird flu with efforts being taken by the state government and poultry farmers.“The Punjab government aims to test 100 per cent of all poultry farms/backyard poultry in the state. The state government was committed to provide disease free poultry products to the people,” said Bajwa.Giving information about the prevention of bird flu in Punjab, Vijay Kumar Janjua, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development, said 8,022 samples have been tested so far at Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at Jalandhar.Janjua also appealed to the public to eat fully-cooked meat and eggs as experts have advised that it is safe to eat, if meat and eggs are cooked at 70 degrees Celsius for a minimum of 20 minutes.At the same time, in a statement, he said the Punjab government would extend full support to the poultry farmers for conducting the tests of their poultry farms and these tests would be done completely free of cost. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/99-5-pc-of-punjabs-poultry-farms-free-from-bird-flu-animal-husbandry-minister-205094
29-01-2021||Melbourne||Punjab-origin taxi driver's son makes it to Australia T20I team; details inside||Teenaged leg-spinner Tanveer Sangha, son of an Indian-origin taxi driver in Australia, has been named in Australia's T20 squad for the upcoming five-match series in New Zealand.Sangha, who represented Australia at the under-19 World Cup just 12 months ago, is son of Sydney-based Joga, who had migrated from Rahimpur Kala Sanghian, a village near Jalandhar in Punjab, in 1997.Sangha, 19, has been in great form in the Big Bash League 10 regular season.Playing for Sydney Thunder, he scalped 21 wickets at an impressive average of 16.66.Former Australia captain Ricky Ponting had also called for Sangha's inclusion in the national side."He's a young bloke who looks like he's pretty confident and in control of what he's doing, and he bowls proper good balls so he might be someone they'd look to get into the system," Ponting told cricket.com.au"It's a hard one for young leg-spinners, because they come along quickly and everyone's excited by how good they might be, quite often they're introduced early and they can have a few setbacks after that. But they might have to think about that," he said.Sangha was Australia's leading wicket taker in the under-19 World Cup last year. He scalped 15 wickets in the six matches in the tournament held in South Africa.Before Tanveer, Gurinder Sandhu was the other Indian-origin player to have played for Australia national team.The five-match series between Australia and New Zealand will start from February 22. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-origin-taxi-drivers-son-makes-it-to-australia-t20i-team-details-inside-205092
29-01-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma to take ‘small break’ from ‘The Kapil Sharma Show’ because of ‘second baby’||Comedian Kapil Sharma has confirmed that he and his wife Ginni Chatrath are expecting their second child.While interacting with his fans during a question-answer session on Twitter, Kapil stated that he will take a “short break” from his comedy show, ‘The Kapil Sharma Show’, to focus on hia “second baby”.During the session, when a user asked Kapil Sharma: "Kya The Kapil Sharma Showband ho raha hai?" the comedian replied: "Only a small break."Only a small break https://t.co/GAbmq83OQf  After a few minutes, when another user asked: "Sir, show off air kyun kar rahe hain?" Kapil Sharma tweeted: "Because I need be there at home with my wife to welcome our second baby."Bcoz I need be there at home with my wife to welcome our second baby 😍🧿 https://t.co/wdy8Drv355  Kapil and Ginni welcomed their little daughter Anayra in December, 2019.Apart from this, the comedian also answered a lot of questions about his little munchkin.During the Q-A session, Kapil revealed that Anayra has started talking a little bit, and the first word she said was "mumma."I think papa 🙈 honestly it was mumma https://t.co/Mz7QFjO9B6  When a user asked: "What you want for Anayra...baby brother or sister?" he wrote: "Boy or girl, tandrust ho bus."boy or girl, tandrust ho bus 🙏 https://t.co/b29F51Bq0z  On a special request, Kapil also shared an unseen video of his daughter.Yeh lo ji 😍 Anayra is learning how to walk ❤️ https://t.co/cgGkAjiTgG pic.twitter.com/6oroONLfRl  Kapil married Ginni as per Hindu and Sikh traditions in Jalandhar in December, 2018. He announced the news of his daughter's arrival on social media with this tweet: "Blessed to have a baby girl. Need your blessings. Love you all. Jai mata di."Blessed to have a baby girl 🤗 need ur blessings 🙏 love u all ❤️ jai mata di 🙏||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-to-take-small-break-from-the-kapil-sharma-show-because-of-second-baby-205059
29-01-2021||New Delhi||Sukhbir Badal extends support to BKU leader Tikait||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday extended support to BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who, along with his supporters, is camping at Delhi-UP border near Ghazipur.Badal said the party extends full support to Tikait.He told Tikait that their fathers, Parkash Singh Badal and Mahendra Singh Tikait, have long upheld the cause of farmers.Thousands of protesting farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-extends-support-to-bku-leader-tikait-205057
29-01-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police keep watch on Khalistan-related Twitter accounts||The Delhi Police are keeping a watch on several Khalistan-related Twitter accounts following the violence during the farmers' rally on Republic Day.The police are identifying such accounts and the content uploaded on social media platforms. These accounts posted several provocative tweets and the police are investigating them."A criminal case has been registered and is being investigated under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and sections of IPC dealing with sedition. The role and conduct of organisations and individuals based in India, as well as those out of the country, is being probed. The investigation is in progress and further details will be communicated in due course," said Delhi Police Special Cell.The Special Cell has also lodged an FIR under UAPA and sections of IPC dealing with sedition to investigate the violence at Red Fort in Delhi on January 26.According to the Delhi Police, 33 FIRs have been registered so far in connection with the violent incidents that occurred during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-keep-watch-on-khalistan-related-twitter-accounts-205035
29-01-2021||New Delhi||Heavy police deployment at Tikri and Singhu borders||Delhi's border points at Tikri and Singhu remained under heavy police deployment on Friday in the aftermath of the violence that broke out during a tractor parade by farmers in the national capital on Republic Day, officials said.Personnel of Delhi Police, along with those of the paramilitary forces, have been deployed at the borders.Several roads have been closed and the traffic police have asked the commuters to take other routes."Ghazipur border closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is very heavy in the area & Vikas Marg. Plese take alternative routes."Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Saboli, Piau Maniyari borders closed. Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders opened. Please take alternative routes. Traffic diverted from NH44 near DSIDC Narela. Avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road & NH 44," the Delhi Traffic Police said in tweets.There was a traffic snarl on National Highway 24 on Thursday evening following the closure of the Ghazipur border.Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site.A confrontation was building up at the UP Gate in Ghazipur even as frequent power cuts were witnessed on Thursday evening at the protest site, where BKU members, led by Rakesh Tikait, are staying put since November 28 last year.Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani visited the protest site post midnight for a review of the situation even as hundreds of security personnel in anti-riot gear were deployed there since Thursday.The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the Red Fort.The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence.The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heavy-police-deployment-at-tikri-and-singhu-borders-205025
29-01-2021||---||Guru Nanak’s Bein(g)||On a mellow chilly wintry day the tree-laden banks of the Kali Bein, in the midst of the pandemic, are exceptionally calm and tranquil. Laughter from a lone bunch of tourists and an occasional whirl of a bike engine are the only sounds making inroads into silence and interrupting sweet crooning of the birds. The Bein flows gleefully – its characteristic dark waters canopied by the shadows of the sky-embracing trees swaying on the banks look like an abstract painting, limned by nature’s lily hands.The holy town of Sultanpur Lodhi could have lost it all almost 21 years ago. Thanks to the efforts undertaken by Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal who spearheaded the Kar Sewa movement that led to the cleaning up of the stream’s bed and himself waded shoulder-deep to uproot weeds, muck from the water hyacinth-ridden Bein. Eventually, water released from the Mukerian Hydel Project got the river running through the town. However, today there are some fresh threats such as modernisation, development and tourism on the horizon for the recently-revived Bein.The geographyOriginating from the natural springs at the Dhanoa village, the Kali Bein flows for 165 km ending at the confluence of the Beas and Sutlej rivers at the Harike Pattan. A historical well at its originating point has been neglected long due to a dispute over its ownership. Its deep springs and overflowing waters are now reduced to several feet of murky waters. However, the Bein has been kept alive by the Mukerian Hydel Channel. It is also the key source of water to the Kanjli Wetlands, a Ramsar site.Guru Nanak Dev’s first loveGuru Nanak Dev’s loved the rivulet for this is where he drank life’s nectar and attained enlightenment. It’s believed that he took a dip into the Kali Bein and emerged out three days later — enlightened. While the first Sikh Guru disappeared one morning near the beri at the site of the present-day Ber Sahib gurdwara, the spot where he stepped out, is now marked by the Sant Ghat gurdwara, built to commemorate the historic event. The mool mantar was also recited at the same site. This spot is now getting another addition – the Mool Mantar Sthan, a huge circular building which shall house a multimedia museum and a museum of Guru Nanak Dev.Doomsday nearing?The rampant colonisation of its previously untouched and pristine banks is stoking concerns. The kar sewa and subsequent Seechewal model of groundwater revival attracted a string of stalwarts such as former President APJ Abdul Kalam, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan and so on.On the 550th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev, lakhs of devotees took a dip. The occasion also marked several new projects, bridges, plantation and beautification work in the town and on the banks. In 2000, when Sant Seechewal started the clean-up task, the banks were totally concrete-free only surrounded by fields. But now, it is spotted with bustling markets, several colonies and gurdwaras and a bunch of new upcoming buildings on both sides.While beautification works did their part — ornamented banks, steps, stonewalls, earthen pot-lined fixtures, lamps, a museum and a plethora of plants and benches — some unwanted fixtures have also sprouted. There is a bustling market on one side with restaurants venting chimneys right into Bein’s face and residential colonies obscuring the pathways.Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal says: “The Bein is pristine and there is a need to reduce the carbon footprint around it. Rampant development will lead to further pollution in future. We have been raising issues about the construction of new buildings, sites and places but it goes on unabated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-nanaks-being-204997
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||To reclaim stir, unions go Gandhi way||Having been “sabotaged” briefly, farmer leaders have gone back to the Gandhian way to reclaim the movement from extremist elements.From suspending two farmer organisations, which allegedly connived with extremist groups, to sitting on hunger strike and holding ‘sadbhavna’ (goodwill) marches at Singhu, there is an attempt to dissociate the movement from the January 26 events in the national capital.‘Sadbhavna’ rally to show unityOn Thursday, members of the farmer organisations, holding the Tricolour and union flags, took out a “sadbhavna” rally at Singhu. Dr Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union, said there were some attempts at creating differences between members from Punjab and Haryana. “So we instantly planned this rally to tell our brothers from Haryana that we are united,” he said.During the rally, senior farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said they wanted to tell the countrymen the farmers were bigger nationalists than the BJP. “We have great respect for our national flag,” he said.The vehicles in the rally bore the national flag and photographs of Bhagat Singh as slogans of ‘Long live unity of Punjab and Haryana’ rent the air.Apart from the ‘sadbhavna’ march, the unions have announced a hunger strike on the martyrdom day of Mahatma Gandhi (January 30). “We want to tell people we were equally pained at the hooliganism that unfolded at the Red Fort on January 26,” said Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, vice-president of the Kirti Kisan Union.Sources say the unions have also acted tough against organisations that allegedly became part of the “sabotage” attempt allegedly perpetrated by Deep Sidhu, Lakha Sidhana, Students For Society and Democratic Students’ Organisation on January 26.The sources say the BKU (Krantikari) and BKU (Doaba) have been suspended from the platform of 32 farmer organisations. They have also been asked to give an explanation before a five-member committee, to be headed by Balbir Singh Rajewal, a senior farmer leader.Till their suspension is revoked, the organisations can neither attend any meeting nor can their speakers address fromthe forum stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-reclaim-stir-unions-go-gandhi-way-204656
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s charge baseless, Centre failed to tackle situation: Capt Amarinder||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit out at Union Minister Prakash Javadekar over his “disgraceful and desperate attempt” to shift the blame for the Red Fort violence, which had evidently been instigated by supporters and members of his own “Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in collusion with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), with the Congress nowhere in the picture”.“Workers and supporters of the BJP and AAP, and not the Congress, have been caught on camera waving the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort,” said the Chief Minister in a strong retaliation to Javadekar’s “unfounded” allegations against the Congress, and his own government in Punjab.Not a single Congress leader or member was seen at the Red Fort indulging in any kind of lawlessness, Capt Amarinder pointed out, adding that even farmers were not responsible for the January 26 trouble, which was in fact the doing of anti-social elements who had infiltrated the tractor rally. The Centre should get a free and fair probe conducted into the possible role of any political party, or even another country, as is being alleged by BJP’s own leaders, to ensure that the guilty were punished and the genuine farmers were not unnecessarily maligned or harassed, he added.The Chief Minister also lashed out at the Union Minister for accusing Rahul Gandhi of inciting the violence, asking, “Did the Congress leader ask anyone to climb the Red Fort? He did not. It was BJP and AAP men who did that,” he said, adding that Rahul had, in fact, promptly condemned the violence, and made it clear that violence was no solution to the crisis.“How can I stop peaceful farmers from going to their own national capital to exercise their democratic right of protest,” the Chief Minister further said, reacting to the Union Minister’s statement that the Punjab Government failed to stop farmers from joining the tractor rally.Meanwhile, terming the issuance of lookout notices against farm leaders as “absolutely wrong”, the Chief Minister said treating the farmers this way was not only illogical but condemnable. “Where will they flee?” he asked, pointing out that most of them were small farmers with small land holdings and not big corporate giants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-charge-baseless-centre-failed-to-tackle-situation-capt-amarinder-204657
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||False cases being filed to discredit farmers'  stir: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) condemned the “false” police cases registered against farmers over the actions taken by RSS and BJP agents to discredit the farmers’ movement at the Red Fort on January 26.In a statement, senior leader of the party and Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s nefarious moves in collaboration with the RSS, BJP and central agencies to put an end to the farmers’ movement had embarrassed the country worldwide.Cheema said by registering false cases against farmer leaders, who were not involved in the Red Fort incident, the police had proved that it was a political move. “The Delhi Police should have immediately arrested and prosecuted BJP agent Deep Sidhu, but it instead started defaming the peaceful agitators. Farmer leaders had been saying for a long time that Sidhu was a BJP agent and wanted to give a wrong colour to the movement,” Cheema said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/false-cases-being-filed-to-discredit-farmers-stir-aap-204658
29-01-2021||New Delhi||Leave path of confrontation, SAD urges BJP||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday accused the central government of being adamant in dealing with the protest of farmers. MPs Naresh Gujral, BS Bhunder and Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said at a press conference that the government was only trying to defame the agitation and not resolve the matter.“The government should resolve the issue amicably and leave the path of confrontation,” they said. “The contribution of the Sikh community is immense, but people from the sangh parivar are trying to defame the community,” they added. The party also condemned UAPA cases against farmer leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leave-path-of-confrontation-sad-urges-bjp-204659
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||High Court notice to Punjab on plea of Dappar toll plaza firm||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the Punjab Government and the state DGP on a plea filed by the concessionaire of the Dappar toll plaza against the obstruction of their operations by protesting farmers.Taking up the petition filed by GMR Ambala Chandigarh Expressways Pvt Ltd through counsel Atul Sharma and Nitin Thatai, a Division Bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Archana Puri also fixed February 24 as the next date of hearing in the matter.The petitioner-company was seeking directions for restoring law and order in and around the toll plaza and provision of security to the company employees there.Directions were also sought to remove obstruction or interference by unauthorised persons in the legitimate business activities of the company and to ensure maintenance of a safe and secure environment for collection of toll in accordance with the agreement.The petitioner-company was awarded the contract for improvement, operation, maintenance and widening of the existing two-lane to four-lane dual carriageways on the Ambala-Chandigarh section of the National Highway No. 22 in Haryana and Punjab on build, operate and transfer basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-notice-to-punjab-on-plea-of-dappar-toll-plaza-firm-204660
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lakha Sidhana back on cops’ most-wanted list||Once a popular kabaddi player, Lakha Sidhana has donned several roles before emerging as one of the two most-wanted persons over the Republic Day violence in New Delhi along with actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu.By doing social work, the 36-year-old from Bathinda had been trying to erase his image of being a gangster and point-man of some politicians. Seeking prominence for Punjabi language, he had blackened English and Hindi names on the signboards. He had insisted the names should be written in Punjabi on top of the boards.(Deep Sidhu says Red Fort events now look like a police trap; will join investigation)Now, he is again a fugitive. The Delhi Police have booked him for inciting and leading the mob that hoisted a religious flag on the Red Fort. In a social media post, Lakha denied the charges saying he was on Outer Ring Road when the alleged incident took place.According to his close aides, Lakha belongs to Sidhana village in Bathinda. He was a successful kabaddi player.In college days, he got involved in brawls. He became close to an Akali politician and was allegedly involved in attacks on rival politicians besides incidents of land-grabbing. Later, Lakha claimed he was used and dumped by the politician. As per police records, he formed a gang and was accused of killing a rival gangster, Goldy. He was also booked for land grab, violence and attempt to murder.In 2012, Sidhana survived a murderous attack and suffered three bullet injuries. Later, he contested the election as a candidate of the People’s Party of Punjab led by Manpreet Singh Badal, who later joined the Congress and is presently Punjab’s Finance Minister.Lakha had taken to social work in the past two years and helped the poor and needy. He also funded weddings of poor girls. Sidhana could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakha-sidhana-back-on-cops-most-wanted-list-204661
29-01-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers head home for breather||“4-5 bande tan vyah vich vi khapp paa jande. Ehda matlab aah thori vyah hi nahi karna (A wedding cannot be called off just because of a few miscreants),” says Jaswinder Singh from Hoshiarpur, who took a huge double-decker trolley to the Singhu border on January 26 to back the march. Back home following a death in the family, Jaswinder says he will head back tothe Singhu border soon.A number of other farmers have also returned for a breather after the January 26 march. After spending a long time at the Singhu border, Surinder Singh Khalsa, a resident of Kahjurla village in Phagwara, who is preparing to head home in a couple of days, says, “Farmers are returning due to violence is a false narrative. They were bound to return after the tractor march. Lakhs of them went especially for it. Now, they will take a break and go back again. Those who are holding permanent langars are staying at the border. Only those, who went specially on January 26, are coming back. There is usual hustle and bustle at the border.”He adds, “It is true that the farmers received a setback. We don’t know the people in the videos. Our farmers at the morcha will never beat the police this way. The police have helped us here, so we always backed them. The violence is a flawed picture being propagated to discredit the protests. The R-Day march might have failed, but the morcha has not. We have to go home for a day to return one of the vehicles we brought for the march. We will come back after that.”Jaswinder says, “Around 50 persons had gone from our house, and for three days, our trolley gave shelter to 300 persons. We spent Rs 1,15,000 on trolleys. People were keen to showcase the tractors, but something totally different transpired. We believe it’s a government conspiracy. The Delhi road was opened, while others were closed to misdirect the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-head-home-for-breather-204662
29-01-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar villagers condemn violence||Ordinary farmers in villages are condemning the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day and termed it an insult to the nation. They are even saying that the misdeed of some persons has jeopardised the ongoing peaceful protest.Amardeep Singh of Bidowali village here said, “The farmer agitation has got a major setback due to the violence on Republic Day. It may have been a game plan of government agencies to create an ugly scene, but the protesting farmers are now on the back foot. Further, a number of farmers have returned from the Delhi borders as well.”Similarly, Manga Singh, sarpanch of Udekaran village, which is the native village of actor Deep Sidhu, said, “Everyone in the village is discussing Deep Sidhu’s act on Republic Day. He has failed the farmers’ protest, which was progressing smoothly. The act of hoisting the flag at the Red Fort is unfortunate and highly condemnable.”Harbhajan Singh, an elderly farmer from Muktsar, said, “The agitation is losing sympathy of non-farming people. Earlier, every community was supporting the protest. I wish the situation improves in the coming days.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-villagers-condemn-violence-204663
29-01-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||3 tractor rallies held in Abohar||To express solidarity with the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha that announced to continue the peaceful protest at the Delhi borders, three tractor rallies were organised in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh in which hundreds of farmers participated.Farmers who have been staging a dharna at the Dabli toll barrier for the past more than a week organised a tractor rally that passed through rural areas. Another rally was taken out by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti. A memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind was submitted to Subdivisional Magistrate Kapil Yadav at Hanumangarh. Senior leaders said the three laws were imposed in an undemocratic manner by the Centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-tractor-rallies-held-in-abohar-204664
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||FPOs show the way to increase farm income||For long, farm experts in Punjab have been talking about the need for collectivisation in agriculture. Now, groups of farmers, who have formed Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs), are showing the way in increasing farm income and cutting input costs to make agriculture more remunerative.Cutting input costsThough most of the FPOs started in the beginning of the last decade, it is now that these are achieving new levels of financial growth. This is helping them become models of future agriculture, especially as the members of the FPOs are small and marginal farmers. This has been proved by two FPOs — one based in Ropar and the other in Amritsar — which were rewarded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) on Thursday. In less than 10 years, the FPOs have clocked an annual turnover of around Rs 2 crore. The FPOs have also got licence of commission agents and a substantial portion of the commission is returned to farmer members who sell their produce through the organisation.Talking to The Tribune, Didar Singh, president of Rupnagar Producer Company, which won the prize for being the best FPO in the state, said their FPO clocked a turnover of over Rs 2.50 crore last year. Started with just 10 members in 2013, the FPO now boasts of 330 members in 27 villages of Ropar. The FPO, supported by the Gujarat Ambuja Foundation, has set up a farm machinery bank. It collectively buys all farm inputs to reduce cost, makes biomass and also has a licence of a commission agent.“We let all our members use machines from the machinery bank at almost 35 per cent less charges than the market rates. We sell the biomass produced in our plant to Gujarat Ambuja. This year, the farmers who sold their paddy through the FPO got an additional Rs 15 per quintal as commission,” he said. Similarly, Jagriti FPO, from Ajnala in Amritsar, too, has seen an annual turnover of Rs 1.50 crore. Balwinder Singh and Ravinder Singh, from the FPO, said by forming a company, they had been able to promote natural farming of pulses, turmeric and cane, besides substantially cutting down on input costs. “We are grading and then selling pulses at much higher rates than we would sell earlier through the commission agents. Moreover, 30 per cent of the commission the FPO earns for selling the produce, is given back to the farmers who sell through the FPO. This year, we even paid higher prices for the basmati,” they said.Economist Satish Verma from the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), who has done an extensive research on the growth of FPOs in Punjab, said it was only in cases where corporate hand-holding was there, the FPOs were maximising profits. “As of now, NABARD provides hand-holding for just three years. This is insufficient time for the FPOs to grow, and this should be increased to five to seven years,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fpos-show-the-way-to-increase-farm-income-204665
29-01-2021||Patiala||PSPCL saves Rs 300 cr using domestic coal||Sufficient domestic coal availability due to the pandemic this year and the Centre’s import substitution policy have come as a blessing for the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The PSPCL will save around Rs 300 crore this year, as the Coal India Ltd (CIL) allocated higher quantities of domestic coal to two private plants in the state.26 lakh tonnes allocatedThis has helped the PSPCL reduce the cost of power production. Soon after the policy was enforced, the two private thermal power plants in Punjab managed to get around 26 lakh tonnes of coal allocated from various subsidiaries of the CIL. “As a result, the variable cost of energy from the Nabha Power Ltd has come to Rs 2.98 per unit and from the Talwandi Sabo Power Plant at Rs 3.61 per unit,” said officials.Experts suggested that there was a structural deficit in the allocation of coal for the thermal power plants in the state. The coal allocated under the fuel supply agreement to the plants was not enough to sustain full operations. Due to this, in past, the two private thermal plants were constrained to import coal to meet the shortfall.Documents revealed that the Nabha Power Ltd (NPL), which operates the Rajpura Thermal Power Plant, has already lifted 14 lakh tonnes of the 16 lakh tonnes of coal allocated from various subsidiaries of the CIL. The Talwandi Sabo Thermal Power Plant (TSPL) is expected to replace 10.5 lakh tonnes of imported coal with the domestic supply till March 2021.“This helped the PSPCL cut down the fuel cost and is likely to save Rs 180 crore from the NPL and Rs 120 crore from the TSPL. The cost of power from the NPL went down by 23 paisa per unit, and from Talwandi Sabo, it slipped by 14 paisa per unit as compared to the previous year,” a senior PSPCL official said. “However, it is yet to be seen whether these accrued savings in the energy charges shall be passed on to the consumers during the next year’s tariff revision,” said the experts. PSPCL insiders said the corporation had to face huge losses in revenue during the lockdown period.Due to the lockdown, the PSPCL recorded a significant fall in the energy sales which went down by around 1,600 million units (MUs) as compared to the previous year. In 2019-20, the PSPCL had sold 36,917 MUs, generating a revenue of Rs 31,809 crore. “During this fiscal, it is being projected that the power utility will sell around 35,300 MUs and the annual revenue will remain around Rs 31,550 crore by the end of March 2021,” said officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-saves-rs-300-cr-using-domestic-coal-204666
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||2nd shooter nabbed in Balwinder case||The Punjab Police have arrested the second shooter, Inderjeet Singh, involved in the killing of Balwinder Singh on October 16 last year.The suspect was nabbed from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, hours before he was scheduled to board a flight to Dubai. Inderjeet, along with Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa, had shot Balwinder Singh at his residence-cum-school in Bhikhiwind, Tarn Taran.According to DGP Dinkar Gupta, Gurjit Singh had been arrested by the Delhi Police on December 7, along with associate Sukhjeet Singh, alias Bura. Gupta said while Gurjit and Inderjeet Singh carried out the shooting, Sukhjeet was present near the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-shooter-nabbed-in-balwinder-case-204667
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan police firing: Sumedh Saini moves High Court for quashing chargesheet||Punjab’s former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking — among other things — the quashing of chargesheet dated January 15 in connection with the Behbal Kalan police firing incident in which two protesters were killed on October 14, 2015.The special investigating team had nominated Saini as an accused in the matter.Bid to sabotage probe: Behbal victim’s kinBathinda: The family of a Behbal Kalan firing case victim has alleged the accused are trying to sabotage the probe by seeking ouster of IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh from the case. Addressing a press conference, the family members urged the state government to ensure the IGP continued with the probe so that they could get justice. TNSAs Saini’s petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents came up for preliminary hearing before the Bench of Justice Meenakshi I Mehta, senior counsel APS Deol and Himmat Singh Deol on his behalf contended similar relief had been sought in two connected writ petitions filed by Gurdeep Singh and Param Raj Singh Umaranangal.The matters had been ordered by the Chief Justice to be listed before the Bench of Justice Girish Agnihotri vide order dated January 5. The cases were to come up for hearing on February 1. As such, the present matter was required to be listed along with the two writ petitions.Taking a note of the plea, Justice Mehta directed that the listing of the present matter with the other two petitions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-police-firing-sumedh-saini-moves-high-court-for-quashing-chargesheet-204675
29-01-2021||Our CorrespondentFazilka||High Court dismisses BJP leaders’ plea to quash notification||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed a petition filed by BJP leaders demanding quashing of impugned notification of March 9, 2020, vide which alleged illegal, haywire and inconsistent delimitation of Fazilka wards had been notified by the state authorities.Delimitation of wardsThree BJP leaders had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on January 21, pleading that the “illegal and inconsistent delimitation” of the Fazilka wards violated the Punjab State Municipal Council Elections Rules.The HC, after listening to the arguments of counsels of both petitioners and respondents, refused to accept the plea.AAP names 223 more candidatesChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday announced another list of 223 candidates for the forthcoming municipal corporation, municipal committee and nagar panchayat elections. The SAD also released the second list of candidates carrying 10 names. TNSThree BJP leaders, including Rakesh Dhuria, former president of the Fazilka MC; Manoj Tripathi, president of the Fazilka BJP unit; and Ramesh Verma, former chairman of the Improvement Trust, had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on January 21, pleading that the delimitation of the wards violated the Punjab State Municipal Council Elections Rules, hence should be dismissed.Bathinda ex-mayor opts out of pollsBathinda: In a jolt to the SAD, former mayor of the Bathinda Municipal Corporation Balwant Rai Nath has refused contesting the upcoming civic elections. He was fielded to contest in the upcoming MC elections from ward no.18. Talking to The Tribune, Nath said, “It is a personal decision.” TNSThey had alleged that instead of making equal distribution of votes in all 25 wards, disproportionate votes had figured in various wards during the delimitation process to allegedly benefit some Congress aspirants.Besides, the petitioners had expressed surprise that in wards no.3 and 20, voters shown in the electoral list exceeded the total population of wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-dismisses-bjp-leaders-plea-to-quash-notification-204701
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||WB housewife wins Rs 2.5-cr Lohri bumper||A housewife from West Bengal has won the first prize of Rs 2.50 crore in this year’s Punjab State Dear New Year Lohri Bumper.Sangita Choubey (48), a resident of Asansol, said she had never dreamt of winning such a hefty prize money. Her father-in-law had been buying lottery tickets all his life but couldn’t win big. He insisted she should try her luck.“Lady luck smiled on our family,” said Sangita, who teaches clay modelling and drawing to kids in her spare time. After submitting the ticket and required documents to the State Lotteries Department in Chandigarh today for the prize money, Sangita said her husband worked in the private sector and they had a daughter and two sons. “The money would help tide over our financial problems and allow our children to settle down in their lives,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wb-housewife-wins-rs-2-5-cr-lohri-bumper-204702
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||Include Punjabi as official language in J&K: Punjab CM to PM||Citing Punjab’s historical links with Jammu & Kashmir since Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s time, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention for the inclusion of Punjabi in the official list of languages of the UT of J&K.In a letter to the PM, Captain Amarinder urged him to advise the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to reconsider and review the official list in this regard.Voicing the resentment of the Punjabi community over the exclusion of Punjabi from the list, Captain Amarinder pointed out that Jammu & Kashmir was a part of Punjab during the era of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, with Punjabi being one of the vernacular languages of the region. When J&K came into existence as an independent state, Punjabi was a widely spoken language there and is now the mother tongue of all Punjabis in the Jammu region, besides being spoken by the Punjabi community living in the Kashmir valley, he wrote. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/include-punjabi-as-official-language-in-jk-punjab-cm-to-pm-204709
29-01-2021||Sangrur||Jobless teachers to hold state-level protest in Sangrur||Members of five unemployed unions, under the banner of the Joint Front of Unemployed, have announced to organise a state-level protest at Sangrur on January 31. They have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of the local residence of Cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla from December 31.“We have been protesting and demanding government jobs,” said Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president, TET and BEd-Pass Union. Protesters comprise members from TET and BEd-Pass Union, All Punjab 873 DPE Teachers’ Union among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-to-hold-state-level-protest-in-sangrur-204718
29-01-2021||Chandigarh||2nd extension for Gupta as planning board vice-chief||32K intoxicating tablets seized, two arrestedAbohar/Sriganganagar: The police intercepted a motorcycle, near Sadhuwali village, on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway on Wednesday and seized 27,000 intoxicating tablets. Lakhbir Singh of Bhagsar village and Rajesh Makkar were held under the NDPS Act. ocTwo bikers killed in mishapsAbohar: Two motorcyclists were killed near Abohar in different accidents on Thursday.The deceased have been identified as Gursewak Singh of Chhapianwali village and Sukhdev Singh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2nd-extension-for-gupta-as-planning-board-vice-chief-204740
29-01-2021||New Delhi||MHA asks police to issue look-out notices against farmer leaders named in FIRs||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked Delhi Police to issue lookout notices against the farmer leaders who have been named in the multiple FIRs the police have registered in connection with the violence during tractor rally on January 26.A decision in this regard was taken after a high-level meeting in the MHA, where it was decided to direct Delhi Police to ask the accused farmer leaders to submit their passports, sources said.Showcause notices have also been served on the farmer leaders in which they have been asked to explain as to why action should not be taken against them when they have breached the agreement with Delhi Police for granting permission to hold the rally, sources said, adding that they had been told to respond within three days.Sources said the police had been asked to serve notices on all 37 farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav, Baldev Singh Sirsa, Darshan Pal, Rakesh Tikait, Medha Patkar and others, who had been named in the FIRs.Meanwhile, names of Punjabi actor-singer Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana have been added to the FIR, which was registered in connection with the violence that took place at Red Fort, police said.In this case, the police have registered a case at Kotwali police station of North district under various sections of the IPC, including the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and others, they said, adding that even the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and the Arms Act had been invoked.‘Absolutely wrong’, says Punjab CM on issuance of lookout notices against farmer leadersTerming the issuance of lookout notices against farmer leaders as “absolutely wrong”, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said treating the farmers as a flight risk was not only illogical but condemnable.“Where will they flee?” asked the chief minister, pointing out that most of them were small farmers with small land holdings and not big corporate raiders like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi and Mehul Coksi, who had fled over the past few years after looting the country of billions of rupees.“You failed to stop these bigwigs but are now targetting these small farmers fighting for their survival,” said Capt Amarinder, urging the Centre to immediately direct the Delhi Police to withdraw the lookout notices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mha-asks-police-to-issue-look-out-notices-against-farmer-leaders-named-in-firs-204526
29-01-2021||New Delhi||Deep Sidhu, Lakha Sidhana booked for Red Fort violence||The names of Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and gangster Lakka Sadana have also been included in an FIR registered in connection with the violence at Red Fort in Delhi on January 26, Delhi Police said on Wednesday while adding that Sidhu was involved in the incident.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Chinmoy Biswal on Wednesday wrote to the organiser of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, Darshan Pal, urging him to answer why action should not be taken against him and his allies for breaking an agreement regarding the protest routes on Republic Day.The reply has been sought within the next three days.Nineteen people have so far been arrested and over 25 criminal cases registered by Delhi Police in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor march on Tuesday, Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava said on Wednesday. — ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhu-lakha-sidhana-booked-for-red-fort-violence-204493
