31-01-2021||Bathinda||Maur Bomb Blast: 4 years on, victims’ families still await justice||It’s been four years since six people, three children among them, were killed in an explosion outside Congress rally at Maur Mandi in Bathinda. But, for the families who lost their loved ones in that car explosion on January 31, 2017, grief mingles with anger—anger at the perpetrators, but also anger at the tardiness of the country’s justice system.The families held a bhog on Sunday, the day that marks four years since the event. Police have yet to arrest three people suspected to have been involved in the case. “The state government, the district administration, and the police are dragging their feet on the case. The blast occurred at the end of the Congress rally, but the party leaders forgot the victims’ families. The blast was forgotten as soon as the elections were over,” a member of the Maur Bomb Blast Virodhi Sangharsh committee member said. The committee has been part of the families' struggle for justice.Among the dashed hopes lies the promise of jobs for the families affected by the explosion—Maur Bomb Blast Virodhi Sangharsh Committee members Naveen Singla, Mela Singh, Devraj, and Sushil Kumar Garg claim the state government had promised a government job to one member of each family, but nothing ever came of it. As for compensation, the government paid the wounded Rs 50,000—a sum they say was inadequate to cover the cost of treatment.A SIT-team that DIG Harjit Singh Kehra headed claimed two people had driven the explosive-laden car, which had been wrecked by blast, from Sirsa. An unexploded pressure cooker was also found at the blast site. Investigators later claimed they found a possible link of the blast with Dera Sacha Sauda—they named three suspects, Gurtej Singh Kala, who was allegedly in charge of the workshop with the explosives were fitted into the car, Amrik Singh, a security guard from Sangrur for the Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, and Avtar Singh, an electrician originally from Kurukshetra who allegedly helped fix the batteries used in the bomb.Critics meanwhile claimed that investigations came to a complete standstill since a possible link with Dera came up.In May 2018, a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked for the investigations to be handed over to the National Investigating Agency (NIA) or the Central Bureau of Investigation.In October 2019, Punjab and Haryana High Court asked the state police to institute a new SIT for the investigations.  The new team headed by ADGP Ishwar Singh began investigating Dera’s alleged role in the incident.SIT later named the three suspects in a chargesheet submitted at a court in Talwandi Sabo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maur-bomb-blast-4-years-on-victims-families-still-await-justice-205993
31-01-2021||New Delhi||Sukhbir Badal visits Ghazipur, lends support to protest||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, whose party pulled out of the ruling NDA over the contentious farm laws, on Sunday visited the Ghazipur area near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border to lend his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Prior to Badal’s arrival, Bharat Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait announced that no politician will be given the microphone to speak on the main stage, claiming that he has received a notice for allowing political leaders to take up the stage and address protesters in the last few days.Badal met Tikait for ten minutes near the protest site, and assured support to the protesting farmers.The Akali Dal, a long standing ally of the BJP, pulled out of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in September last year over the farm Bills, terming them ‘black laws’ and demanding their immediate withdrawal.Besides Badal, prominent Punjabi singers Harf Cheema and Kanwar Grewal also joined the protest to lend their support.The agitation has entered the 67th day at the second-biggest protest site. The farmers, bearing the Indian flag, could be seen raising slogans of ‘jai kisan, jai jawan’ in the area. The crowd has also swelled up.Various preventive measures have been put in place by the police and administration at the site, including suspension of internet, increased deployment of personnel and strict vigilance.Speaking to IANS earlier on Sunday, Tikait asserted: “We will not compromise under pressure. Once our farmer brothers are released and things are streamlined, we will talk to the government.”—IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-visits-ghazipur-lends-support-to-protest-205990
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rain deficient in Punjab, Himachal during January; surplus in Haryana||Rainfall in the first month of this decade has been significantly below normal in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, though Haryana experienced surplus rain during this period.Punjab received 11 mm rain from January 1 to January 30 against the long period average of 19.8 mm, accounting for a deficiency of 45 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Though the districts lying alongside the state’s western border received normal to excess rain, other parts of the state recieved below par rainfall. Tarn Taran was the wettest district during this period with an excess of 89 per cent while Faridkot was the worst hit with a deficiency of 92 per cent.In the hill state of Himachal Pradesh, the deficiency was 56 per cent, IMD data shows that the state received 37.6 mm rain against the long period average of 86.4 mm. The rain was below normal in all districts in the state during this month, with the deficiency being highest in Mandi.The rain was surplus by 59 per cent in Haryana during January. IMD recorded 21.3 mm rain against the long period average of 13.4 mm. Barring four districts, Fatehabad, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula, all other districts received normal to above normal rain.The weather department has predicted that under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, light isolated rain or snow is very likely over the Western Himalayan region during February 1-3.Subsequently, due to the absence of any active western disturbance, below-normal rain or snow is likely over northern parts of the country, including the Western Himalayan region, till February 10.According to IMD, minimum temperatures are prevailing in the range of two degrees Celsius to 10 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest and adjoining areas, which are generally below normal.Considering the prevailing wind pattern at lower levels, no significant change in minimum temperatures is very likely these parts during the next 3-4 days but will rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter. Dense to very dense fog will also be experienced in several parts of Punjab and Haryana over the new few days and foggy conditions would reduce thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-deficient-in-punjab-himachal-during-january-surplus-in-haryana-205952
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave continues to sweep Punjab, Haryana||Freezing cold conditions continued to persist in Punjab and Haryana on Sunday with minimum temperatures hovering close to zero degree Celsius at Bathinda, Halwara and Sirsa.Bathinda in Punjab recorded a low of 0.6 degrees Celsius while Halwara reeled at a low of 0.7 degrees Celsius, meteorological department officials said here.A piercing cold swept Sirsa in Haryana, which recorded a low of 0.8 degrees Celsius.Cold wave conditions continued unabated in most other places in the two states with minimum temperatures settling well below normal limits.Narnaul and Karnal in Haryana reeled under severe cold conditions, recording a low of 2.4 degrees Celsius and 2.7 degrees Celsius respectively.Rohtak (three degrees Celsius), Hisar (3.4 degrees Celsius), Ambala (4.4 degrees Celsius) and Bhiwani (5.1 degrees Celsius) also experienced a cold night.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of four degrees Celsius.Adampur in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 1.3 degrees Celsius, Faridkot 2.9 degrees Celsius, Amritsar 3.2 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 3.5 degrees Celsius, Patiala 4.5 degrees Celsius and Pathankot 4.6 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-wave-continues-to-sweep-punjab-haryana-205946
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest: Punjab CM calls all-party meet on Tuesday||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has called an all-party meeting on Tuesday to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of the farm laws and the farmers’ agitation in the light of the recent developments in Delhi.The meeting will be held at 11 a.m. at Punjab Bhawan, an official spokesperson announced.“The meeting will discuss the situation arising out of the recent developments in the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi, especially given the R-day violence, the Singhu border attack on farmers, and the massive vilification campaign against them,” according to a press release.Urging all parties to join the meeting in a spirit of unity, in support of the farmers and the interest of Punjab, the Chief Minister said the crisis triggered by the Farm Laws was a matter of concern for the entire state and its people. Only through collective efforts of all Punjabis, and all the political parties of the state, can the crisis be tackled effectively and the farmers’ interests be protected, he added.“Our farmers are dying out there at the Delhi borders for more than 2 months now. They are being beaten by the police and assaulted by goons. They are being harassed by being deprived of basic amenities,” the Chief Minister pointed out, adding that with a large number of farmers from Punjab at the receiving end of this battering, it was imperative for all parties to come together to evolve a cohesive strategy on the issue.The Chief Minister hoped that all political parties in Punjab, which is the worst affected by the prevailing crisis, will put aside their differences to find a solution to the problem, “which touches every Punjabi”.“This is not the time to stand on ego but to come together to save our state and our people,” he stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-punjab-cm-calls-all-party-meet-on-tuesday-205931
31-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: Mahapanchayats to be held at Bijnor, Jind||After the mahapanchayat in Baraut in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district, two more mahapanchayat’s are planned in UP’s Bijnor and Haryana’s Jind districts to mobilise support for the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws. While the Bijnor mahapanchayat has been scheduled for February 1, the one at Jind will be held on February 3, BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said on Sunday.Meanwhile, as numbers swell at Ghazipur, where BKU leader Rakesh Tikait is camping, women from as far as Shamli are bringing water for him, Malik said.After the mahapanchayat in the Baghpat district on Sunday, which will also be attended by BKU leader Naresh Tikait (the brother of Rakesh Tikait), more farmers are expected to head towards Ghazipur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-mahapanchayats-to-be-held-at-bijnor-jind-205899
31-01-2021||---||Villages in three dists resolve to dispatch more protesters||Bathinda/Patiala, January 30In a bid to revive the protest against the central farm laws, many village panchayats in Bathinda, Mansa and Patiala districts held meetings to mobilise support and send villagers to join Delhi protesters.Exhorting the youth to remain peaceful, the panchayats asked everyone to strengthen the protest and go to Delhi as it was about saving their land. A panchayat at Kotbhaktu village in Bathinda has taken a decision that any family that doesn’t send a member to the protest site would face social boycott.Around a dozen villages in Bathinda and Mansa today passed a unanimous resolution that one member per family will go to the protest on rotation, else it will have to pay a fine. Panchayats in Phul, Phooli, Kotbhaktu, Kararwala, Ghuman Kalan, Jattana Khurd, Khiala and others also passed a resolution in support of the agitation.Sukhwinder Kaur, sarpanch, Kotbhaktu village, said: “Today we organised a meeting of villagers. It has been decided to send one member per house to the protest site on rotation. Anyone not adhering to the decision will be fined Rs 300 daily. If even after one week, the family doesn’t send any member, it would face social boycott.” Similar resolution was passed by panchayats of Wazidpur, Saini Majra and Ghumana villages in Patiala.PM’s effigy burntFarmers belonging to the BKU (Ugrahan) burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and corporates, and raised slogans against the Union Government in Mansa district. They said they would keep sending groups of farmers to Delhi borders.Flag march in FazilkaFarmers took out a motorcycle ‘flag march’, under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Sidhupura), in several villages to exhort people to reach Delhi borders. BKU activists appealed to the farmers to boycott BJP leaders in Fazilka villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/villages-in-three-dists-resolve-to-dispatch-more-protesters-205619
31-01-2021||---||Farmers returning to Singhu, Ghazipur borders in droves||Jalandhar, January 30Scores of farmers from Punjab are heading back to the Ghazipur and Singhu borders after having returned home from the tractor parade.Amarjot Singh, youth wing president (Jalandhar), BKU (Rajewal), and Kulwinder Singh Machiana, its general secretary, were at Singhu a few days ago. After holding meetings with farmers here and dispelling rumours, they plan to go back soon. A ‘jatha’ of youths from Thatha Purana village in Sultanpur Lodhi headed out to Singhu amid reports of a police build-up at Ghazipur.“Youths from Sarhali, Jandiala, Nakodar and other blocks are preparing to return to protest sites. Some have already started going back, others will go in a couple of days. The attempt to evict BKU leader Rakesh Tikait forcibly has angered farmers,” said Amarjot.Machiana, who was holding the stage of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha a few days ago, said, “Some of us have been deputed to dispel fake news about the agitation. Any attempt to disrupt our honest stir will fail. We are going village to village to speak to farmers about the real situation and will head back to Delhi borders on February 1. All those who came back will return.”From Thatta Purana in Sultanpur Lodhi, an 11-member jatha headed to Singhu on Thursday. Surinderjit Singh, a village resident, said, “In view of the rumours being spread about the tractor parade, it is important we head back to Singhu.”Dr Baljit Singh, national president of the Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Party floated by farmers youths, said, “Over 15 to 20 trailers left for Delhi borders from Patiala a few days ago. Everyone is keen to return to the protest site. There is anger among people for the way farmers have been blamed for the Red Fort incident. Everyone wants to head back and lend support to the movement.”At least 50 tractor-trailers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee left for Singhu today.“After we saw at Singhu last night, many of us couldn’t sleep. Leaders called us to come soon as they need people there. We are going to strengthen the movement,” say villagers.Ex-servicemen on faST in GidderbahaMuktsar: Former servicemen on Saturday observed a hunger strike in Gidderbaha in protest against the police action on farmers in Delhi. Kirpal Singh, president, ex-servicemen cell, Gidderbaha unit, said, “We have observed a hunger strike today against the lathicharge on farmers in Delhi.” Meanwhile, some advocates also lent support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-returning-to-singhu-ghazipur-borders-in-droves-205620
31-01-2021||Amritsar||SGPC: Refrain from smear campaign against Sikhs||SGPC chief Jagir Kaur has warned the Centre against using the “stray incident” of hoisting Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort to smear the Sikh community as it may lead to communal disharmony.After distributing scholarships worth Rs 1.31 crore among 2,636 Amritdhari students today, she said Nishan Sahib had been part of the Republic Day parade in the past and it was the same community that took on marauding invaders holding the Nishan Sahib.Urging the Centre to accept the farmers’ demand, she accused it of creating trouble to disturb communal harmony to end the stir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-refrain-from-smear-campaign-against-sikhs-205621
31-01-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur youths embark on march to Delhi||With the agitation at Delhi borders once again gathering steam, a group of youngsters embarked on a march to the national capital on Saturday from Ghodenab village here.“We have covered around 45 km. We could have also gone in vehicles like others, but we have decided to walk to mobilise maximum support for the protest,” said Balwinder Singh, a graduate who runs a photography shop.Others in the group include Yadvir Singh, Amritpal Singh, Kulvir Singh, Gurdip Singh and Harpal Singh.In the morning, residents of Ghodenab gathered at Gurdwara Sahib and did an ardas for the success of their protest. Meanwhile, farmers organised ‘Chetna’ march in various villages. Members of the Zameen Prapati Sangharsh Committee sat on a hunger strike in support of farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-youths-embark-on-march-to-delhi-205622
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s Army barb reprehensible: CM||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today hit out at BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh over his “Army background” remark and called it reprehensible.“What does the BJP know of Army honour or the grace of the national flag, in which the bodies of our Punjabi brothers come wrapped from the borders every second day?” he said.Chugh had claimed the CM was insulting his Army background and the grace of Republic Day by supporting farmers over the Red Fort incident. “We in Punjab know the pain of seeing bodies of our sons and brothers, wrapped in the national flag, come home every second day,” he said, adding the BJP had no empathy towards soldiers losing their lives to protect India’s integrity.What does it know of Tricolour grace?What does the BJP know of Army honour or the grace of the national flag, in which the bodies of our Punjabi brothers come wrapped from the borders every second day? —Capt Amarinder Singh, CMNeither Chugh nor his party could relate to the anguish of those soldiers on seeing their farmer-fathers and brothers being beaten up and teargassed while fighting for their rights, said the CM, while accusing Chugh of spreading lies. He said the BJP, which had ripped the constitutional fabric apart over the past six years had lost all moral and ethical right to talk of the honour of the R-Day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjps-army-barb-reprehensible-cm-205623
31-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Family worried as no info on youth held for Singhu violence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 30“Mere putt nu ghar bhej den, meri ehi hath jor ke benti hai,” Sarabjit Kaur weeps uncontrollably as she remembers the last glimpses she caught of her 22-year-old son.With his mother eager to hold an akhand path at the village gurdwara, Ranjit Singh had asked her to wait until he returned from the Singhu morcha. However, the images on the social media of police assault on the 22-year-old left the family in shock.Ranjit is among the youths accused of attacking the police during the Singhu border violence. His family vehemently denies the charge. “He is a very good natured boy. He can’t beat anyone. I just request the government to send my son back,” says Sarabjit Kaur.Cops not responding Ranjit didn’t beat up anyone. We called the police last night but no one responded. Today some youths went to the local police station but they said he would be produced in court. We haven’t seen him yet. —Jasbir Singh Piddi, KMSC vice-presidentHailing from Kajampur village in Nawanshahr, Ranjit’s video grabs of being beaten with lathis and picked up — seemingly unconscious — went viral on internet. Ranjit’s family still hasn’t heard from the Delhi police. Since yesterday, frantic calls have been made to the police and some members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, who also checked with the local police – but there is no information about Ranjit’s whereabouts.Satnam Singh, a resident of Jalwaha village in Nawanshahr and neighbour of Ranjit’s family, says, “Hooligans have beaten up Ranjit because he stood in the way of the ladies’ tents they were going to uproot. These people weren’t locals. He is a very religious, Amritdhari Gursikh who does path twice a day in the local gurdwara. False charges have been slapped on him for no fault of his. He wielded his sword which is part of his Gursikh attire but he did not injure or attack anyone.”Jasbir Singh Piddi, vice-president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said: “Ranjit didn’t beat up anyone. We called police last night but no one picked. Today some youths went to the local police station but they said he would be produced in court. We haven’t seen him yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/family-worried-as-no-info-on-youth-held-for-singhu-violence-205624
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Give security to farmers: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has asked the state government to provide police security to farmers who were allegedly facing the heat of the dictatorial Narendra Modi-led BJP government.AAP Punjab unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha alleged miscreants backed by the BJP had threatened and attacked farmers with sticks at Ghazipur border and yesterday too, BJP-RSS goons, including several local BJP leaders, attacked and pelted stones on farmers who had been protesting peacefully from over two months at Singhu border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-security-to-farmers-aap-205625
31-01-2021||Moga||Moga youth in police custody||Even as 12 farmers from Tatarie Wala village in Moga district have been reported missing following the January 26 tractor march in Delhi, another youth, Sukhpreet Singh, of Badduwal village is learnt to be in Delhi Police custody.Sukhpreet was arrested from the Kundli border and was in custody of the Kalyanpuri police, his father confirmed to the local authorities.Those missing had left for Delhi on January 23. Their families lost touch with them after the march. Their phones remained unreachable, the families claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-youth-in-police-custody-205626
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Book Delhi cops, BJP ‘goons’: SAD||SAD leaders today met families of missing youths in New Delhi and demanded criminal proceedings against Delhi Police officials as well as BJP “goons” for allegedly indulging in state-sponsored terrorism by attacking a farmer camp at the Singhu border besides beating up a Sikh youth.Party leader Bikram Singh Majithia also urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to register appropriate cases against them. He said the SAD would submit a formal complaint in this regard to the CM. He also announced a panel of lawyers for farmers needing assistance free of cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-delhi-cops-bjp-goons-sad-205627
31-01-2021||Karam Prakash||After Health staff, others to get jabs from tomorrow||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 30The state Health Department is all geared up to vaccinate frontline workers of other departments from February 1. In this second phase of vaccination, workers from police, local bodies, disaster management, rural development and panchayats and revenue departments will be given Covid shots.Ironically, only 30 per cent of the targeted frontline workers of the Health Department have been vaccinated so far.Only 30% success in first phaseDr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said around 60,000 frontline health workers had been inoculated to date, even as they had a target of vaccinating around 1.98 lakh of them in the first phase.When asked about the poor response, Bhasker told The Tribune, “Though doctors have come forward in large numbers, ASHA workers, ANMs, multipurpose health workers have shied away.”On asking what the reasons were, Bhasker said, “Some health workers opposed the drive and set conditions that their long-pending demands be fulfilled first — which, I think, is unjust. Instead of putting conditions, they should realise that we are giving vaccines for their benefit only.”He said health workers still might get a chance to get vaccinated until February 12. He said thereafter, they won’t get a chance. “Earlier, there were two chances for health workers. Now, we will give just one chance. If they don’t utilise the opportunity, they will not get the jabs anytime soon.”When asked about any non-designated beneficiary getting the vaccination, Bhasker said the entire process of vaccination was very robust and there was no chance of any anomaly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-health-staff-others-to-get-jabs-from-tomorrow-205628
31-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Court raps state for ignoring legal notices by contractors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court has virtually rapped authorities in Punjab for not paying heed to grievances raised by contractors who are executing works for the state. Justice Sanjay Kumar of the High Court also made it clear that the authorities could not sit over the matter after receiving legal notices from the contractors.He asserted it was indeed unfortunate that the authorities chose to ignore the legal notices received from contractors regarding amounts allegedly due to them for execution of works. “In the event the authorities have any dispute with regard to the contractors’ claims, it is for them to respond suitably to such legal notices and clarify their stand. It is not open to the authorities to remain silent and blithely ignore grievances ventilated by contractors through their legal notices,” Justice Kumar added.The assertion by Justice Kumar came on two petitions filed by JK Associates against the State of Punjab and other respondents. The petitioners, among other things, were seeking release of payments for the works undertaken.After going through the averments, Justice Kumar asserted it was for the authorities concerned to address in the first instance the claims put forth by the petitioner-firm in two legal notices. In the present stage, no cause was made out for the court to entertain these writ petitions for adjudication on merits.He directed the respondent-authorities in each of the cases to consider the legal notices received by them from the petitioner-firm before taking appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-raps-state-for-ignoring-legal-notices-by-contractors-205629
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Department pulled up for issuing layout plans without RERA nod||The Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) has pulled up the Local Government Department for issuing partial completion and layout plans without approval to projects by the authority.Earlier, builders would get plans sanctioned for a row of units by showing each as a separate unit, whereas in reality, they were part of a larger project.As a result, the department had banned passing maps of these buildings categorised as “ground plus two floors” and “stilt plus three floors” on July 2, 2019. Stilt plus three floors mean the ground floor will be meant for parking. But later, the department framed new rules and made RERA registration mandatory.Now, the Urban Local Bodies have to ensure there is no violation of building bylaws and the builder must obtain change of land use (CLU) and licence for the purpose. There should not be any violation of RERA and the layout plan must be approved by the competent authority before the construction of such independent floors. RERA has pointed that partial completion and layout plans of two projects in Zirakpur were approved by Local Government officials. A communication has been sent to the Local Government by NS Kang, chairman, RERA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/department-pulled-up-for-issuing-layout-plans-without-rera-nod-205630
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure peaceful polls, BJP team urges Governor||BJP’s state unit today alleged the ruling Congress and other Opposition parties had created an atmosphere of terror in the state in the name of farmers.A party delegation, led by state president Ashwani Sharma, met Governor VP Singh Badnore and demanded peaceful local bodies’ elections.“Party workers are being attacked but the police have failed to take action,” claimed Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-peaceful-polls-bjp-team-urges-governor-205631
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Physical hearing in HC to start in phased manner||Nearly 11 months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court shifted to virtual mode of hearing following the Covid outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has decided to resume physical hearing in a phased manner. To begin with, it has setup three courtrooms for physical hearing, keeping Covid protocols in mind. The number is likely to go up to five in the coming days.The decision comes just about three days after it was reported in these columns that the much bigger Allahabad High Court with 95 judges never really went into restrictive functioning and continued with physical hearing throughout the Covid period with some interruptions in between.As of now, the Allahabad High Court has the highest number of pending cases at 7.71 lakh. It is followed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which is facing a pendency of 6,44,679 cases.The problem of plenty is expected to worsen in the coming months in the absence of physical hearing of cases and new appointment of judges. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/physical-hearing-in-hc-to-start-in-phased-manner-205632
31-01-2021||Amritsar||Five-member NIA team visits Tarn Taran||A five-member team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) today visited Tarn Taran in connection with the Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh murder case.The team met with senior police officials and took details of the investigations carried out so far, though the case was yet to be handed over to the central investigation agency. The Centre had announced handing over the probe to the NIA after the role of a Pakistan-based banned terror group surfaced. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-member-nia-team-visits-tarn-taran-205633
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Keep struggle peaceful, Rajewal urges protesters||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal has said peace is the only way to win this struggle.Addressing mediapersons here today, he said they had recovered from the unfortunate incident of January 26. He alleged the march to the Red Fort was planned by the BJP.He also appealed to the farmers heading to Delhi to keep the struggle peaceful. “We must remember that we are not going for any war. Only peace can assure our victory,” he said.He also alleged the BJP and RSS were continuously trying to provoke us for violence. He alleged that the same people were behind the incident of stone pelting on farmers at Singhu on Friday. He said that on this issue they are firmly standing with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. Even they helped to move women from the spot towards safer place at the Singhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-struggle-peaceful-rajewal-urges-protesters-205639
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Anganwadi centres to reopen from tomorrow||Polytechnic gets awardBathinda: The National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research has selected Government Polytechnic College, Bathinda, for the outstanding institution award (polytechnic category) for 2019-20. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anganwadi-centres-to-reopen-from-tomorrow-205641
31-01-2021||Abohar||13 ex-councillors, kin get Cong ticket in Abohar||While releasing the complete list of 50 candidates for the municipal corporation elections in the hometown of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar on Saturday, the Congress has accommodated 13 former councillors or their spouses.Two of the four former BJP councillors, who had quit the saffron party last month on the issue of the farm laws and joined the Congress, have also been given the ticket.The list carries names of former veteran councillors including Vimal Thatai, Vijay Nagpal “Babbu”, Naresh Wadhwa, Narinder Verma, Raj Kumar Nirania, Thakur Das Siwan and Ganpat Dholia. Due to delimitation and reclassification of some wards, MR Bathla, Subhash Dholia, Satish Narula and Chhindi Kumar got the ticket in place of their spouses.Former BJP councillor Dharamvir Malkat’s wife Sunil Lata Malkat will contest as a Congress candidate. Names of Dussehra Committee chief Chand Setia’s daughter-in-law Namita Setia, former councillor Gurmandeep Singh Sandhu’s wife Rashpreet Kaur and Youth Congress leader Puneet Arora also figured on the list. The SAD, which had eight councillors in the 33-member MC earlier, has so far announced 35 candidates. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-ex-councillors-kin-get-cong-ticket-in-abohar-205643
31-01-2021||New Delhi||38 cases, more than 80 arrests so far over tractor parade violence: Officials||The Delhi Police has so far registered 38 cases and arrested 84 people in connection with the violence during a tractor parade by farmers here on Republic Day, officials said on Saturday.The tractor march by farmers protesting against the three recent agriculture laws had turned violent, leading to chaotic scenes on the streets of the national capital on Republic Day.  Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the parade. Many of them, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They also hoisted flags on the domes and placed a flagstaff at the ramparts of the national monument, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.Police had asked nine farmer leaders to join the investigation in the case on Friday, but no one turned up. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/38-cases-more-than-80-arrests-so-far-over-tractor-parade-violence-officials-205560
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP and RSS behind stone-pelting on farmers at Singhu: Rajewal||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday said the BJP and RSS were behind Friday’s stone-pelting incident on farmers at Singhu border.He alleged that the government is continually trying to provoke them to resort to violence.Addressing a press conference at the Kisan Bhawan here, Rajewal appealed to farmers, who are now heading to Delhi, to keep the struggle peaceful.He said they had recovered from the unfortunate incident of January 26.Also read: Bajwa, Deepender welcomed on Tikait’s protest site stage; call for resolution of stalemate‘Mahapanchayat’ at Baghpat: How BJP leadership miscalculation strengthened farmers’ agitation, Jat bonding in UP, HaryanaBKU digs its heels in at Ghazipur border, more supporters pouring inProtesting farmers begin one-day hunger strikeIf protesting farmers are abused, it will make movement stronger: British MP DhesiAnna Hazare calls off his proposed fast“We are not going for war. Only peace can assure our victory,” he said.Rajewal said all the cases registered against farmer leaders or any other cases registered during farmers agitation would be discussed during negotiations with the government.“We have been holding a peaceful agitation at Delhi’s borders since January 26. Today also the agitation is peaceful,” Rajewal, the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), told reporters.“People in large numbers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites,” Rajewal said.“Possibly by February 2, there will again be a record gathering of people at the protest sites,” he said, adding that the agitation would remain peaceful.Rajewal also condemned the Haryana government for suspending internet services.The Haryana government on Friday decided to suspend mobile internet services in 14 more districts in the state until Saturday 5 pm “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order”. Earlier it had suspended the services in three districts.Rajewal accused the Centre of instilling a sense of fear among people by showing pictures of the “unfortunate incidents”, apparently referring to the January 26 violence in the national capital during a tractor parade by farmers.“The government is trying to mislead people through false propaganda in order to defame the ongoing agitation,” he alleged.Rajewal appealed to those joining the agitation at Delhi’s borders to keep the protest peaceful.He asked them not to get provoked, which could affect the peaceful agitation.“It is our responsibility to keep the agitation peaceful,” he stressed.Rajewal accused the government of trying to trigger violence by provoking the farmers at the protest sites. “But we are alert. We will not indulge in any kind of violence,” he said.The farmer leader appealed to the Centre to shun its “stubborn attitude” and withdraw the three farm laws.On the next meeting between the protesting farmers and representatives of the government, he said “when they call us, we will certainly go”.To a question on joining the investigation following notices issued by the Delhi Police to farmer leaders in connection with the Republic Day violence, Rajewal said, “They issued the notices to us on January 27 but an FIR in connection with the matter was lodged on January 26. Since they have already taken action, what reply are they seeking?”Asked again, he said, “We will send them a reply.” The Delhi Police has issued the notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Rajewal, over the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade, asking why legal action should not be taken against them. — with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-and-rss-behind-stone-pelting-on-farmers-at-singhu-rajewal-205478
