01-08-2020||---||Hooch tragedy: CM Amarinder orders suspension, inquiry against 7 excise, 6 police officers||Chandigarh, August 1Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered the suspension of, and inquiry against, seven Excise & Taxation Officers and Inspectors, along with two DSPs and four SHOs of Punjab Police, in connection with the hooch tragedy.He has also announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia compensation to each of the families of the deceased, most of whom are from Tarn Taran, which accounts for 63 deaths, followed by Amritsar Rural 12 and Gurdaspur (Batala) 11. The Chief Minister announced the suspension of ETOs (Excise & Taxation Officers) Lovejinder Brar from Gurdaspur, BS Chahal from Amritsar and Madhur Bhatia from Tarn Taran. The Excise & Taxation Inspectors (ETIs) who have been suspended with immediate effect are Ravi Kumar (Gurdaspur), Gurdeep Singh (Amritsar) and Pukhraj from Fatehbad and Hitesh Prabhakar from City Tarn Taran in district Tarn Taran.The police officials suspended on charges of negligence in duty include DSP Jandiala (Amritsar Rural) and DSP Sub-division Tarn Taran, and the SHOs of PS Tarsikka (Amritsar Rural), City Batala (Batala police district), PS Sadar Tarn Taran and PS City Tarn Taran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hooch-tragedy-cm-amarinder-orders-suspension-inquiry-against-7-excise-6-police-officers-120814
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports almost 1,000 new coronavirus cases in new single-day high||Punjab reported over 900 new coronavirus within a span of 24 hours---the state’s biggest single-day spike yet---in a development that took the state’s COVID tally past 17,000, its COVID bulletin showed.The state reported 944 new coronavirus cases and 19 new deaths, taking the state tally to stand at 17,063 with 405 deaths.This spike in cases is because of an increase in coronavirus cases in most districts. All 22 districts of Punjab reported COVID-19 cases on Saturday, and, except for three districts---Mukstar, Faridkot and SBS Nagar---all reported infections in double digits.Ludhiana continued to lead Punjab’s districts in COVID-19 cases with 166 new infections. Jalandhar followed closely with 162.Gurdaspur also recorded a high number of infections, reporting 89 new cases---the third highest number of cases on Saturday.Bathinda (76), Patiala (66), Sangrur (37), Amritsar (49), SAS Nagar (34), Hoshiarpur (14), Ferozepur (48), Pathankot (19), Tarn Taran (14), Fatehgarh Sahib (21), Moga (16),  Fazilka (37), Kapurthala (35), Ropar (14), Barnala (26), Mansa (14), SBS Nagar (3), Faridkot (2) and Muktsar (4) all reported new cases.Eight districts reported deaths. Ludhiana continued to lead the death count, reporting 10 new deaths. Amritsar (2), Kapurthala (1), SAS Nagar (1), Muktsar (1), Jalandhar (1), Sangrur (1) and Baranala (1) also reported COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.Besides, 145 patients are on oxygen support and 13 are on ventilator. A 49-year-old from Urban Estate admitted to Patel Hospital, Jalandhar; a 48-year-old admitted to CMCH; a 60-year-old from Upkar Nagar at Civil Hospital; a 68-year-old from Kitchlu Nagar at DMCH, 89-year-old from Brindaban Road at DMCH; a 65-year-old from Basant Nagar at Rajindra Hospital; a 50-year-old from New Azad Nagar at Rajindra Hospital; a 40-year-old from Mundian Kalan; and 67-year-old from Hargobind Nagar all died in Ludhiana.Ludhiana’s death toll now stands just one short of 100.Two deaths in Amritsar took the district death toll to 80. A 40-year-old man from Daburji Police Lines and a 74-year-old woman from Friends Colony died here.      Punjab’s been steadily reporting a higher number of cases---as well as deaths---since July 1, but this is the biggest jump yet in cases. Punjab reported 10,551 new cases in July, 3,305 cases in June, and 1,788 cases in May.Likewise, Punjab's fatalities have almost tripled since the end of June, when the state's death toll stood at 144. Punjab's districtw-wise breakup of cases is as follows: Ludhiana (3377), Jalandhar (2411), Amritsar (1911), Patiala (1785), Sangrur (1093), SAS Nagar (875), Gurdaspur (594), Hoshiarpur (546), Ferozepur (458), Bathinda (425), Pathankot (420), Tarn Taran (373), Fatehgarh Sahib (369), Moga (343), SBS Nagar (316), Fazilka (303), Faridkot (294), Kapurthala (291), Ropar (265), Muktsar (239), Barnala (249) and Mansa (126).Punjab's death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (99), Jalandhar (54), Amritsar (80), Patiala (28), Sangrur (28), SAS Nagar (15), Hoshiarpur (15), Gurdaspur (18), Ferozepur  (6), Pathankot (12), Tarn Taran (10), Bathinda (5), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Moga (5), SBS Nagar (3), Fazilka (1), Kapurthala (12), Ropar (4), Muktsar  (2), and Barnala (6). Five districts with over 1,000 cases---Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala, Sangrur---account for 61 per cent of Punjab’s cases.Punjab now has 5,583 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-almost-1-000-new-coronavirus-cases-in-new-single-day-high-120813
01-08-2020||London||Indian-origin dancer bags UK PM’s award for lockdown Bhangracise sessions||An Indian-origin dancer who transformed his dance classes into free Bhangracise sessions online to help people stay fit during the coronavirus lockdown has bagged a Points of Light honour from UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Rajeev Gupta, who believes bhangra offers an “upbeat, energetic and infectious” way of exercising, began the lockdown with a mission to stay active and positive through the traditional Indian dance form and went on to share that spirit through social media live streams.Last month, it resulted in earning him the honour of being a Point of Light, an honour conferred every weekday by the UK prime minister to outstanding volunteers and people making a change in their community.“Over the last few months, your online bhangra classes have brought a surge of energy to participants across the country and beyond, lifting the bodies and souls of thousands who have been staying at home during our battle against coronavirus,” said Johnson, in a personal letter addressed to Gupta.“You have been a Point of Light for so many during this difficult time, and so I am delighted to be able to recognise you in this way,” he said.The prime minister has in the past referred to his own enjoyment of bhangra and other Indian dance forms during family weddings in India when he was married to his ex-wife Marina Wheeler, who has Punjabi roots on her mother Dip Kaur’s side.“I feel blessed to have been in a position to have helped people during the lockdown with my Bhangracise sessions,” said Gupta.“I’m truly grateful to get this award. I would have never thought it would have made such a powerful impact,” he said.Gupta has run Bhangracise for over 15 years, holding regular dance fitness classes in Manchester, Birmingham and Reading, and has also performed at the Opening Ceremony of the London 2012 Olympics. He also taught professional dancers about bhangra on BBC’s popular ‘Strictly Come Dancing’ show.With lockdown shutting down physical classes, the dance enthusiast decided to post an online video, which attracted over 100,000 views, and he has since been running free dance workouts three times a week for thousands of people across the world. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-origin-dancer-bags-uk-pms-award-for-lockdown-bhangracise-sessions-120802
01-08-2020||---||Hooch tragedy: Police raid highway eateries near Rajpura||Patiala, August 1Senior police officers on Saturday formed teams to raid eateries on highways near Rajpura after reports that spurious liquor that killed over 60 in Amritsar, allegedly came from Rajpura.The death toll in the hooch tragedy in Punjab rose to 62 today, as two more people were arrested in Amritsar for their alleged involvement in selling spurious liquor, a police official said.Reads also: Death toll in Punjab hooch tragedy rises to 62; two more arrestedThe deaths were reported from Tarn Taran, Batala and Amritsar districts since Wednesday.Senior officers confirmed that raids by police teams are on to nab dhaba owners who had allegedly sold hundreds of drums of chemical to be supplied to the accused who used it to manufacture illicit liquor.Police have recovered chemicals and other material from the dhabas and are likely to register an FIR.“These dhaba owners in connivance with truck drivers who transport chemicals to distilleries, fill their own drums to sell them later to accused for illegal manufacturing of liquor,” they said.As many as four police teams from Rajpura and Tarn Taran conducted raids at these highway joints where trucks make a regular halt.The police operation was on till the last reports came in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hooch-tragedy-police-raid-highway-eateries-near-rajpura-120794
01-08-2020||---||Death toll in Punjab hooch tragedy rises to 86; seven excise officials, 6 cops suspended||Chandigarh, August 1The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 86 with 48 more people reported dead on Saturday after drinking spurious liquor, prompting the state government to suspend seven excise and six police officials.Sixty-three of the deaths were reported from Tarn Taran district, 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur's Batala, officials said.According to an official statement, the suspended officials included two deputy superintendents of police and four station house officers.The police also launched a massive crackdown spanning more than 100 raids in the three affected districts of Amritsar Rural, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and Shambhu border.The total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 25.A mafia mastermind, a woman kingpin, a transport owner, a wanted criminal and owners and managers of various dhabas from where the illicit liquor was being supplied are among the arrested accused, DGP Dinkar Gupta said.The raiding parties have also seized large quantities of ‘lahan’ from various villages and dhabas in the region around Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, he said, adding that the raids had exposed a massive racket in illicit liquor, extending across several districts.Read also: Police raid highway eateries near Rajpura Hooch tragedy: CM Amarinder orders suspension, inquiry against 7 excise, 6 police officersThe dhabas, identified as Zilmil Dhaba, Green Dhaba, Chhinda Dhaba on Shambhu border, and Banur and Rajpura in Patiala, have been sealed.As much as 750 litre of Lahan had been seized from Baghaura village from where two persons, Satnam and Rashem, had been arrested while another, identified as Lakhwinder, had been identified as a culprit.Kingpin Darshan Rani alias Faujan was arrested by Batala Police, while another key accused Beeri, of Deo village, Tarn Taran, has also been arrested for supplying the spurious alcohol.Prem Singh, the owner of Azad Transport, and Bhinda (wanted by Tarn Taran Police) were arrested by Rajpura police in raids conducted today.According to the DGP, raids were conducted at the house of Rupinder Singh, resident of Thuha, but he had not been there for the past many days. Bittu is a friend of Hardeep Singh alias Kachhu, arrested by CIA Jalandhar Rural recently, and Kachhu’s Scorpio vehicle was recovered from Bittu’s residence.In the raid at Jhilmil dhaba, whose manager Narinder Singh have been arrested, 200 litre of Lahan was seized. The dhaba owner, Harjit Singh, has been named in the FIR.At Green Dhaba, Rajpura-Chandigarh Road PS Zirakpur, approximately 200 litre of diesel-like liquid was recovered in small containers, which truck drivers were selling to the dhaba owner. The dhaba has also been sealed and its owner Gurjant Singh has been arrested.One Narinder Singh, the owner of Multani Dhaba, has also been arrested in the case, said the DGP.Another 150 litre of Lahan was recovered from one Parminder Singh and 200 liter from Baljit Singh. Both these men have also been arrested.One of the key arrested accused who was bringing spurious liquor from Tarn Taran to Amritsar Rural area has been identified as Govinderbir Singh of Jandiala City. He was the main mastermind of the mafia in Amritsar Rural District.Describing the modus operandi of the accused, the DGP said the trucks carrying spirit would be stopped at 6-7 identified Dhaba and the Dhaba owners collected the hooch from truck drivers and sold it to one Bhinda, resident of Pipla road, Rajpura, who was also accused in Rajpura factory case and Bittu of a village near Banur. The spirit was being supplied by these people to Amritsar and surrounding areas.Raids were continuing, with Patiala SSP camping at Rajpura for personally supervising the raids and rounding up the culprits, the DGP said, adding that efforts were on to smash the completely supply chain of the spurious alcohol.Meanwhile, one Gurpal Singh of Dhotian in Tarn Taran, who was arrested on July 9 for smuggling of spirit in Phillaur, is being brought on production warrant for further identification of the persons involved in this racket. He was arrested with 4,000 litre chemical or spirit in PS Phillaur Police area.According to the Excise Commissioner, though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in yesterday’s raids were yet to come, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in paint or hardware industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/death-toll-in-punjab-hooch-tragedy-rises-to-86-seven-excise-officials-6-cops-suspended-120773
01-08-2020|| ||Punjab Police constable ‘shoots himself’ in his car in Chandigarh’s Sector 4||Chandigarh, August 1A 23-year-old Punjab Police constable allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in his car parked in the parking of Punjab MLAs’ hostel, Sector 4, here in the wee hours of Saturday. Police said no suicide note was found. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be established, said an official.Police got the information at around 2.35 am. Cops reached the spot and a PCR rushed Simranjit Singh to the PGI, where he succumbed to his injuries.Police said the victim was posted at the Punjab and Haryana High Court as security and lived in the barracks at the Punjab MLAs’ hostel.The Sector 3 police station has initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-constable-shoots-himself-in-his-car-in-chandigarhs-sector-4-120759
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||'Shaheed Udham Singh guiding light for generations,' says NSUI president at 'Online Youth Parliament' event||"The path alighted by Shaheed Udham Singh would always be a guiding light for coming generations", said the National Students' Union of India's (NSUI) President Neera Kundan, adding that the relevance of the great martyr in India's freedom struggle was more pronounced in the present fight against the centre's fascist mindset. On the occasion of the first 'Online Youth Parliament' organised by NSUI Punjab, Kundan, he was seen interacting with school children. While paying tributes to the great martyr on his martyrdom day, he underlined the need for greater emphasis to disseminate knowledge about our martyrs and risks they undertook to ensure we breathe in free India. The first of its kind event was attended by state president Akshay Sharma. As a tribute to Shaheed Udham Singh, hundreds of students from across the country took part in the event via video conferencing and shared their thoughts and ideas about the Son of Soil.  Discussions on topical issues, including Legacy of our great martyrs—A message for Youth, Participation of Youth in Nation Building, National Education Policy, 2020, formed the nucleus of stimulating debates spread over three sessions. "The specially crafted event to engage youngsters in the process of nation-building would be a regular feature and would be extended to include more schools and colleges from next year", Akshay Sharma disclosed. Earlier, inaugurating the event, Punjab Cabinet Minister O P Soni exhorted youngsters to learn and follow from the great sacrifices our martyrs had to make to attain independence from British rule. "We must do everything to sustain that freedom and liberty, which is under attack today", Soni added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shaheed-udham-singh-guiding-light-for-generations-says-nsui-president-at-online-youth-parliament-event-120753
01-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Spurious liquor kills 45 in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31Spurious liquor has claimed 45 lives in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala (Gurdaspur district) in the past two days. The Punjab Government has ordered a magisterial probe. Angry villagers on Friday held a protest against the police department for “failing” to curb bootlegging in the area despite the recent drive against liquor smuggling.Also Read  ON TRAIL OF ‘FAUJAN’The Batala police are on the trail of middle-aged ‘Faujan’, who has been on the police radar, said an officer. TNSTarn Taran reported 24 casualties, Batala 10 and Amritsar seven. Four died in Muchhal village late Thursday evening. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the first five fatalities were reported from Muchhal and Tangra villages in Amritsar’s Tarsikka tehsil on July 29 night.The Amritsar police have arrested a woman bootlegger, identified as Balwinder Kaur of Muchhal village. Her husband Jaswant Singh is one of the victims. She has been charged under Section 304 of the IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and under the Excise Act.Local residents claimed that she had been in the illegal trade for the past two decades.“The liquor was apparently prepared with methanol,” said an officer of the Amritsar (Rural) police. He refused to give any more information. Activists of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujwan Sabha and residents of Muchhal village held a demonstration, accusing the police of turning a blind eye to the menace and blamingthe it for the tragedy.The Batala police too launched a search for a middle-aged woman known as “Faujan”, who is said to have supplied spurious liquor to 10 persons. “Faujan has been on the police radar for quite some time now,” said an officer.Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq rushed a team of senior officers, including ADC (General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu and AETC Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa, to the affected areas. “I have asked them to look into the sequence of events,” he said. The Tarn Taran police were tight-lipped. Superintendent of Police (D) JS Walia said: “Action will be taken on the statements of the victims’ family members.” Among the victims are: Mangal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Dalbir Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kaka Singh, Kirpal Singh, Jaswant Singh and Joga Singh of Muchhal village; Baldev Singh of Tangra village; Buta Ram, Bhinda, Riku Singh, Kala, Kalu, Billa and Jatinder of Batala; and Sahib Singh, Harbans Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Dharam Singh of Tarn Taran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-liquor-kills-45-in-punjab-120562
01-08-2020||New Delhi||Punjab among 4 states not paying medics regularly, govt tells SC||As four states, including Punjab, fail to make timely payment of salaries to doctors and healthcare workers fighting Covid-19, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to issue necessary directions for timely release of salaries to them.One million recoveriesThe government on Friday said India’s clinical management protocol for Covid-19 was yielding results with the fatality rate dropping to 2.18 per cent. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India had achieved the milestone of more than one million recoveries which had taken the recovery rate to 64.54 per cent. TNS“If the states are not complying with the directions and orders of the Central Government, you are not helpless. You have to ensure that your order is implemented. You have got the power under the Disaster Management Act. You can take steps also,” a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The court’s comments came after the Centre said Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tripura were yet to follow directives on timely payment of salaries to healthcare workers.It asked the Centre to spell out its stand on treating compulsory quarantine period of healthcare workers as leave and deduction of their salaries for the said period and posted the matter for further hearing on August 10.Claiming that “the period can’t be treated as leave”, Mehta said he would take necessary instructions on the issue. Earlier, petitioners’ counsel KV Vishwanathan complained about non-payment of salaries. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-among-4-states-not-paying-medics-regularly-govt-tells-sc-120565
01-08-2020||Ludhiana||PAU cancels entrance exams for graduate courses||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here has cancelled the entrance exams for admission to graduate courses for the academic session 2020-21 in view of the pandemic. Dr RS Sidhu, Registrar, said the university had cancelled the Common Entrance Test and Agriculture Aptitude Test for admission to graduate programmes.Also, the entrance exam for MSc (5-year Integrated Programme) had been cancelled. The Registrar said the examination fee would be refunded. The admission to graduate programmes will now be based on the marks obtained in Class X and Class XII.He said the last date for applying with a late fee of Rs 1,000 had been extended till August 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pau-cancels-entrance-exams-for-graduate-courses-120570
01-08-2020||Sameer Singh||Punjabi University guest faculty in dire straits||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 31The guest faculty professors at constituent colleges and neighbourhood campuses of Punjabi University, Patiala, have been forced to live in penury as they haven’t been paid salaries for the past several months.With hardly any financial resources or savings left, the faculty members are finding it tough to make ends meet.The guest faculty professors are employed on a temporary basis twice a year from January to April and July to November at a minimum monthly salary of Rs 21,600. While a majority of the teachers haven’t been paid for the January-April period this year, some are awaiting dues even for July-November period last year.There are around 130 guest teachers at the university’s 20 centres in the Malwa belt. Of the centres, 13 are constituent colleges, five neighbourhood campuses—one in Sangrur and two each in Mansa and Bathinda—and two regional centres (at Mohali and Bathinda).“I have been borrowing from my brother and acquaintances for the past one year to pay hostel fee and bear other expenses,” says Rajvir Kaur of Ghudda in Bathinda. While non-payment of salaries has hit all guest faculty members, the fear of not being re-hired due to the pandemic has also been haunting them, says Jatinder Kaur, another teacher. “We too have been conducting online classes but unlike regular faculty, we aren’t paid,” she says.Punjabi University Guest Teachers’ Association president Jaspal Singh maintains they have approached the authorities several times, but to no avail.BS Ghuman, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, and Dean (academic affairs) Gurdeep Singh Batra did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-guest-faculty-in-dire-straits-120571
01-08-2020||Muktsar||Muktsar gets first woman SSP||Cop fires at colleague, heldMoga: An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of the local police shot at another ASI with his service rifle, following an argument on the premises of the mini-secretariat here late Thursday night. Sukhraj Singh was arrested and an attempt-to-murder case under Section 307 of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act was registered against him. He allegedly fired at least eight bullets at ASI Kirpal Singh, who escaped unhurt. TNSWebinar on education policyChandigarh: A webinar on the New Education Policy was organised on Friday by the Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions under its chief patron RS Munirathinam and president Dr Anshu Kataria. Presidents and secretaries of unaided colleges from 15 states, including Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, participated in the event. TNSDiscussion on thermal sensorsChandigarh: A two-day national seminar-cum-e-workshop on experimental electronics began on Friday. The event is being organised by Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, in collaboration with the Indian Association of Physics Teachers RC-2. Dr Manish Dev Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics, Panjab University, Chandigarh, will hold sessions on thermal sensors and their applications. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-gets-first-woman-ssp-120539
01-08-2020||---||665 fresh Covid cases, 16 deaths  in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 31The state reported record 665 fresh Covid-19 cases today. With this, the case count in the state has reached 16,119. Sixteen deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana reported six deaths, while the count was three in Amritsar, two each in Barnala and Patiala and one in Kapurthala. Seven new patients were admitted to the ICU while three were put on ventilator support.Ludhiana remained the worst-affected district with 248 fresh cases, followed by Patiala (136), Amritsar (71), Pathankot (43), Barnala (32), Sangrur (25), SAS Nagar (24), Jalandhar (24) and Fatehgarh Sahib (15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/665-fresh-covid-cases-16-deaths-in-punjab-120543
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Provisional admission for open school pupils||The Punjab Government has decided to allow provisional admission to 31,022 open category candidates in Class XI in regular schools.  However, these students would have to take the examinations of Class X when the Covid-19 situation normalises, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said today.  He said the matriculation result of regular students was declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on the basis of Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) but the result of open school students was upheld as these students were not covered under the CCE criteria. “The open category candidates were in a dilemma as they were not getting admission in schools as regular students. After reviewing the situation, we have decided to provide them short-term relief. Now, they will be able to get admission in Class XI provisionally, subject to the condition that as and when things become normal, they will have to take the matriculation examinations,” Singla said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/provisional-admission-for-open-school-pupils-120525
01-08-2020||Patiala||Kin seek probe into Patiala youth’s death in Barnala jail||Family members of a 26-year-old youth, who died in a Barnala jail earlier this month, have raised questions on the circumstances that led to his death. They have written to the ADGP (Jails) and the Barnala Deputy Commissioner seeking a probe into the matter.Holding a press conference in Patiala, the victim’s mother, Shinderpal Kaur, a resident of Ablowal village here, accompanied by her son and relatives, said Lakhwinder Singh (26) was arrested on June 23 under the NDPS Act along with two others from Patiala. He was taken to the Barnala district jail. The family pointed said they were informed about 12 hours after his death, which took place on July 3.“According to the post-mortem report, he died due to a drug overdose. But the question is why couldn’t the officials find the drugs available inside the jail?” the family asked.“The jail officials claim to have taken him to a hospital in Barnala on June 28-29 but we were never informed of it,” the family added. Jail superintendent Balvir Singh said the inmate had complained of itching and was subsequently taken to the hospital. He refuted the charges of Lakhwinder being beaten up. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-seek-probe-into-patiala-youths-death-in-barnala-jail-120526
01-08-2020||---||Punjab Government  allows varsities to conduct exams||Chandigarh, July 31The Punjab Government today permitted the state boards and universities to conduct examinations, paving way for holding of entrance tests by universities, boards, public service commission and other institutions.Detailed guidelines for the same, with precautions of sanitation and social distancing, are being issued. Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi said following the government’s instructions, the department would review the arrangements made for exams by the two technical universities and the state technical education board.‘Arrangements to be reviewed’Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi said following the government’s instructions, the department would review the arrangements made for exams by the two technical universities and the state technical education board.The state government, under the Unlock 3.0 guidelines for phased reopening from August 1 to 31, has not allowed opening of schools, colleges and coaching institutes. However, it has continued with night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am.On the basis of a feedback from deputy commissioners, the government has allowed opening of gymnasiums and yoga institutes from August 5. The opening of sports complexes, stadia and public parks has been allowed from 5 am to 8 pm with spectators.In detailed guidelines issued by the Home Department, cinema halls, swimming pools, assembly halls, social and political gatherings and bars would continue to remain closed.The state would continue to observe weekend restrictions, like closing of shops on Sundays, other than those dealing with essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-allows-varsities-to-conduct-exams-120527
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays arrest of 2 doctors over ‘false’ reports||More than a month after the Punjab Vigilance Bureau booked doctors in Amritsar for allegedly issuing “false” Covid-positive reports, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the arrest of Dr Robin Tuli and Dr Mohinder Singh before calling for a photocopy of 72 positive reports purported to have been handwritten.Fixing the case for further hearing in the third week of August, Justice Jaishree Thakur asserted: “The arrest of both petitioners will remain stayed, limited to the next date of hearing.” Justice Thakur also called for the “investigation report” by a medical board. It was directed to be placed before the Bench in a sealed cover. Justice Thakur was hearing a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents through senior advocate RS Rai and counsels Gautam Dutt and Divanshu Jain. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-arrest-of-2-doctors-over-false-reports-120528
01-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Paid 2 lakh a month, yet no Covid duties for re-employed staff||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 31When needed the most, re-employed professors at the Government Medical College (GMC) here have reportedly been exempted from Covid-19 duties. They have been purportedly exempted owing to their age and co-morbidities.‘Age factor’A majority of re-employed professors are aged above 62 years and have co-morbidities. Therefore, we have not included them in the duty roster. Paras Pandove, MS, Govt Rajindra HospitalHowever, the professors are adding a monthly burden of more than Rs 1 crore on the state exchequer. Presently, total 46 professors — each getting between Rs 2 and 3 lakh per month — have been re-employed at the two medical colleges — GMC, Patiala and Amritsar.Ironically, they have not been performing even their regular duties to avoid exposure to potential Covid patients.An assistant professor at the GMC, Patiala, said, “No Covid duties and no online classes during the lockdown. The re-employed professors are getting Rs 2 to 3 lakh per month for doing nothing.” The doctor further said the government could recruit around five medical officials for the salary of one re-employed doctor, who would also perform Covid duties.Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said they had exempted the re-employed professors from Covid duties as of now. He said, “A majority of them are aged above 62 years and have co-morbidities. Therefore, we have not included them in the duty roster.”As per the attendance register, which The Tribune has a copy of, re-employed professors have been marked absent on a number of days. In fact, they are said to be coming after three to four days to the college. They marked their attendances from back date, sources said. In some cases, re-employed professors had taken the attendance register at their residences, the sources said.Professors of three departments — plastic surgery, medicine and paediatrics — have already complained to the principal that the register was not available in the department to mark the attendance.A senior member of the regular faculty said, “The retired doctors are not coming. They are still holding administrative powers, which is against the rules.”Dr Harjinder Singh, principal, Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “A few re-employed professors are working in the logistics committee. Moreover, they are doing routine OPD duties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paid-2-lakh-a-month-yet-no-covid-duties-for-re-employed-staff-120529
01-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Display bed availability, hospitals told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31As the Covid-19 patient load is increasing in Punjab, which saw its highest-ever spike with 665 cases today, the state government has decided to rein in private hospitals, asking them to charge patients at the rates prescribed by the government.  Pilot project in two districtsThe government has made it mandatory for all private hospitals to display the total beds they have reserved for Covid care, the number of beds that have been occupied and the number of beds available. Each hospital has been asked to display a dashboard at a prominent place, specifying this information. At the instance of Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, a pilot project has been initiated in two districts —Ludhiana and Jalandhar.As of now, there are 1,149 active cases in Ludhiana and 1,701 active cases in Jalandhar — the highest in the state. Both districts also have the best secondary and tertiary private health infrastructure in the state and patients from other districts are also referred here for treatment.After the state capped the cost for treatment in private hospitals and medical colleges (from Rs 4,500 to a maximum of Rs 18,000 per day) earlier this month, there were reports of many private hospitals turning down patients on the pretext that all beds were occupied. The need to cap the cost was felt after reports emerged that several patients had to pay lakhs of rupees for treatment in some private hospitals. Once the pilot project succeeds in these two districts, it will be emulated across the state.Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy Commissioner, Ludhiana, told The Tribune that the seven private hospitals empanelled for Covid care had begun displaying the dashboards and the district administration was monitoring them on a regular basis. “We have developed a mobile app to give out this information to the public, which will be available for download within a day or so,” he added.Other than this, the government, exercising its power under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 (Covid-19 Regulation 2020), has also fixed the treatment charges for patients referred by government hospitals to private hospitals for tertiary care, requiring high dependency and intensive care. The cost of treatment incurred by the private hospitals will be reimbursed as per CGHS, Chandigarh, rates, while the cost of drugs and consumables will be reimbursed as per the actual cost.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the government was doing all within its power to stop any profiteering by private healthcare providers. ‘Private hospitals have to agree to these guidelines or face the music,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/display-bed-availability-hospitals-told-120530
01-08-2020|| 
||Centre bound to pay GST dues, Manpreet tells Sitharaman||Chandigarh, July 31  The state government has raised an objection to the purported stand of the Centre before a parliamentary panel that it had neither the money nor the obligation to pay compensation for the Goods and Services Tax (GST).  “Compensation for the GST is amongst the biggest chunks of revenue for Punjab. Each month, the state gets Rs 1,200 crore as compensation and generally, this is sent by the Centre on a bi-monthly basis. Punjab has received no compensation for the months of April, May, June and July. Denying us money is denying money to the poorest of poor as the state uses 80 per cent revenue for welfare funding,” state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said.  In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Badal said Punjab was already facing a State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) deficit of 45 per cent, which was the highest among the general category states. This was likely to exceed 60 per cent by the time the period of assured compensation was over, he said in the letter, while reiterating that the Centre was bound to pay the GST compensation as promised at the time of GST rollout in July 2017.  Talking to The Tribune, Badal said Punjab was facing one of its worst economic crisis, and was expecting a revenue shortfall of Rs 7,000 crore in the first quarter itself (April- June). “By the end of this financial year, we will be facing a shortfall of Rs 24,000 crore in our revenue collections. The state’s own tax revenue from excise, stamp duty and VAT, and its own non-tax revenue from road tax, entertainment tax, etc, too has witnessed a sharp decline because of the Covid-induced lockdown and the resultant restrictions. The Central government devolutions to the state, too, will be reduced. In a normal year, we would have hoped for Rs 10,000 crore capital expenditure, which may not be possible now. The only saving grace is the bumper wheat crop and a positive outlook for the paddy crop,” he said.  The minister, in his letter, also pointed out various steps that the Centre should immediately take to ameliorate its burden of compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-bound-to-pay-gst-dues-manpreet-tells-sitharaman-120531
01-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Another year gone, Udham Singh memorial awaits completion||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 31Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla today paid tributes to Udham Singh on his martyrdom day at Sunam. He said the construction of his memorial, which was pending for the past many years, would be completed by September.However, family members of freedom fighters blocked the Patiala-Sunam road and climbed atop a water tank over their long-pending demands.“After the formation of the Congress government in 2017, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh got a construction plan worth Rs 2.62 crore finalised as per the demand of residents. Though Covid has delayed the construction, it will be completed before September 30, 2020. Now, a museum will also be constructed in place of an open air theatre where the belongings of Udham Singh will be kept,” Singla said.“Apart from building the museum, the government will also coordinate with the Centre to bring back the belongings of Udham Singh from London,” he said.However, locals alleged that the government remembered the freedom fighter only on his martyrdom day. “The construction work gains pace only near the martyrdom day while, for the remaining year, no one bothers about it. This is giving a bad name to the government,” said Yadwinder Singh, a Sunam resident. SAD chief Sukhbir Badal also visited Sunam and paid tributes to the martyr.“Capt Amarinder Singh and his team are looting Punjab. The construction of the memorial was started by our government, but the Congress delayed the project,” he alleged.The kin of freedom fighters, under the banner of the Freedom Fighters Successors’ Organisation, Punjab, blocked the Patiala-Sunam road while some members climbed atop a water tank for their long-pending demands, which include houses to families of freedom fighters, free electricity, exemption at toll plazas, free medical and education facilities and jobs to the kin of freedom fighters.“Leaders are playing politics. They are not serious for the plight of families of freedom fighters. Though we have lifted our protest, we will start an indefinite stir again if the government fails to fulfil our demands till August 5,” said Harinder Singh Khalsa, organisation president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-year-gone-udham-singh-memorial-awaits-completion-120532
01-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Spurious liquor: Prime suspect Balwinder Kaur nabbed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31The Amritsar rural police have nabbed Balwinder Kaur, prime suspect in the spurious liquor tragedy, which claimed 11 lives in the past two days at Muchhal and its adjoining villages here. Residents said she had been in this trade for the past over two decades. Her husband Jaswant Singh also died in the yesterday’s tragedy.Balwinder Kaur was booked under Section 304 of the IPC, besides the Excise Act. She is known as Pattian Wali and has three children. Locals claimed her entire family was into this illegal trade.They alleged that she was a regular supplier in the area and this fact was in the knowledge of the police. According to information, she used to supply industrial alcohol (spirit) mixed with water.Yesterday, the liquor was allegedly sold by her daughter as she was not at home. Residents claimed they had informed the police a number of times, but to no avail. “She used to claim that she gave huge amounts to the police every month for continuing her business,” a resident said.The family made property worth lakhs through the illegal business. They recently bought a plot in the village, the residents said. They alleged the accused used to run the bootlegging business from an old building owned by them near the village pond.Gurjant Singh, president, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujwan Sabha, claimed drug peddling and bootlegging was rampant in the village while the police looked the other way. “Some other families are also into this illegal trade. After the tragedy, they all fled after locking their houses,” he added.SAD for probe by sitting HC judgeChandigarh: SAD on Friday rejected the Divisional Commissioner-level inquiry ordered into the multiple spurious liquor tragedies in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran by CM Capt Amarinder Singh and demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the High Court. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the Divisional Commissioner-level inquiry was too little, too late. He said preliminary reports indicated that supply of spurious liquor was widespread and required a thorough probe by an independent agency. TNSExpedite investigation: LoPAmritsar: AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema blamed the CM for “giving a free run to liquor mafia in the state”. He visited the aggrieved families at Muchhal and Tangra villages and offered condolences. He demanded a judicial probe by a High Court sitting judge. He demanded that the government should expedite the process of bringing the culprits to justice. TNSWon’t spare those involved: JakharChandigarh: Expressing shock and grief over deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar has urged the Chief Minister to get the probe completed at the earliest and take stern action against the guilty. He expressed sympathy with the affected families and said the government would not spare those involved in the crime. These anti-social elements should be punished as per law by cracking down on liquor smugglers across the state and those making spurious liquor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-liquor-prime-suspect-balwinder-kaur-nabbed-120533
01-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Hunt on to arrest supplier ‘Faujan’||Tribune News ServiceBatala, July 31The Batala police are on the lookout for a middle-aged woman known as ‘Faujan’, who is said to have supplied spurious liquor to 10 persons who lost their lives after consuming it late yesterday evening. The tragedy occurred in the busy Hathi gate area of the city.‘On police radar for quite some time’“Faujan is a regular supplier in the narrow lanes of the city. She has been on the police radar for quite some time. The irony is that the tragedy occurred despite the fact that previous SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman, who relinquished charge today to pave the way for Rachpal Singh to be the incumbent police chief, had initiated an intense drive against bootleggers operating in the town,” said an officer.The new SSP could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. After the news of the incident spread, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq rushed a team of senior officers, including ADC (General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu and AETC Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa, to the spot. “I have asked my officers to look into the sequence of events leading to the fiasco,” he said.People of the area were trying to brush the incident under the carpet by claiming that a majority of people had “died due to heart attacks and had nothing to do with consuming liquor”.A police source said the toll could rise in the next few days. “Investigations are in progress,” he added.The deceased have been identified as Buta Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Jatinder Singh, Kallu, Bitta, Kala, Naresh Kumar, Surinder, Rahul and Jagdeesh. Two persons were rushed to an Amritsar hospital in a critical condition. They have been identified as Dharmendra and Darshan Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hunt-on-to-arrest-supplier-faujan-120534
01-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps cops for shielding culprits in drug case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 31The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Punjab Police for a “sinister design to shield the real culprits” in a drugs case before ordering reinvestigation by a special team, to be constituted by the state Director General of Police (DGP). The team of “senior officers” was directed to be headed by a reputed Inspector General of Police-level officer.The direction by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came after the Bench took note of the fact that the registered owner of a truck, allegedly used for transporting the contraband, had moved an application before the court concerned in Moga for the vehicle’s release on “supardari”.But the police recorded statements of a stamp vendor and a notary public to show that the truck was given on lease to the accused-petitioner by the actual owner. In an attempt to further “cement the same”, the police also secured the registered owner’s affidavit to substantiate the fact of lease.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Amritpal Singh. He was seeking regular bail in an FIR registered on August 30, 2019, under provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at Nihal Singh Wala police station in Moga district.The prosecution had alleged that the police received a tip-off on the sale of poppy husk in Moga district after it was transported from another state. Acting on the information, the truck, being driven by petitioner Amritpal Singh, was allegedly searched and poppy husk recovered.After arguing at length, the petitioner’s counsel sought permission to withdraw the petition. Allowing the counsel to withdraw the plea, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted it was “apparent to the naked eyes” that the police, for attaining a sinister design and to undo the effects of recovery, showed that they had recorded the statements on leasing of the truck.“In view of such a contrivance having been noticed by the court and exercising inherent powers under Section 482 of the CrPC, sensing that there has been a scuttled investigation for a motivated cause, impels this court to issue directions to the DGP to constitute a special team...,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh said.Referring to “bigwigs in this nefarious trade, which is ruining the state and every one in it”, Justice Fateh Deep Singh said the team would reinvestigate the case from all angles. For the purpose of completing the inquiry, the Bench set a two-month deadline.HC to work in restrictive mode in Aug tooThe Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the justice delivery mechanism will continue to function in restrictive functioning mode in August as well in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. The cases fixed for hearing in August have now been adjourned to November and December.In an order issued by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry on the behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, all cases fixed or listed for hearing between August 1 and 31 will mechanically be adjourned, and the interim orders passed in the matters will remain in force till the next date of hearing. These cases would now be listed for further hearing between November 2 and December 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-cops-for-shielding-culprits-in-drug-case-120535
01-08-2020||---||Sacrilege: Pre-arrest bail plea of dera followers dismissed||Faridkot, July 31The Court of Additional Sessions Judge, Faridkot, on Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail applications of Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh, Sacha Sauda Dera followers and accused in the June 2015 sacrilege case.   No respiteare wanted for questioningThe dera followers approached the court for the pre-arrest bail after a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, on July 3, added Sections 201, 414, 451 and 120-B of the IPC (causing disappearance of evidence under a conspiracy, assisting in concealment of stolen property, house trespass) in an already registered case against them under Section 380, 295-A (theft and outraging religious feelings) after the theft of a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015.Earlier, both these accused, along with Mohinder Pal Bittu, were arrested by the CBI in this case on July 7, 2018, and were granted bail by the CBI Court, Mohali, on September 6, 2018. However, after the addition of the new offences by the SIT and latter also presenting a chargesheet in the case, the accused are wanted for questioning.In their bail petition, the dera followers claimed that they had not committed any offence and were falsely implicated in this case. They argued that the CBI had already submitted a final report under Section 173 of the CrPC in this case on July 4, 2019, and the CBI had found them to be innocent.However, the Additional Sessions Judge, Faridkot, dismissed their application for pre-arrest bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-dera-followers-dismissed-120536
01-08-2020||Chandigarh||12 SSPs among 33 officers transferred in Punjab||Twelve districts have got new police chiefs in a major reshuffle of 33 officers in the state police and the Vigilance Bureau that was ordered late Thursday night. Notable among the newly posted SSPs include Surendra Lamba, who was earlier posted as staff officer with DGP Dinkar Gupta. AIG Jasdeep Singh Saini is the new staff officer to the DGP now. The other new SSPs and their districts include Vikramjit Duggal (Patiala), Jaspreet Singh Sidhu (Kapurthala), Dhruman H Nimbale (Tarn Taran), Dhruv Dahiya (Amritsar Rural), Akhil Chaudhary (Ropar), Gulneet Singh Khurana (Pathankot), D Sudarvizhi (Muktsar), Bhupinderjit Singh Virk (Bathinda), Satinder Singh (Jalandhar Rural), Rachhpal Singh (Batala) and Navjot Singh (Hoshiarpur). The new SSPs include eight IPS cadre and four state police cadre officers.   The vigilance Bureau postings of SSPs are Mandeep Singh Sidhu and Gursharandeep Singh (station not specified) and Narendra Bhargava (Bathinda). Four of the 12 SSPs, including Vikramjeet Duggal, Dhruv Dahiya, Navjot Singh and Satinder Singh, were commanding another police district already. The administration has reposted them in new districts. Four police Commissonerate have also got new Joint Police Commissioner, including Kanwar Deep Kaur, who is posted as Joint CP (Ludhiana Rural). The other three are Bhagirath Singh Meena, Charanjit Singh and Rajbachan Singh Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-ssps-among-33-officers-transferred-in-punjab-120537
01-08-2020||---||Wife’s body bitten by rats in mortuary: Retired Colonel||Dera Bassi, July 31A retired Colonel has alleged that the body of his wife was bitten by rats in the mortuary of Indus International Hospital, Dera Bassi.He also alleged medical negligence on the part of the private hospital in the treatment of his wife which led to her death.Jasjot Kaur (52) died of cardiac problems at Indus International Hospital in Dera Bassi around 7:40 am yesterday. She was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday.Her cremation was slated for Friday at 2 pm. Since, her brothers and kin had to come from far off places, the family decided to keep the body in the mortuary before shifting it to a crematorium in Panchkula. But today afternoon, there was an unexpected delay in releasing the body by the hospital authorities.Col Amarjit Chandhok (retd), deceased’s husband and resident of Sector 26, Panchkula, said, “There was medical negligence on the part of doctors which led to the death of my wife. A day earlier, I had complained that the hospital staff was incompetent in taking blood reports.”“At the time of taking the body from the mortuary, blood was oozing out of the right ear and mouth of the body. When I refused to accept the body, a team of doctors visited the mortuary and informed me that it seemed rats have bitten it. Foul smell was also emanating from the body. I suspect that proper temperature was not maintained on the room which led to the smell and consequent mutilation of the body by the rats. I want the people responsible for it punished,” he said, while addressing the mediapersons.Surinderpal S Bedi, Indus International Hospital, Director (Clinical Services), said, “The mortuary of the hospital is outside the main premises. We are looking into the matter.”Dera Bassi Tehsildar Navpreet GIll took the body into his custody and kept it in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi. The post-mortem would be conducted by a panel of doctors tomorrow.Was to be cremated at 2pm on friday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wifes-body-bitten-by-rats-in-mortuary-retired-colonel-120456
