01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers wanted their due, not charity: Punjab CM on MSP hike||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday rejected the MSP hike announced by the Centre for paddy, saying farmers ‘wanted their due, not charity’.Urging the Centre to immediately review the decision and come out with a comprehensive package, the chief minister said the Union government “failed” to address the extreme distress faced by the farmers even amid the coronavirus crisis. The debt-ridden and stressed farming community was looking to the Centre to come to their rescue in these times of unprecedented woes, but the much-needed support once again eluded them, said the CM in a press release.The chief minister said the Centre on Monday announced a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868, a hike of Rs 53 per quintal for paddy, as against the demand of Rs 2,902 per quintal raised by him in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month.“What they (farmers) wanted in exchange was not charity but their due, but the BJP-led government at the Centre continued to ignore their justified demands and needs,” said the CM, describing the hike as ‘inadequate’.The CM said far from compensating the farmers for the increased cost of production, particularly the hike in the labour cost, the hike was not sufficient to compensate them for the crops losses suffered due to the untimely rains in March and April.The central government had not come out with any special package for the farmers, nor had it accepted the state’s demand for incentives for staggered wheat procurement or the Rs 100 per quintal bonus for paddy straw management, the CM pointed out.The CM said notwithstanding the immense hardships faced by them on account of the coronavirus pandemic, Punjab’s farmers had ensured successful completion of a mega rabi harvesting and procurement operations to once again provide the nation the much-needed food security amid this unprecedented crisis. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-wanted-their-due-not-charity-punjab-cm-on-msp-hike-92977
01-06-2020||Peshawar||Sikh doctor dies due to coronavirus in northwest Pakistan||A Sikh doctor, who was tested positive for the novel coronavirus, died at a hospital in northwest Pakistan on Monday, officials said.Dr Phag Chand Singh was on ventilator at a private hospital in the provincial capital Peshawar since last four days, they said. He was cremated on Monday.Dr Singh had obtained the MBBS degree from the Khyber Medical College in 1980 and was decorated with a gold medal by former president Zia-ul Haq.He started his career as a medical officer in the Nowshera district hospital in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and stayed in the district for three decades. He retired as a deputy medical superintendent four years ago.His ancestral village was Pirbaba Badshah Kalay in Buner district.Dr Singh was famous for his honesty and he used to provide free treatment to poor patients. He is survived by his wife, two sons – Dr Gurmeet Kumar and Dr Jaitan Kumar – and daughter Dr Sweety.Deputy Commissioner Nowshera Shahid Ali Khan said Singh's son Dr Jaitan Kumar was the head of the district corona cubic response team.Dr Kumar was tested positive for coronavirus and officials believe Dr Singh might have contracted the disease from his son or during interaction with patients at his private clinic.Leaders of the minority Sikh community – Suresh Kumar and Ashok Kumar – paid rich tributes to Dr Singh and praised his services to society.The nationwide tally of COVID-19 patients rose to 73,868 with 10,027 cases in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-doctor-dies-due-to-coronavirus-in-northwest-pakistan-92962
01-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Dalit ‘torture’: Punjab SC panel asks SDM to submit report on June 17||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, June 1After allegations of torture of a 17-year-old Dalit boy in Bhadaur police station of Barnala, a team of Punjab State Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission visited the victim and his family in Kothe Bhan Singh on Monday.The victim alleged that he was kept in custody to recover a stolen LED, which was later recovered from another resident. The commission has ordered magisterial inquiry into the incident.“My son Gurpreet Singh (17) was taken into custody by Bhadaur police on May 9 after a neighbour lodged a false complaint of LED theft. He was allegedly kept in illegal confinement and tortured by cops in police station. But on May 10 evening, cops released my son after declaring him innocent as his health deteriorated,” alleged Jaswinder Kaur, mother of the victim, in front of commission team.Kaur added that her son was admitted to hospital from May 10 to 18.Barnala SDM Anmol Singh Dhaliwal, District Development Panchayat Officer Sanjeev Sharma, DSP Barnala Parminder Singh, DSP Tapa Ravinder Singh Randhawa and other senior officers were also present.After getting the details from Kaur, commission member Poonam Kangra directed the SDM to submit a detailed report of the incident on June 17 at Chandigarh office of the commission.“Cops mercilessly tortured the minor Dalit boy without any fault as later the stolen LED was recovered another person. Gurpreet remained in hospital from May 11 to 19 and later he submitted a complaint to the commission. We would take strict action after getting report from the SDM Barnala,” said Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalit-torture-punjab-sc-panel-asks-sdm-to-submit-report-on-june-17-92937
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 38 new COVID-19 cases, tally now over 2,300||Punjab reported 38 new cases of coronavirus within a span of 24 hours, taking the state’s COVID-19 infection tally to 2,301.Punjab also revised its COVID-19 death toll down to 44, removing one duplicate death, the state’s evening COVID-19 bulletin showed.Amritsar (9), Hoshiarpur (8), Fatehgarh Sahib (5), Ludhiana (4), Patiala (4), SAS Nagar (2), Bathinda (2), SBS Nagar(1), Pathankot (1), Gurdaspur (1) and Jalandhar (1) all reported new COVID-19 cases, the state’s bulletin showed.Also readSix of Amritsar’s nine coronavirus cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases, two were cases categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness) and one was from the flu corner.All eight of Hoshiarpur’s coronavirus cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases.Fatehgarh Sahib’s five COVID-19 new cases had travel histories, as did the cases from Bathinda, SBS Nagar and Gurdaspur.Of Ludhiana’s four COVID-19 new cases, three were contacts of already diagnosed cases, and one had a travel history.Of Patiala’s four coronavirus new cases, two were people who recently returned from abroad, one had a travel history and the last was an ASHA worker who got the infection locally.Both of SAS Nagar’s COVID-19 cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases, as was Jalandhar’s single reported case.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (386), Jalandhar (246), Ludhiana (197), Tarn Taran (157), Gurdaspur (138), Hoshiarpur (128), Patiala (122), SAS Nagar (113), SBS Nagar (103), Sangrur (96), Ropar (70), Muktsar (66), Fatehgarh Sahib (63), Faridkot (62), Moga (62), Pathankot (61), Ferozepur (46), Bathinda (49),  Kapurthala (36), Mansa (32), and Barnala (24).Breakup of Punjab's coronavirus death count is: Ludhiana (9), Amritsar (7), Jalandhar (7), Hoshiarpur (5), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Pathankot (2), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Nine of Punjab’s 22 districts--- Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, SAS Nagar and SBS Nagar---account for 69 per cent of state’s COVID-19 infections.Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar together account for 31 per cent of the state’s coronavirus death toll.Punjab currently has 257 active cases, with 2,000 people already having recovered.The bulletin shows two people are critical and on ventilator support, and three people are on oxygen support.  Both Sangrur and Jalandhar reported more infections later in the evening.Three people tested positive in Sangrur on Monday evening, officials said. District health authorities sent them to COVID care centres. In Jalandhar, three Non-Resident Indians who recently returned from Kuwait tested positive.   These cases have yet to be added to the official state tally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-38-new-covid-19-cases-tally-now-over-2-300-92934
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Power to get cheaper for domestic consumers in Punjab||Punjab announced its new power tariff order for 2020-21 on Monday. The tariff for domestic consumers has been reduced by Rs 0.50 to Rs 0.25 per unit. In all, 45 lakh consumers will get relief because of the reduced tariff order.Also readPunjab reports 38 new COVID-19 cases, tally now over 2,300Liquor to cost more in Punjab as govt imposes Covid cessThere is no increase in power tariff for small traders or the MSME. Also, in order to give some relief to the Industry impacted by the lockdown, industrial units have been allowed to operate at night on night tariff charges @Rs 4.83 per Kilo Volt Ampere Hours (KVaH).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-to-get-cheaper-for-domestic-consumers-in-punjab-92925
01-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Liquor to cost more in Punjab as govt imposes Covid cess||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1Liquor will now cost more in Punjab as the state government, on Monday, imposed a COVID cess on all categories of liquor, including imported foreign liquor and imported beer.The state hopes to mop an additional Rs 145 crore through the imposition of additional excise duty.Also readPunjab reports 38 new COVID-19 cases, tally now over 2,300Punjab announces new power tariff order for 2020-21As a result of this new COVID cess, that will be imposed from June 1, the Punjab Made Liquor (PML) will cost Rs 5 per quart or Rs 3 per pint more; the IMFL to cost Rs 10 per quart more (and a proportionate increase in larger packaging) and Rs 6 per pint; beer prices have been increased by Rs 5 for every 650 ml and wine by Rs 10 for every 650 ml. The ready-to-drink alcohol prices have also attracted additional excise duty of Rs 5 per bottle.The imported foreign liquor will become dearer by Rs 50 per 750 ml (Rs 30 hike in case of other sizes) and imported beer would cost an additional Rs 7 per 650 ml. Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who also holds the portfolio of the Excise Department, said faced with a revenue shortfall of Rs 26,000 crore, tough measures such as additional excise duty and additional assesses a fee on liquor were necessitated.Even as the government has imposed COVID cess on the consumers, the liquor contractors are all set to get relief from the state government. The Cabinet sub-committee, that has allowed for the imposition of the COVID cess, has also accepted the demand of liquor contractors to reduce the minimum guaranteed quota (MGQ) of liquor to be sold by them by 30 per cent for three months – May to July.This is being considered by the Cabinet sub-committee on the insistence of the contractors, who say that in the wake of downsized marriages, locked up hotels and restaurants, ban on bars and night clubs, and reverse migration of labour (the biggest consumers of country-made liquor), they will not be able to sell the minimum quota allotted to them.Official sources also told The Tribune that as a result, the minimum guaranteed revenue (MGR) for these three months will also be reduced.Other than this, the licence fee for the period between April and May 7, too, are being waived because the liquor vends did not function in the curfew period.“Though the government is considering reducing the quota for three months, the quota will be enhanced subsequently, so that the government revenues do not suffer,” a top officer in Excise and Taxation Department told The Tribune.Other than this, the price at which the remaining liquor vends (that could not be auctioned before March 22, when the lockdown began) were to be auctioned has been reduced.It is learnt that originally, the liquor vends were to be auctioned for Rs 750 crore, which are now being auctioned for Rs 550 crore. A large number of these liquor vends were auctioned on Monday, yielding a revenue of Rs 413 crore, and the auction of remaining vends (for Rs 137 crore) is to be effected on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-to-cost-more-in-punjab-as-govt-imposes-covid-cess-92918
01-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||Bhakra Beas Management Board generates 43 pc surplus power during April-May||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has surpassed its power generation target for the first two months of this fiscal by about 43 per cent.During the months of April and May, the BBMB generated 2,065.44 million units of power against the target of 1,447 million units fixed for it up to May 31 by the Central Electricity Authority.The drastic reduction in the demand for power following the lockdown in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic notwithstanding, there was no change in the BBMB’s generation activities.Hydropower is the cheapest source of electricity as compared to other sources such as thermal power.The plant availability from April 1 to May 31, excluding routine maintenance and upgradation, was 99.66 per cent, and transmission system available for this period was 99.81 per cent.This has been possible due to judicious operation of reservoirs as well as efficient operation and maintenance of the generating units with the availability one of the highest plant, according to a statement issued here on Monday.The BBMB has an installed capacity of 2918.73 MW— the third-largest installed hydropower capacity in India and it also transmits power to the Northern Grid through a widespread network of transmission lines.With its projects lying on the Sutlej and Beas rivers, it has a total of 28 generating units in its six powerhouses, benefiting five states.The BBMB’s primary role is managing irrigation and electricity is the secondary product of its dams, the primary ones being at Bhakra and Pong.With summers being at its peak and the official filling season due to snowmelt having commenced, the water level in Bhakra’s reservoir this year is lower than normal, while in Pong it is almost double.According to the Central Water Commission, that monitors the water levels in all major reservoirs in the country, the available storage at Bhakra at present is 22 per cent of its total capacity against the past 10-year average of 26 per cent. At Pong, the storage is 48 per cent as compared to the 10-year average of 25 per cent.With the snow cover in Bhakra’s catchment this year being close to double than what it was last year, the BBMB authorities are expecting higher than normal water inflows from snow-melt during this summer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhakra-beas-management-board-generates-43-pc-surplus-power-during-april-may-92899
01-06-2020||---||Covid-19: IIT Ropar converts household trunk into UV-based sanitisation unit||Chandigarh, June 1As the battle against Covid-19 rages on, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Ropar has developed an ultraviolet (UV-C) light based sanitisation unit using a household luggage trunk.The unit is based on UV-C Germicidal Irradiation Technology to disinfect packages and personal accessories as well as food items including raw vegetables and fruits. It is suitable for offices as well as homes.A UV light tube of 15 watts has been retrofitted in the trunk, which has been lined from the inside by aluminum sheet of a particular specification. The item to be disinfected is placed inside and exposed to the UV-C light for about 10 minutes on each side. It can be used for letters, files, wallets, keys, handkerchiefs, stationery, grocery packets, bottles and eatables.The unit has been conceptualised and designed by Prof Naresh Rakha, senior scientific officer at the IIT, along with Dr Khushboo Rakha, assistant professor, and TS Anand, an executive engineer at the institute.“In today’s scenario when the entire world is fighting Covid-19, innovative and affordable products should help us in our fight against the virus," Rakha said.The technology for manufacturing the unit has been transferred to a Chandigarh-based firm for commercial production. Pritpal Singh Matharu of Esspee Industries said that initially they would be making 20 units per day and later increase output as availability of raw material improves with the graded exit from the lockdown. “UV-C light needs to be used carefully and in a calibrated manner,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-iit-ropar-converts-household-trunk-into-uv-based-sanitisation-unit-92885
01-06-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: ASHA worker, 3 others test positive in Patiala; tally rises to 126||Four people—including an ASHA worker and two non-resident Indians (NRI)—tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala on Monday, taking the case tally in the district to 216.The two NRIs, who has returned from Kuwait, had been quarantined at the Guru Dukhniwaran Sahib.A woman of village Shimbro in Bhadson Block of the district, who had returned from New Delhi, was the third patient who tested positive.Significantly, the fourth patient, an ASHA Worker, tested positive for the coronavirus during a random sampling of health workers. The ASHA worker had been working at Matroda village in Bhadson block. One ASHA worker had tested positive for the contagion last week.Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said all the patients had already been shifted to the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital. Malhotra said that rapid response teams had already been pressed into the job.Meantime, Patiala Health Department said that samples of the close contacts of all four patients would be taken on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-asha-worker-3-others-test-positive-in-patiala-tally-rises-to-126-92878
01-06-2020||Batala||‘Smile’ ambassador||Dept faux pasMuktsar: The state Agriculture Department has issued an advisory for farmers, asking them to inform the officials about any locust attack in future. It, however, released the mobile phone number of a retired chief agriculture officer among those deputed to help out the farmers. Speaking over the phone, the former officer said, "I can neither help the farmers nor give them any current information. I am surprised why the department officials released my phone number. I have earlier too requested the department officials to update their records, but to no avail."Win-win for allFatehgarh Sahib: With farmers grappling with labour shortage ahead of the paddy season, the district agriculture officials have launched an initiative, "Kisan Khet Mazdoor Milni". It is the brainchild of Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill. She has directed Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Inderpal Singh Sandhu to reach out to the farmers across the district and apprise them about the prevailing situation and encourage them to use locally available labour for paddy transplantation. Such meetings are proving beneficial as in most villages, rates have been mutually settled at 5 per cent more that the last year rates.Cool comfortAbohar: To provide cold drinking water to the needy who are camping on the roadsides or have taken shelter near flyovers, a family on Saturday donated 20 water campers through Manav Sewa Samiti. The samiti has been distributing food packets to those hit by the lockdown. Gautam Kapoor, an advocate, along with his wife Meenakshi and son Bhavya visited the samiti office and appreciated the work being done by the organisation amid lockdown. The family offered to do something on its part to provide succor to the needy and donated water campers.Eco-friendly movePatiala: City Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu has started commuting to his office on a bicycle. The Mayor says he shall continue to do so as long as it is possible. He also urges city residents to join him in this initiative towards environment. "It is a message for all. People can at least start with going to markets and nearby places on bicycles to reduce load on city roads. We are already facing problems of parking and traffic snarls," he says, adding that many MC officials have also decided to switch to bicycles on certain days of the week.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Archit Watts, Surinder Bhardwaj and Raj Sadosh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/smile-ambassador-92559
01-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala units back on track, migrants decide to stay put||Tribune News ServiceBatala, May 31With the ‘steel town’ of Batala opening its industries, nearly 5,000 migrants have decided not to return to their native places and chosen to earn their livelihood in the city where they have been living for decades.As many as 12,000 labourers had applied online for going back, but just 5,000 have boarded trains originating from Gurdaspur to their respective states.Of the 7,000 who decided to stay put, 5,000 labourers have been absorbed by the city’s famed foundry units.“These migrants have been living here for the past several decades, raising their families, sending their children to top class schools and some even contesting municipal polls. The decision to go back dripped more of sentiment rather than the exigencies of practical life,” averred VM Goel, general secretary, Batala Foundry Men Association.“They have also factored in the Punjab Government’s decision to advance paddy sowing by 10 days. They know that if they cannot get jobs in the industrial sector, they can always bank on people like us to give them work,” said Manjit Singh Dala, a Gurdaspur-based agriculturist.Inder Sekhri, chairman of the Batala Cluster of Foundries, said: “These people were banking heavily on MGNREGA. However, what they did not know was that they get just 100 days of work per year at Rs 200 per day. This means they stand to earn barely Rs 20,000 per annum. In our factories, the minimum they get is Rs 2.50 lakh per annum. Why on earth will they even dream of going back? I know of some migrants who have admitted their wards to top private schools. I see no reason for them to go back.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-units-back-on-track-migrants-decide-to-stay-put-92539
01-06-2020||Moga||2 murdered in Moga district||Two men were murdered here in two incidents in the past 48 hours, police said.Identified as Bachittar Singh (80), he was working as a part-time watchman in Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Daala. The police said he was murdered on the premises of the school.In the second incident, Bhupinder Singh was allegedly murdered by his brother Shinda following a dispute over drainage of waste water from their houses at Puranewala village on Saturday. Shinda was thrashed Bhupa with a stick. Later, he succumbed to the injuries.A case has been registered in both cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-murdered-in-moga-district-92540
01-06-2020||Muktsar||Theft accused flees custody, held again||A man, who was arrested in connection with the theft of a donation box from a gurdwara at Kuraiwala village, fled Gidderbaha police station late last night. The accused, identified as Tarsem Singh, was, however, caught again on Sunday evening. The theft of the donation box containing nearly Rs20,000 had taken place on Wednesday. TNSBathindaAAP volunteers make 5 lakh phone callsAAP volunteers under 'Corono awareness calling campaign' have made more than 5 lakh calls in the past three months to spread awareness about the significance of prevention against the deadly virus. Jarnail Singh, campaign’s incharge, said, "Apart from calling people and making them aware of the importance of prevention against Covid-19, our volunteers reached out to needy people and helped them in these trying times." TNSBathindaCentral University holds environment workshopA six-day long online workshop "Tangled Bank" began at Central University of Punjab to celebrate World Environment Day. Anyone can attend the workshop. It is free of cost. Prof P Ramarao, Dean, Academic Affairs, said, “Twelve sessions will be conducted, wherein eminent speakers from India and abroad will talk on a variety of topics.” TNSPatialaPunjabi University ranks 18th in countryPunjabi University has bagged 18th spot in the EW India Government University Rankings, 2020-21, among 150 universities. The varsity ranks first among universities in the state. Panjab University, Chandigarh, has secured 6th rank. Punjabi University scored 993 points out of 1,300. Vice Chancellor BS Ghuman congratulated the staff and students for the achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/theft-accused-flees-custody-held-again-92553
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent||ASI killed in road accident||Ferozepur, May 31An Assistant Sub Inspector with the Punjab Police, who was posted as the reader of DSP (Headquarters) Karansher Singh, died in a road mishap on Saturday evening. The deceased has been identified as Balwinder Singh (45).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-killed-in-road-accident-92554
01-06-2020||---||Two trucks carrying illegal liquor seized||Gurdaspur, May 31Officials of the district Excise Department seized two trucks for carrying smuggled liquor from Chadha Sugar Mills in Kiri Afghana village, near here, on Saturday evening.AETC Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa confirmed the development.On the basis of a complaint filed by ETO Lovjinder Singh Brar, an FIR was registered at the Sri Hargobindpur police station.“Acting on a tip-off, the officials impounded the trucks. The process of counting and verification of documents is still on. The trucks have been unloaded and the brands of liquor are being checked. I can comment only after the ongoing investigation is over,” said Bajwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-trucks-carrying-illegal-liquor-seized-92535
01-06-2020||Patiala||Cops nab two POs using mobile app||The Patiala police today arrested two wanted criminals using the face recognition technology, a new in-house app of the state police. The accused have been identified as Shiva of Rajpura and Vishal of Patiala.On Saturday, Saurab Sabarwal, incharge, Focal Point, Rajpura, was present at a naka at Gagan Chowk in Rajpura where two persons were stopped for not wearing mask.“On being stopped, they panicked and tried to flee. Sabarwal clicked their photographs and used the face recognition app which is used by the police to search and recognise persons with criminal record,” said Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu. “Both are proclaimed offenders (POs) and wanted in some cases,” Sidhu added.Developed by the intelligence wing of the police, the app maintains the database of all criminals along with their photographs.“If a police officer finds a suspect, he will click his picture from his phone. The picture will be entered in the application which will compare the digital image with photos on its database. The app will send details of the criminal background, if any, of the suspect within minutes on the mobile of the officer,” Sidhu said.“The app uses facial recognition system such as the distance between eyes and nose or the nose and mouth to create a unique map of a person’s face,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-nab-two-pos-using-mobile-app-92536
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent||SAD, AAP leaders join Congress||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 31Panchayat members of Ucha Reona village in this district — including sarpanch Deep Kumar, panch Gurjant Singh, Soam Nath, Lakhbir Singh and Jagjit Singh — associated with the SAD joined the Congress in the presence of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra today.Besides, Jagjit Singh of AAP also joined the Congress. MLA Nagra welcomed them in the party fold with “siropas” and told them that they would be given due respect in the party.Addressing mediapersons, sarpanch Deep Kumar said though they had been elected as SAD candidates, they were “highly impressed with the simplicity, honesty, dedication and progressive mindset of the MLA”. He said the MLA had initiated development projects in his constituency without any discrimination.The MLA said he had a one-point agenda, which was the development of the area. He said the re-carpeting of roads and other development projects worth Rs400 crore were underway in the constituency. He said he would develop Fatehgarh Sahib as a model constituency in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-aap-leaders-join-congress-92524
01-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kin of martyrs get government posts||CM Capt Amarinder Singh has cleared the appointment of eight next of kin of martyrs in recognition of their gallantry actions.Amritbir Singh and Tanveer Kaur have been appointed as tehsildars, Aastha Garg as ETO, Malkeet Kaur as library restorer, Gurpal Singh as JE (Electrical), Akwinder Kaur as naib tehsildar, Amandeep as clerk and Radha Rani as inspector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-of-martyrs-get-government-posts-92525
01-06-2020||---||Badals toeing Centre’s line, say ministers||Chandigarh, May 31Senior Congress leaders on Sunday lashed out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), claiming that Akalis were silent on the Centre’s “devious plan” of infringing on the rights of the states in the context of borrowing.In a joint statement released here, Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Bharat Bhushan Ashu said SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, who, they said, fought for the federal structure all his life, was silent today on his son (Sukhbir Badal) and daughter-in-law (Harsimrat Badal) joining hands with the “enemies” of the federal structure.“Has the SAD president forgotten his party’s Anandpur Sahib resolution? The Akali Dal, which takes pride in championing the rights of the states, is not only silent on the actions of the Centre, but also an equal partner in crime,” the statement stated.The Congress leaders challenged Badal to break his silence on the matter, Sukhbir to resign from the post of the SAD president and Harsimrat to step down from the Union Ministry.Centre shouldn’t browbeat states: BajwaChandigarh: Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa has urged PM Narendra Modi not to force states to adopt the Centre’s economic policy while offering financial aid to them. He made the statement on the issue of linking increased borrowing limit with free power to farmers. In a letter to the PM, the former PPCC chief said when economically weak states were seeking aid, the Centre was trying to push through its agenda. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-toeing-centres-line-say-ministers-92531
01-06-2020||Amritsar||Golden Temple fortified ahead of Bluestar anniversary||Ahead of the Operation Bluestar anniversary that falls on June 6, the police have tightened security in and around the Golden Temple, stopping devotees from entering the shrine complex.This comes in the wake of clashes between SGPC workers and pro-Khalistan activists in the Golden Temple in recent years. A police officer said, “We apprehend that some Sikh activists might gather inside the shrine in advance. Moreover, we want to ensure social distancing in view of the Covid pandemic.” Section 144 has been imposed, and carrying any weapon, including the “kirpan”, has been banned.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh is yet to take a call on the programme. His “parallel” counterpart Bhai Dhyan Singh Mand, however, has said he would offer at Akal Takht and deliver a “public address”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/golden-temple-fortified-ahead-of-bluestar-anniversary-92533
01-06-2020||Archit Watts||Alarm as locusts spotted near border||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 31The threat of locust invasion still looms large over the region as a swarm of 2x2 km attacked some villages in Gharsana block of Sriganganagar district in Rajasthan on Saturday. These villages — 3 MLD, 4 MLD, 7 MLD, 26 AS and 28 AS — are about 150 km from the Punjab-Rajasthan border.Jalour Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar, said, “Residents of the villages had timely informed the authorities. So the situation was controlled.”Notably, this is the second time in over a week when locusts have reached close to the Punjab border. Earlier, locusts had attacked Guluwala, Pilibanga areas of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan. However, due to the change in the wind direction, the locusts, too, had changed their direction.Notably, locusts can fly about 150-200 km daily and are very harmful to crops.The Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) has issued an advisory and stated that the movement had started because of rainfall in desert areas.Sources in the Agriculture Department said the primary threat was to areas of Fazilka, Muktsar and Bathinda districts, which are located close to Rajasthan. “At present, the locust swarms which entered India from Pakistan have caused losses in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Like Punjab, the governments of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are also on alert,” an official said.Threat looms largeLocusts can fly about 150-200 km daily. Sources in the state Agriculture Department say the primary threat is to some areas of Fazilka, Muktsar and Bathinda districts, which are located close to Rajasthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/alarm-as-locusts-spotted-near-border-92528
01-06-2020||---||127 LMT wheat procured despite curbs, untimely rain||Chandigarh, May 31One of the most successful operations affected during the lockdown — the procurement of wheat amid the Covid-19 pandemic — came to an end today, with Punjab once again establishing its reputation as the granary of India. More than 127 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat was procured this year.‘Food security intact’In difficult times, we managed to procure huge quantities of grain, which will keep the country’s food security intact.  Vishwajit Khanna, ACS, DevelopmentThe four state procurement agencies — Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup and Punjab State Warehousing Corporation — have procured the maximum amount of wheat (81.8 per cent) followed by the Food Corporation of India, which has procured 11.1 per cent of the total wheat that arrived in the state’s mandis. In all, Punjab witnessed an arrival of 127.62 LMT of wheat to date, of which 126.61 LMT has already been lifted.Though the procurement is less than what was initially targeted (135 LMT) due to the untimely rain in parts of Punjab just before harvesting, the efficient use of technology for the entire operation, which was spread over 45 days, is now a case study for management schools, including the Indian School of Business (ISB).“It is for the first time that right from harvesting of the crop to its arrival in the mandis, and from purchase to its lifting, everything was technology-driven. In such difficult times, we managed to procure huge quantities of grain, which will keep the country’s food security intact. Each farmer was issued e-tokens before he could bring his produce to the market, and 17.38 lakh such passes were issued throughout the procurement season,” Additional Chief Secretary, Development, Vishwajit Khanna, told The Tribune.Interestingly, private traders in Punjab have not participated much in wheat procurement this year. As against 1.75 LMT wheat produced by private traders in 2019, only 54,337 LMT of wheat was procured by them this year. The percentage share of their participation has dropped from 1.2 last year to just 0.4 this year.Last year, to date, 130.66 LMT of wheat had arrived in the mandis.Khanna said the reason for less arrival of wheat this year was not just the reduction in yield and shriveling of wheat in many places in Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, but also because this year, the government had not allowed any cross-border arrival of wheat in Punjab’s mandis. He said many farmers (having larger landholdings) had also held back higher amounts of wheat stocks for personal consumption because of the Covid-induced economic uncertainty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/127-lmt-wheat-procured-despite-curbs-untimely-rain-92529
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Wheat stock not lifted, relief sought||Fazilka, May 31The process of procurement of wheat came to an end today, but huge stocks of wheat have been lying in the open amid inclement weather at the Fazilka grain market for over two weeks.Market Committee sources said four procurement agencies — Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, Pungrain, Punsup and Markfed — had procured 94,077 metric tonnes of wheat from the Fazilka grain market alone, out of which 20,565 metric tonnes of wheat was yet to be lifted.Now, the Market Committee authorities have claimed demurrage from the government procurement agencies as wheat has not been lifted within the stipulated time of 72 hours.Sources said the Market Committee issued the notices of demurrage to the tune of Rs6,81,940 to Punsup, Rs6,03,200 to Pungrain and Rs5,25,700 to Markfed. The amount of demurrage, if any, to be imposed on the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation is yet to be calculated, said sources.Confirming the move, Fazilka District Mandi Officer Swaran Singh said a demurrage of 25 paisa per unit per day could be imposed on government procurement agencies.Initially, the stocks were not lifted due to the “shortage of space” in government godowns. Later, there was a dispute between commission agents and procurement agency officials over loss due to the shortage in wheat stock reported in the grain market. Notably, nearly 1 kg loss of wheat was reported from a wheat bag (50 kg) lying in the open.Notices issuedThe market committee in Fazilka has issued notices of demurrage to the tune of Rs6.82 lakh to Punsup, Rs6.03 lakh to Pungrain and Rs5.25 lakh to Markfed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-stock-not-lifted-relief-sought-92530
01-06-2020||---||Rice growers, labour unions in Punjab spar over wages||Faridkot, May 31After some labour unions fixed the rate for paddy transplantation at Rs5,000 per acre, four panchayats of Golewala village in Faridkot have passed resolutions to fix the rate at Rs3,200 instead.The panchayats have also announced to impose Rs50,000 as fine and initiate legal action against the farmers who violate the resolution.“We are forced to take this decision. In view of the shortage of migrant labour, paddy transplantation is emerging as a big challenge for farmers. In a mad race to engage the labourers, the farmers are offering higher wages per acre for paddy transplantation,” said Manpreet Singh Brar, one of the four sarpanches.“Offering Rs5,000 per acre for paddy transplantation is not economically viable for farmers. We have decided a uniform rate, applicable to all farmers,” said Naseeb Singh, another sarpanch.However, the labourers and labour outfits have termed the resolutions illegal and demanded legal action against the panchayats.“Capping the maximum labour rate is an illegal act and will cause bitterness among labourers and farmers. As labourers are worst affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown, forcing them to transplant the paddy at a fixed rate has no legal and social sanctity,” said Lachhman Singh Sewewala, general secretary, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union.The transplantation of paddy saplings is a manual job and most of the farmers rely on labourers for the work. Till last year, farmers were paying Rs2,200 to Rs2,500 per acre for paddy transplantation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rice-growers-labour-unions-in-punjab-spar-over-wages-92526
01-06-2020||---||Ludhiana company owner held in paddy seed scandal||Chandigarh, May 31The Punjab Police on Sunday busted the paddy seed scam with the arrest of a private firm’s owner found selling spurious seed to farmers at exorbitant rates by touting them as some newly developed varieties of seeds, which have still not been certified by the Central Seed Notified Committee for commercial marketing.The private firm has been identified as Ludhiana-based Brar Seeds, owned by Harwinder Singh (56), alias Kaka Brar, who has been arrested by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Ludhiana Police, said DGP Dinkar Gupta. The licence of the store, located opposite the PAU gate no. 1, has been cancelled and the premises have been sealed.Kaka Brar is being questioned and investigations are expected to lead to more arrests in the case (FIR no. 116 dated May 11, 2020, under Sections 2, 3 and 7 of the EC Act and Section 3 of the Seed Control Act), the DGP said. The case was registered after Ludhiana Chief Agriculture Officer Narinder Singh Benipal checked the Brar Seeds store and suspected misdeeds.Ludhiana Commissioner of Police Rakesh Aggarwal said the SIT was formed led by a senior officer of the rank of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, to investigate the case. The Chief Agriculture Officer was included in the team as a technical expert.During extensive raids carried out by the SIT, a huge stock of seed was seized from the Brar Seed store, and samples were sent to the Agriculture Department laboratory for analysis. The analysis brought out that some of the seeds were spurious, Aggarwal said.Initial investigations show that Brar was using the names (PR 128 and PR 129) of the new paddy varieties developed by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to cheat farmers by selling spurious seeds branded as such. Incidentally, the PAU is yet to commercially produce the seeds, which have not been supplied to any private company.Following the arrest and seizure of the spurious seeds, the district administration, accompanied by police and Agriculture Department officials, carried out checking of shops selling seeds in Ludhiana, and also took samples of the seeds being sold. These samples have been sent for laboratory checks.The district police have also issued helpline numbers 91156-01160 and 91156-01161 for farmers to complain about over-charging by seed shops and any suspicion regarding the quality of seed and fertilisers.Fake brandingInitial investigations show that Brar Seeds owner Harwinder Singh was selling spurious seeds to farmers by branding these as new paddy varieties developed by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-company-owner-held-in-paddy-seed-scandal-92555
01-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Slump in job market leaves final year students jittery||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 31Students who are graduating from most colleges and universities across the region this year are a bit disillusioned as campus placements have been hit by the lockdown.Most of the sectors, including hospitality, tourism, civil, automobile and textile engineering, have been affected by the lockdown. These sectors are unlikely to induct fresh recruits. Even some IT and electronics companies, which had completed placements in February and March, have put off the joining of the selected youth as of now. Manbir Singh, managing director of CT Institutes, said, “It is a nightmarish situation as far as placements are concerned. Most students are panicky, confused and need to be counselled. We have told them to wait and watch. Though we have been contacting the companies, the situation is quite grim. Our final year students of hotel management, who had been pinning high hopes, are the worst affected. Hotels have not opened yet. Even when these open, the capacity would be less than 50 per cent. So, most hotels won’t need additional staff this year”.Dr Rajiv Kukreja, head, Centre of Placement and Training, NIT, said, “Thankfully, students of some departments, including computer science, electronics & communication engineering and instrumentation & control engineering, had already completed 90 per cent placements by the second week of March when the lockdown started.”“The core branches, including mechanical, civil and textile engineering, have been affected. In general, all companies have delayed induction of new employees. However, the things might normalise to some extent by August. As far as the results of the final semester B Tech students are concerned, these will be declared in the first week of June. From our end, they will be free to join their new jobs,” he said. Kiran Choudhary, training and placement officer, DAV University, however, seemed quite positive, “Thankfully, we had an on-job training policy for our students. Our 90 per cent students have been placed and are unlikely to face any problem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slump-in-job-market-leaves-final-year-students-jittery-92556
01-06-2020||---||7 of Ludhiana family among 30 +ve in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 31With another death due to Covid-19 in Pathankot, the total number of casualties in the state has risen to 45. Besides, one patient is critical in Ludhiana and is on a ventilator, while two others are on oxygen support.As per health officials, the latest victim was identified as Inderpal Singh (50). He hailed from Mirpur Colony in Pathankot. He reported at the local Civil Hospital with some respiratory problem. “He was also a diabetic. Since he was showing symptoms of Covid, we took his samples and asked him to home quarantine himself. His test later turned positive,” said Pathankot Senior Medical Officer Dr Bhupinder Singh.Meanwhile, 30 fresh cases were reported today, which took the state’s count to 2,263.As per the media bulletin, Ludhiana reported nine cases, Ropar eight, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur four each, Amritsar three and Moga and Barnala one each.Among Ludhiana patients, seven are family members of 53-year-old resident of Chowni Mohalla, who died at DMCH yesterday. The other two are undertrials — one 34-year-old, who was booked in a murder bid case, and the other, an 18-year-old from Gurdaspur facing murder charge. Both of them were at Borstal jail, which is a special quarantine facility for state prisoners.Among the Jalandhar patients are a 38-year-old woman and her 15-year-old son of Dalla village. They had come in contact with a previously positive patient.In Amritsar, the health authorities said two of the three new positive cases are residents of Mehta village who had returned from the UK recently. The third patient is from the Park Avenue area, who has influenza-like illness.After the release of the government bulletin, Fazilka reported two fresh cases after remaining Covid-free for nearly 10 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-of-ludhiana-family-among-30-ve-in-punjab-92537
01-06-2020||---||Now, no restriction on interstate travel in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 31Before allowing the opening of religious places, malls and restaurants from June 8, the state government will make an on-ground assessment and issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for these places outside containment zones.Experts have advised the state authorities against the opening of the hospitality industry and malls at this juncture, when the fear of community spread is looming large over the state.The movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities in Punjab, would remain restricted during the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am. However, all type of shops would be allowed to remain open from 7 am to 7 pm and liquor vends from 8 am to 8 pm.Following Centre’s guidelines on lockdown 5, the state government, in detailed guidelines issued on Sunday, stated there would be no restriction on interstate movement of persons by train, road or rail, subject to the passengers following SOPs of the Health Department and getting self-generated e-passes through the Punjab COVA app.Effective from June 1 to June 30, the guidelines for interstate movement of passenger vehicles would be permitted against self-generated e-pass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-no-restriction-on-interstate-travel-in-punjab-92538
01-06-2020||Arun Sharma||Summer migration now a norm for parched Changar residents||Tribune News ServiceRopar, May 31As the lift irrigation project here is in limbo, a large number of residents of nearly two dozen villages in Changar area have once again left their homes with their cattle. In the absence of water supply, people belonging to Lakher, Samlah, Paharpur, Kahiwal, Harwali and Jindwari villages have to stay in the open with their cattle on the banks of Sutlej near Anandpur Sahib, every year.‘Ponds dry up’As ponds and wells go dry during the summer and the water supply is insufficient even for our household chores, we have no option but to shift to other areas. The work on lift irrigation was started in July last year. It was stopped in November and nobody knows when it will be restarted. — Sucha Ram, villagerVillagers of Paharpur, Samlah, Lakher, Kahiwal, Dhanera, Jindwari, Tapparian and Harwali said with the onset of summer every year, they had no option, but to migrate, along with their cattle, nearly 10 km away to the banks of the Sutlej near Anandpur Sahib.As selling milk is their only source of livelihood, every family keeps a dozen cattleheads, which require a large quantity of water during summer for drinking and bathing. Moreover, in the absence of irrigation facilities in the sub-mountainous area, no fodder was available, they said.Ganga Ram from Lakher village, who shifted to near Lodhipur, said he had been coming to the plains with cattle since childhood. As successive governments had failed in providing proper water supply to the area, they were continuing with the process to date.Sucha Ram, who has also shifted at the same place, said: “As ponds and wells in the area go dry during the summer and government drinking water supply is insufficient even for our household chores, we have to shift to other areas. Though work on lift irrigation was started in July last year after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh laid its foundation, it was stopped in November and nobody knows when it would be restarted.”On January 24, 2019, while laying the foundation stone for the Rs9.52 crore lift irrigation project, Capt Amarinder Singh had stated it would be completed in nine phases and the first phase had been initiated.When contacted, Irrigation Department Sub-divisional officer Jobanpreet Singh said work on the project was suspended when the Union Ministry of Forest objected to laying the pipeline in an area under the Punjab Land Preservation Act.He said the ministry insisted that the Irrigation Department first handover the same size of land to the Forest Department at some other place and get it notified as protected forest area.The SDO said the Irrigation Department had already handed over the required land to the Forest Department and it was expected that soon it would be notified as protected forest land so that a no-objection certificate (NOC) to start work on the lift irrigation scheme could be issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/summer-migration-now-a-norm-for-parched-changar-residents-92527
01-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||In Sangrur, special care for 8-day-old patient||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 31The Health Department has been on its toes ever since an eight-day-old girl, who has tested positive for Covid-19, was admitted to the isolation centre in the district’s Ghabdan village. She was admitted on May 28.Apart from taking care of the baby, the authorities have been working hard to provide her mother, who has tested negative, with the best facilities. She has to stay with her daughter all the time to feed her. The girl was born on May 23 at the Malerkotla civil hospital. After an ASHA worker posted here tested positive for the virus on May 25, doctors sent collected the samples of all her contacts and the baby girl, who was five days old then. Her test report came on May 28. Doctors have put the girl, her mother and the Asha worker in a separate room.Dr Baljeet Singh, Senior Medical Officer at the Civil Hospital, said: “We have made special diet arrangements for the mother as she needs more milk and other nutrients than other patients. The good news is the baby is asymptomatic and healthy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sangrur-special-care-for-8-day-old-patient-92534
