01-12-2020||Chandigarh||14 more coronavirus deaths, 630 new cases in Punjab||Fourteen more deaths due to the coronavirus pushed the toll to 4,821 in Punjab while 630 new cases brought the infection count to 1,52,709 on Tuesday, according to a medical bulletin.Four deaths linked to COVID-19 were reported from Jalandhar, three from Mohali, two from Muktsar and one each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Patiala and Rupnagar, the bulletin said.The state has 7,634 active COVID-19 cases, as of now, according to the bulletin.Among fresh COVID-19 cases, Mohali reported 129, followed by 118 in Ludhiana and 85 in Jalandhar.A total of 812 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 1,40,254, according to the bulletin.Thirteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 147 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 32,08,209 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. --- PTI
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature hovers above normal at most places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperature again settled above normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 9 degrees Celsius, up one notch against normal limits, according to the meteorological department here.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius, while Karnal recorded a low of 9 degrees Celsius.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Ludhiana recorded a low of 9.2 degrees Celsius, while Patiala’s minimum also settled at 9.2 degrees Celsius. — PTI
01-12-2020||Sonipat (Haryana)||Farmers' protest: Determined women from Punjab brave chill on roads||Braving the plummeting temperatures and sleeping in the open, many of them with their children, women from different parts of Punjab have assembled along with thousands of male farmers at Delhi's borders to take on the Centre against its new farm laws.Around 15,000 women including the elderly have joined the farmers' agitation against the Centre's agriculture-related laws, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh said on Tuesday.“Women are giving their immense support to the ongoing agitation against the farm laws,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Harinder Kaur Bindu said over the phone.A large number of women have stayed put at the Tikri border in Haryana near West Delhi. Away from their homes, the women are determined to accomplish their aim of getting the “black laws” scrapped, they said.“We are not bothered about the cold weather conditions,” said 40-year-old Paramjit Kaur who came all the way from Bathinda to participate in the agitation."We tell our fellow protesters that it's going to be a long battle, and they should stay put," she said.The women are actively participating in the agitation and raise their voice against the farm laws when the stage is set up at a particular place on the road.“Many women are good speakers, and they share their opinions on the recently passed farm laws by the Centre,” said Bindu.On the makeshift stage, the protesting women also sing 'boliyan' (folk songs of Punjab) and raise slogans against the BJP-led central government for enacting what they describe as “anti-farmer” laws.They help in creating awareness about the alleged “ill-effects” of the laws on the farming community, said Bindu.At the protest spot, the women also carry out chores such as cooking food and washing clothes.         They sleep in their tractor-trolleys which have been turned into temporary shelters by the farmers.Some women protesters have also brought their children to the agitation. The kids have brought their text books along so that their studies dont suffer, Bindu said.The women said residents of nearby villages in Haryana are allowing them to use their bathrooms and also provide hot water for baths.“We are getting immense support from the villagers of Haryana. They are providing us vegetables, fruit, milk, curd, drinking water and even blankets,” said Bindu.Some residents of Haryana are also running 'langars' or community kitchens for the protesters, they said. The Haryana villagers have also arranged facilities for the protesters to charge their mobile phones.        Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday, protesting against the new farm laws which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and leave them at the "mercy" of big corporates. PTI
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder accuses AAP of ‘double standards’ over controversial agriculture laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over what he says is their “shocking double standards” on farmers’ protests and accused them of “completely exposing themselves” by implementing the controversial agriculture laws.“Even as AAP was claiming to be supporting the agitating farmers, the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had brazenly executed the black laws through a gazette notification on November 23, 2020,” a press note from the chief minister said on Tuesday.“Quite clearly, AAP had been working behind the farmers’ backs all these days. Do they have no shame,” he said, giving his government’s example of having passed amendments to negate the effects of the Centre’s laws. “First they failed to pass any amendment laws in the Delhi Assembly to negate the central laws, as was done in Punjab. And now they have gone so far as to officially notify the agricultural legislations in Delhi, where AAP is in power. The party’s true intent and affiliation has been utterly exposed,” he said.Amarinder Singh’s Congress and AAP are rivals in Punjab, the state in which the protests against the central government’s agriculture laws have been chiefly centred.
01-12-2020||Bathinda||Hashtags in support of farmers' protests trends; Kangana Ranaut, Mukesh Khanna face backlash||Hashtags in support of farmers' protest have been trending on social media for days. Bharti Kisan Union (BKU)-Ekta Ugrahan on Tuesday morning took to their Facebook account, and appealed to trend with "#Freefarmersfromcoporates".BKU wrote in Punjabi: "ਸੋਸ਼ਲ ਮੀਡੀਆ ਉੱਤੇ ਤਰ੍ਹਾਂ ਤਰ੍ਹਾਂ ਦੇ ਹੈਸ਼ਟੈਗ ਟ੍ਰੈਂਡ ਕਰ ਰਹੇ ਹਨ। ਜੋ ਕਿ ਬਹੁਤ ਚੰਗੀ ਗੱਲ ਹੈ । ਚੰਗਾ ਹੋਵੇ ਕਿ ਇਨ੍ਹਾਂ ਹੈਸ਼ਟੈਗ ਵਿਚ ਸਾਡਾ ਨਿਸ਼ਾਨਾ ਹੋਰ ਵੀ ਸਪਸ਼ਟ ਹੋਵੇ ।ਕਾਰਪੋਰੇਟ ਤੇ ਸੱਟ ਮਾਰੋ ਅਤੇ ਦਨੀਆ ਭਰ ਦੇ ਕਿਰਤੀਆਂ ਨੂੰ ਨਾਲ ਲਵੋ । ਸੋ ਬਾਕੀ ਸਾਰੇ ਹੈਸ਼ ਟੈਗ ਦੇ ਨਾਲ ਨਾਲ ਇਹ ਹੈਸ਼ਟੈਗ ਵੀ ਟ੍ਰੈਂਡ ਕਰਵਾਓ .Free Farmers From Corporates. (Various hashtags are trending on social media. That's a good thing. It would be good if our purpose in these hashtags is even clearer. Hit the corporate and take the workers from all over the world along. So get this hashtag trending along with all the other hashtags Free Farmers From Corporates)," read the caption.ਸੋਸ਼ਲ ਮੀਡੀਆ ਉੱਤੇ ਤਰ੍ਹਾਂ ਤਰ੍ਹਾਂ ਦੇ ਹੈਸ਼ਟੈਗ ਟ੍ਰੈਂਡ ਕਰ ਰਹੇ ਹਨ। ਜੋ ਕਿ ਬਹੁਤ ਚੰਗੀ ਗੱਲ ਹੈ । ਚੰਗਾ ਹੋਵੇ ਕਿ ਇਨ੍ਹਾਂ ਹੈਸ਼ਟੈਗ ਵਿਚ ਸਾਡਾ...Netizens have been constantly posting updates from protest sites of Delhi borders. They have been sharing interviews of leaders, protestors, and giving development of farmers' protests.Over the last two days, Facebook has become the medium of choice to issue appeals for any pro-farmer. Since "attacks against the Punjabi farmers' agitation that are coming mainly through tweets" they appealed to shift to Twitter as well.B-town celebs Kangana Ranaut and Mukesh Khanna—who tweeted against the farmers' protest—have faced severe backlash.Besides this, Kisan Unions are receiving quite the attraction on social media.In the month of September, BKU Ekta Ugrahan had around 58k followers, and about 45k people had liked their page, but now, it has 1.15 lakh followers and 81.5k page likes.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee's followers count has also increased from 67k to 59k by September end. Similarly, BKU Sidhupur page followers have hiked to 26.5K from 22K.Despite this, Punjabi singer Jazzy B and Amarinder Gill have appealed to their fans to come out in support of farmers fight with hashtags on social media.While thousands of farmers took to the streets, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP)—from their verified Twitter account— shared a clip of nameless farmers talking about the benefits of the new agriculture laws.Farm unions claim that social media is needed for public outreach.Moreover, netizens are using this platform to counter the negative narratives being run in the national media.
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest: Several Punjab ex-
sportspersons to return awards||Several former sportspersons including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees have extended their support to the agitating farmers and said they will return their awards in protest against the "force" used against the peasants' en route to Delhi.Among them are Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur.They said they will proceed to Delhi on December 5 and will place their awards outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan.They slammed the Centre and Haryana government for using water cannons and teargas against the protesting farmers to stop them from going to Delhi."We are the children of farmers, and they have been holding peaceful agitation for the last several months. Not even a single incident of violence took place."But water cannons and teargas shells were used against them when they were going to Delhi. If turbans of our elders and brothers are tossed, then what will we do with our awards and honour? We are in support of our farmers. We do not want such awards and that is why we are returning the same," said Cheema on Tuesday.Farmers had faced water cannons and teargas when they were heading towards the national capital as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' march against the farm laws.Singh said several former players will go to Delhi on December 5 and will return their awards."If farmers do not want such laws, then why the central government was imposing on them," asked Singh, who has retired as Inspector General in the Punjab Police.He further said that former players would also join farmers' stir at the Delhi borders on December 5.Singh said they are also trying to contact former players in Haryana for coming out in support of farmers' agitation.Cheema said several former players including Kaur and Arjuna awardee (shotput) Balwinder Singh have backed them.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. — PTI
01-12-2020||Washington||Biden and Harris greet Sikhs on Guru Nanak anniversary||US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris have greeted the Sikh community on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, emphasising that the timeless and universal message of compassion and unity from the founder of Sikhism can inspire and help Americans heal as people and as a nation.In a joint statement issued by the offices of Biden and Harris, the two leaders said for more than five centuries, Guru Nanak’s teachings on spiritual enlightenment, service to humanity and moral integrity have endured and embodied each day by Sikhs in America and around the world.“For more than five centuries, Guru Nanak’s teachings on spiritual enlightenment, service to humanity, and moral integrity have endured and are embodied each day by Sikhs in America and around the world, as we have seen during this challenging year,” Biden and Harris said.“We are grateful to all of the Sikh Americans who continue to stand by their neighbours as essential workers of the pandemic, and who open their hearts and community kitchens in their gurdwaras to prepare, serve, and deliver countless meals for people most in need,” they said.The two top Democratic leaders said Sikhs had always stood for gender equality.“And during the summer of protest, we saw Sikhs of all ages marching peacefully for racial and gender equality, religious pluralism, and fidelity to truth and justice — core tenets of the Sikh faith and central to who we all are as Americans,” Biden and Harris said in their joint statement.In a separate tweet, Harris also said Guru Nanak’s message should be used to inspire and help people as a nation.“Let us use Guru Nanak’s timeless message of compassion and unity to inspire and help us heal as a nation,” she said.“To our Sikh friends across the US and around the world, Biden and I send our warmest wishes as you observe the anniversary of the birth of Guru Nanak Dev Ji,” she said hours after she and the president-elect issued a joint statement on the occasion.Biden and Harris were joined by over a dozen influential lawmakers and eminent Indian-Americans to greet the Sikh community on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.For 551 years, Sikhs have celebrated Guru Nanak’s birth on this day, said Senator Pat Toomey.“Happy Gurupurb to all in Pennsylvania’s vibrant Sikh community and Sikhs around the world. While the celebration may be different this year, the ability to appreciate Guru Nanak’s teachings remain unchanged,” Toomey said.“As a proud member of the Congressional Sikh Caucus, I’m sending my warmest wishes to everyone celebrating the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the founder of the Sikh faith,” Toomey said.Congressman Josh Gottheimer said: “To our Sikh neighbours across PA-05 and across the world, we send our warmest wishes as you observe the 551st anniversary of the birth of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the founder of the Sikh faith”.India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu also greeted the Sikh community on the occasion.“Greetings to all on the occasion of 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev ji!” Sandhu tweeted.Ravinder S Bhalla, Mayor of Hoboken in New Jersey and also the only Sikh mayor in the US, said: “Today, Sikhs around the world are marking the Gurpurab of the birth anniversary of its founder, Guru Nanak Dev Ji”.Eminent Indian-American from Indiana, Gurinder Singh Khalsa, said Guru Nanak’s message of equality of gender and race, freedom of faith and message of honest living by sharing the blessing and abundance with fellow beings was never more relevant than now.“Wishing my fellow 30 million Sikhs across the globe celebrating Gurupurb,” Khalsa said.Congressman Greg Stanton in a tweet extended his wishes to Sikh community, saying Guru Nanak’s teachings of peace, equality, tolerance and service are extremely important.Congresswoman Dina Titus said: “Today is the Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of the Sikh religion. I am committed to educating citizens about the many contributions of Sikh Americans in our community and the value of religious diversity. Sat Sri Akaal!”.The New York Police Department’s Chaplains Unit also sent its greetings.“We wish our brothers and sisters of the Sikh Faith a Happy #Gurpurab. As we celebrate the 551st Anniversary of the birth of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, may we strive to emulate his ideals of peace, love and service to all,” it said.“Happy Gurpurab! While celebrations won’t be the same this year, let’s do all we can to work towards a more equal and just society!” tweeted New Jersey’s Attorney General Gurbir S Grewal, he is the first Sikh in the US to occupy this position.“As we grapple with the global pandemic, let us remember the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, founder of Sikhism, and his message of unity, compassion, and peace. May his vision of a more just world continue to inspire us on his 551st birth anniversary,” said New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy. PTI
01-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||BCCI board secy visits International Cricket Stadium in Mullanpur||Tribune News ServiceMullanpur (Mohali), December 1In a low-key affair, Jay Shah, secretary, Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), visited the new International Cricket Stadium in Mullanpur on Tuesday.Rajinder Gupta, president, Punjab Cricket Association (PCA), and secretary Puneet Bali accompanied him on the tour of the under-construction stadium.Shah’s visit was a low-key affair considering the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Earlier on Monday evening, he had visited the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium in Chandigarh, which is under the UT Sports Department.He interacted with UTCA president Sanjay Tandon along with other officials.He was also scheduled to visit UTCA’s another ground — Mahajan Cricket Ground — on Tuesday morning. However, he failed to turn up at the venue and kept the media waiting.A UTCA spokesperson said his visit to MCG was tentative.Meanwhile, Shah’s visit was kept a secret by the state associations (PCA and UTCA), which usually awaits such opportunities to gain publicity.Sources claimed that the BCCI secretary visited these stadiums in order to see the possibility of creating a bio-bubble for conducting tournaments here from January 2021.“Various discussions were held with the stakeholders and suggestions were welcomed by the BCCI secretary.  The associations were aware of Shah’s visit but everyone was asked to keep it a low affair which is the reason the media or other office bearers were not involved,” said a source.
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers' body refuses to attend meeting with Centre||Punjab-based farmers' body Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Tuesday refused to participate in a meeting called by the Centre over the farm laws, demanding that representatives of all farmer unions be invited for talks.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday had invited leaders of farmer unions for talks on Tuesday, instead of December 3, citing the COVID-19 pandemic and cold.Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new agri laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and corporatise farming.KMSC is one of the 32 Punjab farmers' bodies invited for talks with the Centre."A committee of several farmers' bodies has not been invited, and moreover, the prime minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting," KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said.Pandher accused the government of trying to divide the protesting farmers by not inviting all the farmer unions."If 32 Punjab-based farmers' bodies have been invited, a committee representing around 500 farmers' organisations is also there which should have also been invited," he said."By not inviting all farmers’ bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab, which could be the conspiracy of the Centre," he claimed.Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, "He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM." PTI
01-12-2020||New Delhi||Special prayers held at gurdwaras in Delhi for success of farmers' protest||Special prayers were held at all gurdwaras in the national capital on Tuesday morning for success of the ongoing farmers' protest against the new farm laws, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said.The 'ardas' was held at all the gurdwaras for fulfilment of the demands of the protesting farmers, Sirsa said."The DSGMC also condemns those, including the BJP leaders, who are alleging that the protesting farmers are Khalistanis and terrorists," he said after attending a prayer at the Bangla Sahib gurdwara."A farmer received information of his soldier son's death in Kashmir while staging the protest. Can such people be called terrorists?" Sirsa asked.Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued for the sixth day at the Singhu and Tikri borders.The farmers, who on Sunday had announced that they would block five points of entry into Delhi in coming days while rejecting the Centre's offer to hold talks once they move to the Burari ground, said they had come for a decisive battle and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to listen to their "mann ki baat". PTI
01-12-2020||New Delhi||Govt will reach a solution after discussing their issues, Tomar says before meeting farmers||The government on Tuesday expressed confidence that it would reach a solution after discussing issues raised by protesting farmers, as a meeting got under way between union ministers and representatives of over 30 farmer organisations.For the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by Railways and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab."We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let's see," Tomar told reporters as he arrived for the meeting.He said the government would arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations.Hours before the meeting, Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Tomar and Goyal, along with BJP chief JP Nadda, held marathon discussions over the farmers' protest against the Centre's new agriculture reform laws.Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday's violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday.The opposition parties, too, stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to "respect the democratic struggle" of the farmers and repeal the laws.The farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. PTIAlso read: Farmer unions to meet separately to decide further course of actionIf agri laws favour farmers, why are they angry: RahulFarmers won’t budge, stay put at borders36 farmer leaders head to Delhi venue to hold talks with CentreShed arrogance, give justice to farmers: Rahul to govt
01-12-2020||New Delhi||36 farmer leaders reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with Centre||Even as thousands of farmers continued to rally on the Delhi borders, their leaders agreed to hold parleys with the Centre regarding their demands here on Tuesday afternoon. A group of 36 farmer leaders has reached the Vigyan Bhawan here.Of the 36 farmer union leaders, 30 hail from Punjab and remaining six owe allegiance to Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and other farmer organisations from Haryana and other places.The leaders and representatives of farmers' unions decided to accept the central government's invitation to hold talks after a three-hour-long meeting at the Singhu entry point on the Delhi-Ambala route.The group will discuss with the central government their demands, including rollback of three farm laws enacted in September.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, who was among those reaching Vigyan Bhavan, told IANS: "We have accepted the government's invitation. A group of 36 farmer union leaders, including those from Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, is now heading to the venue. The decision was taken at our meeting."The farmer leaders held a meeting around 10 am on Tuesday to decide their response to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's invitation for talks a day earlier. The meeting concluded at 1 pm.Before the farmers took the decision to hold talks with the government, a high-level ministerial committee meeting, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, was held at BJP President JP Nadda's residence here. The meeting was also attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Agriculture Minister, and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at the Delhi borders since November 26.Currently, these farmers are staying put at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders on the Delhi-Ambala, Delhi-Hisar and Delhi-Ghaziabad routes respectively, demanding repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September.Tomar, in a late Monday evening decision, had invited farmer leaders for talks on their demands on Tuesday. A meeting was earlier scheduled to be held between the two sides on December 3. IANS
01-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Langar for 1 lakh farmers flagged off from gurdwara in Sahnewal||Sahnewal, November 30The kaar sewa jatha of Gurdwara Langar Sahib Nanded Baba Narinder Singh along with Jathedar Major Singh and ‘sangat’ today flagged off langar for around one lakh farmers protesting against farm laws at Kundali point. The Langar Sahib is regularly supplying langar to the farmers there.Baba Narinder Singh said, “We have got a golden opportunity to help our brethren in this hour of need and it is at this moment of time that the philosophy of Nanak which exemplifies ‘vand chhako’ (sharing with the less fortunate) can be exemplified in the truest of its spirit. We make it a point to supply sufficient food in one go in one particular area so that we can move to the other the next day. In this manner we will cover maximum number of farmers in a short period of time.”He further expressed, “Our duty as the kaar sewa jatha is to provide langar. The governments should be considerate enough to at least lend a patient ear to what the farmers have been pleading for since days together. We salute our farmers who despite adverse weather conditions have refused to relent.”Baba Major Singh, kaar sewa incharge, Sahnewal, said: “Today, we are supplying langar to one lakh farmers from our kaar sewa spots as Sahnewal, Jalandhar and Karnal. Apart from this, a permanent langar shall be arranged at these spots by collecting milk and other necessary items of daily use from the surrounding villages.”“Now when our farming community needs our services, it is our moral duty to come to their aid. We have deployed a large number of sangat to prepare food daily,” shared Baba Major Singh.
01-12-2020||---||Sukhpal Khaira urges all non-BJP leaders to support farmers||Jalandhar, November 30Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira on Monday called upon all non-BJP MLAs and MPs to come forward and support the agitating farmers, who are being severely victimised by the Central Government.Khaira said he was aware of the fact that the farmer organisations had stopped political leaders from interfering in their agitation but that did not mean that the elected representatives of Punjab should remain mute spectators to the gross exploitation of farmers. Khaira said it was their moral duty to support and sustain the protests in Delhi for the genuine legitimate demands of the farmers.Khaira said the way both the BJP governments at the Centre and in Haryana used harsh methods like water cannons, tear gas shells, heavy barricading etc, it only showed their undemocratic attitude and hatred for the farmers and Punjab. Khaira applauded the brave farmers and the youth of Punjab who by sheer will-power had managed to defy all impediments and reach Delhi and that too peacefully.Khaira said the BJP government was treating the farmers with contempt as if they were enemies of the country despite the fact that the Punjabis have immensely contributed towards the inclusive development of the country since Independence. They have not only made India self-sufficient in food grain production but also defended the borders by laying down their lives. Unfortunately instead of rewarding the brave farmers, the BJP has turned revengeful and is inflicting cruelty upon them, said Khaira.Khaira said it was the need of the hour for all elected representatives of Punjab, including MLAs and MPs, to come to the rescue of the rotesting farmers. He urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to convene an urgent all-party meeting to plan an indefinite protest in Delhi by elected representatives, in order to build pressure on the Central Government to accept the legitimate demands of the farmers. Khaira said it was the moral duty of all elected representatives of Punjab not only to safeguard interests of farmers but also oppose the undeclared emergency imposed by the BJP government.
01-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Open Kartarpur corridor: Amarinder||Tribune News ServiceSultanpur Lodhi, November 30The Centre should open the Indian side of the Kartarpur corridor, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh said today. He was speaking on the sidelines of the 551st Parkash Purb celebrations here. “I don’t know why the Centre is not opening the Kartarpur corridor. I can’t say if it has anything to do with Covid. However, now that everything has been reopened and Pakistan has opened its side of the corridor, India should do likewise,” he emphasised.Says Guv sitting on farm Bills, has no business doing soOn PM Narendra Modi continuing to insist the recent three farm laws would benefit the farmers, Captain said, “The PM has been maintaining this stand from the very beginning. That is why we passed Bills in the Assembly to subvert the central laws. But the Governor is sitting on these Bills. He has no business doing so. The Bills are lying in Raj Bhavan whereas his job is to send these to the President.”On the standoff between the Centre and farmers, he replied, “I would like it to end. Farmers across the country, including Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand, are agitating. Why does the government not listen to them?” Asked if his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar had stopped the farmers at the Centre’s behest, he said: “I don’t know what Khattar is doing. He is talking rubbish and making unnecessary statements”.Capt Amarinder Singh, who was accompanied by his wife Preneet Kaur, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, paid obeisance at Gurdwara Ber Sahib in Sultanpur Lodhi.The CM later visited a government school where he laid the foundation stone for six projects to be completed at a cost of Rs 40.75 crore.
01-12-2020||Amritsar||551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev celebrated||A sea of devotees thronged the Golden Temple to pay obeisance on the occasion of 551st Parkash Purb of the founder of the Sikhism, Guru Nanak Dev, which was celebrated with traditional fervour and gaiety on Monday. Sangat also took a dip in holy sarovar.They listened to the Gurbani and had darshan of ‘Jalaun’ (show of splendor) at the sanctum sanctorum, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai.On this occasion, bhog of the Akhand Path was performed at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall and Ragi Jatha rendered the Gurbani kirtan.At night, entire Golden Temple complex was illuminated with beautiful lighting and a firecracker display was also carried out.3 women officers took charge of celebrationsThree women officers, who occupy key posts in the district administration, had on Monday taken the charge of the conduct of 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak at the holy town of Sultanpur Lodhi.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur and SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Charumita along with a team of officers had done all the planning of security, traffic, crowd management, drinking water facilities, washroom and other basic amenities for more than 4 lakh devotees during the event.For the last 10 days, they were in the field constantly monitoring the arrangements in the pandemic days. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, a 2011-batch IAS officer, said, “This time, we are facing an unprecedented health crisis in the form of Covid. There was an uphill challenge to ensure strict adherence to protocols during the massive congregation here.”She said 50,000 masks were distributed during the event and 50 hand-wash kiosks and sanitisation points were set up to prevent the spread. Besides, testing was also carried out vigorously.SSP Kanwardeep Kaur, a 2013-batch IPS officer, who recently joined Kapurthala, said that more than 2,000 cops were deployed to keep round the clock vigil. Also, CCTV cameras were installed as special checking teams were also formed. She said that for the traffic management, six parking lots were set up on all the roads leading to Sultanpur Lodhi for devotees.SDM Charumita, a 2013-batch PCS officer, who was a key member of the team constituted for the events, said ensuring cleanliness was one of the biggest task amid heavy footfall and task was managed with the help of more than 550 safai sewaks from adjoining Municipal Councils like Adampur, Bhogpur, Shahkot, Nakodar, Tanda, Dasuya, Nadala and others. She said that 20 swimmers were also deployed around holy Bein to avert any mishap.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday laid foundation stones of six projects to be completed at a cost of nearly Rs40.75 crore. Listing some other projects that had been announced and completed at Sultanpur Lodhi, the CM said the beautification of the holy Bein was done at a cost of Rs10.8 crore, while Guru Nanak Dev Centre for Invention, Innovation, Incubation & Training had been set up at a cost of Rs319 crore. “The Bebe Nanki College (girls) had been established in the area in this period and the widening and construction of six roads had been completed at Rs30.7 crore, along with upgradation of the railway station to facilitate followers and other travelers,” he added.For easy movement towards gurdwara Ber Sahib, three high-level bridges have been constructed on Bein at a cost of Rs9.30 crore, in addition to two overbridges at Rs1.4 crore and two pontoon bridges at Rs2 crore. The rest house had also been raised at a cost of Rs2.4 crore, while Rs6 crore was spent on upgradation of the bus stand, apart from setting up of 66 KV sub-station at a cost of Rs11 crore.He asked MLA Navtej Singh Cheema to submit a proposal regarding new development projects, if needed, in the region. Cheema urged the Chief Minister to grant funds for strengthening of basic amenities and infrastructure development in colonies adjoining the rail coach factory, where more than 25,000 people were residing.Farmers’ issues raisedThe Chief Minister stressed on disseminating the ideology and message of ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’ as envisioned by Guru Nanak Dev. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, Sunil Jakhar, and Khadoor Sahib MP, Jasbir Dimpa, took the opportunity to eulogise a strong stand of the CM on farmers’ issues.Head of Namdhari Sect Satguru Uday Singh said Punjabis had always been at forefront for the welfare of all sections of the society, which they had proven even during the pandemic crisis by extending all possible help to the needy, besides continuing langar to feed hapless people.
01-12-2020||
||Take on PM Modi, not Khattar: AAP to Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, November 30 The AAP today urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi instead of indulging in a slugfest with Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who had unleashed force against the farmers marching towards  Delhi against the three Central farm laws.  In a statement today, Punjab affairs in charge and Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh alleged the CM was playing second fiddle to the Union Government instead of supporting the farmers in this hour of crisis when they were fighting a battle against the Centre for their survival. Hitting out at Capt Amarinder Singh, Jarnail Singh questioned him as to what were the political compulsions that he had to “kneel before the Modi government”. He said the CM should clear the air over the issue.   Jarnail Singh said the need of the hour was that Amarinder Singh should exert pressure on Modi to accede to the demands of the farmers on a priority basis, adding that he had played “dubious role” in clearing the passage for the  three draconian laws. He said had the Captain government been strong enough to resist the implementation of the laws, the Modi government could not have pushed these. The AAP Punjab in charge further said if the NDA government did not backtrack on rolling back the controversial laws, Captain Amarinder should immediately pass a Bill to make the minimum support price (MSP) on all crops a statutory right of the farmers.
01-12-2020||Payal||Samrala village farmer dies in Haryana town||A Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) activist, who along with his other associates, at the Haryana-Delhi border in Bahadurgarh town during the “Delhi Chalo” march died on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.Gajjan Singh, 55, a resident of Khatran village in Samrala subdivision of Ludhiana, was taken to a private hospital after his health deteriorated. The doctors however declared him brought dead. The police had kept the body at Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh after informing his family members about the death. The exact reason behind the death is yet to be ascertained.Leaders of the BKU (Sidhupur) have alleged that the death was caused due to the excessive use of water canons by the Haryana Police.Declaring him a martyr, union leaders have demanded a compensation of Rs 20 lakh and job for Gajjjan Singh’s family, besides waiver of institutional and private loans. His family owns only 2.5 acres of land against which huge loans have been raised.Hardeep Singh Giaspura, block president BKU (Sidhupur) said Gajjan Singh had been feeling unwell after being shot by water cannons when their jatha was heading towards the Tikri border. “Though we had asked Gajjan Singh to return home he insisted on continuing participation in the morcha till the farm laws were withdrawn. He kept on motivating his fellow protesters till late evening on Sunday when we were asked to move towards Bahadurgarh,” said Giaspura.District President Balbir Singh Sidhupur said demanded compensation for other martyrs of the movement, including Dhanna Singh and Janak Raj who lost their lives during the Delhi march. — OC
01-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Lack of coordination among farm unions comes to the fore||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 30The lack of coordination and differences have started surfacing among the farmer unions of Punjab protesting against the three farm laws at the Delhi borders. Farmers under the three platforms — Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), a group of 30 farm organisations and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) — are protesting against the laws in the state.As a joint forum of 30 farm unions held a meeting for the future course of action at the Singhu border, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), the biggest farm union in Punjab, organised a separate meeting at the Tikri border in Delhi. KMSC is protesting at the Kundli border.Though all farm union agreed to clear the railway tracks in the state, farmers under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee are still squatting on the track at Jandiala Guru near Amritsar. It seems all three platforms are leading their protest separately and lack coordination.However, an effort was made today to resolve these differences. The group of 30 kisan unions today sent an invite to BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) to attend its meeting to decide on the future course of action, which the latter accepted.Talking to The Tribune over phone, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said: “These things do happen when you stage such a big agitation, there were issues pertaining to area where to stage the protest but now all issues have been resolved.” He said the group of 30 farm unions had sent them an invite and they would attend its meeting.First major differences between the farm unions appeared when the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) took the decision to stage a protest at interstate borders at Dabwali and Khanaori. Later, when its decision to stay back here instead of marching to Delhi was questioned, the union did a U-turn. Blaming other farm unions for not keeping them in the loop, it headed to Delhi.
01-12-2020||
||Abohar BJP MLA  faces ire of protesters||Muktsar, November 30  A large number of farmers gheraoed Abohar BJP MLA Arun Narang at Tarmala village in Lambi Assembly segment on Monday.  They said the Haryana Government had recently stopped farmers from moving towards Delhi thus they would not allow him to go to Sirsa. Later, Narang came out of his vehicle and sat with the agitating farmers. They asked him why he did not raise his voice at the Vidhan Sabha in their favour. On this, Narang assured them that he would appeal to the Centre to resolve the issue at the earliest. The MLA was allowed to move after almost half-an-hour. Notably, a BJP leader from Haryana had to come to Abohar today and the farmers had gathered there to gherao her to oppose the three farm laws. However, when Narang reached there while moving to Sirsa to attend a wedding function, they gheraoed him.
01-12-2020||Amritsar||PM’s adamant attitude not helping: KMSC||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) are continuing protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Refusing to budge, they continued their ‘rail roko’ protest near the Jandiala Guru railway track in Amritsar. Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the adamant attitude of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers had blocked the scope of holding talks to resolve the tussle over the farm laws.  Modi had tried to explain that the new Acts would be pro-farmer, but it was a verbal assurance that was devoid of any explanation that how this would bring reform in our lives, he said. — TNS
01-12-2020||
||Celebrities put spotlight on stir||Bathinda, November 30 Celebrities of Bollywood, Tollywood and cricketers have openly come out in support of the farmers staging a protest at the Delhi border. They are also condemning the use of force and water cannons on the agitating agrarians by the Haryana Police.    Navjot Singh Sidhu had tweeted: “Triumph of the Punjabi spirit. Kisan Morcha is democratic, pristine and non-violent. Any attempts by agencies to foil it will fail. Punjabiyat is our shield, universal brotherhood our philosophy and driving force!”    Harbhajan Singh had also voiced his feelings on Twitter: “The farmer is our food provider. We should give a little time to the food provider. Wouldn’t it be reasonable? Can’t we listen to them without a police confrontation? Please listen to the farmer. Jai Hind.”  Sonu Sood tweeted: “Kisan mera bhagwaan.” Rapper and singer Yo Yo Honey Singh posted on Twitter: “My prayers with farmers. Waheguru Meher karan!!” Veteran actress Simi Grewal had also posted a photo of farmers and stated she stood with them.  Punjabi Singer Ammy Virk had posted: “If you really love them, love farmers, love humanity, then plz do support farmers. Your each share is important. Retweet each tweet.”  Swara Bhaskar condemned the ML Khattar government of Haryana for using water cannons against farmers.    Artistes reach Tikri border Punjabi artistes Sidhu Moose Wala and Rupinder Handa on Monday reached the dharna spot on the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border and expressed their solidarity with the protesting farmers. Singers and actors Ranjit Bawa and Tarsem Jassar were seen helping various teams serve langar to the protesting farmers in Delhi. Singers Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema are camping with farmers at Delhi.
01-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Farmers learn social media skills to counter criticism||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 30Farmers are not only fighting against the Central farm laws on the ground, but in the virtual world as well and that too with equal success. They are using social media tools quite efficiently and have been able to neutralise attempts made online to defame them and their protest.“A majority of famers are illiterate, but we have trained them to go live, press like and share buttons on Facebook. We have 1.13 lakh followers on our FB page, of which 65,000 were added during the agitation. Whenever anyone tries to defame us, we post our message in our organisations’ WhatsApp group and farmers start going live. Within minutes, the message reaches all,” said Parminder Singh, who runs the Facebook page of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan).Like other organisations, the BKU (Ugrahan) has also set up a special social media team. Whenever there is a negative campaign against protesting farmers, the response goes viral from individual handles of farmers on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp groups. Farmers also go live to counter the narrative. This all is done without a laptop, but smart phones.“We are using Facebook and WhatsApp for the first time. We keep checking the updates even while we are listening to speeches of our leaders,” said Harjeet Singh, a farmer from Tikri border, over the phone.Farm organisations have created district- and state-level WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages where they constantly upload speeches of their leaders, news clippings and stories running on TV channels.“Whenever attempts are made to deride our agitation, the online reaction of farmers crushes such nefarious designs. Lakhs of farmers here and in Punjab are ready to give such more befitting replies,” says Manjit Gharachon, a leader of BKU Ugrahan from the Tikri border.Many more farmers are fast learning online skills. “I have learnt to use WhatsApp and YouTube and am now learning to use Facebook. It’s a great way to spread the word around make yourself heard,” says Niranjan Singh Dohla, state secretary, BKU (Rajewal) from the New Delhi border.
01-12-2020||---||AAP volunteers to rescue of ailing farmer in Delhi||Chandigarh, November 30An 85-year-old farmer from Udhoke village in Tarn Taran at the Kundli border developed severe chest pain yesterday evening, prompting AAP volunteers present there to contact the ambulance service deployed by the Delhi Government.He was rushed to a nearby hospital in Delhi. The timely help saved the life of the elderly farmer. Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh said the Delhi Government had provided a string of facilities, including medical teams, ambulances, langar, drinking water and makeshift toilets for protesting farmers.Meanwhile, SAD’s Gidderbaha constituency in charge Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon, who is co-owner of New Deep Transport, on Monday started a free bus service for farmers to Delhi so that they can join the protest. He said the bus would leave from Gidderbaha every alternate day.
01-12-2020||---||Rise in paddy procurement, govt worried||Chandigarh, November 30The state has procured 39.19 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of paddy, more than what the government had purchased last year. By this standard, paddy purchased is also 25 LMT more than the initially estimated production.As the procurement season ended today, more than the jubilation over the high paddy production, the government is concerned over the steep rise in the paddy procurement and how to justify it while settling the accounts with the Centre. The amount paid for buying this surplus paddy is Rs 739 crore.Data available with The Tribune shows that against the estimated paddy production of 176 LMT, of which 164 LMT that was to come to the mandis as marketable surplus, 200.75 LMT of paddy has been procured by government agencies. Other than this, the private agencies have also procured 1.18 LMT of paddy.Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, maintains that this year the weather was conducive and the yield has been high. But the yield cannot be higher than 10 per cent, which means that the production could not have been higher than 193 LMT. “Now, with the market arrivals being around 202 LMT, the production should be around 210 LMT. But this is not the case, which proves that the paddy from outside the state has been brought here at cheaper rates and sold to government agencies,” said a senior official in the Agriculture Department.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told The Tribune that he had ordered a random screening of transactions in mandis. “A lot of farmers living in villages along the Haryana border sold their produce here instead of Haryana, which also added to our increase in procurement. But we are doing data analysis of all mandis and commission agents, where the sale of paddy is abnormally high. It will take another 15 days to complete the analysis and we intend to initiate legal action against those found guilty,” he said.
01-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Look into discharge of 4 accused: HC to Punjab DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30In an astounding move, the State of Punjab is seeking the discharge of four persons accused of “smuggling huge quantities of heroin on the India-Pakistan border” despite inquiries indicating their alleged involvement in the matter.Taking cognisance of the disparity in the stands of the investigating officer and senior police officers on the issue, Justice Deepak Sibal of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Director General of Police to look into matter before filing his own affidavit“The matter pertains to allegations with regard to smuggling of huge quantities of heroin on the India-Pakistan border in which the state is seeking discharge of four of the five accused. The Inspector General of Police concerned and the SSP have already conducted inquiries and their reports are at variance with the stand of the investigating officer,” Justice Sibal asserted.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Manga Singh, Surjit Singh and Tarsem Singh filed petitions seeking regular bail. One of the counsels, during the course of hearing, produced before Justice Sibal’s Bench an order dated November 6 passed by the Amritsar Additional Sessions Judge, through which default bail was granted to the accused. The order further recorded that the investigating officer stated before the trial court that he had recommended the petitioner’s discharge as he did not find evidence against him. As such, the petition had been rendered infructuous and may be disposed of.Justice Sibal, however, observed the SSP Amritsar (Rural) filed an affidavit on a petition for anticipatory bail moved by another accused Mandeep Singh. Among other things, it stated that Tarsem Singh, Surjit Singh and Manga Singh, at the behest of Mandeep Singh, were found to be indulging in “smuggling of huge quantities of heroin on the India-Pakistan border”.Justice Sibal added the counsel for the petitioners in the regular bail petitions of Tarsem Singh, Manga Singh and Surjit Singh produced an order of the trial court. It revealed that the investigating officer had filed an application before the trial court seeking their discharge. “The above stands are contradictory and cannot be reconciled,” Justice Sibal said.
01-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||CM launches projects for Dera Baba Nanak||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak (Gurdaspur), November 30Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh inaugurated a Sugarcane Research Institute to be established in Kalanaur, near here, on the lines of the Vasantdada Sugarcane Institute, Pune, a 300-metre-long heritage street and Banda Singh Bahadur Museum today. He urged everybody present there to follow the teachings of the first Sikh Guru in letter and spirit.“My farmers cannot be wrong but what New Delhi is doing is wrong. The people who have drafted the farm Bills are unaware of the disaster they would actually spell for the farming community. The Bills are totally ill-conceived. These laws have done nothing except to ensure the 150-year-old relationship between the farmers of Punjab and commission agents dies a natural death,” he said.Dubai businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoiwas present as a special invitee, while Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan made a surprise appearance. The Dubai entrepreneur has agreed to bear the entire cost of the construction of the Banda Bahadur Museum.Every speaker, including PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, made it a point to take on the Centre. “Please spare a thought for our farmers. When tillage begins, other arts follow. The farmers, therefore, are the founders of human civilisation,” he said.Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the agriculture fraternity would ultimately triumph in this war against “tyranny, despotism and injustice”.“Our farmers are indeed courageous. Only those who risk going too far can possibly find how far one can actually go,” he said referring to the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur was also present.
01-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||FIR lodged in sacrilege case||A case of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib has been reported from Fambra village near Bhunga town on Hoshiarpur-Dasuya road on Monday. The Hariana police have registered an FIR against unidentified accused.  According to Hariana police station SHO Hargurdev Singh, CCTV footage of a camera installed at the gurdwara shows that the accused could be a child of around 12-year-old. — OC
01-12-2020||London||Road in London to be renamed after Guru Nanak||The Ealing Council said the part of Havelock Road to be renamed lies between King Street and Merrick Road. — PTI
01-12-2020||Sameer Singh
||CCI rate cut irks Malwa growers||Tribune News Service Bathinda, November 30 Cotton farmers are perturbed over not getting minimum support price (MSP) for even rich quality cotton produce brought at mandis across various districts in Malwa region. Farmers said despite bringing cotton with moisture content within the permissible limit, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) had introduced a quality cut of Rs 60 on per quintal basis. Talking to The Tribune, BKU Lakhowal general secretary Sarup Singh said, “The CCI, a government authorised agency, has imposed a cut of Rs 60 on MSP of cotton. Even rich quality cotton produce is being procured at lower rates in various districts of the Malwa region. Farmers in Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Fazilka and Muktsar will be directly affected with the move.” Singh added, “Unlike the first picking of cotton that has comparatively higher moisture content, a majority of the farmers are bringing dry and quality rich cotton with moisture content up to six to seven per cent against the permissible limit of eight to 12 per cent by the CCI. Despite this, farmers are not getting a fair price for their produce.” Farm union members said when they approached CCI officials over the matter, the latter said they had been told by their senior officials that cotton quality was not so rich and instructed to impose a good quality-cut on the procurement of crop. Farmers also stated that if the CCI does not procure cotton on MSP, they would be forced to stage protest.
01-12-2020||---||Chief Secretary orders 30K Covid tests per day||Chandigarh, November 30Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Monday said the state government had made all necessary arrangements to prevent possible second wave of Covid-10. She also urged the people to follow the safety norms strictly and said “Mask hi vaccine hai” was the mantra to defeat the pandemic till the time a vaccine was available.Presiding over a review meeting of the State Covid-19 Management Group, the Chief Secretary directed the departments concerned to enhance the number of Covid tests to 30,000 per day so that the infected persons could be identified and treated at the earliest. She also instructed to further increase the number of oxygen and ICU beds in medical colleges and district hospitals of the state. Notably, there already are sufficient numbers of beds available and the state is adequately prepared for any surge in the number of cases.An official spokesperson said there were total 1,236 beds at Government Medical College, Amritsar, 1,450 beds at Government Medical College, Patiala, and 1,025 beds at Government Medical College, Faridkot. There are 450, 600 and 301 oxygen beds available at Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot respectively. The number of ICU beds in Amritsar and Faridkot are 92 each and 88 in Patiala. Similarly, there are 87 ventilator beds in Amritsar, 67 in Patiala and 71 in Faridkot.The Chief Secretary stated that there would be no shortage of funds to provide the best health services to the people of the state. She also urged the private hospitals to come forward to partner with the state in the fight against the pandemic. She instructed the officials to use data and analytics as evidence for decision making such that the measures are timely and best suited to the scenario.
01-12-2020||---||Eight deaths in 24 hours in Amritsar||Chandigarh, November 30The state reported 554 cases and 27 deaths in the past 24 hours. Amritsar district alone reported eight deaths.As per a government bulletin released on Monday, the total number of cases has reached 1,52,091 and number of deaths 4,807.At present, 150 patients are on oxygen support and 14 on ventilator support.As far as deaths are concerned, the state reported 27 deaths in the past 24 hours. Besides eight deaths in Amritsar, six fatalities were reported from Jalandhar, three from Patiala and two each from Ropar, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur. Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana and Mansa reported one death each.
01-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Canals to be closed for 30 days in Abohar||Abohar, November 30The Irrigation Department has announced to close two main canals in Abohar sub-division for 30 days.Executive Engineer (XEN) Udaikaran Pal Singh Sran said the reconstruction work of the Malukpura distributary and Malukpura minor (sub-canal) was to be taken up for which the state government had approved Rs 15 crore to meet the long-pending demand of farmers and others.The main canals and sub-canals emanating from these will remain closed from December 13 for 30 days. Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure that the work is completed in the stipulated time under a perfect quality control monitoring system.The XEN said rural water supply agencies and Punjab Water Supply Sewerage Board officials had been directed to store sufficient water to meet consumers’ requirements for a month. The farmers have also been advised to expedite sowing of wheat and other crops before the scheduled closure of the canals. Notably, farmers of tail-end villages had for the past more than 15 years been urging the state government to reconstruct canals in Abohar and Balluana constituencies to facilitate availability of water till the tail-end of the system. The state government had last year released Rs 25 crore to reconstruct about half-dozen sub-canals that had initially been constructed in 1982 on the initiative of then Lok Sabha Speaker Bal Ram Jakhar, but funds for the repair were awaited for a long time despite several breaches.
01-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Go on fast-track mode to dispose of old cases, revenue officials told||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 30Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir has directed officials of the Revenue Department to immediately dispose of cases that had been pending for over a year.Last month, the Deputy Commissioner formed a committee to scrutinise registration of sale deeds of properties, where the purchaser did not deposit the full mandatory stamp duty, and sought a detailed report.“During a monthly review meeting, I directed all senior officials of the department to dispose of all cases to save residents from harassment,” said the DC.The working of various officials, posted in various offices of Sub-Registrars (Tehsils), is under the scanner after the DC dismissed a junior assistant last month.“I dismissed the junior assistant as he misappropriated stamp duty of Rs 34,000. Apart from this, he acted irresponsibly as he neither submitted his reply nor did he appear before senior officials at a fixed time during inquiry,” the DC told The Tribune.He confirmed that before the dismissal, a detailed inquiry had exposed violation of mandatory norms while registering sale deeds.Members of the committee have been told to find out reasons for depositing lower amount of stamp duty in other cases. A detailed report with the name of the official who allegedly facilitated the registration of sale deed without paying the mandatory stamp duty has also been sought from them.Sources said it was not the first time that the registration of properties had been under the scanner in the district, as earlier too, the delay or registration of properties without mandatory NOC had brought a bad name to various offices.Last year in July, hundreds of sale deeds of plots in illegal colonies were registered without the mandatory NOC in the office of Sangrur Sub-Registrar. Later in December 2019, during an inquiry by the then SDM Bhawanigarh, it came to light that some residents procured loans worth lakhs by fraudulently changing the online land records.“We will not spare anyone after getting the detailed report,” said the DC.Officials under DC scanner
01-12-2020||Aman Sood||Night curfew back, so are worries for wedding industry||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 30The re-imposition of night curfew in the state from December 1, following a spike in Covid-19 cases, has again hit the Punjabi wedding industry. Over 1,000 wedding functions scheduled in December and January have been cancelled, postponed or are being rescheduled with a limited guest list and time-frame.The Marriage Palace Association said it had suffered huge losses due to the cancellation or postponement of functions during March-April season and now, with the fresh set of restrictions and resulting cancellations, they would again have to cut down on manpower. “This will eventually lead to more job losses as limited guests mean less men needed,” a stakeholder said.The pandemic outbreak has already hit the wedding industry hard, including caterers, vendors, wedding planners, flower decorators and owners of marriage palaces. The restrictions and lockdown in March had caused them losses worth lakhs while some had even lost their jobs or business altogether.Amid the grim Covid situation in Delhi-NCR and apprehensions of a second wave in Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had last week ordered a series of fresh restrictions in Punjab, including re-imposition of night curfew in all towns and cities as well as doubling of fine for not wearing masks or following social distancing norms, with effect from December 1. The curbs, which shall be reviewed on December 15, also restrict opening timings of all hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces till 9.30 pm. Night curfew will remain in force from 10 pm and 5 am, the CM had announced.Jaideep Narula, a wedding planner, said: “I had reservations for 16 functions till February, but now, barring three clients, all want a refund or want us to hold the advance payment till January.”
01-12-2020||Amritsar||Row erupts as top cop attends Congress leader Mithu Madaan’s function||Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill courted a controversy after he attended a programme to distribute blankets to poor and destitute organised by controversial Congress leader Saurabh, alias Mithu Madaan, here on Saturday. Madaan is considered as a close aide of former Punjab Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.Madaan was one of the prime suspects in the Dasehra train tragedy near Jaura Phatak that claimed over 50 lives in October 2018. He along with six others were named in the FIR registered by the Government Railway police on the charges of causing death by negligence (Section 304-A, IPC). The GRP had submitted a challan in the court without their arrest. He is currently out on bail.He was also indicted in the magisterial probe conducted by the then Divisional Commissioner B Purusartha. The government had announced the magisterial probe to fix the responsibility of the tragedy.Both the magisterial probe and GRP SIT had also held Railways, MC and police responsible for the tragedy.Mithu Madaan, son of woman Congress councillor Vijay Madaan, had organised the programme to distribute blankets to the poor outside the Pingalwara area on Saturday. Gill was the chief guest at the event.Madaan said the programme was organised for the poor and destitute on the roadside as the winter has set in. “My team is visiting different areas on alternate days. Till now we have distributed around 300 blankets and we have a target of distributing around 2,000 blankets,” he told.The Police Commissioner said as it was a noble cause, therefore he participated in the programme. He said he was going to the Golden Temple for paying obeisance when he got a call about distribution of blankets to the poor.He said during the pandemic the Punjab Police had distributed ration and other essentials to the needy with the help of many people and NGOs. “Why no controversy erupted at that time?” he asked. He said the idea was to motivate people to do serve society. He said participating in the programme does not mean that a clean chit has been given to any suspect. — TNSMadaan prime suspectMadaan was one of the prime suspects in the Dasehra train tragedy that claimed over 50 lives in October 2018‘It was a noble cause’Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said as it was a noble cause, therefore, he participated in the programme
01-12-2020||s||Commission seeks early start of MBBS classes||Faridkot, November 30Fearing the loss of about 80,000 doctors five years later, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has suggested early starting of MBBS classes for the current session.The Commission has suggested that the delayed new academic session for 2020-2021 should commence from February 1, 2021. The new PG session should begin from at least July 1, 2021, and the PG-NEET exam for 2021-2022 would need to be scheduled around March-April 2021. The admission process for MBBS course for 2020-2021 is underway in Punjab.The NMC said that the current (2020) batch of interns had not completed their required training and unless the same was completed, they would not be eligible to appear for the PG-NEET exam. This is the reason that PG-NEET exam for 2021-2022 had been delayed. The NMC suggested that the training of interns was required to be completed at the earliest so that the exam could be held.The delay in resuming the training now would have a cascading effect on the training of the next PG and super-specialty courses in the coming years, noted the NMC in its letter to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.On the recommendation of the NMC, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday suggested that all medical colleges be opened at the same time across the country in the best interest of medical education, and from the point of view of standardisation.The NMC has recommended the Union Ministry of Health that the medical colleges may re-open on or before December 1.NMC recommendations
01-12-2020||Chandigarh||21st century belongs to Asia: CPS||Suresh Kumar, Chief Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, represented Punjab Government at the premier Horasis Asia Meeting 2020 virtually today.  He said: “The 21st century belongs to Asia. We can lead the world in economic development and many other facets of life.” A government spokesperson said Horasis was a global visions community and an international organisation committed to enacting visions for a sustainable future.  Horasis Meeting is Asia’s premier gathering of the region’s senior leaders from business and government to jointly develop solutions to deal with the current crisis and shape a durable economic system for Asia’s post-Covid future. The event was attended by approximately 400 of the top business and political leaders from Asia. Speaking at the plenary session ‘Asia – United in Diversity’, Suresh Kumar spoke about the diverse ways of governance and livelihood in Asia. He said Asia would dominate the world economy in the times to come. — TNS
01-12-2020||Abohar||Snatchers keep cops on toes||Miscreants kept cops on the toes here by continuing snatching incidents for the third consecutive day.Bikers reportedly targeted Mamta Rani of Nanak Nagari on Monday near the Bus Stand Market a few metres away from the Traffic Police post when she was going to the civil hospital with her daughter on a scooter. The victim shouted for help after which some people rushed to nab the miscreants who had snatched her mobile phone, but they managed to escape.On Sunday bikers who had reportedly taken position outside a clinic near Shaheed Chowk allegedly snatched gold chain from Simmi of Sunder Nagari who was moving towards her car. The chowk is listed as a PCR point as hundreds of vehicles pass through it.On Saturday miscreants had shot at and stabbed a 22-year-old youth on Krishna Nagari road and took away his motorcycle. The victim is battling for life in a hospital in Bathinda. — OC
01-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij shown black flags at Gurdwara Panjokhra Sahib||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 30Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij faced opposition at Panjokhra village from a group of protesters, who are residents of the village, when he went to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Panjokhra Sahib on Gurpurb today. The minister had gone to the gurdwara on Monday afternoon as per his schedule.Meanwhile, a group of protesters started assembling at the gurdwara, sat in front of the vehicle of the minister and raised slogans of ‘kisan ekta zindabad’. After finding Vij approaching his car after paying obeisance, the protesters showed black flags to the minister and kept raising slogans. However, the minister greeted the protesters with folded hands and sat in his car. The police personnel present there managed to remove the protesters. A gurdwara official said, “Everything went off peacefully inside the gurdwara. Some people protested near the gate.”Additional SHO, Panjokhra police station, Ramesh Kumar said, “The protesters are being identified. A DDR has been lodged. Legal opinion will be taken and action will be initiated accordingly.”
01-12-2020||---||Punjab Governor opens Museum of Trees after which many Sikh gurdwaras are named||Chandigarh, November 30“Climate change is an immediate crisis for humanity. To meet this challenge, people will have to come forward with initiatives like Museum of Trees to mobilise public opinion,” warned Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore while inaugurating the Museum of Trees — a unique environmental project for the conservation of sacred trees of Sikhism after which many Sikh gurdwaras are named.About the museumThe Museum of Trees has India’s most modern mist chamber facility and a glass house conservatory, with 16 air-conditioners, to preserve and propagate rare and endangered species, which grow at high elevations.The inauguration was done online because of Covid-19. Former Member of Parliament and chairman, Minorities Commission, Tarlochan Singh, and PHDCCI president Karan Gilhotra participated in the web inauguration.Extending Gurpurb greetings on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the Administrator said this was the most appropriate day and most appropriate manner of remembering Guru Nanak whose hymns are replete with references to nature, environment, trees, plants and animal life.He complimented DS Jaspal for patiently working for 10 years to clone 12 sacred trees. He hoped that work on the remaining trees would also be completed soon.Tarlochan Singh thanked the Administrator for supporting the cause of conservation of sacred trees of Sikhism.He pointed out that Guru Nanak was the most widely travelled religious preachers of the world. The Guru interacted with common people in the open under the shadow of trees. That was why most sacred trees were associated with Guru Nanak.He praised the Government of India for supporting this project for the conservation of sacred trees. In many gurdwaras, the sacred trees had been cut or had died due to improper care.DS Jaspal, creator and curator of the Museum of Trees, thanked the Administrator for supporting the project, which, he said, would be a source of attraction not only for Sikhs but for all nature lovers.Jaspal pointed out that most of the sacred trees also have botanical significance. For example, the beri tree of Gurdwara Ber Sahib in Sultanpur Lodi is unique because it has few spines. Similarly, leaves of the peepal tree at Gurdwara Pipli Sahib have a unique yellow pigmentation.Jaspal also disclosed that the trees are protected by entirely in-house organic spray of garlic, chillies and heeng mixed with water. As a result, the trees are healthy and bearing rich fruit.Over a period of 10 years, the museum has been successful in reproducing genetically true replicas of 12 sacred trees, including Dukh Bhanjani ber tree of the Golden Temple; Ber tree of Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodi; Ber tree of Gurdwara Babe-di-Ber, Sialkot, Pakistan; and peepal tree of Gurdwara Pipli Sahib, Amritsar.The Museum of Trees has India’s most modern mist chamber facility and a glass house conservatory, with 16 air-conditioners, to preserve and propagate rare and endangered species, which grow at high elevations.
01-12-2020||Mohali||Finally, Mohali-Kharar flyover to open by January 15||After missing six deadlines in a row for two years, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is poised to throw open the Mohali-Kharar flyover by January 15, giving the much-needed respite to commuters.After opening 1-km stretch of the much-delayed Mohali-Kharar flyover starting from Balongi (called as Balongi flyover) a month ago, the NHAI would complete the final phase of the flyover by January 15.According to information, the NHAI is going to complete a stretch of the flyover on the Kharar side, which connects the Ludhiana road, in the second week of December.Confirming the same, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Himanshu Jain said the work on the project was going on in a time-bound manner. While the flyover towards Ludhiana would be thrown open for public by December 15, the final stretch of the flyover towards Ropar would be completed by January 15. Vehicles going towards Ludhiana would be allowed on the flyover, which would decongest the traffic on the Mohali-Kharar road.It is pertinent to mention here that the deadline for the completion of the flyover was September this year, but the work on the project was delayed due to the lockdown. The work was restarted after the district administration gave nod on April 19. Earlier, the project had missed several deadlines. The NHAI had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen and Toubro (L&T), which began the construction of the flyover in November 2015. The project was initially planned to be complete by December 2018. From delay in land acquisition to other administrative hurdles and workforce issues amid the pandemic were the main reasons for the delay.
