01-10-2020||Chandigarh||45 more deaths due to Covid, 1,317 new cases in Punjab||Forty-five more Covid-related deaths pushed the death toll to 3,451 and 1,317 cases took the infection tally to 1,15,151 in Punjab on Thursday.Six deaths were reported from Pathankot, four each from Kapurthala, Muktsar, Jalandhar and Patiala, three each from Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Rupnagar and Tarn Taran, two each from Amritsar and Moga and one from Fatehgarh Sahib, according to a government medical bulletin.Places which reported new cases included Mohali (166), Amritsar (157), Jalandhar (149), Ludhiana (129), Hoshiarpur (110) and Gurdaspur (90).There are 15,763 active COVID-19 cases in the state, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,271 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of cured persons to 95,937.Fifty-four critical patients are on ventilator support while 332 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 18,72,887 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers to block rail tracks for indefinite period, protest outside houses of BJP leaders||Farmers in Punjab on Thursday intensified their agitation against the new farm laws as they squatted on rail tracks at many places for an indefinite period and staged sit-ins outside the residences of BJP leaders.A total of 31 farmers’ bodies have joined hands to intensify the agitation. They had announced to block rail tracks from October 1 for an indefinite period.Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said that farmers blocked rail tracks at 30 places in the state to press the Centre to revoke new farm laws.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they blocked rail tracks at Dhablan (Patiala), Sunam (Sangrur), Budhlada (Mansa) and Gidderbaha (Muktsar).Some other farmers’ unions have also blocked rail tracks in Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Rupnagar, Phillaur, Moga and other places.  However, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting at rail tracks in Amritsar and Ferozepur since September 24.Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said farmers staged sit-ins in front of the residences of several BJP leaders, including former Punjab BJP chief Shwait Malik in Amritsar.They staged ‘dharnas’ outside the houses of BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang, BJP leaders Sunita Garg at Kotkapura, Bikramjit Singh Cheema at Payal in Ludhiana and Satwant Singh Punia at Sangrur, said Pal.Kokrikalan said farmers also demonstrated near toll plazas in Sangrur, Barnala, Moga and Gurdaspur, besides holding ‘dharnas’ outside fuel pumps and shopping malls belonging to some corporate houses.Farmers have already given a call to boycott some corporate houses and their products in the state. According to them, the Centre wanted to “benefit” a few corporate houses with these “black laws”.Kokrikalan said besides farmers, women and youth also took part in the protests.  Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher slammed political parties for holding their own protests, saying they were doing so keeping in mind the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls.Farmers said they would continue their agitation till their demand for revocation of farm laws was not accepted. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills—Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. — PTI
01-10-2020||---||Mohali reports 148 new Covid cases, three deaths||Chandigarh, October 1Mohali district reported 148 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths on Thursday.As many as 155 patients also recovered.While Mohali urban reported 135 cases, Dera Bassi 2, Kharar 3, Kurali 6 and Lalru saw 2 new infections.A 58-year-old make from Kumbra died in Sohana Hospital. He had ALD, cirrhosis of liver. A male (67) from Jastna Kalan near Dera Bassi, died in Healing Touch hospital Ambala, while another male (65) from Kambala died in GMCH 32. He had heart disease.The total tally in the district stands at 10,535, with 8,624 cured.The death toll has risen to 197. Active cases stand at 1,714.
01-10-2020||Saurabh Malik ||Punjab schools can charge tuition fee only if students offered on-line classes daily: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1 The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday ruled that tuition fee would be charged only if the students in Punjab were offered on-line classes on a day-to-day basis during the lockdown period.The Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu also made it clear that the school managements would not charge transportation charges till further orders, since the students were not being transported to and fro due to lockdown.The school managements were also directed to file balance sheets duly verified by a chartered accountant for preceding seven months from today. For the purpose, the Bench set two-week deadline.The Bench also directed that all the teachers and staff members, whether permanent or appointed on contractual, ad-hoc or temporary basis, would be entitled to regular salaries they were getting before the imposition of lockdown on March 23.The order virtually modifies another Division Bench’s directions passed some three months back. The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli had on July 20 made it clear that all the parties would adhere to the arrangements set out in the impugned judgment by the Single Bench.The Chief’s Bench had also emphasise that all the students would remit their school fee in sync with the directions issued by the Single Judge.However, the names of the students who had either sought or applied for school fee concession or waiver would not be struck off from the roles till their pleas were decided by the school management or by the regulatory body.In its detailed order on an appeal filed against the orders of a Single Judge in the school fee matter, Justice Sharma’s Bench asserted the principle of “Quid Pro Quo” of “advantage granted in return for something” would be applicable.“The tuition fee can be charged only if the students are being imparted education on regular basis by offering on-line classes during the lockdown period in order to balance equities,” the Bench ruled.Before parting with the case, the Bench made it clear that the directions would remain in force till the disposal of thee appeals. The Bench also admitted the case before fixing it for November 12 for final hearing.
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt announces Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia compensation for soldier’s kin||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh along with a government job to a family member of Lance Naik Karnail Singh of 10 JAK RIF, who laid down his life on the Line of Control during cross-border firing in Jammu and Kashmir.Paying homage to the slain soldier and extending his sympathy to the bereaved family, the chief minister said Lance Naik Karnail Singh laid down his life fighting fearlessly for the country and the grateful nation would not forget his supreme sacrifice which would act as an inspiration for the generations to come, an official release said here.The soldier belonged to Loha Khera village in Sangrur district and is survived by his parents, wife and a one-year-old son. — PTI
01-10-2020||---||Night curfew, Sunday lockdown end in Punjab as Covid cases, deaths decline||Chandigarh, October 1Amid declining Covid cases and deaths, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a slew of relaxations, including lifting of night curfew and end to Sunday lockdown, while directing the DGP to strictly enforce wearing of masks and other safety norms.Among the relaxations announced by the Chief Minister are increasing the limit for marriage functions and funerals to 100 in the state, in line with the Government of India guidelines, as well as easing the limit of three persons in a car and 50% capacity in buses, subject to the condition of windows being open.Amarinder Singh, however, has directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocols, with immediate action against those violating the mandatory masks condition. There should be no laxity, especially in view of the ongoing paddy procurement operations and the forthcoming festival season, he said.On the issue of reopening of schools and educational institutions, which the Centre had left to the states to decide post October 15 under Unlock 5.0, the final decision will be announced after due deliberations between the Home Secretary and the Education Department.During a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation in the state, the Chief Minister took note of the decline in the rising cases/deaths trend and said the restrictions imposed earlier by the state government had helped. However, he expressed concern over the increase in cases in rural areas, even though numbers in cities and towns were going down.Amarinder also directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to look into arranging for provision of vitamins, etc., to poor Covid patients discharged from hospitals.In a brief presentation earlier, the state’s expert health committee head, Dr KK Talwar, said the positivity rate in the state had come down from 10.85% on September 14 to 5.12% on September 28. The number of deaths and patients on ventilators had also shown a decline during this period, he said. The state’s Covid death rate currently stands at 2.9%, with deaths per million at 112.5%. The recovery rate has gone up to 82.1%.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu underlined the need for motivation of doctors and other medical staff to keep the situation under control.Health Secretary Hussan Lal shared details of the current situation in government and private hospitals etc, while Dr D.K. Tiwari, Secretary Medical Education & Research disclosed that 54 Covid patients had been given plasma donation at the three GMCs so far.
01-10-2020||---||Covid-19: Daily monitoring of patients in home isolation set to commence in Punjab from Friday||Chandigarh, October 1Strict monitoring of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients in home isolation will begin in Punjab from Friday, with the state government engaging a consortium of professional home healthcare companies for their regular monitoring.This was disclosed by an official spokesperson after a Covid review meeting held via videoconferencing by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday afternoon.Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the meeting that M/s Health Vista Private Limited had been hired for the purpose, and their professional healthcare tele-callers would monitor, on a daily basis, the health of Covid patients in home isolation for less than 10 days.The consortium has the experience of such monitoring in other states, including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Karnataka, he said.Daily calling of home isolation patients for monitoring their wellbeing will be done from 01206679850, 08068972066 and 04068118722 phone numbers, according to the spokesperson.Patients 40 years and above will be monitored on priority under this system, said the spokesperson, adding that patients are being request to respond when they receive calls from these numbers.Video calls for consultation with doctor, in case desired by patient in home isolation will be arranged.For any medical assistance and doctor consultation during their isolation period, a separate dedicated number will be shared over SMS with the patient, the spokesperson informed.For any emergency or ambulance requirement patients can dial 108 or 104.
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||As monsoon withdraws, Punjab & Haryana receive deficient rainfall||The south-west monsoon has withdrawn from Punjab and Haryana, leaving the two states with deficit rainfall, the meteorological department said on Thursday.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also received 7 per cent less rains, an official of Chandigarh's Meteorological Department said here.With the withdrawal of monsoon from the grain bowl states of Punjab and Haryana on September 30, the weather department recorded scanty rains by 17 per cent and 14 per cent in the two states, respectively.Between June 1 and September 30, Punjab received rainfall of 387.6 mm against a normal of 467.3 mm, leaving a deficit of 17 per cent.In comparison, the neighbouring state of Haryana received 376.1 mm rains against a normal of 438.6 mm, leaving a deficit of 14 per cent, a MeT official said.Chandigarh received 791.1 mm rains as against normal of 846.5 mm, with the deficit being 7 per cent, he said.Notably, the country received above-normal monsoon rainfall during the four-month season for the second consecutive year and recorded the third highest precipitation in the last 30 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Wednesday.The monsoon season in India officially starts on June 1 and lasts till September 30.Among the places in Haryana which received scanty rains between June 1-30 period included Panchkula, which saw 322.2 mm rains as against normal of 925 mm, leaving a big deficit 65 per cent.Rohtak witnessed 215.9 mm of rain against a normal of 502 mm, with the deficit being 57 per cent. Ambala saw 547 mm rain against a normal of 850.4 mm, leaving a deficit of 36 per cent, the MeT official said.However, according to the official, places including Sirsa, Kaithal, Karnal, Fatehabad, Gurgaon and Kurukshetra had excess rainfall of 43 per cent, 35 per cent, 29 per cent, 2 per cent, 1 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively.Hoshiarpur in Punjab saw 265.6 mm rain against the normal of 674.8 mm, leaving a deficit of 61 per cent, the weatherman said.Mansa recorded 136.4 mm rain against 301.1 mm, less by 55 per cent, while Tarn Taran had 167 mm rain against normal of 315.1 mm, less by 47 per cent. Amritsar witnessed 380.9 mm rainfall against normal of 506.9 mm, leaving a deficit of 25 per cent, according to the official.Ludhiana saw 337.3 mm rain against normal of 486.2 mm, less by 31 per cent, while Patiala had 392.6 mm rain against normal of 563.1 mm, a deficit of 30 per cent.However, Punjab's districts which had more than average rainfall during the June 1-30 period included Faridkot, which saw 75 per cent rains in excess, while Muktsar recorded 34 per cent more rains, the MeT official added.—PTI
01-10-2020||Bathinda||Farm unions stage dharnas at toll plazas, block railway tracks in Bathinda||Farmers started their protest in Bathinda on Thursday. BKU Ekta Ugrahan members 'gheraoed' a utility store, the Best Price, near Bhuncho mandi area, and raised slogans against the Union government. The farm union sat on a 'dharna' at toll plazas on the National Highway; Bathinda-Chandigarh, near Lehra Bega village, and on Bathinda-Amritsar, near Jeeda village in the district. Apart from this, farmers also staged a protest at petrol pumps of Reliance and Essar companies, near Bhucho Mandi and Rampura areas.BKU Sidhupur, BKU Dakonda, Kirti Kisan Union, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal) and dozen other farm union members also blocked railway tracks on Bathinda-Delhi railway line, and sat on a 'dharna' as part of the ‘rail roko’ agitation call given by farm union leaders in the state.BKU Ugrahan president Shingara Singh Mann and leaders of other farm unions; Harinder Kaur, Baldev Singh Bhairupa, Kaka Singh Kotra, Baldev Singh Sandoha and Amarjit Honey have been leading these protests in the district.
01-10-2020||Mohali||Sukhbir, Harsimrat, Majithia among several Akali leaders detained after Kisan march stopped from entering Chandigarh||Former Union Minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma and Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana were detained by the Chandigarh Police while trying to cross the UT border during a protest again the farm laws.ਕਿਸਾਨਾਂ ਦੇ ਹੱਕਾਂ ਦੀ ਰਾਖੀ ਲਈ ਆਵਾਜ਼ ਚੁੱਕਣ ਬਦਲੇ ਸਾਨੂੰ ਗ੍ਰਿਫ਼ਤਾਰ ਕੀਤਾ ਜਾ ਰਿਹਾ ਹੈ, ਪਰ ਅਸੀਂ ਸੱਚਾਈ ਦੀ ਪੈਰਵੀ ਕਰ ਰਹੇ ਹਾਂ ਅਤੇ ਇਸ ਜ਼ੋਰ ਜ਼ਬਰ ਨਾਲ ਸਾਡੀ ਸੱਚਾਈ ਦੀ ਆਵਾਜ਼ ਦਬਾਈ ਨਹੀਂ ਜਾ ਸਕੇਗੀ।Arrested for raising farmers' voice, but they won't be able to silence us.#IkkoNaaraKisanPyaara pic.twitter.com/zzFtt6TqqT  The police resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse the SAD workers during which Bhunder fell on the ground.Harsimrat, who was leading the protest to hand over a memorandum addressed to the President to Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore, reached Zirakpur around 8.30 pm. She and other Akali leaders and workers tried to enter Chandigarh, but due to presence of heavy police force, they were stopped at the border.Before being detained by the police, Harsimrat addressed her supporters stating that they would continue to protest till the Union Government rolled back the agriculture laws passed recently. She claimed her party had not been taken into confidence before introducing the Bills. She said for them, the farmers were uppermost as they produced foodgrains to meet the country’s demand of food. She alleged it had become clear that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was not on the side of the farmers as the rally was allegedly stopped on his directions.Harsimrat said her party would continue to fight for the rights of the farmers.Sikander Singh Maluka, former Punjab Minister, said it was sad that despite the SAD workers holding a peaceful protest, the police resorted to lathicharge. He said they would hold a meeting to decide their next course of action.A large number of SAD protesters raised slogans against the BJP-led NDA government and UT Administration for not allowing them entry. He said SAD was appealing to President Ram Nath Kovind to convene a special session of Parliament to amend the recent farm laws.Meanwhile, SAD supremo Sukhbir Singh Badal along with his supporters was stopped at the Mullanpur barrier by the police. The police resorted to lathicharge, besides using the water cannon, on Akali workers. The police detained Sukhbir and other Akali leaders Bikram Singh Majithia, Jagir Kaur, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema.All the detained leaders were taken to the Sector 17 police station and released later.Earlier in the day, Sukhbir led the ‘Kisan March’ from Amritsar contesting the farm acts enacted by the NDA-led Union government.The march commenced after Badal paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht.Sukhbir told that as per "panthic tradition", the march has been started after taking Guru’s blessings.Accompanied by senior SAD leadership, including Bikram Singh Majithia, Virsa Singh Valtoha, Gulzar Singh Ranike and other local SAD leaders, the vehicles’ cavalcade took off from Bhandari Bridge and proceeded towards Governor’s House in Chandigarh.“A memorandum would be submitted to the Punjab Governor urging the Centre government and the President of India to repeal the Farm Act. For the purpose, a special session of both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha be called up to roll back ‘kaale kanoon” (black laws) that have been designed to ruin the farming community,” he said.Snubbing Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik over his claims that SAD leadership was taken into confidence when the three farm bills were tabled in the Parliament and that Sukhbir Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Badal had endorsed them with their signatures, but overnight annulled the ties for the "self- interest", he said, “If it was true, then show our signatures. We were put in the dark. We were never asked and no meeting of Cabinet was held before passing the kaale kanoon.Rather, we had submitted in writing certain clauses that have to be part of the bills. We were falsely assured that these would be incorporated in the bills. That’s why we decided to part ways,” he said.SAD started to march in farmers’ interest from three Takhts-Akal Takht, (Amritsar), Takht Damdama Sahib (Bathinda) under the leadership of Harsimrat Badal and Takht Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra.Terming it as a mere ‘political drama’ the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said that the SAD had attempted to play the ‘Panthic card’ trying to streamline it dwindling political graph.“All political parties have scheduled the ‘parallel’ protest march to ours for political gains and even divided dates in such a manner so that they should face no hurdle in acquiring political mileage. What was the purpose of starting off kisan march from religious platforms which have no connection with the agrarian crisis that we have been facing?"He said that the same Akali Dal used to speak in favour of Centre’s farm bill policies.“Already cornered by sacrilege incidents and drug menace, when Akal Dal saw the mass agitation from farmers which could root them totally out of their political pitch in the state, they quit the alliance with NDA and Centre ministry to save their skin. But they forget that farmers could not be befooled by these tactics now. Similarly, how could we forget that the Congress was responsible for anti-Sikh moves, be it Operation Blue Star or 84 riots”, he said.Pandher said that all the political party leaders were the ‘puppets’ of Corporate houses.“They had enacted drama of opposing the bills by even tearing the copies in the Parliament. Later, they gave up on the pretext that the BJP commanded majority whereas our finding was that they had deliberately resisted their MPs to attend the session as per the directions of the Corporate houses, he said.
01-10-2020||Aditi Tandon||Farm bills: Rahul Gandhi to hold tractor rallies in Punjab, Haryana from Oct 3-5||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 1The Congress is working to step up its political offensive against the recently passed farm laws with former party president Rahul Gandhi set to hold tractor rallies across Punjab and Haryana from October 3 to 5.Gandhi is proposed to reach Moga, Punjab, on October 3, from where he will lead a tractor rally starting from Badrikalan village till Jattpura village in Ludhiana district. On October 4, Rahul Gandhi will hold another rally that will commence in Sangrur and go up to Samana in Patiala.The final rally by Gandhi will likely take place from Patiala to Pehowa in Haryana, from where Rahul Gandhi will enter Haryana for a one-day political programme.Sources in Haryana said he would hold the rally at Kaithal and another major programme at Pipli before returning to New Delhi.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday said the nuances of the plan were under the works but main halts of tractor rallies had been worked out in Punjab where Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will welcome Gandhi.The state Congress also hopes the disgruntled elements to put up a show of unity and for estranged ex-minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to join Rahul’s rallies.In Haryana, the state Congress will hold demonstrations tomorrow against farm bills in all assembly segments.“The farmers of Haryana will welcome Rahul Gandhi who has been raising their voice since day one. While the BJP is unwilling to listen to farmers, Rahul Gandhi ji will be on ground zero to stand with the farmers in their struggle for existence and livelihood,” Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said.
01-10-2020||GS Paul||Pak couple leaves with happy memories of first child born in India||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30A Pakistan-based couple could not have asked for more! They were blessed with a child in India during the Covid-19 lockdown. Along with them, 88 Pakistani nationals and 127 Jammu and Kashmiri students crossed the Attari-Wagah border from here on Wednesday.Naresh Chawla and his wife Ashi Chawla hail from Sindh in Pakistan. They were overwhelmed that their only son was born in Indore, India, on May 18.“But due to the lockdown restrictions, we got stranded here and are happy to go back home now. We were under treatment in Indore for the past 16 months, which was successfully executed and we were gifted with a baby boy. Since he was born during the corona period, our ‘guruji’ named him Avtar Chawla,” he said.While expressing gratitude towards the Indian government for allowing them to overstay, an equally excited Ashi Chawla said she got the best of treatment in India.Meanwhile, around 127 J&K residents, who were pursuing professional courses, too, left for Pakistan.Kashmir resident Masina Mustafa, Atia Malik and Haida said they were studying in Lahore and had come home during the lockdown. The academic session for students commenced since September 15.Another Pakistan resident Kailash Kumar said he belonged to Sindh province and had come with his family to visit relatives at Indore nine months ago, but got stranded due to the lockdown. Protocol officer at Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, Arun Sharma said clearance for approximately 315 students from Jammu and Kashmir and 100 Pakistan nationals was granted on Wednesday.
01-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Paddy procurement begins in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, Sept 30Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra today inaugurated the process of procurement of paddy in the district.The MLA was accompanied by the District Food and Civil Supply Controller, officers of procurement agencies and Mandi Board. They reviewed the arrangements made in mandis for farmers.The MLA said the state government had made elaborate arrangements for smooth procurement of paddy and farmers would not face any difficulty. He called upon the farmers to bring paddy to mandis as per the government specifications.He said the payment for the procured paddy would be ensured in 72 hours.DM bans burning of residueDistrict Magistrate Officiating Sonali Giri has issued an orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (2 of 1974) for ban on burning of the paddy residue in the district. In the orders, she mentioned that the burning of the paddy residue has a detrimental effect on the environment.
01-10-2020||---||Punjab Pollution Control Board finds industrial unit violating norms in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 30A team of technical and scientific officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board visited certain industries of Ludhiana to check the performance of effluent treatment plant (ETPs).Senior Environmental Engineer of the PPCB Sandeep Bahl said during the visit, the ETP of one industrial unit, Perfect Dyeing in Phase 8, Focal Point, here, was found not in operation and the industry was found bypassing untreated dyeing effluent directly into sewer without any treatment, according to the PPCB.“It was observed during the inspection that the effluent generated from the printing section located on the first floor was also found being discharged into the sewer through an unauthorised outlet without any treatment. Samples of the untreated effluent were collected by the PPCB team and have been sent for analysis and action will be taken under Section 33-A of Water Act, 1974, against the unit for polluting the environment,” said Bahl.
01-10-2020||THE TRIUNE INTERVIEW||Farmers needn’t fear, MSP, procurement to stay: Anurag Thakur||With the protests against the contentious agriculture legislations refusing to die down, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, in an exclusive interview with Sanjeev Singh Bariana, tries to allay fears of the farming community.How true are the fears of farmers that the government will withdraw completely from purchasing the farm produce and leave it entirely open to the private sector?The government is neither going to withdraw from purchasing the farm produce nor going to do away with the minimum support price (MSP). Also, the government is not going to leave the agricultural production entirely open to the private sector. Under the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, farmers will be freed from the grip of the middleman and they will be able to sell their produce to buyers from across the country. Under the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, they can opt for contract farming with agriculture trade firms, wholesalers, big retailers and exporters. The provision of market linkages at the sowing stage itself will insulate them from production and price vagaries.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, enables contract farming through an agreement between farmers and buyers prior to the production at a fixed price. Was the government right in pushing through the legislations without dispelling the Opposition’s misgivings?Let’s go by hard facts. During 2009-2014, the Budget allocation for agriculture increased by a meagre 8.5 per cent. From 2014-2019, the Modi government hiked it by 38.8 per cent. By opposing the passage of these historic Acts in Parliament, the Congress exposed itself. In its 2019 poll manifesto, the Congress clearly said it will repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions.If farmers do not get the MSP from traders, does the government guarantee to compensate them for all 23 crops listed under the MSP?The 70th round of the National Sample Survey Office on Key Indicators of Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households in India shows that only 6 per cent of farmers gain from MSPs. The volatility of the markets was a reason for the poor growth of the agricultural sector.Shouldn’t the farmers be given a patient hearing?Do not underestimate the intelligence of our farmers. They are not part of the protests staged by the Congress, which is resorting to gimmicks such as burning tractors. We have our ears to the ground and have been listening to the farmers. The farming community across the nation is happy and pleased with these Acts, visit any part of rural India and you will get the real picture.Farmers also have their misgivings on electricity and fertiliser subsidies. What’s the truth?We have not taken away any electricity and fertiliser subsidies. Instead, since 2013-14, the MSP for wheat and paddy has increased by 41 per cent and 43 per cent, respectively, while there has been up to 65 per cent hike in MSP for pulses and oilseeds. The quantity of wheat and paddy procured has also increased by 73 per cent and 114 per cent, respectively, compared to 2014. Increased agriculture credit, higher loan subsidy, soil health card to 16.38 crore has also helped farmers.Aren’t the farm laws harsh on arhtiyas who play a crucial role in procurement of crops?The government is simply working to ensure that the farmers get better price discovery for their produce. The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, also enables contract farming through an agreement between the farmer and the buyer prior to the production at a fixed price.
01-10-2020||Amritsar||Farmers being misled by Opposition: Shwait Malik||Rajya Sabha MP and former state BJP chief Shwait Malik today alleged that the Opposition, including the SAD, had been misguiding the farming community, leading to protests against the Act.Though there is no legislative clause or guarantee incorporated in the Act about “commitment” to farmers on the MSP, Malik said, “The MSP word was never there in any Act before. But the BJP is committed to the farmers on MSP. Similarly, mandi pattern will remain intact. It is actually the Congress, AAP and the SAD, which have been misquoting the properties of the Act to the farmers for petty political gains.”Over SAD’s claims that they were never taken into confidence when the Bills were tabled in Parliament, he said, “It is a lie. If former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal were not agreeing to the terms of the Bills, why did they endorse them initially in the Cabinet meeting and didn’t lodge their dissent then. It is beyond our understanding what self-interest prompted the SAD leadership to annul the alliance overnight, but it was an unfortunate development.” — TNS
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Book those buying below MSP: Congress||Congress MLAs have demanded a legislation to act against those buying grains below the minimum support price (MSP).Ferozepur (urban) MLA Parminder Singh Pinki and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa, in a representation to the Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, have demanded legislation to ensure that anyone buying wheat or paddy below the MSP should be booked under the law.They said the state was well within its rights to bring the legislation that would ensure justice to the farmers and keep them out of the provisions of the Central agricultural laws. — TNS
01-10-2020||---||Agitating farmers burn Jio SIM cards||Amritsar, September 30Agitating farmers burnt Jio SIMs here today. Blocking the rail track near Devi Daspura village, they urged “dhadis” , “raagis”, “kavishries” and preachers to sensitise people against the corporate culture.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said they would boycott products of multi-million business houses trying to invade the farm sector. “First, they will try to lure us with good offers, and then render us helpless. We have approached every household in remote areas, asking residents to oppose the move,” he said. In Amritsar and other mandis, 1509 basmati was yet to be procured. He said the situation would go from bad to worse once the farm Acts came into force.“The NDA government said private companies would provide us seed, urea and pesticides, which they already have been doing. The companies are robbing the farmers,” he said.
01-10-2020||---||Congress trying to bring Navjot Sidhu on board for Rahul Gandhi’s rally||Chandigarh, September 30During the proposed three-day Punjab tour of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the party is making all efforts to bring cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu on board to put up a united face of the party.All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat has already given an indication in this regard.Tractor rally from Oct 2Rawat and PPCC president Sunil Jakhar today held a meeting to review the arrangement of Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally proposed from October 2. As farmers have already announced a ‘rail roko’ agitation and are protesting at different points across the state, the security aspect of Rahul’s visit was also being analysed before giving the go ahead.Sources privy to the arrangement said beginning from Moga, the tractor rally would wind its way through the rural areas of Ludhiana, Patiala and Sangrur before entering Haryana. Till late this evening, the route of the tractor with night halts en route were being finalised. The party leadership wants to show its solidarity with the farming community.
01-10-2020||Tribune Reporters||Farmers gherao BJP leaders’ houses||Chandigarh/Fazilka, Sept 30Intensifying their protest against the recently enacted agriculture laws, a large number of farmers, commission agents and labourers, led by former Congress MLA Mohinder Kumar Rinwa, blocked the Fazilka-Abohar national highway near Ghallu village against the farm Acts.They also waved black flags to protest against former BJP minister and former Fazilka MLA Surjit Kumar Jyani, who had issued a statement in favour of the Acts.Slam corporate ‘invasion’Jyani has now been appointed chairman of the coordination committee constituted by state BJP president Ashwani Sharma to mollify and persuade the farmers. Former MLA from Fazilka Mohinder Kumar Rinwa said Jyani should first persuade his former ally — SAD — and then the people of the state.In Jalandhar, riding on scores of tractors through the city, farmers, farm labourers and transporters protested outside the residences of BJP leaders. They first held a protest outside the residence of ex-Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia in Central Town and then rode on tractors towards the house of Northwest Delhi MP Hans Raj Hans on Link Road.The agitating farmers said they would not allow any big political leader in their constituency and all BJP workers and leaders would face a complete boycott.The farmers said they would not even allow the BJP leaders to step out of their houses and appealed to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to take all political parties and farmer organisations along in the common fight against the Centre over the introduction of the new legislations.Meanwhile, as many as 2 lakh farmers will join the “Kisan March” starting from the three Takhts to Chandigarh, where the SAD will hand over a memorandum, demanding revocation of the Acts, to the Central Government through the Punjab Governor.SAD senior vice-president Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal would lead the “Kisan March” from Akal Takht in Amritsar, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal from Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo and Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra from Keshgarh Sahib at Anandpur Sahib.
01-10-2020||---||Potato prices may soar,  high temperature to blame||Faridkot, September 30Potato prices in the state are at present Rs 35-38 per kg in retail market and the prices of tuber will further rise by around Rs 4-5 per kg in the coming days.This time in the absence of adequate stock to meet the demand of consumers and also of farmers who need potato for seeding purpose, the prices are increasing.Generally, the new potato crop hits the market in the mid of November, but this time due to high temperature in August-September, about 50 per cent of the advance varieties sown in the last week of August either did not germinate or perished. Moreover, it had further increased the demand for potato as seed, said Rajinder Kumar, manager at a cold store in Faridkot.After incurring losses in the last three seasons, potato growers had reduced the area under the crop sizably last season. Market experts believe that the reduction in the area under potato cultivation and unfavorable weather conditions in January had resulted in increased potato prices this season. The unseasonal rain in January had led to extensive loss to potato crop this year.
01-10-2020||---||PSPCL to upgrade infra in villages||Bathinda September 30Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to upgrade the power infrastructure in all villages of the state. It includes feeder separation that refers to the power supply to agricultural and non-agricultural consumers separately through dedicated feeders, which regulate power supply to agricultural consumers as and when needed.This was stated by Jiwan Kansal, Chief Engineer, distribution, West Zone, here.“The core objective of feeder separation is to provide regulated supply to agricultural consumers and continuous supply to non-agricultural consumers in rural areas,” he said.“Preference will be given to those villages having no case of power theft and the PSPCL will develop such villages as role models in terms of extraordinary power facilities,” he added.Kansal said priority would be given to such villages where power consumers do not steal electricity, adding that supply would be restored on a priority in those villages in case of power outage due to inevitable situation. He said in the paddy season uninterrupted power supply would be given in such villages.“The PSPCL is a commercial organisation and it requires financial resources on a day-to-day basis for providing reliable and uninterrupted power to 96 lakhs consumers in the state,” he said.
01-10-2020||Patiala||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital installs CCTV cameras in Covid wards||Amid allegations of lack of patient care, the management of Government Rajindra Hospital has installed 123 CCTV cameras in the Covid wards.The decision comes days after a woman was found unattended on the stairs of the Covid ward. She had died within a few hours of being rushed to the ICU. Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said 123 CCTV cameras have been installed in both the Covid-19 buildings at the hospital. A mike system will also help improve the coordination among the Covid staff and to handle emergency situations.“With the CCTV cameras in place, we will be able to keep an eye on each and every patient. It will help us extend better care to Covid patients,” he stated. Sources said senior doctors blamed the lack of coordination among the staff was blamed for lack of patient care. Notably, OP Soni, Medical Education minister, had also pointed out the lack of coordination therein. — TNS
01-10-2020||---||Capt’s nod to 50% fee waiver  for bars, marriage palaces||Chandigarh, September 30After concurring with the recommendations of the Group of Ministers (GoM), Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today gave a nod to waive 50% of the annual licence fee of bars, marriage palaces, hotels and restaurants for the months of April to September. Besides, he also assented to waive the quarterly assessed fee for the first two quarters i.e. from April to June and July to September.A spokesperson for the Chief Minister’s office said the financial implications of waiving 50 per cent of the annual licence fee of 1,065 bars in hotels and restaurants for the period from April 1 to September 30 would be to the tune of Rs 1,355.50 lakh, which was half the estimated revenue collection for 2020-2021. Likewise, the financial implications of waiver for 2,324 marriage palaces would be Rs 350 lakh, which would be half of the estimated revenue collection for 2020-2021.Clears Finance panel arrears Chandigarh: The state government will give a facelift to villages by utilising the grant of Rs1,539 crore, which has been released from the backlog of the 14th Finance Commission. The funds had been released after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh took up the matter with the Union Government, said Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. With respect to the waiver of advance quarterly assessed fee on bars licences, there would be no financial implications, as the waiver would only be on assessed fee collected in advance, which is adjustable, and now the collection is being proposed to be deferred to the point of purchase by bars.It may be recalled that the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab, the Hotel Restaurant and Resort Association, the Punjab and the Marriage Palace Association, Punjab, in their representation to the GoM, had sought relaxation in the licence fee and the quarterly assessed fee in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent imposition of curfew and lockdown.The matter was then discussed with Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal and Financial Commissioner (Taxation) A Venu Prasad, and subsequently referred to the Chief Minister for approval.
01-10-2020||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University to mark asst profs recruitment issue to Vigilance||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 30Punjabi University, Patiala, has now decided to send the matter of recruitment of 62 assistant professors on the basis of PhD, exempting them from NET qualification, to the Vigilance Bureau.The university during its syndicate meeting held today also decided to fix responsibilities of officials in other cases of misappropriation of university funds regarding purchases and sale of equipment along with recruitments of faculty done on basis of “fake” SC, BC certificates.Had hired 62 assistant professorsThe university had hired 62 assistant professors from 2009 to 2016 without following UGC regulations of June 2010 which made NET/SLET/SET as minimum eligibility condition for the recruitment. As per an internal committee report, this was done after approval of recommendations of a committee by the university Vice-Chancellor in June 2011 and the syndicate in March 2012. An official who was part of the syndicate meeting today said members decided to send the matter to the Vigilance Bureau for proper investigation.Meanwhile, the university syndicate has also decided to fix responsibilities of erring officials in hiring of seven assistant professors on the basis of “fake” SC and BC certificates.A member of the committee said the syndicate decided to fix responsibilities of all officials and recruits wherein the submitted certificates were found fake and send them show-cause notices. An internal committee of two senior professors in 2017 had also stated that the complaints of use of fake certificates in the matters were found to be correct.
01-10-2020||Sameer Singh||Bathinda teacher’s online lectures a hit||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 30It is 4.30 pm and Amaan Idris, 16, is busy understanding the concepts of trigonometry from her mentor, who she discovered online.When the lockdown happened, Sanjeev Kumar from Bharat Nagar in Bathinda, decided to make the most of his time by tutoring students all over the country free of cost.With over 18 years of academic experience, Sanjeev (42), a teacher at Kendriya Vidyalaya school in Bathinda Cantonment has devoted his last six months in imparting education to students of classes VIII to XII, and over 2,500 pupils preparing for NTSE scholarship entrance. His online lectures have also pulled in people from the UAE and Malaysia.Tanveer Kaur from Srinagar, a class X student, said: “In the past six months, sir has helped us cover 80 per cent of the syllabus. I am certain we will be through with our maths syllabus before winter break. He makes use of a vast number of online tools, which has made the learning process simple and effective. Since the classes are free of cost, it’s a blessing for people who otherwise wouldn’t have been able to afford this level of quality education.”Tanveer’s mother Davinder Kaur said: “We have access to 2G network connection, but that has not been an hindrance. My ward’s mentor has an advanced technology infrastructure. Therefore, she doesn’t face any problem. He is doing ‘sewa’ in the truest sense of the word.”On March 28, Kumar conducted a trial session online, and got an overwhelming response.Talking to The Tribune, Sanjeev said, “I always thought of doing something which could bring about a change in people’s lives. When the lockdown happened, I had ample time left to myself, which is when I decided to teach students online. The response I have got so far has been staggering.”Kumar also invites noted educationists from premier academic institutions to deliver lectures in his live sessions.“I am very well connected to my roots. My needs have always been minimal. So, when many people try to offer me money, I politely turn it down. I will consider myself successful if I am able to inspire a few more teachers to follow the suit,” added Kumar.
01-10-2020||Archit Watts||Two months on, Rs 9K recovered from 70K ‘fake’ pensioners||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 30The Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development had identified 70,137 “ingenuine” beneficiaries of its pension schemes, who had drawn Rs 162.35 crore illegally in the mid of July. Subsequently, the department had asked the Deputy Commissioners to constitute the district-level committees to review the recovery process every 15 days. However, recoveries made so far has been negligible.In Muktsar alone, 7,441 “fake” beneficiaries were detected, from whom Rs 15.7 crore is to be recovered.The department gives Rs 750 per month to widows, old-age people, destitute children and disabled persons under its social welfare schemes.The “fake” beneficiaries were given 15 days’ time to return the pension amount received by them in the past. “The notices were served to all ingenuine beneficiaries by the end of August through the CDPOs. The money has to be returned to the department through the cheque/banker’s draft,” said the department officials.Naveen Gadwal, District Social Security Officer, said, “The recovery notices have been sent to all “ingenuine” beneficiaries, and nearly Rs 9,000 has been recovered till now.”In some parts of the state, a few people have claimed that they were declared “fake” beneficiaries without being given any genuine reason.
01-10-2020||Aman Sood||Controversial cop Kulwinder Singh back as Shambhu SHO||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 30Almost a year after being removed for his alleged role following the DGP’s letter for a probe for his “active connivance with sand mafia and for facilitating illegal mining”, the Patiala Police on Tuesday posted Inspector Kulwinder Singh back as Shambhu SHO. In November 2017, a senior mining official had alleged that the SHO had beaten him up in the police station at the “behest” of the local SHO and MLA.In 2019, Kulwinder Singh was shunted out of the Shambhu police station for his alleged illegal mining-related activities following a written input by the Vigilance Department to the DGP, who sought “a secret probe by the then IG, Patiala Zone.”The letter by DGP Dinkar Gupta, dated September 6, 2019, a copy of which is with The Tribune, states: “According to an input, Kulwinder Singh, SHO, Shambhu, is having active connivance with sand mafia.“Please carry out a secret probe in the matter at your personal level and brief me. Meanwhile, the SHO may be shifted out of his present assignment,” reads the DGP’s letter to the IG. “The probe had indicted him and he was shifted,” said a top brass police officer.“The same SHO is close to local MLA Madan Lal Jalapur,” said SAD spokesman Daljit Cheema. “Our party will raise this matter in the Vidhan Sabha,” he said.
01-10-2020||---||Muktsar man killed in firing||Muktsar, September 30A youth allegedly opened fire at a shop in Malout town today evening, killing one of the workers at the shop.The deceased has been identified as Bablu. Sources said the accused entered the shop and indiscriminately opened fire.The shopkeeper, Harry, also sustained a bullet injury. The suspect also reportedly opened fire at the shopkeeper’s residence as well. A probe has been launched into the matter.
01-10-2020||Moga||Gang of thieves busted in Moga, six arrested||The Punjab Police have busted a gang of robbers in Moga with the arrest of six persons, who were planning to commit robberies and carjacking in the city.The police have recovered two country-made pistols, besides a stolen car and motorcycle from the gang members.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the gang had committed a large number of armed robberies and dacoities in many districts of the Malwa region.SSP Harmanbir Singh said a car and a motorcycle had also been recovered from them.During probe, the gang members have confessed that they had attempted an armed robbery in the area of old Grain market, Moga, and had also shot at and injured a rice commission agent Rajesh Kumar, a few weeks ago. — TNS
01-10-2020||Mohali||‘Unwell’ Sumedh Saini fails to join SIT probe||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini today failed to join the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance and murder case of 1991.The SIT had issued summons to Saini yesterday, asking him to appear today at the Mataur police station for further questioning.However, an application was received through his counsel Ramanpreet Sandhu along with a medical prescription, citing reasons for not joining the probe.Saini had travelled to Chandigarh from Delhi only on September 25, his only appearance before the SIT, and there was no reason for him to travel to Delhi after joining the investigation on that day, said sources in SIT.SIT, which was not satisfied with questioning of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini two days ago, had issued summons for the third time. Police sources further added that Saini would also be questioned over the disappearance of other persons, the names of whom had cropped up during the statements recorded by the eyewitnesses. — TNS
01-10-2020||---||Road linking 3 Malwa districts not metalled||Bathinda, September 30The demand of the residents of Goniana block, Bathinda, to metal the 3 km dirt stretch (kutcha road) that connects three districts of Malwa region — Bathinda, Muktsar and Faridkot — has been lying pending for over a decade.The stretch begins at Ganga Ablu Ki village, goes via Kothe Naiwala and meets at Ramiana village in Farodkot district. The metal road will benefit residents of more than 12 villages around the block, who have to travel extra every time they have to enter Bathinda city, as well as Faridkot and Muktsar districts.“We have brought the matter into the notice of local MLAs and the government on numerous occasions, but not action has been taken,” said a panchayat member of Ganga Ablu Ki village.Guradita Singh Brar, another resident, said, “If the government metals the road, it will save the time and money of residents of adjacent villages and commuters who travel between these districts daily.”Another panchayat member said, “Ganga Ablu Ki village falls in the Bathinda Lok Sabha constituency represented by Harsimrat Kaur Badal (SAD) under the Vidhan Sabha constituency represented by Congress MLA Pritam Singh Kotbhai. Kothe Naiwale falls under Gidderbaha Vidhan Sabha constituency in Muktsar district represented by Amrinder Singh Raja Warring (Congress). Ramiana village falls in Faridkot district under the constituency of Congress MLA Baldev Singh. The location of the dirt stretch has kept away the representatives of the parties from getting the work done.”Tek Singh, XEN, PWD (B&R), said, “Whenever, any MLA will bring up the proposal, the work to metal the road will be taken up on a priority basis.”
01-10-2020||Bathinda||Injured in mishap, farmer succumbs||
01-10-2020||Vishav Bharti||Slight dip in Punjab toll,  14 deaths, 1,435 new cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30The number of Covid cases has declined in the state in past few days. Between September 14 and 20, around 18,000 cases and 450 deaths were reported.In the week prior to that, between September 7 and 13, 16,000 cases were recorded and number of deaths was 500. However, the number showed a decline in the following week from September 21 to 27, with around 420 deaths. The cases dropped drastically to 12,000.In the same period, the state’s contact tracing ratio has also increased significantly to 7.7 per positive case. The ratio had declined to around 4.4 per positive case. The central expert team had raised the issue in its report that Punjab needed to improve the contact tracing ratio.With 1,435 fresh cases and 47 deaths reported in 24 hours, the state count of Covid cases reached 1,13,886 on Wednesday. The number of casualities has reached 3,406. Besides, 93,666 patients have recovered from the deadly virus and at present 16,814 cases are active in the state. Apart from that, 372 patients are on oxygen support and 49 are on ventilator support.In district wise break-up of fresh cases reported today, Amritsar topped the chart with 167 cases, followed by Ludhiana (163), Jalandhar (143), SAS Nagar (123), Patiala (96), Bathinda (90) and Pathankot (89).The state reported 47 casualities in last 24 hours. Among districts, Hoshiarpur topped the chart with seven deaths, followed by Ludhiana (6), Jalandhar and SAS Nagar (five each), Bathinda and Gurdaspur (four each), Ropar (three), Amritsar, Ferozepur and Sangrur (two each), Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Moga, Muktsar, SBS Nagar and Patiala (one each).
01-10-2020||---||‘Farmers, not singers, will decide strategy’||Chandigarh, September 30Farmer unions, not singers, will lead the anti-agriculture laws movement in the state, said 31 farmer organisations.In a press release issued after a joint meeting between farmer unions and singers at Kisan Bhawan in Chandigarh, farmer leader Rajinder Singh said: "A seven-member committee comprising farmers and singers has been formed. The right to take any decision on the future course of action rests with the farm leaders, not with the singers."
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||31 Punjab farm groups to launch protest today||Vehemently opposing the Centre’s new farm laws, 31 farmer organisations in Punjab will go on an indefinite protest from tomorrow. People from various sections are contributing dry ration for langar to be served to the protesters, who will squat on rail tracks and outside the residences of BJP leaders, gherao offices of multinational firms and ask gram sabhas to pass resolutions against the laws.Read also: The Tribune Interview: Farmers needn’t fear, MSP, procurement to stay The farmers will hold protests tomorrow outside the residences of Union Minister Som Parkash in Phagwara, former Punjab BJP president Shwait Malik in Amritsar and former MLA Sukhpal Nannu in Ferozepur.Artistes have been meeting villagers to mobilise support for the protest. Youth clubs, traders and government staff are backing farmers. So are the political parties. The Congress will launch a signature campaign on October 2. AAP has been reaching out to villagers. The SAD plans a march from the three Takhts tomorrow. — TNS
01-10-2020||
    
        
    
||Need to marry farming with industrial growth||A farmageddon is staring at the Modi government in the aftermath of it passing the latest three laws on farming. While most political parties may be opposing the laws to gain political mileage, the fact remains that a large number of farmers, especially in rice-wheat-producing states like Haryana and Punjab, are truly scared about these three laws. The new laws will bring about a change, and it is sufficient to spook them. That is in the nature of farming communities, across the world, for over 200 years, ever since the onset of the industrial revolution began to marginalise farmers by opening up new avenues for creating wealth and power in society.The Modi government will have to move fast to regain the trust of farmers. Especially, because the profits that these three laws will unlock for the farmers will flow in only at the end of the harvest season. Till then, it does not matter what the facts on the ground are.At the root of the problems of farmers is the fact that they are located at the bottom of the value chain. In this location, they suffer most from economic downturns and gain the least from any upswing in the market. You would recall that each year, with every bumper harvest, the price of farm produce comes down ever more, the cost of inputs to farming keeps increasing and the condition of the farmer worsens. That has been the case across the world since the advent of industrialisation.The wiping out of farmers from farming has often been brutal and harsh. British farmers faced this dilemma in the 19th century. Lenin worried about this when he talked of the irresolvable scissors crisis that haunted farming in Soviet Russia. Stalin simply killed about three million farmers. The American farmer, who had upstaged the Indian farmer as the largest exporter of foodgrains in the world in the 20th century, went into a crisis in the 1920s and was finally wiped out during the depression of 1929-33. The transformation of farming in Europe was overshadowed by the two world wars in Europe that between them killed about 30 million Europeans.In contrast, the farmer in India has been spared such brutality, thanks to his romanticisation by leaders like Gandhi and a general disinclination in India to use harsh measures against anyone. This resulted in the creation of policies, since Independence, to help farmers. They included laws to take surplus land from landlords, efforts to provide land to the tiller and laws to ensure that tenant farmers were not cheated by landlords. Developmental efforts were initiated in the mid-1950s with the gram sewak and agriculture extension officer as foot soldiers and the block development officer helming the effort to transform farming communities into modern entrepreneurs.Those were the years when government officers revelled in setting up farmers’cooperatives to use farm machinery, preened themselves on having electrified villages and boasted about the number of farmers whom they had convinced to use modern tools and techniques. Inevitably, the amount of foodgrains produced increased. The APMC Acts that were implemented in the 1950s in some states were designed to ensure that farmers got a fair deal in marketing their crop. That the Acts effectively became millstones around the neck of farmers and ended up forcing the farmer to pay humungous sums of money to middlemen for services not rendered is a different story altogether.In parts of some states, farmers even became prosperous enough to start controlling political processes. However, the only farmers who prospered were the ones who added a business other than farming to their portfolio. Those who stuck to farming were quickly reduced to subsistence level — as is the case with 80 per cent of the farmers in India. The implementation of the mechanism of a minimum support price since the 1980s worked as a game-changer in protecting farmers against sharp downturns in agricultural prices. But even this mechanism has been of use to only a handful of farmers. Even in Haryana and Punjab, where it has been the most successful, it benefits not more than four out of five farmers while the granaries overflow.Under the circumstances, the best that farm unions, political parties and others who are concerned about the well-being of farmers can do is to help ease the farmer out of farming. For, I dare say that the farmer has been on ventilator for decades, and now, the plug is about to be pulled. Neither the world, nor India, needs so many farmers. Already, landowners in the US and in most countries of Europe are paid money by the government to not cultivate any land.It is important to be able to ride the wave of inevitable change, lest one drowns in it. Protests on the streets of India will not change the inevitable drowning. They will only turn the rest of the society hostile to farmers or invite the state in India to use harsh tactics against farmers, such as were used in Europe, the USSR, China and the US.Marrying farming with industrial growth is the thing for farm unions to do. They would have to certainly find out their own local mechanisms for raising funds for setting up industries, finding industries that are best suited to their locality and the local population, ensure that the locals have a stake in whatever growth that happens. In this respect, a visit to the small town of Baramati in western Maharashtra would be quite instructive to the farm leaders of Haryana and Punjab.This small town was nestled among dry fields in the rain shadow area of the Western Ghats, receiving about 19 mm of rain each year. Expectedly, everyone was poor. But while the rest of the country was dissing the projects of development in the 1950s and 60s, the farmers in Baramati, led by Appasaheb Pawar, collectively decided to industrialise their agriculture. This resulted in the healthy growth of horticulture, animal husbandry and poultry. Later, a milk federation was set up with the help of Operation Flood, along with cooperative sugar factories. The farmers were well poised to grow when the government liberalised the economy in the 1990s. They went out of their way to invite all sorts of enterprises to their fields. Agriculture soon became just one of the minor activities, even while everyone became prosperous due to the add-on businesses.In the 1960s the local council had a budget of about Rs 50 lakh, in 1990, the budget was Rs 5 crore and by 2015, it had grown to Rs 224 crore. If Punjab today boasts of clean villages due to wealth imported by NRIs, Baramati is an example of an oversized village generating its own wealth by marrying agriculture to industry in ways that are beneficial to the farmer.
