02-08-2020||---||Punjab records 792 coronavirus cases, 18 deaths; tally stands at 17,853||Chandigarh, August 2Punjab on Sunday reported 792 COVID-19 cases, taking the state tally to 17,853.Meanwhile, 18 deaths were also recorded in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the state now stands at 423.As many as 391 patients were also discharged today. The discharged cases include 223 from Patiala, followed by Hoshiarpur (41), Jalandhar (32), Sangrur (28), Amritsar (23), 11 each from Kapurthala and Mansa, Fazilka (8) and Pathankot (5).The 18 deaths were reported from Ludhiana (8), Patiala (4), Amritsar (3) and one each from Tarn Taran, Pathankot and SAS Nagar.The number of active cases in the state has climbed to 5,964 while the number of discharged patients has risen to 11,466.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-792-coronavirus-cases-18-deaths-tally-stands-at-17-853-121210
02-08-2020||---||Mind your own business: Capt Amarinder to Kejriwal’s demand for handing over hooch deaths probe to CBI||Chandigarh, August 2In a scathing counter to Arvind Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe into the hooch tragedy, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked his Delhi counterpart to mind his own business and not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party’s stake in the state.Captain Amarinder ticked off the Delhi Chief Minister over the latter’s Twitter remark that the case should be handed over to CBI.Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State govt needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias. The case should be handed over to CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by local police  “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident. Don’t you have any shame?” asked Captain Amarinder Singh, telling Arvind Kejriwal to concentrate on maintaining the law and order in his own state, which was notorious for the brazen manner in which criminals and gangs were roaming the streets without fear, a press release by the state government read.Trashing Kejriwal’s claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases from the past few months has been solved by local police,” the Punjab Chief Minister asked the AAP leader to verify his facts before shooting through his mouth.Citing the recent April 22 case of an illicit liquor factory being busted in District Khanna, Captain Amarinder pointed out that eight accused had been arrested and a manhunt had been launched for seven others who were absconding. In another case, the two kingpins behind an illicit liquor distillery operating in Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, the challan had been filed in the court. Another case was similarly unearthed in May with the arrest of a mafia leader, against whom the police were waiting for chemical analysis report to move forward, the press release further read.Expressing full faith in Punjab police, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe was nothing but a political gimmick aimed at regaining lost foothold for his party, which had completely lost ground in Punjab despite being the principal opposition party.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh also pointed out that despite the cases of targeted killings in Punjab being handed over the CBI, it was eventually the Punjab police that had solved the same.“Even in the sacrilege cases, the CBI failed to deliver and it is the Punjab police which is unravelling the case and had made several interests, including high-profile police officers. It was obvious that more than the CBI, it was in the interest of the local police to ensure that all criminal cases are solved expeditiously,” Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh added.“Rather than delaying the investigation and allowing the trail to go cold, even in the present spurious liquor case, by handing over the probe to the CBI, I am more interested in ensuring swift action against all those whose greed had cost the state around 100 lives,” Captain Amarinder added.The Chief Minister asked Kejriwal to check out his facts before making unsubstantiated and wild allegations against his government, whose track record in curbing crime of all kinds was exemplary.“Why don’t you ask your Punjab unit for data and figures first and then comment on our working,” he told the Delhi Chief Minister.Captain Amarinder also advised his Delhi counterpart to concentrate on his state’s COVID-19 situation.“Rather than worrying about Punjab’s affairs, why don’t you take care of the health and lives of Delhiites”, the Chief Minister said wishing luck to Kejriwal in his fight against the pandemic.Pointing out that strict action was being taken against all those found guilty in any case of illicit brewing and smuggling, Captain Amarinder said that in this hooch tragedy, too, 30 persons had already been arrested under five FIRs registered in three districts.Moreover, 13 officials from the Police and Excise and Taxation Departments had been suspended for negligence while investigations were on to ascertain their complicity in the case, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh added.A magisterial Commission of Inquiry had been set up with the mandate to submit its report within a month, he further pointed out, asking what was the need for the CBI to take over the case when the local police were handling it so effectively.I have ordered a magisterial enquiry into suspected spurious liquor deaths in Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran. Commissioner, Jalandhar Division will conduct the enquiry and coordinate with concerned SSPs and other officers. Anyone found guilty will not be spared.  The Chief Minister said not only had he given the police force a free hand to take any action needed to control crime and maintain the law and order in the state but had also made it clear to them that nobody found involved guilty in any case should be spared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mind-your-own-business-capt-amarinder-to-kejriwals-demand-for-handing-over-hooch-deaths-probe-to-cbi-121201
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hooch tragedy survivors troubled by low vision, uneasiness||“I have not been able to see properly ever since I drank spurious liquor,” says Tilak Raj, one of the survivors of the Punjab hooch tragedy that has killed 98 till Sunday.The tragedy has been unfolding since Wednesday evening and has claimed 75 lives in Punjab’s Tarn Taran, 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala.Tilak Raj, a contractual employee of the Batala Municipal Corporation, says he felt uneasy after drinking spurious liquor, which he had bought for Rs 60 from Triveni Chauhan and Darshana Rani, alias Faujan, outside the Hathi Gate locality in Batala. Both accused have already been arrested by police.“After I drank it, I was not able to see properly and felt uneasiness,” says Tilak Raj. He survived as his family immediately took him to the doctor.“Now, I am feeling slightly better but my vision has not improved and I am feeling giddy,” says 50-year-old Tilak Raj.Another Batala survivor, Ajay Kumar, says he started shivering after consuming spurious liquor. Read also: Death toll in Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rises to 98“I am still feeling weakness,” says 32-year-old Kumar, who is admitted to the local civil hospital. Kumar blamed both Trivani and Darshana for the supply of spurious liquor. Many Batala residents alleged that illicit liquor was being openly sold in the Hathi Gate locality but no action was taken by the authorities. Another survivor in Amritsar’s Muchhal village said he felt uneasiness after drinking spurious liquor. He said he could not see properly after consuming it.According to a top excise official, though the reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in police raids were yet to come, a superficial check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint or hardware industry. Meanwhile, some families of the deceased in Amritsar flayed police for not taking any action against those indulging in the illegal liquor trade. Charan Kaur, who lost her 65-year-old husband to spurious liquor in Amritsar’s Muchhal, said accused Balwinder Kaur had been selling liquor for more than two decades in the village. Whenever police would come, she would hide liquor or throw it away, said Kaur. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hooch-tragedy-survivors-troubled-by-low-vision-uneasiness-121178
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Death toll in Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rises to 104||The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 104 on Sunday with 18 more people reported dead after drinking spurious liquor, an official said.Seventeen of the 18 deaths were reported from the worst-hit Tarn Taran and one from Gurdaspur’s Batala.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s Media Adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted that the death toll in the tragedy went up to 104 with 80 casualties in Tarn Taran and 12 each in Gurdaspur’s Batala and Amritsar.Till Saturday night, the state authorities had reported 86 casualties in the tragedy unfolding in the three Punjab districts since Wednesday evening.Earlier in the day, Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh had said the death count in the district was updated on the basis of the information “received from the field” as the victims’ last rites had already been performed by their families.Officials said some of the families were not even coming forward to report the death of their kin after drinking spurious liquor.Read also: Punjab hooch tragedy survivors troubled by low vision, uneasinessHooch tragedy: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demands CBI probeMeanwhile, the Opposition in Punjab attacked the state government over the hooch tragedy with the SAD asking Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to step down and demanding action against Congress leaders “patronising spurious liquor trade”.The SAD rejected the magisterial inquiry ordered by the state government and sought a probe either by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) demanded an investigation by the CBI with its state chief Bhagwant Mann indicating that political leaders might be involved in it.AAP also held a state-wide agitation against the government.SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia accused the state government of suppressing the actual number of casualties.Majithia demanded immediate action against the “Congress legislators patronising spurious liquor trade”.“Congress legislators, police officials and liquor mafia are responsible for the hooch tragedy. Action should be taken against all them, instead of targeting lower rank officials,” said Majithia.Meanwhile, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann, who met families of the victims in Tarn Taran, said, “Nothing will happen with the transfer of some officers. The problem is deep rooted and there is a big nexus. People are openly taking names of leaders. There should be a probe by the CBI.”Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in a statement said strict action is being taken against all those found guilty in cases of illicit brewing and smuggling. He said in the hooch tragedy, 30 people have already been arrested in three districts.Moreover, 13 officials from the police and excise and taxation departments had been suspended for negligence while investigations are on to ascertain their complicity in the case, he said.A magisterial inquiry had been ordered with the mandate to submit its report within a month, he said, asking what was the need for CBI to take over the case when the local police was handling it so effectively.His response had come after his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal sought a CBI probe into the tragedy, claiming that none of the cases pertaining to illicit liquor in the last few months have been solved by the local police.Responding to it, the Punjab chief minister told the AAP leader to “mind his own business”.He asked the Delhi CM “not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party’s stake in the state”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/death-toll-in-punjab-spurious-liquor-tragedy-rises-to-104-121174
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||One BSF constable among three arrested in drug racket||Punjab Police said the arrested a constable of the Border Security Force and two suspected smugglers for cross-border smuggling of drugs and weapons.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta identified the suspects as Surmail Singh, Gurjant Singh and BSF constable Rajendra Prashad. Prashad, Gupta said, was from Rajasthan’s Ganga Nagar district and was posted along the Indo-Pak in Tarn Taran.The officer said that Jalandhar Police acted on a tip they received and arrested the two suspected smugglers while they were on their way back from Delhi. Police found 25 grammes of drugs in their car, and further questioning led them to a .30 Bore Pistol (Made in China) with 5 live rounds and Rs 24.5 lakh as well as 35 gm of heroin.Punjab’s DGP Dunkar Gupta said police were now trying to get Satnam Singh, the man they claimed was the kingpin of this racket, from Muscat, Oman. Singh---a declared proclaimed offender in two of five cases of smuggling that he faces---is believed to have been working closely with Pakistan-based smugglers for smuggling of heroin and weapons across the border.Police said the kingpin, Satnam Singh, who also goes by the Satta, used a fake passport and an Aadhaar card under an assumed name, Gurmeet Singh, to flee to Oman. He is also believed to have channelled the drug money into buying property in the name of a relative at Amritsar’s Sandhu Colony. That property has now been sealed, Gupta said. Police also arrested Prashad from his village, Rawala Mandi, while he was on leave. He allegedly helped the gang smuggle 17 kg of heroin and two foreign-made pistols into India in May.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-bsf-constable-among-three-arrested-in-drug-racket-121171
02-08-2020||New Delhi||Punjab hooch tragedy: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demands CBI probe||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the Central Bureau of Investigation should probe into the Punjab hooch tragedy which has claimed 86 lives so far.Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party is in the Opposition in the state, claimed that none of the cases pertaining to illicit liquor in the last few months have been solved by the local police.“Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State govt needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias,” Kejriwal tweeted.“The case should be handed over to CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by local police.”On Saturday, the death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 86 with 48 more people reported dead after drinking spurious liquor, prompting the state government to suspend seven excise and six police officials.The tragedy has been unfolding since Wednesday evening in three Punjab districts. Sixty-three of the deaths were reported from Tarn Taran district, 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala, officials said.Twenty-five people have been arrested so far amid opposition criticism and demands for the resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who has warned of strict action against anyone found complicit in the case. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hooch-tragedy-delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-demands-cbi-probe-121149
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Excise Department conducts raids at Fazilka village, finds broken bottles of hooch in fields||Excise department found 110 broken bottles of hooch and 10,000 litres of Lahan in the fields of Mahalam village in Fazilka’s Jalalabad, officials said.The village has for some time been known to be a hub of illicit liquor. Seven people were arrested in the case. Police sources said an FIR had been registered at PS Vairoke. Police claim that suspects had tried to destroy their stock.The raid, jointly conducted by the excise department and police, came on the back of over 80 deaths from drinking hooch in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excise-department-conducts-raids-at-fazilka-village-finds-broken-bottles-of-hooch-in-fields-121148
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM rejects resignation of Additional AG Rameeza Hakim||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday rejected the resignation of Additional Advocate General Rameeza Hakim.Hakim, who is the wife of Punjab Advocate General Atul Nanda, had on Saturday sent her resignation to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.“Urge all to stop speculating on the resignation of Addl AG Punjab Rameeza Hakeem. Facts are @CsPunjab had received her resignation late last night & has been asked by CM @capt_amarinder to “reject the same as govt can't let go of advocate of such exceptional calibre & competence,” tweeted Raveen Thukral, media adviser to the Chief Minister.Hakim had resigned as the state’s law officer citing “present circumstances” and “personal reasons”.Hakim had held the post for the last three years. She said “the last three years has been and always will be one of the most cherished chapters of my professional life” but she would now be returning to private practice.In a note to colleagues on Sunday, Hakim said:“My Dear Team Members,Being a part of TAG and working with all of you, under the stellar leadership of the AG Punjab, for the last three years has been and always will be one of the most cherished chapters of my professional life. It enabled me to participate in complex litigation, research new areas of jurisprudence and of course interact with all of you.However given present circumstances and for personal reasons, I find myself unable to continue to be of service to the Government of Punjab. I have hence tendered my resignation as Additional Advocate General with a wish to return to private practice.Since I may not be able to meet with all of you, through this message I wish to thank each and every one of you. It was a pleasure and a privilege working with you all. I wish you all the very best in your future and seek your continued support and assistance to our AG. I am of course always available to each and every one of you for any assistance that I may be able to offer in my private capacity.Thank you once again. Stay Safe.GoodBye.” — With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-rejects-resignation-of-additional-ag-rameeza-hakim-121128
02-08-2020||---||Jalandhar Cantt SHO’s video seeking VIP treatment at GPO goes viral||Jalandhar, August 1Demanding immediate attention from the staff without availing a token at the General Post Office to get his Aadhaar updated two days ago has cost Cantt SHO Rampal dearly.A video shot by a local resident present at the post office that shows the SHO seeking VIP treatment has gone viral. The video was shot by Kirti Sharma and uploaded on Facebook, where she won accolades for exposing the attitude of the cop.In the video, Sharma asks the cop if he had availed a token, to which he responds that he had sought appointment a day before. He says that he had come the day before, too, but had to go back as the service was closed after 2 pm. Sharma asks him repeatedly to show his tokens issued for the day, telling him that everyone wanting to avail the service has to have a token. She tells him that it was wrong on his part to jump the queue, directly approach the dealing person and insist for immediate service as those standing in the queue had been waiting since morning.The SHO asks the woman to stop the recording but she continues to confront him. The SHO says he is on duty and that he has a busy schedule so he wanted to get his Aadhaar updated quickly, to which the woman replies that everyone present there has come after leaving one or another work. As the cop tells the woman that he is an SHO, she retorts saying: “Sir, khuda tan nhi ho (Sir, you are not God).” At this, the cop tells the woman that if she wanted to become popular on the social media by making and sharing his video, she could go on and then goes away.While the Aadhaar card updation service was available at several places earlier, it is now restricted only to a few centres, including the GPO, leading to crowd of people at the place. A limited number of tokens are issued every morning and only token-holders are serviced turn-wise.SHO Rampal said: “I tried to put up my point to the woman shooting my video but she was not ready to listen. I had gone there a day before, too, but had to return empty-handed. Then I sought appointment from a senior GPO official and went there the next day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-cantt-shos-video-seeking-vip-treatment-at-gpo-goes-viral-121061
02-08-2020||PK Jaiswar & Gurbaxpuri||Spurious liquor tragedy toll rises to 86 in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar/Tarn Taran, Aug 1The death toll owing to consumption of spurious liquor in Punjab’s Majha area has risen to 86 with 41 more deaths in Tarn Taran today. As many as 12 persons have died in Amritsar Rural and 11 in Batala, Gurdaspur. The Punjab Government has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased and free treatment for those hospitalised.Read Also:  Seven excise, six police officers suspendedChandigarh: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered the suspension of seven Excise and Taxation Officers and Inspectors, two DSPs and four SHOs. They will face inquiry. TNS2 women kingpins heldBatala: The police, after overnight raids, have arrested four persons, including two key women suspects —Triveni Chauhan and Darshana, alias Faujan. Their sons too have been nabbed. Bodies continued to arrive at the Tarn Taran Civil Hospital hospital till late Friday evening. Among those admitted were Jaspal Singh (35) of Malia village, Harinder Singh (63) of Bachre village, Satnam Singh (42) of Kakka Kandila, Dilbagh Singh of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar and Lakhwinder Singh (53) of Kang village. Satnam Singh and Dilbag Singh have been shifted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar. In the absence of adequate arrangements, the bodies were kept on the floor after autopsy, triggering an angry protest by the family members, activists of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and local Akali leaders. The Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, representing 17 farm and labour organisations, ended the protest after long parleys with Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa. The latter told the protesters that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had agreed to a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the families of the deceased.He also said directions had been issued to the Punjab Police to go after those who had stored, transported and supplied the spurious liquor to bootleggers. Meanwhile, the Amritsar (Rural) police have booked Dehati Mazdoor Sabha’s general secretary Gurnam Singh Daood and 50 others for holding a protest in violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and the lockdown curbs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-liquor-tragedy-toll-rises-to-86-in-punjab-120952
02-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Alcohol was ‘pilfered’ from distillery trucks, claim cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1The Punjab Police have nabbed 11 alleged bootleggers, including three women, in raids conducted in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala in connection with the tragedy.Also Read: Modus operandiThe Amritsar (Rural) police have arrested one Gobinder Singh, who worked in connivance with Balwinder Kaur of Muchhal village who sold spurious liquor. Police investigations revealed that Gobinder had brought the spurious alcohol from Tarn Taran.Balwinder would procure a bottle of alcohol from her suppliers — Gobinder and Mithu Singh — and dilute the alcohol with water.She would then sell the same in small pouches for Rs 20-30 each. However, on Thursday it was her daughter who reportedly sold the liquor, said villagers. The claim is yet to be verified. The police teams are also conducting raids in Rajpura area for nabbing suspects who pilfer the alcohol and sell it to certain dhaba owners.Police sources claimed that alcohol was being pilfered from distillery trucks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/alcohol-was-pilfered-from-distillery-trucks-claim-cops-120953
02-08-2020||Aman Sood||ED starts probe, to treat it as part of booze scam||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 1The Enforcement Directorate (ED), that has begun investigations, will treat the Majha tragedy as part of the booze scam in Punjab. A top official told The Tribune: “The ED has started collecting information about the financial transactions by those named or booked in the case.The recoveries and assets of the key accused need to be thoroughly probed.”Initial investigation by ED officials suggests that the bootleggers may be making about Rs 1,000 crore per annum. “What is worth probing is that same individuals are booked and arrested in separate cases. No more home-made liquor, they are now packaging India-Made Foreign Liquor and Punjab Medium Liquor illegally to rake in huge profits,” a source said.It may be recalled that ED Deputy Director Niranjan Singh had written to the Excise Department on June 15, the Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) on June 6 and again on June 12, the Mohali SSP on June 17 and the Ludhiana (Rural) Police on June 18, seeking information on “FIRs, probe reports, property details of the accused and interrogation reports of those arrested”. It is learnt that he is yet to get a response.A senior officer said the ED was trying to ascertain the financial status of the accused. “We have gone through several FIRs. Despite the arrests, the recovery, in terms of money made by the accused, is almost negligible,” a top official said. “Till the time we nail the big fish that have minted money in this illegal liquor trade, such tragedies will continue to happen. Probe into finances is the key,” he said.Highway dhabas raidedPertinent questions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-starts-probe-to-treat-it-as-part-of-booze-scam-120955
02-08-2020||Sameer Singh||Punjab nambardars await honorarium, threaten stir||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 1Its members unpaid for the past almost six months, the Punjab Nambardar Union has threatened to launch a statewide stir, if the government failed to clear their pending dues at the earliest.There are around 35,000 nambardars working with the Revenue Department in villages across the state at a monthly honorarium of Rs 1,500. While a majority of them have been awaiting six-month payments, there are many who haven’t been paid since November last.Apart from the delay in payments, the nambardars have been demanding early issuance of a government notification (as announced in February this year) to increase their honorarium to Rs 2,000. The hike is learnt to have been agreed upon at a meeting that Punjab Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar had with the union representatives.The decision to tread on protest path was taken by the union at its recent meeting in Mansa. Union state president Surjit Singh Nanhera said they would intensify their activities once Covid subsided. “Our representatives met the Revenue Minister in Chandigarh in February. We again brought the matter to his notice 15 days ago in Bathinda. But all we have got so far are hollow assurances,” he said.Darshan Singh, union secretary general, said how long could they go without honorarium. “Whenever we approach the authorities, they rebuff us citing empty coffers,” he maintained.Mansa unit president Amritpal Singh Gurne said nambardars had been playing a significant role in checking the Covid spread in villages. “We have been providing crucial updates to the administration on Covid. Nambardars play a vital role with the police in maintaining law and order in rural pockets,” he said. Kangar said he would check with his department why the payments were delayed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-nambardars-await-honorarium-threaten-stir-120998
02-08-2020||Sheetal||Punjabi TV stars gear up to spread the Rakhsa Bandhan vibe on screen||To all the sisters out there, don’t forget to tie an additional raksha dhaga on your brother’s wrist for protection against corona! With Coronavirus still breathing and breeding in India, it’s natural that this year’s Raksha Bandhan will be celebrated with less enthusiasm.The responsibility now shifts to the shoulders of artistes, mainly from the television industry, to portray that festival vibe in these trying times. We talk to actors from Punjabi television industry about their plans for the D-day.Far from homeSehar from Kamli Ishq DiThis is the first time I am so far from home on Raksha Bandhan. A brother provides friendship, security and unconditional love and support to a sister. I am lucky that I have three brothers. I cannot express in words how much I am going to miss them this Raksha Bandhan. If I cannot be with them, that doesn’t mean that I will skip the celebratory part of this brother-sister bond. I tied a rakhi to my on-screen Brother Vicky (Vansh Bindra) for the show and will tie him again for real on Raksha Bandhan.Gift in advance Navdeesh Arora from Khasma Nu KhaniI will be shooting all day on Raksha Bandhan but that doesn’t mean I don’t love my elder sister. She has already sent a rakhi. I paid her a safe visit and handed over the cash, what we call shagan, in advance for the festival. Definitely I am going to miss the festival vibe this year, but will make it up next year when the scenario will change, hopefully for good.On sets Sukh Trehan from Khasma Nu KhaniAll the guys who work on the sets as spot boy or lighting crew, I call them dada. I will tie rakhi to them. While I have already posted rakhi to my brother, who lives with my family in Jalandhar, this year will be all about appreciating those who are around us.Not one but ten Rohit Handa from Tu Patang Main DorI have a joint family back in my village near Jalandhar. I feel I am lucky that apart from one real sister, my cousins and even nieces tie me rakhi. It’s not a festival but more of a mela at home on Raksha Bandhan when the extended family, including my father’s five sisters, come together. But, sadly this year we will be working since we have just resumed shootings after such a long break. So, my real sister might visit me on the sets to tie 10 rakhis on the behalf of my cousins and nieces, including hers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-tv-stars-gear-up-to-spread-the-rakhsa-bandhan-vibe-on-screen-121027
02-08-2020||---||Patiala witnesses 25.4 mm of rainfall||Patiala, August 1Patiala witnessed heavy rainfall today, causing accumulation of rainwater at various places.The accumulation of rainwater at various empty plots, including Rajindra Lake that has been undergoing renovation, is increasing the threat of spread of various diseases.The area near the Language Department, roads near Beant Singh Complex and a number of other places in the city remained waterlogged for a few hours after the downpour. According to the Meteorological Department, Patiala witnessed 25.4 mm of rainfall till the afternoon today.Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “Rainwater got cleared from a majority of the areas in a short time. “We have been ensuring cleaning of all drains in the city for the past three months and the results have been positive,” she said.The continuous rains have been affecting the renovation work at the lake. Officials in the PWD said the renovation work was being obstructed. They said they have sprayed a larvicide in the water earlier and would do the same again.Poonamdeep Kaur said: “Water can accumulate in empty plots in the city but we are ensuring spraying of a larvicide. Fogging is also going on regularly every day.”She said the corporation would also get a larvicide sprayed at Rajindra Lake if needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-witnesses-25-4-mm-of-rainfall-120891
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Census office order may hit delimitation process||The instructions by the Director General (Census) to the state government not to make changes in the boundaries of civic bodies after December 31, 2019, may hit the exercise of the delimitation of wards being carried out in urban local bodies (ULBs), including the Municipal Corporations.Notably, the Director, Local Government Department, recently announced the delimitation of wards before holding the elections to 129 ULBs, proposed in October.The Director General (Census) had asked the state not to make changes in boundaries of civic bodies or other administrative units. The boundaries of administrative units for Census-2021 would be frozen as on December 31, 2019. “No changes should be made in the boundaries of the administrative units from January 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021,” the order said. Objecting to the delimitation of the Mohali Municipal Corporation, former Deputy Mayor Manjit Sethi said despite the Director General (Census) issuing a notification of not undertaking delimitation after December 31, 2019, the department had ordered the delimitation of wards.“Rotating wards within the jurisdiction of a sector is also delimitation. We will challenge it in a court,” said Sethi. The SAD-BJP has also announced to take legal recourse in case of the delimitation of wards. The department could face the same problem in other ULBs.The government has only announced 50 per cent reservation of wards for women on the lines of a law passed in 2017. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/census-office-order-may-hit-delimitation-process-120903
02-08-2020||Bathinda||Curbs put brakes on car rental business, losses mount||A majority of travel agencies, mainly those dealing with car rentals, are bearing the brunt of the Covid-induced lockdown. The owners are selling their vehicles as they are unable to pay EMIs.Facing a threat to their livelihood, many car rental owners have shifted to alternative works to earn bread and butter for their families.Satish Kumar, who runs a car rental business in Bathinda, said there were only a few bookings in the past two months as people were not moving out due to Covid. Moreover, there was no corporate movement as most officials were working from home.“Grand weddings are also not taking place. Earlier, around 10-12 vehicles used to go for a wedding, but now, not even one,” he added.Anita Jaiswal, who runs a car rental business in Ferozepur, said the lockdown had hit her hard as she had purchased a new car for the business on loan, but now, she was unable to pay the EMIs and had to sell the car to clear the loan. Moreover, her son, who used to work as a driver, had now taken up a food delivery job in the city to earn some income in this crisis.The car owners demanded a financial package as well other interventions like postponement of loan premiums of their vehicles and rebate in taxes to tide over the difficult time.Apart from this, even drivers working with these car rental companies are facing trouble in managing the household expenditure.The auto and taxi drivers, who earn their livelihood on a daily basis, have been hit hard due to the lockdown. A large number of drivers and their families are in a precarious situation, but neither the Centre nor the state government has offered any help to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/curbs-put-brakes-on-car-rental-business-losses-mount-120905
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Spurious liquor: Major crackdown, 17 more arrested in Punjab||The Punjab Police today arrested 17 more persons in a major crackdown spanning more than 100 raids in the three affected districts of Amritsar Rural, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and Shambhu border. With this, 25 persons have so far been arrested.‘Lahan’ seizedThe teams seized large quantities of 'lahan' from various villages and dhabas in the region around Shambhu border, Rajpura and PatialaThe dhabas, including Zilmil dhaba, Green dhaba and hhinda dhaba on the Shambhu border, Banur and Rajpura, have been sealedOne of the key arrested accused who was bringing spurious liquor from Tarn Taran to Amritsar Rural area has been identified as Govinderbir SinghA mafia mastermind, two women kingpins, a transport owner, a wanted criminal and owners/managers of various dhabas from where the illicit liquor was being supplied were among those arrested, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.The teams also seized large quantities of ‘lahan’ (spurious liquor) from various villages and dhabas in the region around Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, he said, adding the raids had exposed a massive racket involving illicit liquor trade, extending across several districts.The dhabas, including Zilmil dhaba, Green dhaba and Chhinda dhaba on the Shambhu border, Banur and Rajpura, have been sealed.As much as 750 litres of ‘lahan’ was seized from Baghaura village from where two — Satnam and Rashem — were arrested, while another, Lakhwinder, was identified as a suspect.Kingpins Darshan Rani, alias Faujan, and Triveni Chauhan were arrested by the Batala police, while another key accused Beeri, of Deo village in Tarn Taran was arrested for supplying spurious alcohol.Prem Singh, owner of Azad Transport, and Bhinda, wanted by Tarn Taran police, were arrested by the Rajpura police today.In a raid at Zilmil dhaba, whose manager Narinder Singh has been arrested, 200 litres of ‘lahan’ was seized. Dhaba owner Harjit Singh has been named in the FIR.At Green dhaba on the Rajpura-Chandigarh road, around 200 litres of suspect liquid was recovered. The dhaba has been sealed and its owner Gurjant Singh arrested. Narinder Singh, the owner of Multani dhaba, has also been arrested.One of the key arrested accused who was bringing spurious liquor from Tarn Taran to Amritsar Rural area has been identified as Govinderbir Singh, alias Gobinda, of Jandiala. He was the mastermind of the mafia in Amritsar rural district.Describing the modus operandi, the DGP said trucks carrying spirit would stop at six to seven identified dhabas and their owners would collect the illicit liquor and sell it to Bhinda of Rajpura and Bittu of Banur. The spirit was being supplied by them to Amritsar and surrounding areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-liquor-major-crackdown-17-more-arrested-in-punjab-120907
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor tragedy: Punjab CM suspends 7 excise officers, 6 cops||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered the suspension and inquiry against seven Excise and Taxation Officers and Inspectors along with two DSPs and four SHOs of the Punjab Police in connection with the spurious liquor tragedy, which has so far claimed 86 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar (Rural) and Gurdaspur.Don’t politicise: CaptUrging SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal not to politicise the tragedy, CM Capt Amarinder Singh said such cases had happened earlier too, including under the SAD-BJP regimeSimilar incidents had occurred in 2012 and 2016 in Gurdaspur and Batala in which several lives were lost, he saidHe has also announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia compensation for each of the families of the deceased. Strict action will be taken against any public servant or others found complicit in the case, said the CM, describing the police and Excise Department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as shameful.“Nobody will be allowed to get away with feeding poison to our people,” he added.Vowing stringent action against all those involved in the case, the CM warned those indulging in spurious liquor business to stop immediately or face consequences. He said he had directed the police to trace the culprits and charge all those involved in the case in which he had yesterday ordered a magisterial inquiry by a Divisional Commissioner. “Such illegal acts are not acceptable,” he said.During the 13th edition of the Facebook Live #AskCaptain interaction, the Chief Minister announced the suspension of Excise and Taxation Officers (ETOs) Lovejinder Brar from Gurdaspur, BS Chahal from Amritsar and Madhur Bhatia from Tarn Taran. The Excise and Taxation Inspectors who have been suspended with immediate effect are Ravi Kumar (Gurdaspur), Gurdeep Singh (Amritsar), Pukhraj (Fatehbad) and Hitesh Prabhakar (Tarn Taran City).The police officials suspended on charges of negligence of duty include DSP, Jandiala, (Amritsar rural) and DSP, Tarn Taran sub-division and the SHOs of PS Tarsikka (Amritsar rural), Batala City (Batala police district), PS Sadar (Tarn Taran) and PS City (Tarn Taran).Govt failed to rein in mafia: DulloChandigarh: Rajya Sabha MPs Shamsher Singh Dullo and Partap Singh Bajwa have said the tragedy could have been averted had the government acted on the ground realty. Dullo said if the Chief Minister would have acted on his letter written to him on liquor mafia, the tragedy would not have happened. He questioned the state government for its failure to reign in the liquor mafia and failure to act against officials behind it. Seeking accountability for the tragedy, Bajwa said the incident symbolised the growing “bureaucratic-police-liquor mafia nexus in the state”. TNSCM should step down: SukhbirAmritsar: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should step down taking moral responsibility for the liquor tragedy. He visited the aggrieved families at Amritsar and Tarn Taran on Saturday. “It is murder. All the guilty, including ministers and ruling party MLAs, should be arrested,” he said. Sukhbir said the tragedy was not just a sudden and one-off accident. “It is a tragedy that was waiting to happen,” he added. The SAD president also demanded Rs25 lakh compensation and job for each of the bereaved families. TNSBains seeks Rs1 cr for victims’ kinLudhiana: Accusing the state government of failing to act against the mafia behind illegal liquor trade, Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains urged the state government to pay Rs1 crore in compensation to the kin of victims of the tragedy. He said the CM had taken oath to make the state drug-free within four weeks before the 2017 Assembly polls, but nothing was done. “Even during lockdown, illegal liquor factories were running with the support of the government. If no action is taken against the accused, we along with victims’ families will stage a protest,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-tragedy-punjab-cm-suspends-7-excise-officers-6-cops-120908
02-08-2020||Batala||Two women kingpins in net in liquor tragedy||The police have arrested four persons, including two women — Triveni Chauhan and Darshan Rani, alias Faujan — following overnight raids in connection with the illicit liquor tragedy. The others are Chauhan’s son Rajan and Faujan’s son Johnny.Cops’ role under cloudSuspects Triveni Chauhan and Darshan Rani, alias Faujan, ran illicit liquor trade allegedly in connivance with lower-rung cops, claim locals“The women are the main players. They have been in the business for the past three decades, selling liquor directly under the gaze of the cops. Lower-rung policemen were apparently involved in felicitating the business,” claimed a resident of Hathi Gate, which falls under the jurisdiction of the City police station.The police claim to have been carrying out regular anti-drug drives. In the preceding weeks, they had claimed to have seized thousands of litres of ‘lahan’ (illicit liquor).While Senior Superintendent of Police Rachpal Singh, who joined on Thursday, remained incommunicado for the second consecutive day, Deputy Superintendent of Police (City) Parvinder Kaur rejected the charge of lower-rung officials being hand in glove with bootleggers.“There is no connivance of policemen with the accused. We are inquiring into what exactly happened,” she said.Officers said Triveni Chauhan, who claims to be working with a vernacular, tried to mislead officials yesterday. “Claiming innocence, she led officials the wrong way and even took a police team to the site where the deaths occurred, apparently to confuse cops. It was only later that we learnt of her involvement,” said asenior officer.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq toured the affected area today. “The properties and other assets of the accused are being probed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-women-kingpins-in-net-in-liquor-tragedy-120943
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Youth Cong : SAD shielded dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim for votes||Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon today accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for saving Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in a case of personifying himself as the 10th Sikh Guru.“If the case of 2007 was inquired properly, the desecration cases of 2015 could have been avoided,” he said adding that an FIR was registered on May 20, 2007, in the Salabatpura case and additions were made on June 10, 2017, through a DDR.Quoting from official documents, he said a sanction order was issued by the Governor of Punjab on June 26, 2007, to pursue the case against dera chief. “The then government filed two affidavits in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on September 25, 2007, and March 24, 2008, with strong evidence. But as the 2009 Lok Sabha elections approached, the SAD started weakening the case to get dera votes for Harsimrat Kaur Badal,” Dhillon alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-cong-sad-shielded-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-for-votes-120945
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to unfurl flag in SAS Nagar on Aug 15||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-to-unfurl-flag-in-sas-nagar-on-aug-15-120946
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Record 944 cases, 19 more succumb in Punjab||With record 944 fresh cases and 19 deaths, the state count of Covid-19 cases has reached 17,063.Six jails to house new inmatesJail Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Saturday said they had converted six prisons into special jails for new inmates to prevent Covid spreadThe jails include those in Barnala, Patti, Bathinda, Pathankot, Ludhiana and Women Cell, LudhianaThe Rural Development Department will distribute 10 lakh masks, through which self-help groups can earn Rs50 lakhOnce again, Ludhiana saw most casualties as 10 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. Two deaths each were reported from Amritsar and Sangrur, and one each from SAS Nagar, Muktsar, Jalandhar and Barnala. In all, 145 patients are on oxygen and 13 are on ventilator support.Those who lost their lives in Ludhiana today include a 49-year-old from Urban Estate (admitted at Patel Hospital, Jalandhar), a 48-year-old admitted to CMCH, a 60-year-old from Upkar Nagar, a 68-year-old from Kitchlu Nagar, an 89-year-old from Brindaban Road, a 65-year-old from Basant Nagar, a 50-year-old from New Azad Nagar, a 40-year-old from Mundian Kalan and a 67-year-old from Hargobind Nagar.In Amritsar, with two more patients losing their lives to Covid, the toll has reached 80. The deceased have been identified as Babaik Singh, a 40-year-old resident of Daburji Police Lines and Darshan Kaur, a 74-year-old resident of Friends Colony, Sultanwind Road. In terms of cases too, Ludhiana continues to be the worst-affected district as it reported 166 cases, followed by Jalandhar (162), Gurdaspur (89), Bathinda (76), Patiala (66), Ferozepur (73) and Amritsar (49).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/record-944-cases-19-more-succumb-in-punjab-120867
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||CM Punjab: Need to follow safety norms strictly||Taking note of the “highly irresponsible” behaviour of people who continue to violate Covid norms, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today warned of dangerous consequences for the state, which has been witnessing a spike in the cases.Capt Amarinder asked why it was so difficult to wear masks, wash hands and not spit on roads. “Don’t you care for your fellow Punjabis?” he asked those who were continuously ignoring his appeals to adhere to all safety norms. Citing the example of Maharashtra and Delhi, he said the safety of Punjab was in the hands of people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-punjab-need-to-follow-safety-norms-strictly-120868
02-08-2020||Muktsar||Yoga teacher sans mask at hospital, stirs row||Officials of the Health Department have been caught on the wrong foot, this time for flouting the Covid-19 safety protocol.In a video released by health officials today, a fitness instructor, engaged by the department for staff and patients at the Covid hospital at Thehri village here, is seen taking a yoga class on the hospital premises without wearing the mask.“The hospital is a sensitive zone and it is surprising to see the fitness instructor not wearing the mask. The administration should take action in this regard,” said residents. Local vendors had earlier been booked for not wearing the mask. “The offender at the hospital should also be booked,” they said. A health official said the employees were wearing masks during the class. The instructor who flouted the protocol must be directed not to repeat this in future, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yoga-teacher-sans-mask-at-hospital-stirs-row-120869
02-08-2020||Sangrur||Farmer ends life, kin allege harassment in Sangrur||Family members of a 34-year-old farmer, who died after falling from a mobile tower on Friday night, alleged that the victim had committed suicide as he was being harassed by the police.“My brother Balvir Singh jumped from a mobile tower after facing harassment by policemen. The police have registered a case against my younger brother, who is absconding. Cops are harassing our entire family,” alleged Jasvir Kaur, sister of the vicitm.Station House Officer Yadwinder Singh denied the allegations and said they were probing the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-ends-life-kin-allege-harassment-in-sangrur-120870
02-08-2020||Bathinda||Mansa farmers demand compensation for crop loss||Farmers have sought compensation for crop loss suffered due to heavy rain in Mansa district. The aggrieved farmers said no one from the Agriculture Department or the district administration had visited their fields to assess the level of damage.Agriculturists in around 40 villages, including Khokhar Khurd, Jhunir, Sardulgarh and Budhladha, who had sown paddy and cotton, suffered extensive loss. Surendarpal Singh Bittu, a farmer from Khokhar Khurd village, said, “Paddy sown on my 3.5 acres remained submerged in rainwater for days. It has been more than a week, but the district administration has not conducted a girdawari.”Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Ekta Ugrahan, said, “Farmers in around 30 villages have suffered losses due to heavy rain. Standing crop in 250 acres is completely damaged at Khokhar Khurd. Farmers are asking the administration to conduct a girdawari at the earliest.”He said, “The state government must provide a compensation of Rs 40,000 per acre to affected farmers. If the process is not started soon, the BKU will protest at the Budladha SDM office on August 4.” Mansa Deputy Commissioner Mohinder Pal said, “We have issued orders to conduct a girdawari. The process to assess loss will be completed soon. As per the government’s policy, affected farmers will be given adequate compensation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-farmers-demand-compensation-for-crop-loss-120871
02-08-2020||Faridkot||112 PG medical, dental seats go begging in Punjab||As many as 112 of the total 810 seats in postgraduate courses of medical and dental science have gone vacant in seven medical and 12 dental colleges in the state this year.No takers after Final roundOf the 671 PG seats in seven medical colleges, 85 remained vacant in MD and MS coursesOf the 139 seats available in 11 dental colleges, 27 remained vacant this time810 PG courses seats in seven medical and 12 dental colleges were up for grabsThe Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) today declared the result of the third and final mop-up round of online counselling for admission to the postgraduate (PG) medical and dentistry courses in the state. As many as 85 seats in Doctor of Medicine (MD) and a Master of Science (MS) courses and 27 Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) seats remained unoccupied. All medical and dental colleges offered total 810 seats in postgraduate medical and dental courses in the state this time. Of the total 671 PG seats in seven medical colleges, 85 remained vacant in MD and MS courses.Admission on 112 MD/MS seats (of 671 seats) has been made by the Medical Counselling Committee under all-India quota. In the dentistry science, of the 139 seats available in 11 dental colleges, 27 remained vacant this time.Facing shortage of eligible candidates to fill seats in all MD/MS courses, particularly the NRI quota ones, in clinical and non-clinical course in the medical colleges, the Medical Council of India (MCI) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had reduced the cut-off marks for NEET-PG this time.The cut-off was reduced by 20 percentile for all category candidates. The qualifying percentile for the NEET-PG has been lowered from 50 to 30 for the general category candidates, while for SC, ST/and OBC candidates, the qualifying percentile has been reduced from 40 to 20. For general category-PWD and SC/ST and OBC category-PWD candidates, the cut-off percentile has been reduced from 45 to 25 and 40 to 20, respectively.The qualifying percentile for the MDS was also lowered from 50 to 31.065 for the general category candidates, while for SC/BC and handicapped candidates, the percentile had been reduced from 40 to 21.065 and 45 to 26.065, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/112-pg-medical-dental-seats-go-begging-in-punjab-120872
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps special judge for not keeping herself updated in drugs case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has reminded a special judge in the subordinate judiciary that the quantity of neutral substances is not to be excluded in case a mixture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances is seized.The High Court has also rapped the judge for not bringing herself up to date with the latest legal position and not taking the trouble to look at a matter in terms of a Supreme Court judgment on the issue.The developments took place during the hearing of a petition filed by Mandeep Singh for regular bail in a case registered in October last year at Khamano police station in Fatehgarh Sahib.Taking up the case, Justice Rekha Mittal, on the first date of hearing, called for comments of the presiding officer concerned with regard to grant of bail to accused Gurpreet Singh without referring to the provisions of Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Justice Mittal also called for the officer’s comments for disallowing bail to the petitioner “indicted in the crime on the basis of alleged disclosure statement made by accused Gurpreet Singh, from whom the recovery of contraband was effected”.Justice Mittal, on the next date of hearing, observed that the comments of the presiding officer had been received. One of the issues involved in the present petition was whether the recovery was to be taken as commercial or non-commercial quantity when examined in the light of a Supreme Court judgment in the case of ‘Hira Singh and another versus Union of India and another’.During the resumed hearing of the case, counsel for the applicant-petitioner prayed that the main petition may be dismissed as withdrawn. Ordering accordingly, Justice Mittal asserted it was pertinent to mention that the special judge allowed the bail application of co-accused Gurpreet Singh vide an order dated May 27. The order, among other things, said perusal of the FSL report showed that the quantity of tablets, due to different salts, fell within the non-commercial range. Justice Mittal said the special judge either did not keep herself updated with the latest position in law or did not bother to examine the case in the light of latest judgment of the Supreme Court.Justice Mittal said, “It has been held that in case of seizure of mixture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances with one or more neutral substance(s), the quantity of neutral substance(s) is not to be excluded and to be taken into consideration along with the actual content by weight of offending drug, while determining small or commercial quantity of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-special-judge-for-not-keeping-herself-updated-in-drugs-case-120873
02-08-2020||Our CorrespondentFerozepur||BSF recovers 2.9 kg heroin in Ferozepur||Pakistan-based peddlers continue to smuggle drugs inside the Indian territory by exploiting gaps along the Indo-Pakistan border.The Border Security Force (BSF) troops belonging to the 136 Battalion today seized 2.980-kg heroin worth Rs 15 crore in international market. The consignment was recovered near border outpost (BOP) Old Mohammadi Wala during the wee hours.Sources said the consignment was being smuggled through the water channel by using plastic bottles.Notably, 336.797-kg heroin has been recovered this year in Punjab by the BSF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-recovers-2-9-kg-heroin-in-ferozepur-120874
02-08-2020||chandigarh||For de-addiction drugs, urine test soon, says Capt Amarinder Singh||The Punjab Government will soon introduce urine test every six months for dispensing de-addiction drugs to check abuse.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said this in reply to a Ludhiana youth’s request for directions to Out Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) clinics to give 10 days of medicine at a time, as per the past practice, to avoid long queues for daily dose of medication. Due to this daily waiting time, he was getting late for work every day, the youth said. In response, the Chief Minister said his government would soon introduce urine test every six months to ensure that there was no misuse of the medicine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-de-addiction-drugs-urine-test-soon-says-capt-amarinder-singh-120876
02-08-2020||Sangrur||Badals misusing SGPC for poll gains: Dhindsa||Several leaders led by rebel Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today organised an ‘Akhand Path bhog’ at Mastuana Sahib to express repentance over the missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.“Hundreds of ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib have gone missing while at some places, sacrilege has also taken place. However, neither the SGPC informed the residents nor got any probe conducted. This has raised questions. The SGPC officials are hand in glove with the Badals, who are misusing it for political gains,” Dhindsa said.Sources said though Dhindsas had planned a small function, hundreds turned up to listen to senior leaders. “Since we are the true representatives of Sikhs, we have decided to organise ‘Akhand Path’ to repent the disrespect of Guru Granth Sahib. Badals and their sycophants stand exposed,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-misusing-sgpc-for-poll-gains-dhindsa-120877
02-08-2020||Amritsar||SGPC withdraws transfer of five Ajnala staffers||In a rare show of promptness, the SGPC withdrew the transfer order of five of its employees after its members from the Ajnala subdivision threatened to resign in case the orders were not cancelled.Amrik Singh Vichhoa, Jodh Singh Samra and Swarn Kaur Terra, all committee members from Ajnala, in a communiqué to president Gobind Singh Longowal, had threatened to step down in case the transfer of five employees of their area was not stopped.These employees are Harjinder Singh, manager, Harpreet Singh, deputy manager, Gurdeep Singh, granthi, all employees of Gurdwara Baba Budha Ramdas; Pargat Singh, manager, Gurdwara Guru Ke Bagh, Ghukewali village, and Ramandeep Singh, clerk, Golden Temple. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-withdraws-transfer-of-five-ajnala-staffers-120878
