02-06-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||12 kg opium smuggling case: Delhi police arrests mastermind from Hoshiarpur||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, June 2A team of the Delhi Police arrested the alleged mastermind of the smuggler gang from Hoshiarpur on the basis of the information given by two Hoshiarpur residen-accused drivers, who were arrested with 12 kg opium worth Rs 2 crore on May 29.The two accused were nabbed by the police while they were smuggling 6 kg opium each in two cars, which they had brought from Hajaribagh district in Jharkhand while returning from there after dropping migrant labourers in Jharkhand.The two drivers belonging to Hoshiarpur were arrested by Delhi Police on May 29 with 12 kg of opium worth about Rs 2 crore. The arrested accused were identified as Chetan Patial, a resident of Patial village, and Shaan Masih, a resident of Bassi Bahian village.A case was registered in this regard at Lodhi Colony police station in Delhi under the NDPS Act. The accused had 6 kg of opium each, which were recovered from their two vehicles.During interrogation, the accused had told the police that they used to work for transporter Gurmeet Singh alias Ladi, who lived in Vijay Nagar in Hoshiarpur, Punjab.Ladi used to get inter-state passes issued for them to ferry migrant labourers to Jharkhand. After leaving the migrant labourers there, they used to bring opium from Hazaribagh district to supply to Delhi and Hoshiarpur.The police had registered a case against all three.On Tuesday evening, Hoshiarpur SSP Gaurav Garg told The Tribune that Delhi Police raided Hoshiarpur on Tuesday.During the raid, the transporter, Gurmeet Singh alias Ladi, who runs a taxi stand in Kamalpur area of the city, was arrested. The special team from Delhi arrested Ladi and took him to Delhi after getting his medical examination done at the local Civil Hospital.
02-06-2020||---||2 labourers in Nagla village die from electrocution||Sangrur, June 02Two labourers were electrocuted to death in Nagla village here on Tuesday, police said, adding that a case has been registered and inquest proceedings started.As per reports, Gurdeep Singh, 36, and Sadhu Singh, 58, were cutting the branches of a tree which had fall on electricity supply lines last night.At the start of the work, the electric supply was off. However, within a few minutes electricity was turned on by the authorities concerned and the duo was electrocuted. The two died on the spot.The Lehra Police Station spokesperson said the bodies were handed to their relatives after the post mortem. "We have started further investigations," the spokesperson added.
02-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Couple fined Rs 10,000 for not wearing masks during wedding ceremony||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2A couple seeking protection from the Punjab and Haryana High Court after tying the knot against family wishes will end up paying Rs 10,000 fine for not wearing masks during the wedding ceremony.Referring to photographs attached with the protection petition, Justice Hari Pal Verma asserted the snapshots showed that the petitioners and others at the time of marriage ceremony were not wearing masks, necessary in view of COVID-19 pandemic.“Accordingly, the petitioners are burdened with Rs 10,000 as costs to be deposited with the Deputy Commissioner, Hoshiarpur, within 15 days from today,” Justice Verma asserted.Before parting with the case, Justice Verma added that the amount so deposited by the petitioners would be utilised for arranging masks for the public at large within Hoshiarpur district.In their plea against the State of Punjab and other respondents, the petitioners had contended that they were major and had solemnised their marriage in accordance with law. But the respondent-relatives were not accepting their marriage. They were, rather, adamant to “separate them from each other by resorting to illegal means”.Without going into the validity of their marriage, Justice Verma disposed of the petition with a direction to the Gurdaspur Senior Superintendent of Police to take appropriate remedial measures on a representation submitted in the matter. “In the meantime, necessary order be passed to ensure that no harm is caused to the life and liberty of the petitioners at the hands of private respondents,” Justice Verma added.
02-06-2020||Patiala||Standoff between HUL Nabha and workmen leads to shutdown of production||The Nabha factory of Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) has shut its production after standoff with the workmen over the issue of salary — during the lockdown.The Nabha HUL — which produces essential health food products, Horlicks and Boost — has not been able to produce the products for over a week now. The workmen came at loggerheads with the company after the latter, reportedly, failed to provide full salary to the over 1,700 employees, including contractual staff, during lockdown.The workers union at the factory, Milkfood Worker Union, alleged that the company did not give its employees salary during the lockdown. Balbir Singh, general secretary, Milkfood Worker Union, said that the company told them to stop coming to work as they were facing huge losses.He said, “The company has put up a notice at the entry gate asking employees to stop coming as the company is closed.”He said they had given 72-hour ultimatum to the company, after submitting a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner and Labour Department.Balbir added, “At one hand, the mutational companies are giving extra financial help while here the company has not even give their due salaries to its employees.”Meanwhile, Nabha HUL unit in an official statement, said, “At a time when there is an increased need to ensure supply of essential goods to consumers, workers are not cooperating. As this factory being public utility service unit, it is bound to operate — to help the society with essential items in the current challenging times.”The company claimed that the Nabha factory has been suffering production losses for well over a week now because majority of the workmen are not showing up for work. As a result, the factory could fulfil market demand only partially.
02-06-2020||Barnala||Singer Sidhu Moosewala case: Barnala court rejects anticipatory bail of six accused||A Barnala court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of six accused, including five cops, who are facing FIR under the Arms Act with Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala.The FIR was registered on May 4 at Dhanauala police station of the district. As per information, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge, Barnala, has dismissed the applications for anticipatory bail of Constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Assistant Sub-Inspector Balkar Singh and shooting player Jungsher Singh.“It is yet to be ascertained that how they reached Badbar and in which capacity the cops accompanied them when there had been curfew in state due to the spread of COVID-19. The court of Arun Gupta, Additional District and Session Judge, Barnala has dismissed applications of all six accused for anticipatory bail,” said Aseem Goyal, Additional Public Prosecutor (APP), while opposing the bail applications.Apart from it, he also raised various points in court including the pending recovery of weapon used for firing, vehicle they used to reach Badbar and recovery of used cartridges.“The use of AK-47 rifle to fire at shooting range, Badbar, is most serious aspect of the case and needs thorough investigations,” Goyal told The Tribune.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district, went viral on the social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and five policemen.This included Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh.But within 24 hours, another FIR was also registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi of Sangrur shooting range surfaced.On May 17, police had added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act 1959 to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others.In Dhuri Sadar police station FIR of Sangrur district, eight accused have got interim bail on May 30 and only singer Sidhu Moosewala has been on the run.“We have received information that court has dismissed the application of six accused for anticipatory bail. Our thorough investigations are going on and we would not spare anyone,” said SSP Barnala Sandeep Goel.
02-06-2020||---||Punjab CM launches ‘Mission Fateh’ song featuring Amitabh Bachchan, Milkha Singh, Kapil Dev, Gurdas Maan, Kareena Kapoor||Chandigarh, June 2As part of the state battle against COVID-19, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday, launched ‘Mission Fateh’ song featuring Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan, Kareena Kapoor, Gurdas Maan and Harbhajan Singh besides a star-studded line-up of personalities from sports and Punjabi cinema, with the message of resilience, resolve and discipline to defeat the virus and save Punjab.Urging everyone to come forward and complement state efforts to save lives by disseminating information about preventive measures, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said with the cooperation of everyone, Punjab had been successful in controlling the spread of the virus to a great extent, a press release by the state government read.The war has not ended, he underlined urging people to remain vigilant and keep following all social distancing norms.The song, which also features local boy Sonu Sood alongside braveheart Punjab Police poster boy ASI Harjit Singh and TikTok sensation Noor, has been sung by Punjabi music director and singer B Praak.The song is a unique initiative to give the message of maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask while going out and washing hands regularly to achieve ‘Fateh’ over COVID-19.Soha Ali Khan, Randeep Hooda and Rannvijay besides personalities Punjabi film and music industry, including Gippy Grewal, Ammy Virk, Jazzy B, Binnu Dhillon, Pammi Bai, Jasbir Jassi, Rajwir Jawanda, Rubina Bajwa Kulwinder Billa, Karamjit Anmol, Singga, Tarsem Jassar, Lakhwinder Wadali, Harjit Harman, Gurnazar, Babbal Rai, Jaani, Kulraj Randhawa, Shivjot, Happy Raikoti, Afsana Khan, Ninja, Aatish, Tanishq Kaur and Aarushi also feature in the song.The song which has also been uploaded on the Facebook page of Captain Amarinder Singh also featured prominent sports personalities, including cricketer Harbhajan Singh, Anjum Moudgill and Avneet Sidhu.Praak had earlier won hearts of the nation for his patriotic song “Teri Mitti”.The song will also be broadcast on various television and radio channels so that the message of collectively fighting against COVID-19 reaches everyone in Punjab.Apart from this, the message of maintaining social distancing, washing hands regularly and wearing masks while going out has also been spread through hoardings and newspaper advertisements across various cities and villages.In the coming days, various departments of Punjab Government will work towards spreading awareness amongst the people of Punjab under ‘Mission Fateh’ that COVID-19 has still not ended and everyone must inculcate these small changes in their lifestyles to protect themselves and their families, a press release by the state government further read.
02-06-2020||GS Paul||Bangladeshi man tries to cross over to marry Pak girl; held at Attari||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 6Love knows no boundaries. Despite restrained movement amid the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, a Bangladeshi national dared to infiltrate into India, covered 2,000km from Kolkata to Amritsar and tried to cross the India-Pakistan border to marry his ‘social media friend’ from Karachi before being held by the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel.Nayan Mian alias Abdullah, 26, is a resident of Shariatpur district in the Dhaka division of central Bangladesh. He was arrested after being spotted at the border under suspicious circumstances.A senior BSF official said nothing suspicious was found in his possession, except a mobile phone with Bangladeshi SIM and some Indian currency.About his decision to take the risk of crossing the border without valid travel documents, Abdullah told the officials that else the girl’s family would marry her to someone else in Pakistan.During questioning, he revealed that the girls’ family shared ties with his family but got separated after his family shifted to Bangladesh, post-1971 partition.A few years back, they got connected through social media and started liking each other.“On May 31, we found him loitering near the Attari-Wagah border. He could not cross due to dense fencing on the border. He was searching for some weak borderline like a riverine. Same way, through a riverine in south Bengal borderline, he had entered India and reached Kolkata. From there, he walked on foot and took a lift midway to reach New Delhi. Same way, he managed to reach Ludhiana, and from there he reached Amritsar and walked down to Attari,” revealed a BSF officer.The BSF has now handed him over to the Gharinda Police for further investigation.SHO Gagandeep Singh said Abdullah had been booked under the Foreigners Act and investigation was on. “We have brought the matter into the notice of the department concerned and are trying to contact his family members in Bangladesh,” said the SHO.Abdullah, meanwhile, admitted that he sneaked into India through Kolkata and he wanted to cross over to Pakistan to meet the girl.“She is actually my cousin living in Karachi,” Abdullah revealed during the investigation. “We were connected through social media.”“We used to be in touch on video call, but for the past 10-15 days I was not able to reach her. She had accepted my proposal for marriage and that’s why I intend to go to her place,” said Abdullah.“I had heard that many Pakistani people who were stranded in India were being repatriated these days, so I thought of taking a chance,” he added.
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC dismisses PIL against discharge of COVID-19 patients without conducting RT-PCR test||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday refused to issue directions to the state of Punjab on a petition against the discharge of COVID-19 patients without conducting the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test.Disposing of a petition filed in public interest, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli took note of the fact that the state was strictly adhering to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.Chetan Bansal and another petitioner had earlier claimed that persons so discharged would act as carrier in the absence of test and such an act would result in widespread manifestation of COVID-19. It would also seriously jeopardise the health of the citizens, it said.Punjab Additional Advocate-General and the Additional Solicitor-General of India, on the other hand, submitted that a policy for treatment and discharge of COVID-19 patients had been prepared by an expert body — the ICMR.It was added that the state of Punjab was acting strictly in accordance with the guidelines issued by the apex body and fault could not be found with the procedure adopted by them.“It goes without saying that the issue raised by the petitioners is rightly treated not to be adversarial by the state of Punjab and it is stated that they would welcome any suggestion made by any person which shall be considered by the experts and if found feasible would be implemented.“In the circumstances the petition filed by the petitioners is disposed of by granting liberty to the petitioners to approach the authorities with their suggestions which may be considered by the state of Punjab in accordance with law,” the Bench asserted.
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||With 41 new COVID-19 cases, Punjab's tally reaches 2,342||With 41 new cases reported on Tuesday, the total tally in Punjab now stands at 2,342.A total of 96,326 samples were taken, of which, 2,342 came out positive.With 2017 patients recovered, the state now has 279 active cases.Jalandhar reported 11 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday---eight contacts of positive cases and three Non-Resident Indians who recently returned from Kuwait also tested positive. So far, 46 deaths have been reported in the state.
02-06-2020||---||Centre accepts CM’s proposal to convert Punjab stretch of Delhi-Amrtisar-Katra expressway to Greenfield project||Chandigarh, June 2Acceding to the Punjab Government’s proposal to convert the Punjab stretch of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway to a greenfield project, the Centre, on Tuesday, agreed by providing a direct spur from Nakodar, onward to the five historic towns of Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Tarn Taran, leading up to Amritsar, a press release by the state government read.The Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways of India, Nitin Gadkari, conveyed this to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh during a video-conference on Tuesday afternoon.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had earlier raised the issue with the Centre, after local citizens and their representatives expressed concern over the project’s failure to connect the religious and historical towns of Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Tarn Taran.Also, the original proposal of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had entailed widening of the existing GT Road from Kartarpur to Amritsar as Brownfield project, which was proving expensive as it would involve major demolitions due to land acquisition.During the video-conferencing, the Union Minister told Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh that after detailed deliberations with the state government officials and the examination of all aspects of the proposal, the NHAI had approved the alignment of Phase-I of the Delhi–Amritsar–Katra Expressway with the Delhi-Gurdaspur section (entering the state near Khanauri and passing near the towns of Khanauri, Patran, Bhawanigarh, Ludhiana, Nakodar, Jalandhar Kartarpur, Qadian and Gurdaspur) as a Greenfield project, along with the development of existing NH-3 from Kartarpur (junction of proposed Expressway with Jalandhar-Amritsar road NH-3) to Amritsar bypass as a 6-lane Access Controlled Expressway, as a Brownfield project.To speed up the process of land acquisition for the new Greenfield alignment, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has agreed to an early meeting between the NHAI and the state government authorities, as suggested by Gadkari, according to an official spokesperson.Giving details, the spokesperson said the Greenfield alignment would provide direct Expressway connectivity to Amritsar, starting from Kangsabu village on the Jalandhar-Nakodar National Highway connecting Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Tarntaran and Amritsar and merging with Amritsar-Dera Baba Nanak road near Rajasasi Airport.This alignment, covering about 100 kms, will connect the five religious towns established by five Sikh Gurus –Sultanpur Lodhi (Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji), Goindwal Sahib (Sri Guru Amardas Ji), Khadoor Sahib (Sri Guru Angad Dev Ji), Tarn Taran (Sri Guru Arjan Dev Ji) and Amritsar (Sri Guru Ramdas Ji).The Expressway project is being executed by the NHAI with the assistance of Feedback Infra.The original alignment, approved by the state governments of Punjab and Haryana, was not favoured as it entailed longer route, making the toll road less viable.The revised alignment, finalised as per the NHAI proposal, spanned the Khanauri-Malerkotla-Ludhiana-Nakodar-Kartapur-Qadian-Gurdaspur-Pathankot areas, which would now change in view of the brownfield to greenfield conversion.
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gold dacoity mastermind arrested with Punjab Police uniform||Punjab Police said on Tuesday that they have arrested the man they claim masterminded a gold heist in Ludhiana in January this year---an act police claim was done to help mobilise funds for a series of targeted pro-Khalistani killings in the state.   Police said a special team of Organized Crime Control Unit (OCCU) arrested Tejinder Singh, who goes by the name Teja, from SAS Nagar on Monday.  Singh is believed to have masterminded a heist of two kilogrammes of gold in Ludhiana in January this year.(READ:4 months on, police fail to make any recovery in 2-kg gold heist)Punjab’s Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said in a press statement that they found uniforms of Punjab Police and Seema Suraksha Bal and an ID card with Tejinder Singh, a prime suspect in a car-jacking incident in Kharar earlier this month.Police suspect Singh was planning to use the uniform and the ID to gain access to restricted areas of the state for criminal and militant activities. Gupta said police also found a Chinese 30 caliber Pistol, 10 cartridges and one Chevrolet Optra car with Singh.Police said the suspect had several fake identity cards such as an Aadhaar card and a driver’s licence from Noida to evade arrest.DGP Dinkar Gupta said Singh stayed in Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana while he was on the run.Singh has more than 25 criminal cases against him, including murder, and has been arrested several times before. Police suspect he came in contact with some militants and was possibly radicalised while he was in jail.Gupta said preliminary investigations showed that he and an associate Rachpal Singh were planning to loot a SBI bank van while it transported cash to ATMs in Maur and Talwandi Sabo. Police also suspect both he and his associate had smuggled in some sophisticated weapons from across the border in December 2019, when he was released from prison, and were recently waiting for a new consignment.Both Tejinder Singh and his associate Rachpal Singh have been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
02-06-2020||---||Ex-serviceman loses his life to COVID-19 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, June 2Eightyfive-year-old ex-servicemen, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital, died on Tuesday.The ex-serviceman had tested positive on May 31.With one more death, the toll of Ludhiana district now stands at nine.The ex-serviceman was a cardiac patient and had been on a ventilator since his COVID-19 test came out positive.After the patient was tested positive, two doctors from Khanna, who worked at Oswal Hospital, also tested positive for the virus.The other staff and the paramedical staff of the doctor was also quarantined.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the deceased was a cardiac patient and possibly died due to dilated cardiomyopathy.
02-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar reports 10 fresh coronavirus cases||Jalandhar reported 10 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday. All COVID-19 infections surfaced from Defence Colony. Recently, three Non-Resident Indians who recently returned from Kuwait also tested positive.Punjab currently has 257 active cases, with 2,000 people already having recovered. These cases have yet to be added to the official state tally.
02-06-2020||Vishav Bharti||Renowned Leftist poet Hamdardveer Naushervi passes away in Samrala at 83||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2When Khalistani guns were silencing voices of dissent across Punjab's hinterland, he would fearlessly roam villages with a red badge bearing Lenin's image on his worn-out coat. He would speak at funerals of fallen comrades at a time when it was forbidden to attend such events. Prof Hamdardveer Naushervi, a renowned Leftist poet, who inspired generations of rebels, has passed away at his home town Samrala. He was 83. He will be cremated at Samrala on Tuesday afternoon.He had written around 20 books.Naushervi, along with Gursharan Singh, was one of the founders of the revolutionary cultural movement under the banner of Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch. "It was on his suggestion in 1982 that Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch was acronymed as PULS Manch, the organisation which understands PULSE of the people," says Amolak Singh, president of Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch.Naushervi's real name was Buta Singh Pannu; he hailed from Naushehra Pannuan in Taran Tarn. After serving for a brief period in the Air Force, he joined as a lecturer at Malwa College, Bondli, near Samrala.He fondly named his house in Samrala as 'Kavita Bhavan'. It was known as the centre of literary activity in the area. "In his house he built a room in the basement, where he would read and write. In jest, he would tell his young revolutionary comrades: "We poets often suffer from the illusion that living in a basement is underground life," recalls Amolak Singh.Whenever somebody would ask him about his date of birth, he would say, "Don't ask that question. I want to die young." Truly, Prof Naushervi died young.
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM rejects hike, terms it paltry||
02-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh ---||Strategist ‘wants’ Congress govt to implement key poll promises||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 1 Political strategist Prashant Kishor wants Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to fulfil nine key promises made ahead of the 2017 Assembly elections, before he comes on board to play another innings for the CM in 2022. To project Captain Amarinder as the face of the party in the 2022 Assembly polls, Punjab Congress leaders have been in touch with Kishor for the past over six months to draft party’s campaign strategy, said a source in the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the consultancy firm of Kishor. The Chief Principal Secretary to the CM, along with some other key government functionaries, had met Kishor in Delhi about three months ago. Besides apprising him of the government’s achievements, they told Kishor that the process to fulfil remaining promises was going on.    The Congress, which had come to power by bagging 77 seats in the 117-seat Assembly, had made several promises to the people. These included a job for every household, provision of unemployment allowance of Rs2,500 per month till jobs were provided, cheap food scheme, free smart phones to youth, five-marla plots or free houses to five lakh poor households, increase in pension for elderly people, widows and disabled persons to Rs1,500 per month and Rs51,000 grant for the Shagun scheme. A government functionary the power tariff for industry had been brought to Rs5 per unit, the crop loans (up to Rs2 lakh) of all small and marginal farmers (up to 5 acres) had been waived and the drug menace had been controlled.
02-06-2020||---||30 years on, HC puts end to succession battle||Chandigarh, June 1More than 30 years after the last ruler of erstwhile Faridkot State Maharaja Colonel Sir Harinder Singh Brar died, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has put an end to dispute relating to his succession.In its 547-page judgment, the High Court ruled that the will dated June 1, 1982, allegedly executed by him, was forged, fabricated and shrouded in suspicious circumstances and the Trust created thereunder was also unfounded. The dispute in the heritage case reportedly involves property valued at about Rs20,000 crore at one point of time.Raja Harinder Singh Brar had three daughters – Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Rajkumari Deepinder Kaur and Rajkumari Maheepinder Kaur and one son, Tikka Harmohinder Singh. He was succeeded by his three daughters, as his son Tikka Harmohinder Singh died earlier to his death.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that his father, Maharaja Brij Inder Singh, was survived by widow Maharani Mohinder Kaur, Harinder Singh Brar himself and Kanwar Manjit Inder Singh, who was succeeded by Tikka Bharat Inder Singh, Rajkumari Devinder Kaur and thereafter Rajkumari Heminder Kaur.Soon after Raja Harinder Singh Brar died on October 16, 1989, the board of Trustees and the executors assembled at Moti Mahal Qila Mubarik in Faridkot, where Sardar Umrao Singh Dhaliwal read over the contents of the will. It was later proclaimed before a huge gathering that Raja Harinder Singh Brar had executed a registered will bequeathing his entire properties in favour of Maharwal Khewaji Trust with definite board of Trustees.The board of Trustees subsequently allegedly took possession, control and management of the entire estate of Raja Harinder Singh Brar with the assent of the executors. The properties located in various revenue estates were mutated in the name of the Trust. The urban properties were also transferred in the name of the Trust.The properties include Faridkot House, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi; Faridkot House, Diplomatic Enclave 1-Naya Marg, New Delhi; Okhla industrial plot; Mashobra House; Riviera Apartment, The Mall, Delhi; hotel plot, Chandigarh; Raj Mahal, Faridkot; Qila Mubarik; stables, Faridkot; and Surajgarh Fort, Mani Majra.Manjit Inder Singh’s son Bharatinder Singh also staked claim to the property citing the “rule of primogeniture”, according to which property rights are granted to firstborn son or eldest living male blood relative.Justice Raj Mohan Singh, however, dismissed the claim on the basis of primogeniture, while adding the appellant would succeed to proportionate share of late Maharani Mohinder Kaur on the basis of the registered will dated March 29, 1990, executed by her. Justice Raj Mohan Singh made it clear that the parties would succeed to the estate of the late Raja as per The Hindu Succession Act, 1956.Amrit Kaur’s plea, claiming the ownership of the entire estate left by the Harinder Singh Brar on the basis of The Raja of Faridkot’s Estate Act, 1948, also failed to find favour with the Bench.“The claim with regard to succession to the estate of late Raja Harinder Singh on the basis of The Raja of Faridkot’s Estate Act, 1948 is not sustainable,” the Bench ruled.legal fight began in 1992PropertiesThe value of the property, at one point of time, was assessed at Rs20,000 crore. Available information suggests, it includes Faridkot House, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi; Faridkot House, Diplomatic Enclave 1-Naya Marg, New Delhi; Okhla industrial plot; Mashobra House; Riviera Apartment, The Mall, Delhi; hotel plot, Chandigarh; Raj Mahal, Faridkot; Qila Mubarik; stables, Faridkot; and Surajgarh Fort, Mani Majra.Family tree
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bhakra Beas Management Board exceeds power generation target by 43pc||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has surpassed its power generation target for the first two months of this fiscal by about 43 per cent. During April and May, the BBMB generated 2,065.44 million units of power against the target of 1,447 million units fixed for it up to May 31 by the Central Electricity Authority. The plant availability from April 1 to May 31, excluding routine maintenance and upgrading, was 99.66 per cent, and transmission system available for this period was 99.81 per cent. — TNS
02-06-2020||Batala (Gurdaspur)||MLA accuses XEN of graft, releases video||Batala SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal today showed a video clip in which a Gurdaspur-based PWD executive engineer (XEN) is purportedly seen demanding bribe from a contractor, claiming he has to “pay off a minister, an SE and officials in the Patiala head office.” Lodhinangal said the XEN, who claimed to be “close to senior officers”, could be seen allegedly accepting bribe of Rs1 lakh from a contractor. In the clip, the officer can be seen negotiating for the amount to be given to “a minister and officials in branches in Patiala for the job.” The MLA said the clip was just the tip of the iceberg. “In the next few days, I will come out with a series of clips, implicating senior officers,” he said. To a question, PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “The issue was raised by the MLA in the Vidhan Sabha also. The XEN has been posted in the headquarters. An inquiry is in progress.” — TNS
02-06-2020||---||BJP alleges scam in ration distribution||Chandigarh, June 1 The state BJP on Monday alleged improper distribution of free ration sent by the Centre for 1.81 crore people in Punjab. It also disclosed the party’s expansion plan in Punjab, where it contests 23 of the 117 Assembly segments. Talking to mediapersons through a videoconference, state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said there seemed to be a scam in the distribution of ration, which they would expose in coming days. He said the BJP would reach out to 15 lakh families through a campaign from June 10 to 20, detailing achievements of the second tenure of the Modi government, mainly the way it helped the poor during the lockdown period. During the personal contact programme, BJP activists would give a letter from the PM and a folder of achievements of one year of the Union Government to every household. Three virtual rallies would be organised in three zones of Punjab from June 20-30. Besides, about 350 virtual interactions would be organised in all 117 constituencies. All morchas of party would distribute masks and sanitisers in towns and villages.
02-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Relief for power consumers, tariff down by up to 50 p/unit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 1Amid Covid-induced economic crisis, the Congress government has announced a relief for domestic power consumers by reducing the tariff by Rs 0.25-0.50 per unit. The industrial and commercial consumers have been spared of any hike.45 lakhdomestic consumers out of total 69 lakh will benefitThe tariff order, announced by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), will come into effect from June 1. Though all categories of 96 lakh power consumers in the state will see a drop in tariff as the average per unit realisation of power comes down from Rs6.62 per unit to Rs6.45 per unit, the government’s own subsidy bill will go up to over Rs10,100 crore (to be paid to 37 lakh consumers).Capt hails moveCM Capt Amarinder Singh has welcomed the move to reduce domestic power tariff despite revenue gap resulting from the lockdown. He said his government had recommended even further reduction in tariff not just for domestic consumers, but also for industry.The annual revenue requirement of Rs31,100 crore has been approved by the PSERC, against an Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) of Rs33,250 crore.The move will lead to an increased dependency of the PSPCL on government subsidy. This may not augur well for the fiscal health of the state power utility, which is still awaiting subsidy of Rs5,700 crore for 2019-20 and for first two months of this fiscal. In addition, the PSPCL is suffering a loss of Rs30 crore per day owing to lockdown.The tariff cut will benefit 45 lakh out of total 69 lakh domestic consumers. Baldev Singh Sran, CMD, PSPCL, told The Tribune, “This is a positive development for domestic consumers, especially those in the lower strata.”Energy charges for consumers using 100 units have been reduced by 50 paisa per unit (for those having a load of up to 50 kilowatts), while the tariff for those consuming up to 300 units has been reduced by 25 paisa per unit. Other consumers (using over 300 units and those having a load of over 50 KW) will have to pay a nominal increase of Rs0.01-0.10 per unit.Not burdening the industry and trade, which has been hit because of the lockdown, the PSERC has retained the slabs of the last year. Only those commercial consumers having over 20KW load will have to bear an additional load of Rs0.01-0.03 per unit. Small and medium industrial consumers have been spared of any hike in tariff, although the tariff announced for large industrial consumers (having a load of over 100 kVAh) has been increased between Rs0.09 and Rs0.22 per unit.However, since the government subsidises the industry by charging just Rs5 per unit as energy charges, the increase in tariff will have to be borne by the government.An important decision to keep the night time tariff going has also been taken, wherein the units which work at night (between 10 pm and 10 am) will have to pay Rs0.38 per unit extra over last year (Rs4.83 per unit). This is a big boost to the industry, as the night-time tariff order has been increased from eight hours to 12.Similarly, in case of agriculture pumpset consumers, where the government bears the tariff, the PSERC has increased the rates from Rs5.28 per unit to Rs5.57. This will increase the agriculture power subsidy bill from Rs6,660 crore last year to Rs6,810 crore this fiscal.Relief for domestic electricity consumers
02-06-2020||---||Covid cess jacks up liquor rates; Rs 145 cr more in kitty||Chandigarh, June 1Liquor will cost more in Punjab as the state government today imposed Covid cess on all categories of liquor, including imported foreign liquor and imported beer. The state hopes to make an additional Rs145 crore through the imposition of additional excise duty.As a result, Punjab Made Liquor (PML) will cost Rs5 per quart or Rs3 per pint more; IMFL to cost Rs10 per quart more (and proportionate increase in larger packaging) and Rs6 per pint; beer prices have been increased by Rs5 for every 650 ml and wine prices by Rs10 for every 650 ml. The prices of ready-to-drink alcohol have attracted an additional excise duty of Rs5 per bottle.The imported foreign liquor will become dearer by Rs50 per 750 ml (Rs30 hike in case of other sizes) and imported beer will cost an additional Rs7 per 650 ml. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who also holds the portfolio of the Excise Department, said as the state was facing a revenue shortfall of Rs26,000 crore, tough measures such as additional excise duty and additional assesses fee on liquor were necessitated.Meanwhile, liquor contractors are all set to get a relief from the state government. The Cabinet sub-committee, which has allowed imposition of the cess, has accepted the demand of liquor contractors to reduce the minimum guaranteed quota (MGQ) of liquor to be sold by them by 30 per cent for three months — May to July. This is being considered by the Cabinet sub-committee on the insistence of contractors, who say that in the wake of downsized marriages, locked-up hotels and restaurants, ban on bars and night clubs, reverse migration of labour (the biggest consumers of country-made liquor), they would not be able to sell the minimum quota allotted to them.Official sources also told The Tribune that as a result, the minimum guaranteed revenue (MGR) for these three months would also be reduced. Other than this, the licence fee for April-May 7, too, are being waived because the liquor vends did not function in the curfew period.“Though the government is considering reducing the quota for three months, the quota will be enhanced subsequently, so that the government revenue does not suffer,” a top officer in the Excise and Taxation Department told The Tribune.Besides, the price at which the remaining liquor vends (that could not be auctioned before March 22 when the lockdown began) were to be auctioned has been reduced.
02-06-2020||Chandigarh||To bail out transport sector, Punjab cuts tax rate||To bail out the transport sector that are facing a financial crisis in view of the extended lockdown, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered reduction in the tax rate from Rs2.80 to Rs2.69 per km per vehicle per day. He also directed the Transport Department to allow transport vehicle owners to pay tax arrears by June 30 without penalty and interest. “As thousands of people earn their livelihood from the transport sector directly or indirectly, these steps will help alleviate some of their sufferings in the times of crisis,” the CM said, adding that suspension of the bus service following the lockdown had resulted in financial losses to the operators of non-AC buses. Meanwhile, Principal Secretary (Transport) K Siva Prasad said the decision of reducing the tax rate was aimed at providing relief to the stage carriage buses so that they may come out of the crisis. “The move will protect the interests of workers employed in the transport sector,” he added. — TNS
02-06-2020||---||Nurses, pharmacists to be trained to collect samples||Chandigarh, June 1To deal with any spike in Covid-19 cases, the state government has started training nurses, pharmacists and community health workers to take samples of suspected patients. At present, only ENT surgeons can take the samples.Sikh doctor dies in PakistanPeshawar: A Sikh doctor, who was tested positive for Covid-19, died at a hospital in northwest Pakistan on Monday. Dr Phag Chand Singh was on ventilator at a private hospital in Peshawar for the last four days. PTISince the capacity of processing the samples at government hospitals has increased manifold, the state will be able to handle any spike in the coming days.As per communication sent on Sunday by the Director, Health Services, to all civil surgeons, the training of community health officers, pharmacists and staff nurses for collection and packing of samples for RT-PCR will be started soon.“Keeping in view the increased need for sample collection in each district, there is a need for trained staff. So it is proposed that in addition to medical officers, the community health officers, staff nurses and pharmacists should also be trained for collection and packing of nasopharyngeal/ oropharyngeal swabs for RT-PCR testing,” the communication reads. The government has proposed that initially, they will observe and assist, and finally will go for independent collection and packing of swabs under the supervision of medical officers/microbiologists.The government has decided that the training is to be conducted at flu corners and at least two individuals per batch be trained. The training should be completed within 10 days.
02-06-2020||Phagwara||Three arrested for NRI couple’s murder||The police on Monday solved a murder case of a Canada-based couple identified as Kirpal Singh Minhas (67) and his wife Davinder Kaur (65), who were found dead at their house in Onkar Nagar here on Saturday night, by arresting three men. SSP Satinder Singh said the accused were identified Jagdev Singh, alias Jassi Dholi, of Sadhniwas village near Jakhal (Haryana), Suraj Kumar of Phagwara and Ranjit Singh of Sadhniwas. Jagdev was residing as a tenant in the couple’s house and he had not paid rent for the past several months, he said. — OC
02-06-2020||---||Loss Rs 4K cr, claims SAD||Chandigarh, June 1  The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday demanded compensation for farmers, who, it said, incurred losses because of the seed scam even as it claimed that Karnal Agri Seeds Company, the main culprit in the scam, had registered a fake address as it branch office in Haryana. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia told the media here on Monday, “If spurious PR 128 and PR 129 paddy seed was sold to 15 per cent of farmers in Punjab, the fraud runs into more than Rs4,000 crore. I am calculating this on the basis of the Rs30,000 crore cash credit limit (CCL) extended to Punjab by the Centre to procure paddy grown on 60 lakh acres.” The former minister further said 850 quintal of spurious seed recovered from Brar Seeds Store in Ludhiana had caused a loss of Rs105 crore to farmers as it would have been grown on 21,000 acres.
02-06-2020||---||Seed dealer’s licence cancelled||Jalandhar, June 1 The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has suspended the licence of a seed dealer and cancelled the licence of another dealer in Shahkot following complaints about the sale of spurious paddy seed. Farmers complained about PR 128 and PR 129 varieties on Saturday. The next day, teams led by Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Surinder Singh raided shops of Shahkot seed dealers.  The licence of Hindustan Seed Store has been suspended and that of Mathura Dass Dina Nath cancelled. The CAO said seeds being sold by the two dealers were uncertified too. “Farmers have been sensitised to buy quality and certified seeds, still some companies are able to take advantage of their ignorance,” Singh said. The Chief Agriculture Officer appealed to farmers to immediately contact the department in case they suspected the sale of spurious seeds in Jalandhar.
02-06-2020||Nangal||Kiratpur Sahib to get trauma centre soon||The work on a trauma centre along the Nangal-Ropar National Highway in Kiratpur Sahib will start soon. This was stated by state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu here today. Sidhu was here along with local MLA and Speaker Rana KP Singh to assess the health facilities in the area. He said the setting up of a trauma centre in Kiratpur Sahib would help in saving several lives lost to road accidents on the busy highway, which connected Chandigarh to various hill stations, including Manali and Dharamshala. He said  the shortage of doctors in the state would be a thing of the past, as three medical colleges were being set up in Kapurthala, Mohali and Hoshiarpur. — TNS
02-06-2020||---||Two doctors among 38 more test +ve in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 1With 38 fresh cases of Covid-19 coming to the fore on Monday, the state tally reached 2,301. Apart from that, one person in Pathankot is in critical condition.As per the media bulletin, nine cases were reported from Amritsar, eight Hoshiarpur, five Fatehgarh Sahib, four Ludhiana, two each Bathinda and Hoshiarpur and one each SBS Nagar, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar.Besides, the department made a correction in the number of deaths, which has been decreased from 45 to 44 as the death of the same person was earlier counted in two districts.In Amritsar, the district health authorities stated that while three of the fresh cases self-reported at hospitals with influenza-like illness, the remaining six are contacts of previously positive cases.From Hoshiarpur Nangali Jalalpur village in Tanda block, eight cases were reported. The outbreak in the village has created panic among area residents. With this, the count of cases in the village has gone up to 26.In Patiala, four persons, including an ASHA worker and two NRIs, tested positive for Covid on Monday. The NRIs had recently returned from Kuwait. They were already placed under quarantine at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib.A woman from Shimbro village in Bhadson block of the district, who had returned from New Delhi, was the third patient to contract the virus.The fourth positive patient, an ASHA Worker, was tested during random sampling of health workers. The official had been working at Matroda village in Bhadson block.In Ludhiana, the four new patients included a retired Army officer, a relative of a positive patient, who died on May 29, and two other are doctors. The relative of the deceased is a 33-year-old male from Chowni Mohalla.An 86-year-old retired Army officer had visited Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital for treatment of some other disease and when his Covid test was done, he turned positive. He is a resident of Fauji Mohalla and is currently on ventilator support.Two more who have tested positive are doctors based in Khanna. One is 34-year-old male and the other is a 29-year-old female. Both of them are doctors at Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital and possibly contracted virus from the positive patient who got admitted there on May 28.
