02-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||Capt Amarinder to meet Amit Shah on Thursday ahead of farmers' meeting with Centre||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 2The Centre and Punjab government is expected to work on a solution to the ongoing farmers’ agitation on Thursday, with state chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh all set to meet Home Minister Amit Shah in the National Capital.Top Punjab government sources confirmed the scheduled meeting which will take place tomorrow morning ahead of the Centre’s meeting with the agitating farmer unions.Amarinder Singh is expected to give his suggestions to ease the ongoing tension with a section of leaders in the Congress Party wary of the turn the agitation may take if prolonged too much.Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu on Wednesday urged Shah to take control, noting that undesirable elements, including some Khalistan elements, had penetrated the protests and were hijacking the agitation.Singh has earlier demanded restoration of the MSP system and legal guarantee to the same.Sources said Singh may even attend the meeting with farmers to help reach a settlement to end the ongoing impasse.Capt Amarinder will meet Shah at the latter’s residence.
02-12-2020||New Delhi||Name more Congress MPs to panel on Guru Tegh Bahadur: Adhir Ranjan to PM||Congress party leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to name Congress MPs from Punjab to the government panel set up to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The letter was written after Adhir Ranjan received a communication from the Union Home Ministry about his nomination to the high level committee.“I have received a letter from Ajay Bhalla, Home Secretary, Government of India, regarding my nomination as a member of High Level Committee to celebrate the 400th Birth Anniversary of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur ji, the ninth Sikh Guru. I am honoured to be associated with such a solemn and sacred anniversary.”While assuring that he would work to the best of his capability for “the noble and pious cause”, Adhir added, “I give my consent to being a member of aforesaid committee.”The Congress leader, however, said while a number of public representatives from the  Bharatiya Janata Partyare represented on that committee, more from other walks of life should also be represented.“May I request you to kindly consider nominating some public representatives — Members of Parliamentof Indian National Congress as well from Punjab because they are so religiously and emotionally attached with this great event,” he said.
02-12-2020||---||Sukhbir blasts Delhi CM for shedding ‘Kejriwal tears’ on farm Acts||Chandigarh, December 2Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday lashed out at AAP leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for “stabbing the beleaguered farmers in the back with treacherous implementation of the anti-farmer Acts brought by the BJP government at the Centre”.Also read:-Capt Amarinder had several chances to stop farm Bills, but did not do so: Kejriwal“This is not just political dishonesty in the extreme but also an inhuman betrayal of the simple hearted and trusting farmers,” Badal said in a statement here.The SAD chief said that he and the farmers were shocked to learn that Kejriwal had already implemented the Centre’s “anti-farmer Acts” and even issued a gazette notification on November 23. “Even a crocodile would have a thing or two to learn from Kejriwal about how to shed fake tears. In fact, the idiom about crocodile tears will have to be changed now to ‘Kejriwal tears’,” he said.Stating that the latest betrayal of Kejriwal exposed him as well as the AAP, Badal said the Delhi Chief Minister should withdraw the gazette notification immediately.“Kejriwal should also announce that the Delhi Government will not implement the three agri laws and will ensure assured government marketing at minimum support price,” he added.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Capt Amarinder crosses swords with Kejriwal, calls him ‘sneaky little fellow’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh called his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal “this sneaky little fellow” as the two traded charges over the notification of one of the three new Central farm laws in the national capital.A day earlier the Punjab Chief Minister had slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader over the November 23 notification in Delhi, accusing the party of just “pretending” to support the farmers’ cause.Also read:Sukhbir blasts Delhi CM for shedding ‘Kejriwal tears’ on farm ActsAt a press briefing in Delhi on Wednesday, Kejriwal hit back, but that triggered the release of another press statement by the Congress veteran in Chandigarh.Kejriwal’s AAP is the main opposition in Congress-run Punjab, farmers from where are now camped outside Delhi in a huge protest against the Centre’s agri-marketing laws.Amarinder Singh trashed Kejriwal’s assertion that states are “helpless” against Central legislation, and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian” laws.He accused Kejriwal of “undermining” the farmers’ fight by notifying one of the laws and reminded that the Punjab Assembly had passed its own Bills in an attempt to “negate” them.“Instead of meekly just notifying the central laws, Kejriwal could have tried to make some effort to counter them and protect the rights of the farmers,” the Punjab Chief Minister said.He alleged it is evident that “this sneaky little fellow, whose double standards have been exposed time and again, is now completely cornered on the issue.”          In his briefing earlier, Kejriwal had accused the Punjab CM of playing “dirty politics”, and suggested that he was under pressure from Central agencies.“I want to ask Captain saheb, are you under the pressure of these very same people because of which you are making these false allegations against me, abusing me. I know that the reason may be that your family is charged with cases and receiving notices from the ED,” he said.The three farm laws were implemented across the country with the signature of the president and no state can stop them, he said.“If the implementation of the laws depended on the states, why would farmers from across the nation reach Delhi to talk to the Centre and put their demands forward? They would have put their demands in front of their chief ministers,” he said.He accused the Punjab CM of not trying to stop the farm bills when he had the chance.“Captain saheb had many chances to stop the farm bills. Why did he not act against these bills being a member of the central government’s committee formulating and deliberating on these bills?” Kejriwal asked.“Is this Captain saheb’s friendship with the BJP or is he under pressure, because of which he is making false allegations against me?” he asked.Kejriwal also said his AAP government had angered the BJP government at the Centre by refusing to give permission for turning city stadiums into temporary jails for protesting farmers.Singh hit back, saying it was apparent that Kejriwal, whose survival depended on the Central government, was more worried about angering it than about the farmers’ plight.He dubbed Kejriwal’s latest comments — including an appeal to the Centre to address the farmers’ concerns — as “mere hogwash” and said the AAP leader’s actions had  “exposed the hollowness” of his remarks.It is evident that Kejriwal is only playing to the sentiments of the farmers now because his party has completely lost the political narrative in Punjab, he charged.The Delhi government notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 on November 23.Thousands of farmers, most of them from Punjab, are camping at Delhi’s border demanding a repeal of the central laws.Farmer unions claim that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which the Centre denies.The Narendra Modi government says the laws give more options to farmers to sell their crops, fetching better prices for them. PTI
02-12-2020||---||Will take first shot of Covid vaccine in Punjab: Amarinder||Chandigarh, December 2With the Covid vaccine in the final stages of operationalisation in India, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder on Wednesday announced that he would take the first shot of the vaccine in Punjab, once it is cleared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The Chief Minister made the announcement at the virtual Cabinet meeting, during a presentation to discuss the Covid situation in Punjab and the state’s preparedness to roll out the vaccine.In line with the Government of India strategy for vaccination, Punjab has prioritised healthcare workers, frontline workers, the elderly population (over 50 years of age), and people with co-morbidities (< or = 50 years), the meeting was informed.According to Punjab Health Secretary Hussan Lal, the state has compiled data of 1.25 lakh government and private healthcare workers to be vaccinated in the first phase.Approximately 23 per cent (70 lakh) of the state’s population – estimated at around 3 crore – will be vaccinated in terms of the Centre’s guidelines on vaccine prioritisation, Lal added.To ensure seamless roll-out of the vaccination, the state steering committee is coordinating closely with the national steering committee, while the state task force will work in tandem with the district and block-level task force committees for the same, the meeting was informed.  Organisations like the WHO, UNDP and others are working as developmental partners in the process.Following a review of the available facilities, Punjab has requested the Centre for certain additional cold chain equipment, including vaccine vans, deep freezers, ice-lined refrigerators, cold boxes, vaccine carriers, ice packs, thermometers and stabilisers.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab approves development of Amity University Campus in Mohali||Punjab Cabinet has approved the establishment of a world-class university campus by the Amity Education Group in Mohali's IT-city, thus paving it as a major educational hub.This decision was made during a Cabinet chaired by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, here, through video conferencing.The Cabinet also gave a nod to the draft of "The Amity University Ordinance 2020", and authorized the Chief Minister to approve the final draft prepared by the Legal Remembrancer, without placing it again before the Cabinet.An official spokesperson said after the meeting, that the self-financed private "Amity University Punjab", being established as a high research and innovation-driven university on a 40-acre state-of-the-art campus, which would be developed at a prime location in Mohali, SAS Nagar, with an investment of Rs 664.32 crore over 5 years.The university would become functional from the next academic year with its first session set to commence in June-July 2021.This would be located 10-minutes away from Chandigarh-Mohali airport.The upcoming university would be instrumental in imparting world-class higher education to the students to empower them to compete globally, and be gainfully equipped.It would have an annual intake of 1,500-2,000 students.Besides being a hub of high-end research and international collaborations, the university will diverse job-oriented graduate, postgraduate, PhD and post-PhD programmes within the framework of the UGC and Punjab State’s regulations.In line with the New Education Policy 2020, it will encourage interdisciplinary approach beyond boundaries.Expected to bring quality education to Mohali, and usher in the overall development of the region, it would be a multi-disciplinary University, with various departments like Engineering Computer-IT, Communication, Commerce, Management, Psychology, Liberal Arts, English Literature etc.The Punjab government has made it mandatory to reserve 15 per cent of students from Punjab, 5 per cent of the total number of students would be given free education as part of the ordinance, and its terms and conditions.The university would be recruiting teaching and non-teaching staff as per UGC Guidelines.Notably, the state govt had formulated "Punjab Private Universities Policy, 2010" to promote quality hight education.Accordingly, the Ritnand Balved Education Foundation, New Delhi, had submitted a proposal for setting up Amity University at Block-D in Sector-82 Alpha, IT City, SAS Nagar (Mohali).After considering the proposal and adopting the required procedure as per the aforesaid policy, the Letter of Intent was issued to the sponsoring body on February 18, 2020, by the Higher Education department.The university in Mohali is the tenth university to be established by the not-for-profit Amity Education Group, one of India's leading global education groups with over 175,000 students and 6,000 faculty across its 9 universities and 26 schools, and campuses in 16 countries worldwide.As a commitment to establish the world-class institutions in the state of Punjab, Amity will invest Rs. 700+ Crore for its recently established Amity International School, Mohali and its forthcoming Amity University in Mohali, Punjab.
02-12-2020||Bathinda||73-year-old protester lashes out at Kangana Ranaut; asks 'kyu mainu badnaam kar rahi hai?'||Mohinder Kaur, a resident of Bahadurgarh Jandian village, on Wednesday lashed out at Kangana Ranaut for commenting on her without even knowing her.In conversation with The Tribune, the 73-year-old said: "Kangana kaun hai, kyu mainu badnaam kar rahi hai, main koi dihari te nahi jandi, main ta kheti badi kardi ha, main aap khet wich faisal katdi han (who is Kangana, why is she degrading me. I don’t go for any labour. I do farming and harvest crops on my own with a sickle).ALSO READ: Kangana Ranaut 'mocks' Bilkis Bano in deleted tweet; Punjab lawyer sends notice, demands apology"We have 12 acres of land, which she cancelled herself after her husband Labh Singh was diagnosed with asthma, now her son lives with them along with his wife and children. They take care of fields, but still she also goes to fields and does the farming work herself, but what Kangana has said is very wrong,” she added.Hitting back, she laughingly said that she gives Rs 500-600 per quintal to labourer for picking cotton in her fields while Kangana can give her Rs 700-800. Further, she claimed, that as she is a farmer, due to which she had gone to Delhi protest to support farmers. Earlier, she had also participated in the protests at petrol pumps and Dabwali interstate border.Jagdev Kaur and Swaranjit Kaur, her neighbours said: “It is very wrong what Kangana has said for her friend. She asks Kangana that they will give her Rs 1000, she should come and sit with us in protest”.The claim, that it should be probed whether she takes money or not, because why Kangana posted this. It seems, that they want to divide the farmers' unity.Mohinder Kaur’s husband Labh Singh said: “We are upset over the remarks made by Kangana on his wife. We are not labourers, we eat food by doing hard work, who can give us Rs 100 for coming in protest, we are owners of 12 acres of land”.He demanded, that Kangana should take her words back.Sharing a photo of the woman in the farmer's protest, Kangana had tweeted: "Ha Ha she is the same Dadi who had featured in Time Magazine for being the most powerful woman. And she is available for 100 rupees."She had later deleted the tweet.A Chandigarh-based advocate Hakam Singh has sent a legal notice to the actor for mistaking an elderly woman participating in the rally to be the one famous for Shaheen Bagh protests and claiming she was 'available for Rs 100' to protest.Expressing displeasure for making a 'mockery of an old female', he sought an apology from her on social media within seven days.After this tweet, Kangana is facing a huge backlash on social media.Even Punjabi singers Kanwar Grewal, Parmish Verma, Amrit Mann and others have lashed out at her for disgracing and using such words for an old lady despite herself being a woman.
02-12-2020||---||Punjab provides 100 per cent motor vehicle tax exemption to state stage carriage and educational institutes' buses till Dec 31||Chandigarh, December 2The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved 100 per cent exemption from the Motor Vehicle tax for state stage carriage buses and buses of educational institutions/school/college buses till December 31, 2020, effective from March 23, to support private transport operators amid the Covid pandemic.The cabinet gave post-facto approval to the notification issued in June to exempt these vehicles from MV tax till May 19, 2020, and also okayed notification for further extension from May 20 to December 31, 2020.The cabinet has also approved extension of the amnesty scheme, deferring payment of arrears of taxes, without interest and penalty, to March 31, 2021.Disclosing this here today, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the Cabinet also gave ex-post facto approval to the notification dated June 1, 2020, reducing Motor Vehicle Tax of Stage Carriage Buses (Ordinary Buses) from Rs 2.80 to Rs 2.69 (per kilometre, per vehicle, per day).It further gave ex-post facto approval to another notification dated June 2, 2020, by which Motor Vehicle Tax exemption was given to buses of educational institutes, schools, colleges, minibuses, maxi cabs and three wheelers from March 23, 2020 to May 19, 2020.The exemption given to the above stage carriage buses and buses of rducational institutions/schools/colleges was expected to cost the state exchequer about Rs 66.05 crore.During a meeting with Chief Minister on October 30, the private bus operators, including stage carriage operators, minibus and school bus operators had sought extension of the amnesty scheme issued on June 1, 2020, as they could not avail the benefit due to Covid-19. Under the scheme, the transporters were liable to pay tax on their vehicles from June 1, 2020 to June 30, 2020 without any interest and penalty.The transporters had also informed the Chief Minister that fewer people are travelling nowadays due to the pandemic which led to huge financial losses as their buses were not plying on the roads to full capacity. Hence, it was decided in the meeting to grant 100 perc ent tax exemption to all types of stage carriage buses and educational institutes (schools and colleges) buses from May 20, 2020 to December 31, 2020.
02-12-2020||New Delhi||UK-based Khalsa Aid offers free food, essential supplies to protesting farmers||UK-based global Sikh charity body Khalsa Aid on Wednesday said it has volunteered to offer free food and essential supplies to farmers agitating at Singhu and Tikri borders of the National Capital.  The organization has been a partner of farmers in the 'Dilli Chalo' movement for the last two months.      Volunteers are providing langar, tea and refreshments and even medical help around the clock to the protesting farmers who at present are stationed at Singhu and Tikri border, Khalsa Aid Director Amarpreet Singh said in a statement.    Since women were facing hardships, Khalsa Aid has ordered 50 portable washrooms as well, he added.    Farmers from about 35 farm organizations, mostly from Punjab, are protesting at Delhi borders since last week seeking repeal of the three new farm laws enacted by the central government.      Singers @BawaRanjit and #TarsemJassar join out team in serving Langar to the protesting farmers in #Delhi ! #FarmersBill2020 #FarmerProtests pic.twitter.com/A3P1bHVOnq  The Centre has held several rounds of meetings to address concerns of the protesting farmer and end the deadlock at the earliest.The next round of talks with them will be on December 3.    Khalsa Aid provides support around the world to victims of natural and human-made disasters such as floods, earthquakes, famine and war. — PTI Our @khalsaaid_india team serving Langar to the protesting #Farmers on the #Shambu border today !!We stand with our farmers ! #FarmersDilliChalo pic.twitter.com/y4JEigSFKz
02-12-2020||Vibha Sharma||All eyes on Dec 3 meeting as farmers harden stance, demand special Parliament session to repeal farm laws||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 2As agitating farmers hardened stance, demanding a special Parliament session and warning of a countrywide protest on December 5, all eyes are on the next round of their meeting with Union ministers on the three contentious farm Acts on Thursday.While Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again spoke on merits of the three laws and hoped for an early solution through talks, farmers appeared to find support from the RSS, the ruling BJP’s ideological fountainhead.Sangh-affiliate Swadesh Jagran Manch (SJM) said farmers needed “assurance on price”, “an alternate ATM mechanism” if middlemen/arthiyas were to be removed and a "better redressal system" for disputes.Talking to The Tribune Ashwani Mahajan of the SJM said while the three laws were “good” and “intentions of the government cannot be questioned”,  “any good thing also has scope for further improvement”.“Earlier ‘arthiyas’ used to form cartels, now big players can do the same. Farmers need assurance on MSP, either through amendment in the existing Acts or a new law,” he said.Regarding the government’s argument that MSP was never a part of the legal system, Mahajan said even the three Acts were not part of the legal system.“It needs to be made obligatory for buyers to pay the floor price, which can be the cost of production plus more. Farmers are the weaker lot, the government can fix the floor price of crops, make it a legal provision either through amendment or separate law.“Besides, the dispute settlement also needs to be improved. SDM courts may not be in reach of ordinary farmers and there should be farmers’ courts on lines of consumer courts. Farmers should be assured of income right from the time of sowing. Why should they wait for harvesting?” Mahajan asked.“Arthiyas are something like an ATM machine, the new players have to behave like ATMs. There should be a provision for giving money to farmers in installments right from the beginning. What farmers need is assurance of a payment mechanism similar to that in the ‘arthiyas’ system,” he added.Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Tomar who apprised Home Minister Amit Shah of Tuesday's “inconclusive meeting”, said he was hopeful of a breakthrough via talks.During the deliberations, the ministers are believed to have discussed the issues raised by farmers and how the government could dispel the concerns and break the deadlock.Sources indicate the possibility of an official group of ministers/committee, “some middle path” which may be agreeable to farmers Unions, who rejected any middle path and demanded complete roll-back and also accused the government of “trying to divide farmers”.“The BKU (Tikait) and all unions across the country are with us,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, as he called for special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws and threatened to block major roads of the National Capital if their demands were not met.“If government does not fulfill our demands, we will have to take harder steps, it is 'aar-paar ki ladai' (do or die),” said Gurnam Singh Charuni while announcing December 5 as the day when they will burn effigies of corporates. “The government should think this as warning bell. Other countries like Canada are showing solidarity. The protests have started in other parts of the country and the government should ensure that there is no further ‘badnami’ of the country,” said Shiv Kumar 'Kakkaji' on a day the agitation against the three Central laws entered the seventh day.With vehicular movement already blocked at Singhu and Tikri borders, farmers also gathered at the Chilla border between Delhi and Noida.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed that the BJP-ruled Centre was angry with him for not permitting stadiums to be used as temporary jails for farmers protesting against the farm laws. He also hit out at Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, accusing him of speaking “BJP’s language”.
02-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kangana Ranaut 'mocks' Bilkis Bano in deleted tweet; Punjab lawyer sends notice, demands apology||Kangana Ranaut has landed in legal trouble over her comment on Bilkis Bano, one of the Shaheen Bagh dadis.In the now-deleted tweet, Kangana claimed that the elderly woman was available for hire to make an appearance in protests for Rs 100."Ha ha ha, she is the same dadi who featured in Time magazine for being the most powerful Indian... And she is available for 100 rupees. Pakistani journos have hijacked international PR for India in an embarrassing way. We need our own people to speak for us internationally," Ranaut had said in a tweet.Now, a Zirakpur-based advocate has sent a legal notice to the actress for the deleted tweet.(Also read: 73-year-old protester lashes out at Kangana Ranaut)Expressing displeasure for making a "mockery of an old female", he sought an apology from Kangana on social media within a week.Hakam Singh, serving in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, clarified that the "said lady was not a fake lady" in the notice.He shared that her name was Mahinder Kaur, someone who has "always remained connected with fields and field work and is the wife of a farmer."Legal Notice:"That by using such lower remarks for the said lady, you have not only lowered down the prestige and image of the said lady, but you have also lowered down the image and prestige of each lady as well as of each person, who takes part in protests for a noble cause and for fighting their rights," the notice read.It added, "That by tweeting in such a manner, the same also points towards the fact that the protests which are being conducted by farmers, is being conducted by bringing persons on rent. Such low thinking from you, who is herself is lady and celebrity, is not acceptable.""That you have further made a mockery of the farmers who by putting their life at risk have been protesting for their rights. You have made a mockery of every protestor who takes part in any protest/procession and thus, have injured their feelings," it continued.The advocate stated that Kangana Ranaut had "hurt the sentiments, image and repute of the said lady and hurt the sentiments of the farmers" with her photo.
02-12-2020||Rohtak||Punjabi singers enliven atmosphere at farmers' protest in Haryana's Bahadurgarh||The atmosphere got charged up when popular Punjabi singer and actor Harbhajan Mann reached Bahadurgarh town on Tuesday to express his solidarity with the farmers. He encouraged them to continue dharna with the same spirit by singing a Punjabi song “Nio kaafile tufana walu chale honde ne.”Also read:Farmers block key Delhi-Noida route as BJP top brass meets to plan strategy for next round of talksUK-based Khalsa Aid offers free food, essential supplies to protesting farmers'Khalistani elements' hijacking farmers’ agitation, Amit Shah must act fast: Ravneet BittuYoung men started raising the slogans of ‘Kisan ekta zindabad’ and 'Inquilaab zindabad’ as soon as he held the mike to address the gathering at a new dharna spot near Sector-9 in Bahadurgarh town. Hundreds of farmers, including a considerable number of women, assembled there to hear Mann.Great enthusiasm was seen among the youngsters who remained busy in capturing the moment on their cell phones. Many of them also took selfies with him. Mann struck a chord with the farmers by addressing them in Punjabi.“We will win the battle; even have reached near the victory but what is required is that to stay put with the same spirit and devotion. Not only I but entire Punjab stands with you and is eagerly waiting for your victory. You will be called for meeting repeatedly over the issue. You should not break the communication as it is needed to resolve the issue,” said Mann. Later, he went to Tikri-Bahadurgrh border where hundreds of farmers were staging dharna for the past five days.Another Punjabi Singer Kanwar Grewal who also came with Mann and boosted the morale of farmers by singing some lines of popular songs ‘Pecha’. Earlier, he appreciated the farmers for carrying on in chilly conditions. Other Punjabi artists—Karamjeet Anmol and Malkeet Rauni— were also here today to support the farmers."Punjab and Haryana artistes have doubled our spirit and enthusiasm by joining us at dharna and giving us motivational addresses," said Amit Nain, a young farmer from Punjab.The farmers continued to get the support of Punjab and Haryana artistes for the past two days. On Monday, popular Haryanvi artistes- KD and Veer Sahu- and Punjabi artistes- Siddhu Musewala and Rupinder Handa- had also joined the dharna by reaching Tikri-Bahadurgarh border.Rupinder had appealed to the protesters to keep their spirit and enthusiasm high till then their demands were not met.“Our youths are always targeted for the wrong reasons. It’s a time to prove our ability and capability and I am confident that our youths will present an example before the entire nation by getting their demands met,” she added.
02-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||'Khalistani elements' hijacking farmers’ agitation, Amit Shah must act fast: Ravneet Bittu||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 2Congress leader and party MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu on Wednesday said the ongoing farmers’ agitation was being hijacked by vested interests and urged the government to immediately resolve matters at hand. Also read:-He asked Home Minister Amit Shah to intervene and take control of the situation.“The agitation has gone out of control. My appeal to farmer leaders is to get its hold back. All kinds of undesirable elements have entered the protests which are genuine farmer protests,” Bittu told The Tribune today.He said people “whose protests have failed in the past – be it those who sat in agitation at Shaheen Bagh or a section of students who protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act and also some Khalistani elements have penetrated the ongoing protests.”Terming the current farmers' agitation “leaderless”, Bittu said he was concerned that the situation “might flare up unless immediately controlled.”“In Punjab where the farmers were on an agitation for long, the state government ensured law and order and did not allow the protests to get diluted. But here around Delhi undesirable elements have come. They have set up platforms independent of farmers whose protests and concerns are genuine. The situation is getting volatile as attempts are being made to exploit farmers’ protests. I urge Home Minister Amit Shah to intervene,” Bittu said.He said long traffic jams all across Delhi’s borders with other states were swelling up with “shades of protesters who have past unresolved issues with the Centre.”“Government of India can take help from the Punjab government if needed but it must take note of the situation brewing on the ground,” Bittu, Congress whip in Lok Sabha, adding that “anyone can spoil this agitation.”He urged the Centre to consider a rollback of farm laws in the interest of farmers' community.
02-12-2020||Shimla||Sunny Deol tests Covid positive in Himachal’s Manali||Bollywood actor and BJP MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol has tested positive for Covid, the Himachal Pradesh health secretary said on Tuesday.Deol has been staying in Kullu district for the past few days, Health Secretary Amitabh Awasthi said.The health secretary told PTI that according to information received from the district chief medical officer, the MP and his friends were planning to leave for Mumbai, but his Covid test result came out positive on Tuesday.The 64-year-old Bollywood actor had undergone a shoulder surgery in Mumbai and was recuperating at a farmhouse near Manali. PTIStatement by his teamSunny Deol got tested himself for Covid yesterday in Manali before coming back to Mumbai. He has been tested positive but is asymptomatic and feeling absolutely all right. He would be under home quarantine in Manali till he recovers completely. He is following all the instructions given by the authorities and taking necessary precautions.He had gone to Manali a few days back to recoup after his shoulder surgery that took place last month, as advised by the doctors to isolate himself.Actor doing wellMandi: On Wednesday morning, the actor wrote on his Facebook page that he is doing well. He urged the people who came in contact with him recently to isolate themselves.Dr Ranjit Thakur, Block Medical Officer at Nagar, confirmed said the sample of the actor was taken along with his three other associates. Two samples were found positive, while the two others were inconclusive. He said better medical care would be provided to the actor and the health staff would monitor his health daily. TNS
02-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Love triangle claims 17-yr-old’s life, 8 booked||Tarn Taran, December 1A love triangle claimed the life of a 17-year-old boy Anmolpreet Singh of Mehmudpur village on Monday. He was accompanying his cousin Gurbhinder Singh, who had come to meet his girlfriend Ninder Kaur, alias Maro, of nearby Bhura Kona village.As many as eight persons, including two women, have been booked by the Khemkaran police.Inspector Shaminder Singh, SHO Khemkaran, who was the investigating officer (IO), said the accused included two sisters identified as Ninder Kaur, alias Maro, of Bhura Kona village; her married sister Amarjit Kaur of Manawan village; Lovepreet Singh Labha; Aman Singh, both of Bhura Kona; and Nishan Singh of Bhura Karimpura.The SHO said three more persons were involved in the crime. He said accused Ninder Kaur had an affair with accused Lovepreet Singh of her own village and she was dating Gurbhinder Singh of nearby Mehmudpur village at the same time.Lovepreet Singh, belonging to a well-off family, wanted to eliminate his rival Gurbhinder Singh.He, in connivance with Maro, made a conspiracy to eliminate Gurbhinder. Maro called Gurbhinder Singh to meet her. Gurbhinder reached the spot with his cousin Anmolpreet Singh on his Bullet motorcycle, while Maro and her sister came on a moped. Gurbhinder and Maro were talking to each other, when they saw Lovepreet Singh Labha and others coming towards them in an Innova from a distance.Maro and her sister escaped from the spot. Gurbhinder, too, was leaving on his bike, when Labha hit their bike from behind with his SUV. Both Gurbhinder and Anmolpreet fell on the road and the accused stabbed them multiple times and fled from the spot.Gurbhinder somehow pulled out Anmolpreet from the bike, but he was unconscious. He went to nearby hospital of Bhikhiwind, when Anmolpreet succumbed to his injuries.The SHO said the accused have been booked under Sections 302, 120-B, 148, 149 and 506 of the IPC. He said the accused were still at large and the police were conducting raids to arrest them.
02-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Demands unmet, farmers to intensify agitation||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 1After the failure of their talks with Union ministers today, farmer leaders have decided to harden their stance and intensify their agitation in the coming days.“Helplessness was writ large on the face of Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The ministers did not have proper answers to our questions. Tomar kept insisting on a small committee, but we rejected that proposal,” said BKU (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan on the phone.“We made it clear that we will end our protest only after a complete rollback of black laws. Now, it’s their choice,” he said. BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the Centre would have to resolve the issue as the protest was gaining strength by the day.“Non-farming organisations should also join our protest. We have started mobilising urban support for it,” said social activist Dr AS Mann.
02-12-2020||Faridkot/Sangrur December 1||New batches leave for Delhi protest||With the talks with the Centre remaining inconclusive, farm leaders have hardened their stand on the farm laws. They said their protest would instensify further with the joining of residents and various non-farming organisations along with more farmers from the state.In Faridkot, the farm unions of the area have now started sending new batches to replace protesters stationed near the national capital.Many farmers, who are participating in the protest for the past week, will return home to tend to their wheat crop and also take care of their family needs.“So that our fight for a ‘decisive battle’ against the Union Government does not lose steam and also to take care of those who have already given one week of their time to the agitation, we are sending new batches of farmers from the rural area to Delhi,” said Binder Singh Golewala, district president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).The leaders are organising meetings at village-level, calling upon farmers to reach Delhi as replacement for those who want to return home, said Sukhdev Singh, a leader of BKU (Krantikari).While addressing a gathering of farmers at Golewala on Tuesday, the farmer leaders said those reaching Delhi need not carry ration with them as there was more than enough food stock with the teams, camping there.“As it is going to be long-drawn fight, we need to prepare new batches of the protesters so that they take turns in participating in the dharna and there is no fall in the number of the protesting farmers,” said Binder Singh.
02-12-2020||Amritsar||KMSC boycotts talks with Centre||Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) rejected to be part of the talks held with the Centre on Tuesday.They argued that the agrarian crisis had affected the entire farming community and that the representatives of all farm unions from across the country should have been called up to hold a dialogue.Meanwhile, their ‘rail roko’ protest near Jandiala Guru track entered the 61st day.Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the Centre had been adopting a divide and rule policy by extending invitation to 32 Punjab-based farm unions and ignoring those of UP, Haryana and other parts of the country.“This is the reason why we boycotted the invite. Moreover, the Centre was not inclined to create conducive environment to hold dialogue. The PM and the Home Minister never cared to attend the meeting with the farmers’ representatives. Farmers are being thrashed by the police and cases are being registered against them. How could the talks yield positive results under such circumstances?” he said. — TNS
02-12-2020||Muktsar||BJP MLA Arun Narang speaks against farm laws, backtracks||BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang, who was gheraoed by some farmers at Tarmala village in the Lambi Assembly segment here on Monday, had told them that the farm laws passed by the Modi government were affecting Punjab and the Centre should call farmer representatives to resolve the issue at the earliest.A video of him has gone viral on social media in this regard. However, when contacted in this regard today, Narang backtracked from his statement and said the farm laws were pro-farmers and the farmers could not yet explain any demerit.While speaking over the phone today, the BJP MLA said, “I want the issue to be resolved at the earliest. However, I did not say that the laws were anti-farmers or harming the state.”
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Take stir seriously, Congress urges PM||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday warned the BJP of dangerous repercussions for not taking the farmers’ agitation seriously. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was indulging in “jumlebazi” by invoking the sacred Ganges to swear by the farm laws.By allowing the agitation to peak, the saffron party was giving enough time to the wrong forces to hijack the focused agitation by the farmers. So far, the peasants had been maintaining discipline to take forward their cause. In Punjab, the state government had ensured that no anti-social elements mixed with the agitating farmers to diffuse the protests. But at Delhi borders, there was every chance of such people trying to sneak into farmer groups to bring a bad name to the agitation, said Jakhar, as he reminded the PM of his election promise to clean the Ganges.Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Bittu also targetted the BJP for delay in solving the farmers’ issues. “A prolonged agitation is not in the interest of the state,” he said. Bittu also urged the agitating farmers to ward off any attempt by anti-social elements to defame their agitation.Meanwhile, the Punjab Youth Congress today announced to take out a protest march from the Congress Bhawan to the official residence of Haryana CM ML Khattar for using force against farmers on way to Delhi. Barinder Dhillon, Punjab Youth Congress president, said atrocities afflicted on farmers by the Haryana Government were condemnable.
02-12-2020||New Delhi||Standoff could have grave fallout: Ex-MP Ashwani Kumar||Former Rajya Sabha MP from Punjab Ashwani Kumar today said the face-off between the farmers and Centre over the farm laws was fraught with grave consequences for law and order and internal security.“The sight of farmers being bombarded with water cannons on a cold November night must put the country to shame. The nation’s sensitivities are entirely with the farmers and in the best tradition of democracy, the Centre should accommodate the farmers’ concerns in the law ostensibly enacted for their welfare.There is no justification whatsoever for the government to stand on prestige. The price of obduracy in terms of weakening of the federal structure, alienation of farmers and national security must not be paid by the nation. It is absolutely necessary to remove the farmers’ sense of insecurity and to restore their pride,” Kumar said.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Centre responsible for deadlock: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal today blamed the Government of India for the failure of talks with the protesting farmers, saying that the Centre was deliberately prolonging and deepening the crisis with the objective of tiring the farmers out and prolonging their agony.The party also cautioned the farmer organisations against conspiracy to trap them with misleading and vague commitments through tricks like setting up a committee. The committee move is merely a part of the delaying tactics to tire the farmers out, it said.The party praised the farmers leaders for not biting the government’s committee bait and for not blinking at the critical hour.The party said the failure of today’s talks was the result of the government’s refusal to focus on the specific demands of the poor and beleaguered farmers. Instead of resolving the crisis, the government was playing dangerous political games, but it won’t succeed, it said.“The BJP is clearly trying to create divisions in the organisations and may have unleashed agents to accomplish this task. Farmers must be vigilant against such dangerous moves and stay united under all circumstances. Their success depends on their unity and on their success depends the future of our country,” the party said.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||AAP’s stand on farm laws exposed: Capt||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over its “double standards on the controversial farm laws while pretending to be standing with the farmers”.The Chief Minister said even as AAP was claiming to be supporting the agitating farmers, the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi had implemented the black laws through a gazette notification on November 23. He said the notification would spell the death-knell for the ‘annadattas’ in the national capital.“First it failed to pass any amendment laws in the Delhi Assembly to negate the Central laws, as was done in Punjab. And now they have officially notified the agricultural legislations in Delhi. AAP’s true intent and affiliation has been utterly exposed,” Captain Amarinder noted.Responding to AAP’s criticism of his handling of the situation and for taking on his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar, the CM said while he was busy fighting for the rights of his farmers, Kejriwal was preparing to pull the rug under the feet of the farmers, who had been braving atrocities by the Haryana Government in their quest for justice.“Not once did AAP criticise the brutality inflicted on farmers. The party had failed to even condemn the Akalis for their role in the legislation of the agricultural ordinances,” he said.Captain Amarinder also lambasted AAP for its suggestion that the Punjab Government should pass a Bill in the state Assembly to make minimum support price (MSP) a statutory right for farmers in the state. “It is obvious that AAP either does not understand the problems of farmers or simply does not care,” he said, asking that “even if the state has the money to buy all foodgrain, which it simply does not, where would it sell the same?”
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM defaming Delhi Govt: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab unit today alleged CM Capt Amrinder Singh and the BJP had joined hands to make false allegations against the Delhi government to defame it.It said the Modi government had made a grand plan to arrest the protesting farmers, but Kejriwal government's rejection to convert stadiums into jails ensured that the plan failed. The BJP in collusion with Capt Amrinder was trying to defame Kejriwal and spread false allegations that the Delhi govt notified the farm laws. The entire Punjab knows how Capt Amrinder and the SAD supported the BJP in passing these black laws.Meanwhile, AAP Punjab president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was being misled on the draconian farm laws, and not the farmers.He alleged the government led by him was hell-bent on sacrificing the interests of the country’s ‘annadattas’ to appease the corporate houses, forcing famers to sit on the national capital’s borders and wage a grim battle to save their livelihood.Mann said the PM had been insensitive to the people of the country, especially Punjab. He said if the new agricultural laws were in the larger interest of farmers, protesters would have openly supported them.
02-12-2020||Amritsar||FIR sought against Kangana Ranaut||The youth wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), headed by Ved Parkash Bablu, today submitted a complaint to Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly making objectionable remarks against women participating in the farmers’ agitation in Delhi.In the complaint, Bablu alleged that the actor had said that the women in the farmers’ protests had taken money for their participation. It was an insult to the farming community and women farmers. Kangana should apologise for her objectionable remarks. — TNS
02-12-2020||Sangrur||Elders busy in Delhi stir, youth in fields||Youngsters outside IELTS and PTE coaching centres and discussing plans to go abroad is a common sight in Punjab, but what’s uncommon is to see them on fields and don the role of farmer. With most elders in the family holding the fort in the national capital against the farm laws, the responsibility of tending the fields has fallen on young shoulders.“My father is in New Delhi to participate in the protest. Now, it’s my responsibility to take care of our fields. I have been regularly visiting my fields since the start of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ agitation. Earlier, I was not regular as my father had been here,” says Lakhwinder Singh from Ealwal village. He is a graduate and a government job aspirant. Kamandeep Singh, who has got 6.5 bands in IELTS, says earlier Covid delayed his flight to Canada, now the agitation has applied brakes for an indefinite period.“My grandfather and other members are in Delhi. I have started helping my uncle in farming. I do not think that I will be able to go abroad till the end of this agitation,” he says.Another youngster Jatinder Singh, who has got 66 points in PTE, says he has been looking after their fields ever since the agitation began. “Many youth, who have cleared IELTS and PTE, are working in the fields as they understand their elders are busy securing the future of the farming community. We must play our part. We can go abroad later,” says Amit Alisher, who runs an IELTS institutes at Sangrur.Happy to see the winds of change, villagers say the protest against the farm laws has made youth more concerned about agriculture and their land. Now the youth want to contribute to the cause and what better than tending their fields in the absence of their elders, they stress.
02-12-2020||Amritsar||Drone sighted in Ajnala sector||
02-12-2020||Ropar||Ropar MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa back with AAP||Local MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa, who had defected to Congress last year, rejoined his parent Aam Adami Party (AAP) at Delhi today. Sandoa said he had joined Congress so that he could carry out the development works in his constituency with the help of the ruling party, but it was a mistake.He joined AAP in the presence of party’s Punjab in charge Jarnail Singh and leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema at Burari, in Delhi. Sandoa, a taxi driver in Delhi, was fielded by AAP from his native place Ropar in the 2017 Assembly elections. He won by a margin of 23,707 votes, defeating Congress youth leader Brinder Singh Dhillon and SAD stalwart and then Education Minister Daljit Singh Cheema.He, however, parted ways in the run up to the parliamentary elections last year and joined the Congress on May 4. Sandoa said he was ashamed of his decision to leave AAP and join the Congress, for which he had sought an apology from the people of his constituency. “I had joined Congress to start developmental works in my constituency, but the Chief Minister didn’t listen to me even after I wrote several letters to him in this regard,” he said.Now, he had decided to return to AAP as the Congress government in Punjab had failed in supporting the farmers seeking a rollback of the new agriculture laws, he alleged. Capt Amarinder Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were hand in glove over the issue, which the farmers had sensed was detrimental to their survival and sustenance, Sandoa claimed.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Civic poll: Final electoral rolls to be out by January 5||Ahead of the elections to nine municipal corporations, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, the State Election Commission has fixed January 5, 2021, as the deadline for the final publication of electoral rolls.The ScheduleDecember 16: Last date for filing claims and objectionsDecember 23: Deadline for disposal of claims and objectionsJanuary 1, 2021: The qualifying date for the preparation of the electoral rollsJanuary 5: The final publication of electoral rollsThe directives came after the state government recently notified to conduct the elections to civic bodies by February 13.With January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date for the preparation of the electoral rolls, the Election Commission has allowed the preparation of electoral rolls till December 9 this year and these will be published by December 10. The last date for filing claims and objections will be December 16 and their disposal has to be done by December 23. Meanwhile, the final publication of electoral rolls has to be done by January 5.Besides, byelection to one ward of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and three wards of the Mahilpur and Mullanpur Dakha Municipal Councils are also being held simultaneously. A senior government functionary said the matter to decide the dates of the election could come up for discussion in the coming Cabinet meeting.The Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government has contemplated to hold the election by January-mid next year, as urban areas are crucial in wake of the BJP announcing to flex its muscle in the coming Assembly poll. Earlier the state government had planned to hold the election on October 11. However, it could not be held due to Covid. The municipal corporations that are going to polls are Abohar, Batala, Kapurthala, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Phagwara, Moga and Bathinda.
02-12-2020||Patiala||Rajiv Gandhi law varsity VC resigns||Dr Paramjit Singh Jaswal, Vice-Chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, has resigned from his post. The Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, who is also the university Chancellor, has accepted the resignation. Dr Jaswal’s 10-year tenure was set to complete on February 6, 2021, but he has resigned in advance.Tenure was to end on February 6The RGNUL is already set to get a new VC as its executive council, on November 20, began the process to form a three-member search committee for the purpose by nominating Prof Faizan Mustafa, Vice-Chancellor of NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad, as its nominee. Rumours regarding Dr Jaswal having submitted a resignation started doing the rounds at the same time, though he was present during the executive body meeting. The other two members of the search committee are nominees of the chairman, UGC and the university Chancellor.The development took place while an inquiry, ordered by the state government into the finances of the university during Dr Jaswal’s tenure, is still pending. The government had ordered the inquiry in May after a CAG report highlighted financial irregularities.The state government had also demanded information about employees above the age of 65 who were still working at the university. “The government has provided over Rs 200 crore to the university but they were still asking for more funds. We have demanded information regarding their bank accounts and the available funds as well,” an official said. For now, the Chancellor’s office has designated Prof Anand Pawar, the senior-most professor of the university, to perform the functions of the Vice-Chancellor until the new VC assumes office. Dr Jaswal did not respond to calls made on Tuesday evening.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays transfer of soil conservator||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the transfer of Anil Sharma, Conservator of Soils, Department of Soil and Water Conservation, Punjab. Justice Sudhir Mittal also issued a notice of motion to the state and another respondent, before fixing the case for February next.Appearing before Justice Mittal’s Bench for the petitioner, senior advocate GS Bal and counsel Sewa Singh referred to a policy dated April 23, 2018, before submitting that transfer was to be avoided in the last two years of service. Bal added the petitioner was due to retire on August 31, 2021. — TNS
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Exemption in tax for schoolbuses likely||
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cases of post-Covid complications on rise||As Punjab battles high case fatality rate for Covid-19, another battle awaits the already stretched healthcare sector in the state as post-Covid complications rise.Worst-hit districts : Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Mohali“Hospitals in the state are reporting a rise in cases of recovered patients suffering from long-term conditions like blood clots, heart attacks, paralysis and breathlessness. There is a steady increase in patients reporting such conditions and coming to post-Covid care centres at medical colleges in both private and public healthcare sector,” Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid, told The Tribune.In figuresCase Fatality Rate 3.1Positivity Rate 2.5Deaths reported today 14New cases today 630A 58-year-old businessman from Ludhiana, who had got the viral infection in September and recovered, suffered a heart attack last week. “I had no cardiac issues before I got Covid-19. As recommended by the doctor, I took blood thinners for a few days post recovery, but later stopped taking it. I am told that heart attack is a result of post-Covid complications,” he said.Dr Bishav Mohan, a cardiologist in Ludhiana, said they were monitoring post-Covid complications in patients. Patients, who were categorised as severe cases of Covid, were recommended to take blood thinners for four to six weeks.“A study by the World Health Federation is underway at Delhi, Ludhiana and Hyderabad to check how many patients suffered moderate to severe cardiac issues post recovery. Though the study is still underway, initial reports prove that the incidence is on the higher side,” he said. Dr Mohan is the investigator of the study at the DMCH, Ludhiana.
02-12-2020||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur||Varsity status for Ferozepur institute||In order to give much-needed impetus to higher education in the region, the state government has decided to upgrade Shaheed Bhagat Singh State Technical Campus into a professional university in the coming session.Divulging the details, MLA Parminder Singh Pinki said the decision was taken during a high-level meeting of a special committee constituted on the instructions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.As per information, the institute, which at the moment is going through severe financial hardships, will be converted into a university on a cost-sharing model at 60:40 ratio, under which a part of expenses will be borne by the state government and the rest will be provided by the university under self-financing scheme.Till 2001, the state government was providing requisite funds for the functioning of the college but thereafter, the institute is running under the “self-finance” mode. Notably, the staff members have been protesting against the non-payment of salaries for the past several months. The MLA said he had brought the matter to the CM’s knowledge.
02-12-2020||Amritsar||4 policemen held for graft||A day after the Vigilance arrested four policemen posted at the Chatiwind police station here on the charges of corruption, it is learnt that the accused had taken Rs 65,000 as bribe on different occasions. The Vigilance has booked seven persons in the case.While one of their accomplices ASI Kuldeep Singh has expired, remaining two — Mahinder Singh and Rajbir Singh are absconding.Those arrested were identified as Head Constable Ram Singh, Constable Palwinder Singh, Constable Harpinder Singh and Home Guard Lata Singh. — TNS
02-12-2020||Barnala||Ensure potable water in villages: DC to sarpanches||Deputy Commissioner Tej Partap Singh Phoolka has directed sarpanches to work to ensure 100 per cent potable water to villages. He also offered help from the government in it.The Deputy Commissioner said this while holding a meeting with sarpanches under the Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana on Tuesday. He said nine villages of the district had been selected under the scheme and they would be given Rs 20 lakh grant to initiate and complete various developmental works.The selected villages include Draka, Dhaner, Naiwala, Patti Sohal, Pandori, Bhaddalvad, Kharak Singh Wala, Kirpal Singh Wala and Amla Singh Wala. These villages have more than 50 per cent Scheduled Caste population.“During the meeting, I asked the sarpanches of the villages to give priority to the drinking water projects.” the Deputy Commissioner added.
02-12-2020||Chandigarh||High Court stays counselling for Panjab University’s 5-year law course||A day before the counselling for Panjab University’s BA LLB (Hons.) 5-year integrated course was scheduled to be held, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that the process based on the revised merit list would be kept in abeyance.Notice of motionIssuing notice of motion for December 3, the Bench asserted: “In the meanwhile, the conduct of the counselling based on the revised merit list fixed for December 2 shall be kept in abeyance”.The direction by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition by Malayika Verma through counsel Sandeep Moudgil and after it was told that the decision to award four marks weightage for “Legal Studies” had been withdrawn.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Moudgil submitted the petitioner was a candidate for admission to the integrated course for session 2020-21 against the 90 seats in the general category of the total 180. The admissions were based on the marks obtained in the qualifying 10+2 examination.But the petitioner’s grievance was that the revised merit list for counselling to be held on December 2 for the course was uploaded by withdrawing the award of four marks assigned for passing “Legal Studies” in the 10+2 examination. As a result, the petitioner’s rank was reduced from 86 to 690, beyond the assigned 90 seats in the general category.The Bench observed the decision to award weightage of four marks each, subject to a maximum of 16, to certain subjects for determination of final merit was taken after the issuance of the prospectus for BA LLB (Hons) and BCom LLB 5-year integrated course.It was further evident that a writ petition “Samriti versus PU and others” was filed, challenging the weightage of four marks for “Legal Studies” for admission to the course as it was not provided in the prospectus. “It is, perhaps, in the wake of the writ petition filed, PU has withdrawn the award of four marks in the present case, without according similar treatment to weightage for subjects, including ‘Legal Studies’, for determination of merit for admission to BCom LLB integrated course,” the Bench asserted.It also took note of Moudgil’s contention that the respondent-varsity could not pick and choose, while extending the benefit of weightage for the subjects. As such, the action was discriminatory and arbitrary. That apart, the sanctity of the prospectus stood diluted in view of the varsity’s subsequent decision for admission by abandoning the entrance examination as originally stipulated in the prospectus.
02-12-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur locals oppose land acquisition for expressway||Villagers of the district are opposing the proposed acquisition of their farm land for the Katra-Delhi Expressway. They have blocked both gates of Sangrur DC’s office and announced to intensify their agitation in coming days.“We have requested the authorities that we won’t give our land. The state and Central governments have failed to repair the present roads and now they want to construct another one, which won’t serve any purpose. We don’t need more road,” said Sukhdev Singh Dhillon outside the DC office.Protesters from various villages first organised a protest march in the city and then at the main gate of the DC office. Later, when officers did not give them any satisfactory reply, they blocked the back gate of the office also.“We are trying to convince the villagers as builting the Katra-Delhi Expressway is the Centre’s decision. Some residents also want higher rates and we have recommended it to the government,” said Ramvir, DC. — TNS
02-12-2020||Gurdaspur||Kin of former British Columbia minister Gulzar Singh Cheema ‘denied’ ambulance||Covid-infected elder brother of former Health Minister of British Columbia province of Canada was denied an ambulance by health officials here on Monday.When reports of the incident reached DC Mohammad Ishfaq, he held an informal probe in which officials revealed that ambulances were not available because of the “CM’s visit” to Dera Baba Nanak for the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.The DC has now launched a comprehensive probe to identify and nail the guilty.Senior citizen Dilbagh Singh Lally Cheema (69) is brother of Gulzar Singh Cheema, who remained the Health Minister of British Columbia from 2001 till 2004. Lally Cheema complained of acute respiratory problem in the morning. Suspecting that he might have contracted the virus, he asked his family to shift him to Amritsar’s Fortis Hospital.His relative, Manjit Singh Dala, got in touch with the SMO who told him to “take the patient to Civil Hospital from where he could be shifted to Amritsar”.ADC (Development) Tejinder Pal Sandhu got in touch with the Civil Surgeon who assured him help, but nothing tangible happened.The DC rubbished the claims of health officials and said: “We have nearly 20 ambulances in the district. One could have easily been requisitioned,” he said.In Amritsar, he was tested and confirmed Covid-positive.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu could not be contacted.
02-12-2020||Jalandhar||Only 14 register at Punjab's lone rehab centre for women||Roshni (35) needs to get on ART as she has been diagnosed with HIV. Muskaan, another HIV patient, needs to get an Aadhaar card to be able to seek benefits of various health and job schemes started by the state government. But while one refuses to get treatment, the other refuses an Aadhaar card.The (Anti-Retro Viral Therapy) ART Centre, opened in Kapurthala in August, has come as a boon for HIV positive men and women, who had to earlier travel to Jalandhar to get treatment. While ART has opened ways to a better living for the registered women, many of whom also found jobs via district services, however, the stigma associated with the disease result in women largely shying away from showing up.There are over 10,000 registered drug users at the De-Addiction Centre for Men at Kapurthala while at the De-Addiction Centre for Women (the only centre for women in the state) there are mere 226 users. At the ART Centre, there are 172 registered men and only 14 women.Of 226 women drug users in Kapurthala, 47 are HCV positive and 16 are HIV positive. Of these 16, two haven’t turned up. As a result, the health workers are bringing women from their homes in their own vehicles to ensure their treatment.Dr Sandeep Bhola, Nodal Officer, Mental Health and De-Addiction, Kapurthala, said: “The ART Centre has come as a huge relief for patients. But women, as compared to men, are still wary of coming for treatment. The taboo begins with society.”Sarabjit, Project Manager, Alliance AIDS, said: “There are several women who don’t want their relatives to know. Most of them became drug users due to social pressures and peer group influence.”
02-12-2020||Patiala||Jobless teachers ‘harassed’||CM mourns Gosain’s deathChandigarh:  CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday mourned the demise of ex-Deputy Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha and Cabinet minister Satpal Gosain (85), who passed away in Ludhiana after a brief illness. In a condolence message, the CM said he was pained to learn about the death of veteran BJP leader, who worked tirelessly for the development of Ludhiana city and welfare of its citizens. The CM prayed to the Almighty to give strength to the bereaved family to bear this irreparable loss. TNS
02-12-2020||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Support for agitating farmers swells||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 1Farmers continued their dharna on the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Tuesday. They were disappointed at not getting any fruitful result from a meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar in Delhi.“Farmers are not satisfied with the meeting as it remained inconclusive. Our top leaders will decide further course of action. Till then, the dharna will continue,” said a farmer leader.Harbhajan Mann, Punjabi singerStand firmWe will win the battle. Stay put with the same spirit. Not only I, but all of Punjab stands with you and wait for your victory. You will be called for meetings repeatedly. You should not break communication as it is needed to resolve the issue.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the All India Kisan Sabha, said they had decided to double their strength as the Centre was on the defensive.The Janvadi Mahila Samiti, led by national vice-president Jagmati Sangwan, took out a march from Bahadurgarh to the Tikri border and joined the dharna.A group of arhtiyas from Rohtak led by Harsh Girdhar reached the dharna spot and distributed vegetables among farmers. He said grain markets across the state remained shut in support of farmers.Gurmeet Singh, a local factory owner, and his team distributed free medicines and provided dressing to those suffering from minor injuries. Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan and Meham MLA Balraj Kundu reached the dharna spot.The protesters blocked the main road outside the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh for over two hours to exert pressure for giving status of martyr to Gajjan Singh of Ludhiana, who died on Sunday night.Punjabi singer Harbhajan Mann reached Bahadurgarh to express solidarity with farmers. “We will win the battle. Stay put with the same spirit and devotion. Not only I, but Punjab stands with you and eagerly wait for your victory. You will be called for meetings repeatedly. You should not break communication as it is needed to resolve the issue,” he said.Another singer Kanwar Grewal, who accompanied Mann, sang some lines of popular songs. He appreciated the farmers for holding firm in chilly conditions. Punjabi artistes Karamjeet Anmol and Malkeet Rauni also came to support farmers.Sonepat: Farmers continued their protest at the Singhu border on the NH-44 for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday amid the biting cold. They remained adamant, saying it was a do-or-die situation for them.The Singhu border resembled a big village, with thousands of farmers staying put in their tractor-trolleys. Around 30,000 farmers were staging a dharna. They had been cooking food and washing clothes on the roadside and sleeping in their covered trolleys.“The cold wave cannot harm us because we are used to it. We have irrigated our fields in chilly January nights. The government has planned to finish our livelihood with the three farm laws,” said Gurnam Singh of Faridkot.“Farming is not our business, but our livelihood. We have left our houses to save our livelihood and our land. We will not go back to our villages till our demands are met,” said Amanjot Singh of Gurdaspur.Farmers were getting the support of local residents and farmers. They were providing milk, vegetables, rice and flour to the protesters. Scores of vehicles from Punjab laden with food and dry ration reached the Singhu border.Students of colleges, Delhi University and the JNU reached the Singhu border to support the farmers. Theatre artistes and trade union members also reached the dharna spot.The police sealed the Ochandi border and Safiabad border — alternative routes to enter the Capital. There was a 6-km-long jam at the Kundli border on the NH-44 due to the protest.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said traffic had been diverted through the NH-71A in Panipat, and through the KGP and KMP expressways in Rai.Employees to protestChandigarh: Close on the heels of 130 Haryana khaps throwing their lot with the agitating farmers, the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), a representative body of three lakh state government employees, announced their decision of state-wide protests in solidarity with the farmers on December 3. TNS
