03-09-2020||Gopeshwar||Yatra to Hemkund Sahib in Uttarakhand begins||The yatra to the Hemkund Sahib in Uttarakhand began on Thursday and the first batch of pilgrims was flagged off at Govindghat.The Sikh shrine in Garhwal Himalayas will open for devotees on Friday.Only a limited number of devotees led by ‘Panj Pyaras’ were allowed to proceed for the high altitude shrine amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Gurdwara Prabandhan Samiti officials said.The pilgrims were gifted ‘saropas’ as per the custom, they said, adding that they will stop for the night at Ghanghariya.The yatra is beginning late by three months this year due to the pandemic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yatra-to-hemkund-sahib-in-uttarakhand-begins-135850
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 1,527 new COVID-19 cases, 73 more deaths||Punjab on Thursday reported 1,527 new cases COVID-19 cases and 73 deaths. The virus toll in the state has climbed to 58,515 with the death toll rising to 1,690, according to an official bulletin.There are 15,554 active coronavirus cases in the state now.According to the bulletin, Ludhiana reported 18 coronavirus fatalities followed by Kapurthala (10), Jalandhar (7) and five each from Patiala, Ferozepur and Moga, Amritsar (4), Rupnagar (3), two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Sangrur and one each in Bathinda, Fazilka, Mohali, Muktsar, SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran.Among the places which reported new cases are Jalandhar (227), Amritsar (168), Ludhiana (152), Patiala (138), Mohali (134), Gurdaspur (71), Hoshiarpur (60) and Kapurthala (58).The bulletin said 1,529 more coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 41,271 in the state.Sixty-eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 470 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.With a collection of 19,104 more samples for COVID testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 11,21,016 in the state, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-1-527-new-covid-19-cases-73-more-deaths-135849
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-DGP Saini goes underground even as his Z+ security continues||More than 60 persons from the CRPF, Punjab Police and the Chandigarh Police continue to be on the security of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who is reportedly on the run fearing arrest in the 1991 Multani murder case.Though Saini’s wife has in a communication to Punjab Police DGP Dinkar Gupta complained that the security personnel have been withdrawn, a police spokesperson said not a single guard from Punjab or Chandigarh Police or the para-military force has been withdrawn.Police sources said the Z+ security besides a cook and a gardener given to Saini and his family was reviewed last week and a month ago.“The Punjab Police, the Intelligence Bureau and the Chandigarh Police reviewed his security at the highest level and no decision to prune it was taken,” said a senior official.The security guards are stationed at Saini’s house in Sector 20 here along with a bulletproof car, a jeep equipped with jammers and an escort car.The whereabouts of Saini and his family were not known as they have reportedly gone underground after a Mohali court rejected his plea for anticipatory bail in the Multani murder case.Raveen Thukral, media adviser to Punjab chief minister, has in a statement said Saini had gone underground. He also stated his security cover continued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-saini-goes-underground-even-as-his-z-security-continues-135841
03-09-2020||---||Punjab allows free walk-in testing for Covid at govt hospitals, mobile vans||Chandigarh, September 3Punjab has decided to allow free walk-in testing in government hospitals and mobile vans, and similar testing at a nominal manpower cost not exceeding Rs 250 by private doctors and hospitals, to encourage increased Covid testing to check the surge in cases in the state.People who want their result immediately can opt for Rapid Antigen testing while RT-PCR testing will also be similarly available.The state will also explore similar arrangements for Rapid Antigen testing by pharmacists/chemists, on the lines of private hospitals and doctors.The decision was taken on Thursday by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, who said the government will provide training and kits to private hospitals and doctors for the tests, which will be allowed on the basis of Aadhaar card and mobile numbers, without any questions asked or need for ‘parchis’. With test results available for RAT in 30 minutes, this will lead to substantial increase in testing and early diagnosis and treatment, she said.Those who test positive through RAT or are symptomatic but negative can be tested again through RT-PCR test for confirmation, said the Chief Secretary, while reviewing the Covid situation with the DCs and Civil Surgeons of Patiala, Bathinda, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Mohali districts.The Chief Secretary also asked DCs to explore RAT testing at private hospitals and pharmacies/chemist shops, at a nominal manpower cost not exceeding Rs 250 per test, with proper training and kits to be provided by the government. The test results and data so collected by private hospitals and chemists, etc., can be uploaded on the government portal for further action, she added.In another directive amid the surge in cases and deaths in Punjab, the Chief Secretary has also instructed that the 104 Helpline number should provide real-time information on bed availability district-wise. She directed the DCs and Civil Surgeons to ensure adequate supply of oxygen cylinders in their respective districts.Vini asked the DCs to review city-wise or area-wise positivity rates to identify the hotspots better, with daily monitoring of the rates and week-to-week monitoring of trends. All the districts should have reasonable projections at hand for the month, she said, directing them to also collate urban-rural data to enable better formulation of the action plan to tackle the problem.She urged the district authorities to work with private hospitals to make them partners in testing, and asked the DCs to set up meetings with these institutions through the IMA.Taking note of the widespread rumour mongering and fake news being spread on Covid, Vini called for elected representatives to step in and reach out directly to the people to clear their misconceptions on the issue.She also underlined the need to involve NGOs, religious organisations, etc., to spread awareness through expansion of the outreach. BDOs should be properly briefed and asked to reach out to the sarpanches in villages to counter the false propaganda, which was endangering lives of people, she added.Health Secretary Hussain Lal underlined the need for extensive sampling and testing in the five worst affected districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali and Amritsar, with focus on the 40+ age group.Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar said the district was focusing on sampling in urban areas, since 85% of the cases had been reported from these areas, especially among the middle class. The stigma attached to testing was high even though positivity rate in the district was less than 10%, with the Ludhiana city reporting 5% and industrial units around 1-2% positivity, he said, adding that psychological counselling for those in home isolation was also being provided.Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said staff of certain private hospitals was refusing Covid duty. The Chief Secretary directed the Medical Education Department to issue necessary instructions to initiate action against such medical professionals. Dayalan also warned of possible shortage of doctors and nurses in private health care facilities as the state prepares for second surge and stressed the need to prepare accordingly.On the issue of testing, the Mohali DC said delay or failure by private labs to upload data was causing serious anxiety and these labs were being directed to ensure timely release of the results on the online testing portals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-allows-free-walk-in-testing-for-covid-at-govt-hospitals-mobile-vans-135839
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stay out of Punjab: Amarinder Singh to Kejriwal over AAP's oximeter campaign||A day after AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal said his party workers will go to Punjab villages to check people's oxygen levels, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday asked him to stay out of the state and focus on managing COVID in his city.In a video message, Kejriwal on Wednesday had appealed to the people of Punjab to help AAP volunteers in carrying out the campaign."In Delhi, we have seen oximeters proving to be helpful. So the AAP is taking oximeters to every street, neighbourhood and village of Punjab. Workers of AAP along with people will go to every house and check the oxygen level of people," he had said."If someone's oxygen level is found to have dropped and (we) will help him in taking him to hospital and this way, (we) will try to save lives of people in villages," the Delhi chief minister added.Meanwhile, the Punjab chief minister warned his Delhi counterpart against trying to exploit the COVID crisis to "instigate" people in the state's villages, which have witnessed a spurt of fake news and provocative videos."We don't need your oximeters. We just need you to rein in your workers in Punjab, where they are trying to incite my people into not going to hospitals to get themselves tested and treated for COVID," he told Kejriwal.The Punjab CM said at least one such rumour was found to have emanated from abroad, most likely Pakistan, and allegedly propagated here by an active worker of Kejriwal's AAP.According to a statement issued by the Punjab government, AAP's Amrinder Singh has been arrested and is being questioned to ascertain who motivated him to circulate the post of a body to "mislead" the people of Punjab into believing that organs of dead coronavirus patients were being removed by the Punjab health department."The video/post allegedly propagated by the AAP worker was seen to be exhorting and provoking people not to cooperate with health authorities, thus endangering the health and safety of the residents," the CM said."Such rumours are provoking a section of the community to resist proper medical care which needs to be provided to all COVID- affected citizens, which is a clear case of a deadly criminal conspiracy against the people of the state who are already suffering due to the pandemic," he said.There were enough indications of a massive plot by elements inimical to the interests of Punjab, he said.The Punjab CM said the police on Thursday morning registered another case in Patiala on a complaint by a local journalist, who was offered money for making and circulating a false video on COVID scare.He said Kejriwal's announcement in the midst of the shocking viral campaign, asking AAP workers to go around villages and streets of Punjab to check people's oxygen levels, raised serious questions on the role of his party in the alleged conspiracy to undermine the Punjab government's efforts to keep the pandemic under check.The Delhi CM's decision could have grave repercussions for Punjab's security and integrity, Amarinder Singh claimed, asking Kejriwal to not "play into the hands of anti-India forces from across the border", who are trying to use the Covid-19 pandemic to foment fresh trouble in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stay-out-of-punjab-amarinder-singh-to-kejriwal-over-aaps-oximeter-campaign-135811
03-09-2020||Arteev Sharma||Sikh groups miffed over exclusion of Punjabi from J&K Official Language Bill||Tribune News ServiceJammu, September 3Sikh groups in Jammu and Kashmir are miffed over the exclusion of Punjabi from the J&K Official Languages Bill and have threatened to launch an agitation if the government does not review its “discriminatory move” against the minority community.Condemning the exclusion of Punjabi language from the Bill, Sikh groups held protests to give vent their anger against the “total neglect” of Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir.“Till 1981, Punjabi language was compulsory subject like Urdu in J&K and now its total neglect is another assault on the identity of Sikh community in J&K and also against the spirit of the Modi government’s slogan  ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’,” TS Wazir, chairman of the J&K Gurdwara Parbandhak Board said while addressing the protestors.    Wazir said that Punjabi language was one of the vital languages of the Union Territory and was well recognised in the Constitution of J&K. He demanded immediate inclusion of Punjabi as the official language of J&K.The protestors comprised representatives from various Sikh organisations, including Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, Shiromani Akali Dal, Sikh Welfare Front, Sikh Intellectual Circle J&K, International Sikh Federation, Sikh Students Federation and Sikh Nojwan Sabha.On Wednesday, the All-Party Sikh Coordination Committee (APSCC) had flayed the Centre over the exclusion of Punjabi from the J&K Official Languages Bill and described it as “anti-minority”.In a major move after the Centre’s decision to do away with special provisions under Article 370 of the Constitution and re-organising the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir into two UTs, the government on Wednesday approved a draft legislation to make Urdu, Kashmiri, Dogri, Hindi and English official languages of J&K.The Centre has claimed that the decision had been taken on public demand and the Bill was expected to be tabled in Parliament during the monsoon session, slated to begin from September 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-groups-miffed-over-exclusion-of-punjabi-from-jk-official-language-bill-135761
03-09-2020||Ropar||IIT-Ropar ranked 2nd best institute in country||The IIT-Ropar has been ranked in the scale of 351 to 400. Sarit K Das, Director, IIT-Ropar, said, “The force behind the success of IIT-Ropar is its state-of-the-art infrastructure, world-class research and highly qualified faculty.” TNSAlso read: Why IIT-Ropar finds itself right on top||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-ranked-2nd-best-institute-in-country-135722
03-09-2020||Amritsar||Customs Dept seizes 1-kg gold at Amritsar airport||Customs’ Commissioner AS Ranga said the gold bar was covered with a black adhesive tape sticking to the bottom of an unoccupied seat of the plane. The recovered gold has been seized under the Customs Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/customs-dept-seizes-1-kg-gold-at-amritsar-airport-135721
03-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Gallantry award recommended for Tarn Taran ASI Malkit Singh||Tarn Taran, September 2The district police have recommended gallantry award for ASI Malkiat Singh who was shot at and injured by smugglers 10 days ago at Puhla village here.Though the brave ASI was seriously injured, he managed to nab one of the notorious smugglers Rachhpal Singh Daula of Bhuchar Khurd village of the border area.Later, it was found that Daula was not only smuggler but had links with international-level terrorists who had been supplying arms and ammunition to terrorists.ASI Malkiat Singh, posted at the Bhikhiwind police station, and his associate Punjab Home Guard (PHG) Jawan Ranjit Singh were on way back to the police station when smuggler Daula fired at him.According to information, SSP Dharuman H Nimbale has written a letter to the Punjab DGP recommending the ASI’s name for gallantry award, besides promoting him to the next rank. The SSP had also recommended promotion for PHG Ranjit Singh. ASI Malkiat Singh, who was admitted to a private hospital, had been discharged after his recovery. The gallantry award is to be given by the Union Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gallantry-award-recommended-for-tarn-taran-asi-malkit-singh-135418
03-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Overseas study plans hit, aspirant dishes out food start-up||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2Shivani Saharia, an aspirant for study abroad, was not able to join a college in Canada as the classes were postponed. But that hasn’t held her back, as she started her own home restaurant and delivery of food through online platforms.While staying with her parents at Kashmir Avenue, she tried her hand at a local business and started a home restaurant named ‘Khana-e-Khas- Zayka meri Kitchen ka’. The food start-up offers a variety of homemade savoury of dishes.‘Want to perfect the art of cooking’The idea behind opening a home restaurant for tiffin services and customised meals for corporates and regular customers was to lighten the heavy charges being faced by many amid this pandemic. There are students, office-goers and many others, who are unable to order from restaurants on a regular basis. Our freshly prepared food gives a taste of homemade recipes. Cooking is my passion, but I want to hit perfection in all kinds of food. So, I had joined cooking classes in Pune during my stay there. —Shivani Saharia, An aspirant who wanted to study in Canada“The idea behind opening a home restaurant for tiffin services and customised meals for corporates and regular customers was to lighten the heavy charges being faced by many amid this pandemic. There are students, office-goers and many others. They are unable to order from restaurants on a regular basis. Our freshly prepared food gives a taste of homemade recipes,” she says.Shivani also provides delivery services. “Cooking is my passion, but I want to hit perfection in all kinds of food. So, I had joined cooking classes in Pune during my stay there,” she said.It was then the seed was planted and and has now flowered as her own start-up. “I used to order fusion boxes, a box with nominal amount of items to fill your stomach till your next meal hours. So, I wanted to start it here in Amritsar. Nowadays, I was free and executed the plan,” she shares.Apart from delivering food, she is also a content writer and tags inspirational quotes on the the packages. “The vision behind the tags is to spread positive vibes wherever the food is received. Everyone is going through a sort of hopelessness. This is to support them,”she said. Shivani is using several social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp to promote her talent.A graduate of business management, side by side she’s also exploring her study options in international export and import businesses in Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overseas-study-plans-hit-aspirant-dishes-out-food-start-up-135436
03-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Dad toiled hard for phone, couldn’t lose it: Jalandhar teen who took on snatchers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2Smartphone is Kusum’s most prized possession and she ensures it remains within her reach, checking it every few seconds for new messages — “probably teachers sending online work or classmates enquiring about classes”.It’s the same phone for which the 15-year-old put up a spirited fight against two bike-borne assailants who tried to snatch it on a Jalandhar street two days ago.It’s PricelessThe smartphone didn’t come easy. My father toiled hard to purchase it after schools were shut and classes went online due to the Covid pandemic. It’s priceless. — KusumShowing exemplary courage, Kusum caught hold of one of them despite being attacked with a sharp-edged weapon on the arm. As she struggled with the biker for a few minutes, passersby joined in and thrashed the snatcher.“The smartphone didn’t come easy. My father toiled hard to purchase it after schools were shut and classes went online due to the pandemic. It’s priceless,” says Kusum, daughter of a daily-wager, when asked why she risked her life for the phone.“Had my phone gone, how would have I studied? All my notes and chapters sent by teachers are stored in it. Couldn’t have imagined studies without it. Can’t afford another phone either,” she says sitting on her hospital bed. An aspiring police officer, Kusum has learnt Taekwondo for a few months — and the lessons came in handy.Giving a word of advice to girls stuck in a similar situation, she says: “Never let fear conquer your mind and don’t let your enemy know about it. Just fight off everything and you will eventually win.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dad-toiled-hard-for-phone-couldnt-lose-it-jalandhar-teen-who-took-on-snatchers-135514
03-09-2020||Balwant Garg||Behbal Kalan firing accused wants to be approver, court moved||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, September 2The special investigation team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan and Bargari firing incidents approached the court of District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, today with a request to pardon prime accused Pardeep Singh as he wanted to turn approver in the case.Pardeep Singh was reportedly present at the site of police firing in which two Sikh protesters were killed at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. He then worked as Reader to then Moga SSP, Charanjit Singh Sharma, one of the prime accused in the case.Besides former Moga SSP, IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, SP Bikramjit Singh, Inspector Pardeep Singh, advocate Amarjit Singh Kular, a car agency owner and many other persons are accused in the case.The SIT is bound to face problem in proving its case in the court in the absence of prime witnesses, so it wants to take the help of an approver.The complainant in this case is Iqbal Singh Sahota, Director, Bureau of Investigation-cum-chairman of the SIT constituted on the directions of the DGP, Punjab.The case was registered a week after the killing of two protesters at Behbal Kalan. At that time, no accused was nominated in the FIR. Later on, a new SIT was constituted which nominated these police officers as accused in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-firing-accused-wants-to-be-approver-court-moved-135518
03-09-2020||Bathinda||Reduce probation period: Health workers||Members of the Health Workers’ Sangharsh Committee staged a protest at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, and burnt an effigy of the Health Minister, alleging that the department had failed to honour its promises made regarding regularisation of female health workers and reducing the probation period of newly-appointed male health workers.  The union will protests till September 8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reduce-probation-period-health-workers-135455
03-09-2020||Manav Mander||Now, ASHA workers asked to transport Covid testing kits||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 2The Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) are waging a double battle, against low remuneration and collecting data for Covid survey amidst non-cooperative attitude of the people. Now, to further add to their woes, they have been asked to pick Covid testing kits from camps and return them in the evening at their respective hospitals and dispensaries, and they are not being paid any transportation charges for the same.Balbir Kaur, an activist, said: “We are being paid Rs 1,000 for the door-to-door survey for Covid and now, we are being asked to transport the kits as well, without being paid any extra charges.”The ASHA workers, at many places, have refused to carry out this work as they are not being paid extra.Activists working in Sanhewal said it was practically impossible for them to do the task. They were at one end of the town and picking and dropping the kits meant rushing to that place, which was practically not possible.Rajveer Kaur, district president of ASHA Workers Union, said activists had been asked to do the work which actually did not come under the survey. So, many workers had refused to do it.“Many people do not co-operate and some even hurl abuses when we go to their homes for collecting data,” Balbir added.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the ASHA workers had been asked to transport the kits under their survey duty for which they were being paid Rs 1,000 by the government.“According to my information, the ASHA workers at some places have been asked to pick and drop the kits since the camps are being held at containment and micro-containment zones,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-asha-workers-asked-to-transport-covid-testing-kits-135456
03-09-2020||Moga||‘Khalistani flag’ hoisted again in Moga||Once again, a ‘Khalistani’ flag was hoisted at the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s Office at Baghapurana, in Moga district, on Wednesday. The police immediately swung into action and removed the flag.Meanwhile, Inderjit Singh and Jaspal Singh, who had hoisted a ‘Khalistani’ flag at the Mini-Secretariat in Moga on August 14 revealed during interrogation that they were planning to go to Pakistan via Nepal and they had also planned to hoist the ‘Khalistani’ flag at some places in Delhi as well. Their accomplice, Akashdeep Singh, was arrested by the police two weeks ago.Inderjit and Jaspal were likely to get US$2,500 in Nepal while Rs 20,000 was sent to the former through Moneygram, which he received from a local money exchanger. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalistani-flag-hoisted-again-in-moga-135457
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC questions FIR on anonymous plaint||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Punjab Director of Vigilance Bureau to explain the registration of an FIR against a retired employee on the basis of an anonymous complaint regarding alleged variations in her date of birth certificate, after describing the action as “quite disturbing”.The direction by Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu came on a petition filed by Amarjit Kaur against the State of Punjab. The Bench observed it was quite disturbing that the FIR had been registered against the petitioner on July 16 for cheating and other offences under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, and 471 of the IPC at the Vigilance Bureau police station in Ludhiana.Justice Sindhu observed she retired from service on November 30, 2016. The allegations against her were that in 1968, when she was VI standard student her date of birth was recorded as January 6, 1957. But it was mentioned as November 29, 1958, in class VIII.Justice Sindhu further observed the paper-book revealed that six departmental inquires were conducted against the petitioner, but she was exonerated on all occasions and now the FIR was registered on the basis of some anonymous complaint.Faced with the situation, the state counsel sought time to seek instructions for taking corrective measures in the matter. Fixing November 17 as the next date of hearing, Justice Sindhu added: “Let Director of Vigilance Bureau, Punjab, file his affidavit disclosing the reasons for registration of the present FIR on the basis of anonymous complaint at such a belated stage, before next date of hearing”.The petitioner was also asked to join investigation. In the event of her arrest, the arresting officer was directed to admit her to interim bail till the next date of hearing on her furnishing adequate bail and surety bonds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-questions-fir-on-anonymous-plaint-135458
03-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers raise issue of overflowing drain||Abohar, September 2Farmers from Bahawalbasi, Kerakhera, Kailash Nagar and Dhani Sucha Singh villages today disrupted traffic for over six hours to highlight the problems being faced by them due to the overflowing Abulkhurana drain.The overflowing drain and incessant rains have ravaged the standing cotton and other crops in 40 villages in the Balluana Assembly constituency of Abohar subdivision.Sukhchain Singh, a farmer, said the district administration had last month directed the drainage administration to clean all drains. However, the officials concerned did not pay heed to the issue.Paramjeet Singh, another farmer, said crops worth Rs 500 crore were damaged due to a similar situation in September 2015, and subsequently, then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal was forced to visit some of the affected areas and announce compensation. The former CM was told by the officials that the proposal to widen the drain had been gathering dust in the state headquarters for the past 12 years.The sit-in was lifted at 4.30 pm after SDM Jaspal Singh Brar said Punjab State Power Corporation Limited had been told to install three more transformers to facilitate pumps to drain out the water from affected fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-raise-issue-of-overflowing-drain-135459
03-09-2020||Moga||13-yr-old girl married off, kin detained||There were reports of a child marriage as a 13-year-old school-going girl was married to a 30-year-old man at Chogavan village in Moga district. The relatives of the girl were reportedly taken into custody.She was married off by her maternal grandfather at a relative’s house in Tarn Taran district. After a few days of the marriage, when the girl came back to Chogavan village, locals found that the girl was married. An anganwari worker took up the issue with the sarpanch who informed about it to the local police.The police reached the spot and allegedly took her husband, maternal grandfather, mother-in-law and a few other relatives into custody. The incident was also brought to the notice of the Social Welfare, Women and Child Development Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-yr-old-girl-married-off-kin-detained-135462
03-09-2020||Ropar||ASI thrashes shopkeeper in Ropar, sent to Police Lines||The eyewitnesses said earlier the police personnel had thrashed several vendors near the Civil Hospital. DSP Talwinder Singh said the ASI has been sent to Police Lines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-thrashes-shopkeeper-in-ropar-sent-to-police-lines-135466
03-09-2020||Our Correspondent||SAD protests, seeks minister’s dismissal||Fatehgarh Sahib, September 2Workers of the SAD and the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) led by Didar Singh Bhatti, SAD halka in-charge for Fatehgarh Sahib, and Raju Khanna, in-charge, Amloh constituency, today staged a protest against Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore SC scholarship scam. They also burnt his effigy in front of the DC office. Sukhbir Badal, SAD PresidentSIT probe a cover upThe CM is trying to save Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. The SIT probe is just a cover up. .The protesters raised slogans against the state government and sought the minister’s dismissal and a CBI probe against him. While talking to the media, Bhatti and Khanna claimed that it was clear that the minister was involved in the scam as the Additional Chief Secretary of his own department had indicted him.They said the SC community comprised around 32 per cent of the state’s population and Dharamsot had “embezzled” around Rs 64 crore which were meant for the community students and the funds should be transferred to the students.Bathinda: Youth Akali Dal workers burnt the effigy of the minister outside the District Administrative Complex in Bathinda on Wednesday. They demanded his resignation. The protest was headed by YAD district president Gurdeep Singh Kotshamir and district rural president Gardaur Singh.Abohar: Defying prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 of CrPC and the Disaster Management Act, some workers of the Youth Akali Dal on Wednesday staged a protest to against the minister. They raised slogans against him and demanded his dismissal from the Cabinet||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-protests-seeks-ministers-dismissal-135438
03-09-2020||---||Scholarship scam: Punjab Government steps up damage-control efforts||Chandigarh, September 2Days after being cornered by the Opposition in the alleged SC post-matric scholarship scam, the Congress government has stepped up its efforts to counter the reports on the disbursal of funds.On the other hand, a three-member committee of officers constituted by the Chief Secretary to probe the matter started its work today. It is expected to submit findings at the earliest.Scholarship ScamSocial Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot today questioned the report on the scam submitted by his Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) Kirpa Shankar Saroj.Questioning the report in which his name has figured, Dharamsot, in a press conference, said he was being framed and he was not even aware about the probe being conducted by his department officials and had not been kept in the loop. “I have not even been provided a copy of the inquiry report by my ACS,” said the minister.Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Social Welfare MinisterMinister questions reportHow can Rs 39 crore go to ghost institutions? Every single penny paid through banks and treasury is accountable. There is no scam during our government. It happened during the previous Akali government when the ACS headed the department from 2015 to 2017.Reposing faith in the Chief Minister, Dharamsot said he had full trust in the inquiry being conducted by the Chief Secretary, as the truth would come out. Though the minister could not explain as to how he could be framed in his own government, he said the ACS had not made any effort to track the trail of the scholarship amount.“How can Rs 39 crore go to ghost institutions? Every single penny paid through banks and treasury is accountable. There is no scam during our government. The scam happened during previous Akali government when the ACS headed the department from 2015 to 2017,” Dharamsot claimed.On the name of Deputy Director Parminder Gill figuring in the scam and the allegation that he stalled his suspension, the minister said he had asked the ACS to provide documents for his suspension. “Till date I have not been given the reply by the ACS”, said Dharamsot, adding that if any officer within his department had violated any rule in disbursal of the funds, he would have to face the music.Political Secretary to the CM Capt Sandeep Sadhu, who was present in the press conference, defended the minister. “Let the Chief Secretary’s report be submitted, truth would come out”, said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scholarship-scam-punjab-government-steps-up-damage-control-efforts-135439
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court  Judge recuses from hearing Sumedh Saini’s petition||Punjab’s former Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini could not get any relief from the Punjab and Haryana High Court today in the kidnapping and murder case. His petition for declaring the probe to be “non est” and in violation of the Supreme Court order could not make any headway after Justice Amol Rattan Singh recused himself from hearing the matter.Saini’s anticipatory bail petition, filed today, is yet to come up for hearing. As the civil writ petition filed by Saini came up for hearing, Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted that the matter be put up before another Bench after obtaining appropriate orders from the Chief Justice.“It is to be noticed here that the counsel for the petitioner has sought an early date. Consequently, the matter be put up before the Chief Justice immediately for assigning it to another Bench,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh added.Special Public Prosecutor SS Narula and CBI counsel Sumit Goel were present during the hearing. Punjab was represented by senior advocate Harin P Rawal, advocate Karan Bharihoke, along with state law officers Anusha Nagarajan and Diya Sodhi.In his anticipatory bail application running into more than 280 pages, Saini submitted that the court of Mohali Additional Sessions Judge Monika Goyal initially granted bail to the petitioner. Four more police officers were subsequently granted bail and the nature of allegations were considered in both orders.But Mohali Additional Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg, while deciding the application for bail after addition of murder offence under Section 302 of the IPC, reviewed the finding as well as the observations recorded by Judge Monika Goyal in her earlier order dated May 11 on every count.This, his counsel HS Deol submitted, was impermissible in law. He submitted the only reason given by the presiding officer was that the present bail application has been “filed after addition of offence under Section 302 of the IPC as certain more evidence has been collected by the investigating agency”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-judge-recuses-from-hearing-sumedh-sainis-petition-135440
03-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Court intervenes in transfer of Divisional Forest Officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2In an out of the ordinary order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has interfered in the transfer of a Divisional Forest Officer while observing that the order, prima facie, violated the guidelines prescribed by the Punjab Government.“Though this court would ordinarily be chary of interfering with a transfer, the impugned order of transfer is, prima facie, in clear violation of the guidelines prescribed by the Punjab Government,” Justice Sanjay Kumar asserted.Issuing a notice of motion, Justice Kumar also ordered stay on the operation and effect of the order dated August 19 “insofar as it pertains to the petitioner”.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Wilbert Samson through counsel Krishan Singh Dadwal. The Bench was told that the petitioner, a Forest Service Officer in Punjab, was posted as the Regional Manager, Forest Corporation, Amritsar.Dadwal added he was to attain the age of superannuation and retire from service in February 2022. Yet, he was transferred and posted as the Divisional Forest Officer (Training) at Hoshiarpur, vide an order on August 19 passed by the Punjab Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation.Referring to state’s transfer policy, Dadwal among other things contended officers belonging to Group A and Group B were not to be transferred prior to the completion of two years at a station.Such officers could be transferred even prior to expiry of two years if special administrative circumstances existed. The guidelines also prescribed that prior approval from the Personnel Department was required.The guidelines also prescribed that three options were to be obtained, when an employee, going to retire in less than two years, was to be transferred. The guidelines were extended for 2020 on July 17.“Admittedly, the guidelines have application to the petitioner, a Group A officer. However, no option seems to have been called for from him though he is to retire in less than two years. There is also no indication of any prior approval having been taken from the personnel department,” Justice Kumar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-intervenes-in-transfer-of-divisional-forest-officer-135441
03-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Parties use protests to kick-start drives||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, September 2The scholarship scam has come in handy for political parties to remain in the limelight by holding protests over the issue here.Local leaders not only burnt effigies of Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, but also held discussions among themselves on the emerging political scenarios for Gurdaspur, Dinanagar, Qadian, Fatehgarh Churian, Batala and Dera Baba Nanak. Mere eyewash: Congress The Gurdaspur district SAD unit is scheduled to hold rallies later this week while the BJP too has taken to the drawing board to plan its strategy. Sources revealed that the party leadership would choose Sujanpur, which is said to be a BJP stronghold with sitting MLA and former Deputy Speaker Dinesh Singh Babbu representing the seat for three consecutive terms now, to make a start.AAP leaders claimed the party had chosen Majha to trigger their campaigns as it was in this region where it had fared the worst in the 2017 polls. “We did well in Malwa and to a certain extent in Doaba too, but were a big flop in Majha. This is precisely the reason the leadership has started canvassing from Majha,” said a leader.Batala SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal said the scam had come at the right time for parties to commence poll drives. “I have asked workers, particularly from villages, to reach the city in a big way for the campaign. What is wrong in that? It is akin to killing two birds with one stone. It is not a bad idea at all,” he said.The BJP is tied in knots. Although party leaders say they will be holding rallies, there was uncertainty about their planning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-use-protests-to-kick-start-drives-135442
03-09-2020||Satya Prakash
||Supreme Court rejects cop’s plea against denial of bail||Tribune News Service New Delhi, September 2 The Supreme Court has dismissed an anticipatory bail plea of Inspector Baljinder Singh, former SHO of Khanna Police Station, who is accused of making three persons stand nude in his cabin and passing casteist remarks. “We are not inclined to entertain the Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution. The Special Leave Petition is accordingly dismissed,” a Bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud said. The accused inspector had challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s August 11 order rejecting his anticipatory bail plea. “As the SHO, he is responsible for anything and everything that happens in his police station. From the evidence of SIT, it is evident that the police exceeded its mandate and tortured the complainant party. This is unacceptable in a society governed by the rule of law and needs to be dealt with a firm hand. Persons like the petitioner do not deserve any kind of discretionary relief at the hands of this court,” the High Court had said dismissing his anticipatory bail plea. The accused had contended that the HC’s interpretation of facts and law was flawed as it failed to apply its mind and ruled against him without providing any valid reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-rejects-cops-plea-against-denial-of-bail-135443
03-09-2020||---||Ludhiana man set to become officer in Australian Air Force||Chandigarh, September 2A decade after Tajinder Kumar landed in Australia and took up a job as a washroom cleaner, he is set to become a commissioned officer with the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF).After spending the early days in a foreign land cleaning toilets in a shopping mall and facing language as well as cultural barriers, he joined the RAAF as a recruit and certified in aviation maintenance.Flying HighIndian Australian Tajinder Kumar will soon be inducted into the @AusAirForce as an officer, a long cherished dream he fulfilled thanks to his grit and determination, Australia’s High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell tweetedThen in 2016, Tajinder won the Lipshur Family Bursary which provides sponsorship to enlisted personnel for a full-time undergraduate degree. This enabled him to pursue a degree in engineering, which otherwise may not have been possible.He will be graduating from the Officer Training School in Melbourne later this year. Several persons of Indian origin already serve in the Australian military at various levels. India and Australia also have historical military ties and associations, having been part of the British Empire and troops of both countries serving alongside in various campaigns.Tajinder belongs to Ludhiana and comes from a humble background. After finishing high school, he trained as a mechanical fitter at the Industrial Training Institute, but was unable to find a job locally.Thereafter, he decided to move overseas and came to Australia as a skilled migrant. During his stint with the air force, he worked as an avionics technician on C-130 transport aircraft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-man-set-to-become-officer-in-australian-air-force-135444
03-09-2020||---||7,000 ‘fake’ pensioners get notices in Bathinda||Bathinda, September 2Recently, the Department of Social Security issued 7,000 notices to “fake” pensioners to recover money from them in the district. In total, 70,137 fake pensioners had been identified by the department who had withdrawn Rs 162.35 crore in old-aged pension in the state.In Bathinda, 8,762 fake beneficiaries were detected, who had withdrawn Rs 17 crore. Of them, 7,000 have been asked to pay back the pension amount they had got from the government within 15 days or else be prepared to face the police. Directed to repayJagraj Singh of Badiala village has been asked to return Rs 51,500. The notice states that it had come out during the probe that he had taken approval of pension by giving wrong details.B Srinivasan, DC, said a committee led by the District Social Security Officer (DSSO) was constituted and notices had been issued to recover the money.Bathinda DSSO Teaswaspreet Kaur said, “In 2017, a survey was done, during which around 8,762 wrong beneficiaries were found in the district. We have issued notices to 7,000 such beneficiaries. Those remaining will also be served notices soon.”The highest numbers of fake pensioners were detected in Sangrur (12,573), followed by Bathinda (8,762), Amritsar (7,853), Muktsar (7,441) and Mansa (6,663).During the SAD-BJP tenure, political parties, including the Congress, had alleged that pension was not provided to original beneficiaries in Bathinda and only workers of Akali Dal were getting the benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-000-fake-pensioners-get-notices-in-bathinda-135445
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 50L relief, job for Rajouri martyr’s family||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 50 lakh, along with a government job to a family member of Subedar Rajesh Kumar of 60 SATA Regiment. The soldier was martyred on the intervening night of September 1 and 2 as a result of the unprovoked firing by Pakistan army in the Rajouri sector (J&K). Paying homage to the martyr and extending his sympathy to the bereaved family, the CM said Subedar Rajesh Kumar laid down his life fighting for the country and the nation would not forget his supreme sacrifice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-50l-relief-job-for-rajouri-martyrs-family-135446
03-09-2020||Gurdaspur/ Pathankot||After attack on Suresh Raina’s kin in Pathankot, focus back on robbers’ gang||After a long hiatus, the dreaded ‘Kale Kachhewala’ gang of criminals is back in Punjab with the latest example being that of the attack carried out by five persons on the relatives of cricketer Suresh Raina in Sujanpur of Pathankot district on the intervening night of August 19 and 20.What happened to my aunt's family in Punjab is beyond horrible, need answers: Suresh RainaSSP Gulneet Khurana, who is personally supervising the high-profile case, said apart from a Special Investigative Team (SIT) formed by the Pathankot police, several smaller teams, too, had been constituted. He added that three teams had been rushed to neighbouring Himachal Pradesh to crack the case.“Two persons — Ashok Kumar and his son Kaushal Kumar — have died after being attacked by the gang. Ashok’s wife Asha Rani and son Apan are still critical. They are unable to give a statement. We had to rely on statements given neighbours to know how many gangsters actually were involved. Prima facie it appears that five persons took part in the attack,” he said.Officers claim the gang, mainly comprising unemployed youth belonging to certain tribes, including the Dhanaka and Padri groups, targets houses in less populated areas like the one in which Raina’s kin lived in Sujanpur.“It is a well-organised gang. Miscreants also don police uniforms to befool their intended targets. They often wear dark coloured undergarments.” said Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-attack-on-suresh-rainas-kin-in-pathankot-focus-back-on-robbers-gang-135448
03-09-2020||Patiala||Contractual employees canecharged in Patiala||Contractual employees of the Water and Sanitation Department were canecharged by the Patiala Police on Wednesday when they tried to march towards the residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Around 20 protesters were rounded up by the police. The police stopped the protesters near the Polo Ground where they staged a demonstration. They have been demanding regularisation of their services.Gurpreet Singh, president, Motivator and Master-Motivator Union, Punjab, said, “The government is neither regularising our jobs nor paying us. We demand that the government should immediately advertise jobs and recruit us.”Charanjeet Singh, SDM, said, “We fixed a meeting with them. However, the protesters showed unruly behaviour. Consequently, the police had to use force to maintain law and order.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contractual-employees-canecharged-in-patiala-135449
03-09-2020||---||Covid: Health Minister slams rumour-mongers||Chandigarh, September 2Even as he appealed to the people of the state not to risk their lives by delaying Covid-19 testing, Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today asked the DGP to initiate stern action against anti-social elements spreading misinformation about testing and treatment of the disease.Patiala: Two arrested for rumour-mongering||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-health-minister-slams-rumour-mongers-135450
03-09-2020||---||At 106, Punjab sees highest single-day rise in deaths||Chandigarh, September 2In the highest single-day rise in deaths, 106 persons succumbed to Covid in the past 24 hours in the state. Besides, 1,514 fresh cases were also reported.With this, the state toll has reached 1,618 and the number of cases has climbed to 56,989.Ludhiana reported the maximum 18 deaths, followed by Jalandhar with 11 deaths, Bathinda 10, SAS Nagar nine, Gurdaspur and Amritsar eight each, Ropar seven, Patiala six, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur five each, Fatehgarh Sahib and Fazilka three each, Faridkot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran two each, Muktsar and SBS Nagar one each. At present, there are 15,629 active cases in the state and 39,742 have recovered from the disease so far.Ludhiana is still the worst-affected district with 242 cases, followed by Bathinda 163, Jalandhar 171, Patiala 160, SAS Nagar 112, Amritsar 99, Faridkot 64, Muktsar 63 and Fazilka 56, SAS 211, Jalandhar 158, Patiala 120, Amritsar 111, Faridkot 110, Gurdaspur 104, Bathinda 64 and Muktsar 60.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-106-punjab-sees-highest-single-day-rise-in-deaths-135451
03-09-2020||
||Home isolation restrictions eased||Chandigarh, September 2 Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today appealed to the people of the state to come forward and get themselves tested for Covid-19. He said the government had relaxed the norms for home isolation. Patients who have been clinically assigned as very mild/ pre-symptomatic/ asymptomatic cases by the treating medical officer could opt for home isolation. However, the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantine of family contacts must be available, he maintained.  Elderly patients, aged more than 60 years, and those with comorbidity, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/ liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease etc, shall be allowed home isolation only after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer, he said. The minister said the patient needed to give an undertaking that there was adequate facility available for home isolation, like a separate room and toilet. The patient must procure a kit containing pulse oximeter, thermometer, Tab vitamin-C and Tab Zinc. A caregiver should be available 24 x7. A communication link between the caregiver and the hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation. COVA App should be downloaded on mobile and it should remain active at all times. The patient would have to monitor his/her health and check oxygen saturation thrice a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-isolation-restrictions-eased-135452
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Government  cuts test rates||The government today reduced the rates for Covid tests. Now, even private labs would not be able to charge more than the rates fixed by the government. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the government had fixed a maximum of Rs 2,400 for RT-PCR test and reduced the charges for the Rapid Antigen Testing from Rs 1,000 to Rs 700 inclusive of GST and other taxes.  Whereas it has been left for the private labs to fix rates for collection of samples from houses, the ICMR-approved 45 private labs are doing Covid testing in the state. The minister said apart from this, 600 government hospitals in the state were doing free Covid testing. He said despite the symptoms, people inform health institutions late therefore tests get delayed and this was the main reason for the deaths due to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-cuts-test-rates-135453
03-09-2020||---||Missing ‘Saroops’: Human rights body for criminal action against SAD leaders||Amritsar, September 2The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) led by Justice Ajit Singh Bains (retd) has demanded criminal proceedings against officials concerned and SAD leaders for misguiding the ‘sangat’ on the number of ‘saroops’ damaged in a fire incident at Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan, Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, in 2016.In what could put the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) in a peculiar situation is an official note regarding the ‘saroops’ that were damaged in the fire. The official note, presented by the then assistant supervisor of the Publication Department Kanwaljit Singh in February 2020, had mentioned that 80 saroops were damaged, either directly in the fire or due to water sprinkled over them in an attempt to douse the flames. Besides white ‘rumale’, sheets and mattresses were also damaged. Since the ‘saroops’ could not be used for the ‘parkash’ ceremony, these were cremated at Goindwal Sahib. The note was endorsed by former Chief Secretary Roop Singh and marked to the deputy secretary, SGPC, for noting on ledgers.Surjit Singh, Activist, Punjab Human Rights OrganisationSGPC concealed truth’We fear that to save the SAD leadership from the wrath of the ‘sangat’ prior to the 2017 polls, the truth was concealed by SGPC officials. Soon after the fire incident, the in-charge of the Publication Department had recorded his statement about five damaged ‘saroops’, whereas the official records say no less than 80 were damaged.Apparently, to console the Sikh sentiments, the SGPC had then declared that just five ‘saroops’ were damaged in the fire that had occurred during the intervening night of May 18-19, 2016.Roop Singh, who had resigned on moral grounds, said the note was from Kanwaljit’s side and he had just forwarded it for further process.When Kanwaljit, nearing his retirement on May 31, 2020, had revealed the disappearance of 267 ‘saroops’ (which were revised to 328 after probe), the SGPC had snubbed him. On June 27, SGPC’s senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta had claimed that 14 saroops and not 80 were damaged in the 2016 fire incident.Surjit Singh, a PHRO activist, said they wanted to know why and on whose behest the truth was being concealed. “We fear that to save the SAD leadership from the wrath of the ‘sangat’ prior to the 2017 polls, the truth was concealed by SGPC officials. Soon after the fire incident, the in-charge of the Publication Department had recorded his statement with the police about five damaged ‘saroops’, whereas the official records say no less than 80 were damaged. Further, the SGPC claimed only 14 were damaged. What prompted them to tell a lie? We have urged the SGPC president to lodge a criminal case against the officials concerned,” he said.Mehta said he had mentioned 14 damaged ‘saroops’ as per the report of the flying squad that probed the incident. “I stand by the figure of 14 as per records. The report, which is on record, stated that five ‘saroops’ were directly affected by fire and nine others were damaged when water was used to douse the flames. Kanwaljit had prepared a wrong note to cover up his involvement in misappropriating the ‘saroops’ in connivance with others. The PHRO has lodged a complaint on the basis of a report from a person who is already under scanner and liable to face legal action,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-saroops-human-rights-body-for-criminal-action-against-sad-leaders-135454
