03-01-2021||Chandigarh||12 more Covid deaths, 210 new cases in Punjab||Twelve more deaths due to COVID-19 pushed the toll to 5,376 in Punjab, while 210 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,67,219 in the state on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 3,361 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, the bulletin said.The recovery count rose to 1,58,482 on Sunday after 263 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, it said.Nine critical COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support while 80 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 39,55,383 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
03-01-2021||New Delhi||Will burn copies of new farm laws on Lohri: Farmer leaders||Farmer leaders protesting at Delhi’s Singhu border on Sunday said they will celebrate the festival of Lohri on January 13 by burning copies of newly introduced agriculture laws.They also said they will observe the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23 as ‘Azad Hind Kisan Diwas’.                  “We will celebrate the Lohri festival on January 13 by burning the copies of farm laws,” farmers’ leader Manjeet Singh Rai said.Rai also urged people to hold protests in support of farmers across India from January 6 to 20.Lohri is mostly celebrated in north India, marking the beginning of the spring season. Bonfires are a special characteristic of the festival.         Another farmers’ leader Onkar Singh said, “Today is the 37th day of our protest. The government should leave its stubbornness. In these conditions, the farmers, including elders, have been sitting on protest, but the government is not concerned about it.”     Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the three farm laws.The farmers’ leaders said they are ready for Monday’s meeting with the government.The next round of talks between the government and protesting farmer unions is scheduled to be held on January 4, Monday. On Friday last, the unions had announced that they would have to take firm steps if the meeting fails to resolve the deadlock.“As the temperature is decreasing, we have tried to arrange the waterproof tents. We are also trying to arrange the blankets and warm water. Arrangements for 1,000 women have been made near the KFC with a tent and the mattresses,” farmers’ leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said.The protesting farmer unions on Saturday had said they will take out a tractor parade towards Delhi on January 26, when the country will celebrate Republic Day if their demands are not met.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be in the national capital on January 26 as the chief guest at the Republic Day parade, which will be held at Rajpath.In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said the success of Monday’s talks depends entirely on the repeal of three farm laws. — PTI
03-01-2021||New Delhi||Intense wet spell to continue over north India till January 5: IMD||North India is likely to witness an intense wet spell till Tuesday, with a fairly widespread precipitation accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.The activities will peak on Sunday and Monday over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan) and on Monday over the western Himalayan region (Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand), it added.After the wet spell, fresh northerly-northwesterly winds are likely to set in over the plains of northwest India, causing "cold wave to severe cold wave conditions" at isolated places in Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 7 onwards, the IMD said.An active western disturbance lies as a middle-and-upper-level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan and neighbourhood, with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood at lower levels.A north-south zone of wind confluence was also observed on Sunday from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with a strong interaction between southwesterly in association with the western disturbance and lower-level moist southeasterlies."All these favourable meteorological features are likely to persist till January 5 and continue to cause a moderate to intense wet spell with a fairly widespread to widespread precipitation accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places over northwest India till the night of January 5, with peak activities on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan)."And on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand)," the IMD said.Rains lashed the national capital in the morning. According to a MeT department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and the minimum temperatures have increased due to clouds and easterly winds."The Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius, an increase of 6.7 degrees with 25 mm rain. The Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hailstorm is expected until January 6," the official said. --- PTI
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||6-year-old girl found raped, murdered in Jalandhar||A six-year-old girl, who went missing on Saturday evening, was allegedly raped and then killed in Punjab's Jalandhar district, police said.Her body was found in a sugarcane field in Hazara village located on the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road on Sunday, they said.The victim's parents, who belong to Bihar and work as labourers, on Saturday lodged a complaint about their missing child after they failed to find her home when they returned from work.Santosh, who stays near their home and is a distant relative of victim's family, told them that he took her on a bicycle to get biscuits and later left her back at home.When the girl's parents started searching her in nearby areas, Santosh absconded, said the police.Later, the family lodged a complaint against Santosh, said a police official.The girl's body found on Sunday, said the official.Initial investigations suggest that the girl was raped and then killed.The body has been sent for post mortem, said the police.A case of kidnapping, rape and murder under the IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered, the police said, adding that efforts were on to nab Santosh. --- PTI
03-01-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Harsimrat Badal faces protests in Mansa||Tribune News ServiceMansa, January 3Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, MP from Bathinda, on Sunday faced protests from farmers during her visit to villages in Budhlada sub-division of Mansa district. Farmers staged protests, claiming that the SAD and Harsimrat had supported the contentious farm bills when these were tabled in the Cabinet and now they are doing a drama and befooling the people. Facing wrath of farmers, Harsimrat had to cancel her four scheduled programmes in villages. Hundreds of people chanted slogans during her visit and tried to gehrao her convoy. However, the police team led by Budhlada DSP Baljinder Singh Pannu manage to escort Harsimrat’s convoy out of the village. Protesters even showed black flags to her convoy. Harsimrat was to pay condolences to the families of slain farmers and deceased members of the party in the villages.  This was her first visit to the area in her constituency after her resignation from the Union Cabinet.  According to the information, Harsimrat had to meet family members of farmers who died during the agitation at villages Gurddi, Bachhuana, Dharmapura, Bare, Dodra, Boha and Bhadra. At Dodra and Bhadra, locals, including Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta, Ugrahan, Dakoda and Qadian groups started staging protest against Harsimrat.She could reach only Bhadra, Dodra and Boha villages. Meanwhile, a message was also sent by the family of Piara Singh, a farmer who died during the agitation at Dharampura village, that they have refused to meet Harsimrat Badal. Thus was confirmed by Vasava Singh, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union-Dakoda, who is close to the family. On the other hand during the visit, Harsimrat Kaur Badal said that today’s protest was a ploy of opposition parties. He challenged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder and the BJP leader, to clarify her involvement in the agriculture laws. On the other hand, Capt Amarinder Singh, the Finance Minister and their Secretary have agreed to pass the law, she claimed. She added that Shiromani Akali Dal was still with the farmers. “I quit the Cabinet, I left the NDA, I left the BJP alliance. Even today I am fighting shoulder to shoulder with the farmers against the Modi government at the Centre.“I have not signed any of the documents in favour of these laws. I opposed the enactment of the law. I did not listen to one of them. As a result, I resigned from the Cabinet,” Harsimrat said. She appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to meet the protesting farmers to recognise their grievances and repeal the agriculture laws.
03-01-2021||Vijay Mohan||Some Punjab districts get excess rain, several remain dry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3While the New Year brought in surplus rain in Punjab, many parts of the state remained dry despite intermittent and widespread showers in the region over the past two days.The weather department has recorded rain to be surplus by 42 per cent in the state, while the minimum temperature in some parts remained up to 8 degrees Celsius above normal over the past 24 hours.From January 1 to January 3, Punjab as a whole received 1.1 mm rain against the normal of 0.8 mm for this period, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). While parts of adjoining Himachal Pradesh received snow, rain in the hill state was 7 per cent below the long period average for this duration.The data shows that while the north-eastern part of the state received excess rain, the south-western part, did not get any rain during the aforementioned period. Some districts in the south-eastern parts received deficient rain.Sangrur, Mansa, Fadirkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Muktsar and Bathinda are among the districts that remained totally dry, whereas the districts of Rupnagar, Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala got rain. On the other hand, Barnala, Kapurthala and Jalandhar were the wettest districts, with the surplus being up to 400 per cent.The confluence of a western disturbance over Afghanistan and central Pakistan at upper levels and an induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan at lower levels has been cited as the reason for the current spell of rain and snow in the region.While the region is expected to experience more rain and snow over many parts over the next couple of days, the weather department has also predicted that with the minimum temperatures in the region subsequently increasing, the cold wave prevailing over many parts of north-west India would reduce and the foggy conditions would also abate.
03-01-2021||Bathinda||Braving all odds, women at forefront of farmers' protest||Women in large numbers have emerged at the forefront of the farmer's protests against the farm laws in Delhi.This has led to the new awakening of gender equality amongst the male-the dominated mindset in the state amid the farmers protest.Women of all ages are out are staging a protest demanding the repeal of the farm laws.In the past few weeks, they have braved all odds and stayed put despite Delhi’s bone-chilling winter amid lack of toilets, privacy or hygiene. Many are staying in the tractors in the cold.These women have given a new fillip to the protests as some can be seen singing revolutionary songs, while others are giving fiery speeches. They have been occupying front rows and are shouting slogans against the anti-government.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary BKU Ekta Ugrahan said “We have always believed that women should be given equal respect and chances as they are no less than men in any aspect, due to which our union has mobilized women in large numbers to participate in this protest.”Harjinder Kaur Bindu, BKU Ekta Ugrahan women wing president said: “More than 2,000 women are staging a protest at Tikri border only and we have known that this fight against three farm laws would be big, so we planned that farmers along with their families would participate in this protest and mobilize the farmers accordingly.”She stated that young girls, college-going women, newly married women and the elderly were all are participating in the protest.80-year-old Mohinder Kaur of Bahadurgarh Jandian in Bathinda, who hit the national headlines after Kangana Ranaut tweeted her photo, said: “I went to Delhi to participate in protest because the union government want to give their lands to the big corporate houses, to save my land, I went to Delhi.”Paramjit Kaur of Bathinda district, who along with his 10-year-old daughter is in protest at Tikri border said: “They have sacrificed everything and has come here along with her family in protest to save our land, because if we will not have land, then how we will survive. It is a fight for our survival, so she will be staying along with her family till these laws are not repealed”.
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||1.60 lakh health workers will be first to get COVID-19 vaccine in Punjab: Minister||Around 1.60 lakh health workers in Punjab will receive a COVID-19 vaccine in the first phase, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Sunday.Principal Secretary (Health) Hussan Lal said the data regarding 1.60 lakh healthcare workers have already been uploaded on the CoWin portal—an online platform for monitoring the delivery of COVID-19 vaccine.Talking to reporters, the minister said, "...the vaccine which is coming will first be given to 1.60 lakh healthcare workers in the state."Giving details of the vaccination process, Lal said that after health workers, vaccine will be administered to around three lakh frontline workers, including policemen, paramilitary forces, sanitation workers and disaster management volunteers.Thereafter, the Principal Secretary (Health) said, people above 50 years and those aged below 50 with co-morbid conditions will be covered under the inoculation drive.To a question on the timeframe of the vaccination drive, Lal said it will depend upon the availability of vaccine.He said the state has the capacity to administer 4 lakh vaccines in a day.He further said that the state has around 4,000 trained vaccinators."If we get a large number of doses, then we can also use doctors, pharmacists, dental doctors and nurses as vaccinators,” he said, adding that the state has enough storage capacity for COVID-19 vaccine.A state-level vaccine store has been set up in Chandigarh, officials said.Punjab has already conducted a dry run for vaccination in Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.The mock drill of the distribution and administration of COVID-19 vaccine was being conducted in Patiala on Sunday.Punjab has so far witnessed 1.67 lakh coronavirus cases and 5,364 deaths. — PTI
03-01-2021||---||Capt Amarinder is treating Punjab as Patiala royal palace: Tarun Chugh||Chandigarh, January 3The BJP on Sunday said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was demonstrating his misplaced monarchical instincts by asking Governor VPS Badnore take orders from him.In a statement, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said the Chief Minister should exercise basic constitutional proprieties while addressing a Governor, who is a constitutional head of the state, who knows whom to summon in the face of collapsing law and order situation in the state.He said: “The Chief Minister had no right to dictate or bully a state Governor on the matter. Punjab Governor knows his constitutional duties and he is behaving in his constitutional dharma. It’s Amarinder Singh who is not discharging his constitutional duties and is behaving like a maharaja in the democratic set up.”“Punjab is not the Patiala royal palace,” Chugh added.The Chief Minister should know his limits and constitutional duties, Chugh said.“Had the chief minister been discharging his duties towards Punjab, it wouldn’t have become the land of mafia gangs and the people wouldn’t have been living in terror where there is a jungle raj,” BJP’s national general secretary said.
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana experience widespread rain||The minimum temperature rose on Sunday in most parts of Punjab and Haryana following widespread  rain in both the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum at 11.4 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective lows at 11.3, 11.1 and 11 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal.The minimum temperature in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 12, 9.1, 11.3, 5.4, 8.5 and 3.3 degrees Celsius respectively.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimums at 9.4, 7.2 and 10 degrees Celsius, up to three notches above normal.Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa recorded their minimums at 9.5, 9.4, 5.9 and 8.3 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal.Among places which witnessed rain in the past 24 hours are Chandigarh (0.8 mm), Ambala (8.4mm), Karnal (2 mm), Rohtak (8.4mm), Amritsar (2.4 mm), Ludhiana (0.6 mm), Patiala (0.2 mm), Pathankot (2.6 mm), Adampur (5.4 mm) and Gurdaspur (4.1mm).A few places including Hisar, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Ludhiana also witnessed fog.The MeT Department said heavy rain is likely at isolated places in Punjab and Haryana in the next 24 hours. PTI
03-01-2021||---||5 Covid deaths in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 2Five more persons succumbed to Covid in the district today. As many as 26 fresh cases were reported.The total confirmed positive cases in Patiala district so far are 15,797, while the death toll has mounted to 482.Those who succumbed to the virus today include four women aged 65, 75, 60 and 50 belonging to Pipal Kheri, Kauli, Rajpura, and Babu Singh Colony, respectively. The fifth victim, a man, was a resident of Nabha block of the district. All of them had comorbidities, said the Health Department.All those who tested positive were reported from OPDs and none of the cases was detected through contact tracing.
03-01-2021||---||PM Modi has become arrogant: Sukhbir Badal||Bathinda, January 2SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had become arrogant and was impervious to sufferings of farmers who were braving extreme cold conditions while agitating peacefully on the borders of Delhi.Addressing a large congregation at Takth Sri Damdama Sahib after the ‘bhog ceremony’ held to pay homage to 12 persons from Mansa and Bathinda villages who died during the ongoing farmer struggle, Sukhbir said: “The God takes care of people who become filled with their own ego. They meet their end soon in the eyes of people”.He said the SAD had always supported farmers’ agitations and was in the forefront while fighting the Emergency with party patron Parkash Singh Badal being the first to court arrest.Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the Prime Minister’s image had taken a beating in the country as well as the world, and it was a matter of time when his chair would also be threatened. She requested PM Modi to visit the agitating farmers and listen to them, saying the Cabinet Ministers did not have the guts to tell him the truth. She said if the Prime Minister listened to the farmers sincerely he would repeal the three farm laws.She also requested the farmer organisations to hold direct talks with the Prime Minister, saying talks with ministers would not yield anything. She also rubbished the propaganda unleashed by the BJP that two out of the four demands of farmers had been met, saying doing away with two proposed Bills did not amount to anything and the core issue of assured procurement at MSP remained unresolved. Prayers were also said for peace to the departed souls and a cheque for Rs 1 lakh was given to their family members.
03-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Balbir Singh Seechewal at Singhu today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2While he previously sent the state’s sportspersons to the farmers’ protest sites and several ‘jathas’ from Seechewal village with langar and other material, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal shall be heading to the Singhu border on January 3 to express solidarity with farmers.Taking along with him 5 to 10 quintal of peanuts, jaggery and sesame snacks to “provide heat to farmers in the extreme chill”, Seechewal said he was going to Singhu to help build pressure on the Centre.Speaking to The Tribune, Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “So many lives have been lost at Singhu. The farmers are braving extreme cold. The government should pay heed to the plight for farmers. I’m going with the hope that the December 4 meeting proves fruitful and the demands of farmers are met.”While at least two sportspersons from Seechewal, several residents and jathas from Seechewal’s Nirmal Kutia have already been at Singhu serving langar to farmers, several residents from the village have been camping at the border since November 28.
03-01-2021||Ludhiana||BKU marches against farm laws in Ludhiana||Farmers associated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) carried out an awareness march against the new farm laws here today. The march passed through BRS Nagar and Sunet. The farmers shared information with the city residents regarding “flaws” in the new farm laws and sought their support.BKU (Ugrahan) members Charan Singh Noorpura and others led the march. Union member Bharpur Singh said: “We have been protesting against the farm laws on the Ferozepur road for past 56 days. Today, we carried out the march with an aimed to make residents of colonies aware of the contentious farm laws.”The union members informed that five persons including Gurjit Singh, Hardev Singh, Karamjit Singh, Himmat Singh and Balwinder Singh observed relay fast today. They demanded the repeal of the farm laws at the earliest. Meanwhile, residents continued their protest for the ninth day at a petrol station on the Dugri road. — TNS
03-01-2021||---||Cong workers try to ‘disrupt’ saffron party dharna, detained||Ludhiana, January 2Several Congress workers and members of the Sikh Youth Power of Punjab were taken into police custody after they raised slogans and tried to barge into the site of a dharna being held by the BJP near Shingar Cinema here today.The Congress termed BJP’s dharna a political gimmick while on the other hand, BJP leaders blamed the state government for the “poor” law and order situation and demanded suspension of the DSP and arrest of others involved in throwing cow dung outside BJP leader Tikshan Sood’s residence in Hoshiarpur.Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP president, said the state government was to be blamed for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.“Some unscrupulous elements dumped cow dung in front of Sood’s residence and an FIR was registered in the case after much struggle but nobody has been arrested so far. We have the video clipping where the youth can been identified but still no action has been taken. We demand suspension of the DSP,” Sharma said. He said the BJP was always with farmers and would never work against their interests.Sharma condemned MP Ravneet Bittu for his “hate comment”. “It is the Congress’ divide and rule policy which is being reflected in his words. It seems 1984 was not enough that the Congress wants another bloodshed,” he said.On the other hand, Bittu said he was sitting at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar and the police could come any time to arrest him.Meanwhile, a member of the Sikh Youth Power of Punjab, who was taken into custody, said it was unfair that they were not being allowed to go to the protest site of the BJP.“BJP leaders are saying that the law and order situation is worsening in the state but they are ignoring the fact that farmers have come on roads. The situation is worsening due to the wrong policies of the Central Government,” he said.
03-01-2021||Fazilka||2 more farmers from Fazilka lose lives to biting cold||Seven days after farmer Amarjit Singh Rai, who ended his life at Tikri border by consuming some poisonous substance over agriculture laws, two more Fazilka farmers have lost their lives while participating in the agitation.Sources said that Kashmir Lal (65), a resident of Mahmu Joyia village, had gone to the Tikri border to participate in the agitation on December 28. But he fell ill on December 31 due to severe cold conditions. He was taken to a hospital in Bahadurgarh from where he was discharged after the treatment. He then returned to his native village.The next day, he joined the protest at the Mahmu Joyia toll plaza on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway. While returning home after a dharna on Friday evening, his condition deteriorated again and was taken to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Similarly, Kashmir Singh (69), a resident of Koharianwali village, had gone to Delhi on December 25 to participate in the protest, where he fell ill due to biting cold. He returned home on December 31. He also died last evening.
03-01-2021||---||Will gherao Ravneet Bittu’s house if no FIR: BJP||Ludhiana, January 2The BJP today staged a dharna against deteriorating law and order situation in the state and threatened to gherao MP Ravneet Singh Bittu’s residence here from January 4 if an FIR was not registered against him over his inflammatory remarks to disturb peace.State BJP president Ashwani Sharma said the Congress was to blame for the deteriorating law and order situation and that Bittu’s comment on farmers’ protest reminded him of the British’s policy of divide and rule, which had now become the policy of the Congress.Sharma said Bittu must be booked for his bloodshed remark. “It seems the bloodshed of 1984 was not enough that Bittu is now talking about more bloodshed. It seems the Congress and Bittu do not like peace in the state,” said Sharma.“Some people are trying to disturb peace. The BJP is with farmers and the PM will never do anything against their interest,” he said.Party national general secretary Tarun Chugh said he was not against the farmers’ protest as it was their democratic right, but throwing cow dung in front of their leader’s house was uncalled for.
03-01-2021||---||Farmers lend support to jobless teachers||Sangrur, January 2 The indefinite protest of unemployed members of five different unions got a boost today after farmers offered support to them. The protesters have been sitting in front of the local residence of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla here seeking government jobs. “On their way to New Delhi to take part in the ongoing agitation, farmers today joined our protest here and served ‘khoya’. Some farmer union leaders also participated in our protest and assured us of full support in the coming days,” said Sukhwinder Singh, president, TET Pass Unemployed BEd Pass Union. “We have been receiving threats from senior officers who want us to end the protest immediately. But our agitation has been gaining strength amid the farmers’ struggle. We have got calls of support from some other employee unions,” said Singh. Members of the TET Pass Unemployed BEd Pass Union, All Punjab DPE Teachers Union, PTE Teachers Union, Unemployed Art and Craft Union and Unemployed Multipurpose Health Union are participating in the protest. Earlier, members of the BEd union had organised an indefinite protest in front of the Sangrur DC office for months but lifted it owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. “We have completed our education after spending lakhs of rupees and qualified for teacher’s job. But the government has not been listening to our demand for jobs,” said Krishan Nabha, president, PTE Teachers’ Union.
03-01-2021||Abohar||Ex-servicemen and farmers give ‘Delhi chalo’ call||Ex-servicemen and farmers today shared a common platform and gave a “Delhi chalo” call to further strengthen the agitation that had completed its 100 days against the farm laws enacted by the Central Government. Some retired employees of the state and Central governments also extended their support.Ex-servicemen said all people should unite against the “black” laws against which farmer unions across the country had declared a peaceful war. They said if the laws were not repealed, the ‘morcha’ at the Delhi border would attract scores of supporters in the next few days. The ex-servicemen have shown their commitment to contribute to the peasant struggle with all available resources.Colonel Ajit Singh Samagh (retd), Colonel Inderpal Singh Ghuman (retd), Colonel Udaypal Singh Godara (retd), Colonel Satpal Rai Gaba (retd), Harbinder Singh Sandhu, Prahlad Chaudhary, Gurmeet Singh Prajapat and six former sarpanches expressed concern over the farm laws. — OCMuktsar youths leave for borderSome visually impaired youth from Muktsar on Saturday left for the Delhi border to join the farmers' protest. They said they did not own land but extended full support to protesters. TNS
03-01-2021||Mansa||Braving cold, Mansa women leave for Tikri||Braving biting cold, a group of women under the banner of Kul Hind Pragtisheel Istree Sabha today left for the Tikri border to take part in the farmers’ agitation. The group comprised 33 women and their children.Group leader Balwinder Kaur said: “The group left for the Tikri border on Saturday afternoon to take part in the farmers’ protest. History is evident that whenever there was any threat to the lives and livelihood of people of the nation, its citizens irrespective of their caste, creed, religion or gender have stood against it. Divisive forces can do no harm now as this movement will be fought collectively.” — TNS
03-01-2021||Moga||AAP leader meets deceased farmers’ kin||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab co-in charge and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha, who is on a two-day visit to the state, today met bereaved family members of two farmers who died during the ongoing protests over the farm laws. Chadha, along with local leaders of the party, arrived at the residence of Makhan Khan, 44, at Bhinder Kalan village in the district and expressed condolences with the bereaved family. Khan had died of cardiac arrest during the farmers’ agitation in the Capital on December 14. Chadha later visited the house of 80-year-old Gurbachan Singh, who died during a protest at a food storage silo of a private company at Dagru village last year. Chadha urged the Centre to repeal the “black laws” at the next meeting scheduled for January 4 and give farmers the legal right to the MSP on every crop. — TNS
03-01-2021||---||Home Dept nod not must where law is settled: HC||Chandigarh, January 2In a significant judgment liable to expedite decisions by the government in case of its employees, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the Home Department’s approval is not required in matters involving settled principle of law. “Cases have been kept pending due to non-grant of approval by the Department of Home,” the High Court ruled.Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi described as “very unfortunate” the fact that claimants had to wait for benefits they were entitled to even though the principle of law settled by the HC in Harbans Lal’s case on retirement benefits had attained finality more than a decade ago.Lal’s judgment made it clear employees in service on January 1, 2004, would be entitled to benefits under the old pension scheme, even though their services were regularised much later.“This seeking of approval of the Department of Home before any benefit is released to the claimant under Harbans Lal’s (judgment) needs reconsideration and should be done away with being not required, as the law stands settled finally on this subject a decade earlier,” Justice Sethi ruled.He added the court failed to understand why approval was being sought in each and every case once a principle of law stood settled.No justification has been given for seeking the Home Department’s approval before releasing benefits to an employee covered under the settled principle of law.In the absence of any valid justification, the process of seeking approval in each and every case was not appreciated as the same was causing prejudice to the claimants and delay in release of benefits.They not only suffered financially, but mentally and physically also as they had to run from pillar to post seeking benefits under the settled principle of law and even approach the court.Justice Sethi added: “It is the duty of the department to consider the claim of an employee as per the rules and regulations coupled with the settled principle of law as and when an employee or the legal heirs become entitled for the benefits in respect of the service rendered by an employee.”Why approval sought in each case
03-01-2021||---||Punjab set to receive Covid vaccine in day or two||Ludhiana, January 2A day after the drugs regulator recommended the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine (manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India) for conditional approval, Punjab is all set to receive the first consignment within a day or two and launch a massive immunisation drive within the next 24 hours.“With all logistics and arrangements put in place, testing completed, vaccinators trained and teams formed, we are ready to receive the vaccine anytime and begin the drive within the next 24 hours of receiving the doses,” Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, told The Tribune on Saturday. He said 70 lakh beneficiaries had already been identified for vaccination in a phased manner by 4,000 vaccinators at 11,000 vaccination sites, presently being used for routine immunisation in the state. The first phase will cover 1.6 lakh healthcare workers, both public and private, already registered on the CoWin portal, while the second phase will vaccinate 3 lakh frontline workers, right from sanitation, police, Army, paramilitary forces, revenue to fire services and disaster management volunteers. The third and fourth phases have been planned for 65 lakh persons above and below 50 years of age with comorbidities.“The beneficiaries will be covered depending upon availability of vaccine. In case of ample availability, the state is ready to even undertake vaccination drive for the first two or even all phases simultaneously,” Hussan said.The state had already provided data of identified beneficiaries for first four phases to the Centre, which will supply the vaccine accordingly.While a state-level vaccine store has been set up in Chandigarh, three regional vaccine stores have been established in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur.To ensure the storage of vaccine at 2 to 8°C, a total of 729 cold chain points have been set up in the state, including one each at the state vaccine store, 22 districts, 127 blocks and 579 villages.State-level training was given to over 1,000 field staffers and district-level training has been completed in all districts. A State Steering Committee and task forces at state, district and block levels have been constituted and their meetings conducted.While the dosing schedule is yet to be announced, it will likely be a twin dose. All beneficiaries are to be pre-registered with a photo identity on the CoWin portal.No charges for frontline workersWhile the state is awaiting the vaccine price from the Centre, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan announced vaccinating all healthcare and frontline workers for free in all the states while the pricing for above and below 50 year population was being worked out
03-01-2021||---||Experts train staff for vax dry run in Patiala||Patiala, January 2To hold a dry run of Covid vaccination on Sunday, health workers were given training at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital here today.Officials from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and World Health Organisation (WHO) imparted training to the vaccinators. During the training, experts explained in detail about the introduction of Covid-19 vaccination, planning, completion process, operation method of the CoWin portal and challenges at various stages.Vaccinators, which include doctors, ANMs and health officials, will run a mock trial of Covid vaccination on Sunday.
03-01-2021||Ferozepur||Stone laid for Ferozepur PGI centre||The foundation stone of the PGI satellite centre in the border district was laid by Congress MLA Parminder Singh Pinki yesterday in the presence of district officials. The project was approved seven years ago, in 2013, during the UPA-II tenure.The centre will give a fillip to the healthcare needs of the region. The project could not take off timely as it remained mired in controversies, initially over the selection of site and subsequently over the acquisition of land. Earlier, in September last year, the request for proposal (RFQ) for the construction of the centre was issued, following which the tenders were floated in the first week of October.MLA Pinki said the project would be completed in three phases, adding that the OPD services would commence in the first phase. — OC
03-01-2021||Ferozepur||Ex-minister Bal Mukand Sharma dies at 90||Former Cabinet Minister and veteran politician Pandit Bal Mukand Sharma, 90, died following a brief illness at the PGI, Chandigarh, today. He is survived by four sons.Sharma was admitted to the hospital on December 16 after being shifted from Ferozepur. Ironically, it was his birthday today.Sharma represented Ferozepur in the Vidhan Sabha five times from 1969 to 2002. He won his first election in 1969 on a Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS) ticket and later joined the Congress to win the subsequent election in 1972. — OC
03-01-2021||---||Pensioners flay term extension to pay panel||Chandigarh, January 2The Punjab Government Pensioners’ Welfare Association has condemned the state government’s decision to extend the term of the Sixth Pay Commission by two months.In a joint statement by association president JS Sandhu, senior vice-president SK Khosla and general secretary KS Naga, it said the inordinate delay in recommendation of the new pay scales, increase in allowance and pension revision, coupled with delay in payment of dearness arrears, had riled nearly seven lakh employees and pensioners.It said as per the commitment made by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the commission was supposed to submit its recommendations by December 31, 2020, but it had now given the panel time till February.
03-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga---||Back from Pak jail, Maharashtra woman stuck in Amritsar||Tribune News Service Amritsar, January 2 Repatriated from Pakistan, Hasina longs to reunite with her family in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad. She was imprisoned for overstay by the authorities in Pakistan. Though she was sentenced for two months by a court, she was lodged there for four years for want of documents.  With no kids, she is waiting to reunite with her extended family members whom the district administration managed to contact over the phone in Aurangabad. She was recently repatriated from Pakistan after the border was opened for travel following the lifting of Covid-19 restrictions. A distraught Hasina said her sister Shakila had passed away and now her children Guddu, Pappu and Shahzadi were her only support. She is staying at an inn of the Red Cross arranged by the administration. Now, all her hopes rest on her two nephews and a niece to take her back to her native place in Aurangabad.
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government ends pact with Gian Sagar College||As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to decline in the state, the government has started ending MoUs signed for intensive care facilities with private players. A first such MoU was cancelled with Gian Sagar Medical College on Thursday.In a message last week by the Managing Director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Civil Surgeons were told that the college was being closed for government Covid patients from January 1. The MoU was signed on March 24 last year. As many as 12 patients were admitted there from three districts. The college was catering to four districts. Sources said the decision was taken in view of the decline in the cases. Similarly, contract of the staff and volunteers (including security guards and lab technicians) hired under the disaster relief fund was also cancelled. — TNS
03-01-2021||---||Farmers protest outside Union minister’s virtual event venue||Bathinda, January 2A large number of farmers protested outside a hotel on the Goniana road, where BJP leader and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar addressed a gathering through video-conferencing.An event for the distribution of physical aids and assistive devices to differently abled and senior citizens under ADIP and Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana, respectively, were organised by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment along with the district administration at Bathinda.The farmers gathered outside the hotel and started raising slogans against the Narendra Modi government. Protesters said they had already announced they would boycott events of the BJP leaders in the state until the farm laws were taken back.Former Union Minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal did not attend the event. She said: “I boycotted the event today in which BJP leader and Union Minister of State Krishan Pal Gurjar was the chief guest virtually. I have always stood for the farmers. I will continue to boycott events where BJP leaders are the guests until the farmers’ demands are met and farm laws are repealed.”However, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district senior vice-president Mothu Singh Kotra said: “Harsimrat Badal was also scheduled to reach here. This shows Akalis are not concerned. On the one hand, the SAD says it has broken the alliance with the BJP, on the other Akalis are still attending functions together.”Meanwhile, SDM Talwandi Sabo Varinder Kumar said the main objective of this virtual programme was to provide free assistive devices to the divyang persons. He said in 2018-19, free prostheses were provided to 361 senior citizens and 44 divyang persons from Bathinda.
03-01-2021||Ludhiana||Minor detained from Himachal village in IAF spying case||The police today rounded up a boy from Himachal Pradesh in the Halwara Air Force Station case in which three persons were arrested on Wednesday for leaking classified information.Police sources said a special team had raided a village in Himachal Pradesh. The boy is stated to be a minor. SSP, Ludhiana police (Rural), Charanjit Singh Sohal said, “We have come to know about many persons who were in touch with the accused. All suspects are being rounded up. Whosoever is found guilty will face action accordingly.”— TNS
03-01-2021||---||Showers can’t dampen our spirit, say protesters||Sonepat, January 2Firm on their demands of repealing of the three farm laws, the farmers continued their protest on the 37th day at Singhu border despite bone-chilling cold and showers on Saturday.The rain on Friday night and on Saturday morning added to the farmers’ difficulties but the farmers’ confidence went up rather than going down.The farmers said that they were neither afraid of the shivering cold nor of the rain. “We will not step back till the government repeals the three farm laws,” they said.“We face these cold waves and rain in our fields regularly and these cannot defeat our mission,” said Gurbachan Singh of Sangrur district in Punjab.We have come here with full preparation and have no shortage here. We pray to God that the government should fulfil our demand as soon as possible as we are only demanding our rights, said farmer Jagjeet Singh of Ludhiana.On the other side, many protesters, especially elders and women along with children, spent time in their trolleys and under waterproof tents.Villagers from nearby places reached the dharna site with tarpaulin and polythene to cover the tents and also provided tea, milk, hot beverages to the protesting farmers.Commuters as well as farmers were forced to face problems as the road was covered with mud due to rain. But the farmers – men and women — cleaned the mud from under the trolleys and on the road.
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Summon me, not my officers: Capt to Governor||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday took exception to the Governor summoning the state DGP and Chief Secretary for a report on law and order instead of summoning him. He said the BJP charge that law and order in Punjab had “collapsed” was a bid to divert public attention from the contentious farm laws and farmers’ agitation.The CM said if the Governor had any concerns over the law and order situation, he should have taken up the matter with him as he held the Home portfolio. Capt Amarinder slammed the state BJP leadership for its “irresponsible” utterances, alleging there was a vicious game plan to undermine the farmers’ peaceful protest by calling a few incidents of damage to some telecom towers as a law and order issue.Stop the slander, he tells state BJPInstead of slandering the farmers by calling them ‘Naxalites and Khalistanis,’ the BJP should press the central leadership to revoke the black laws. —Punjab CM“These damaged towers can be and are being repaired. But what about the lives of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders in the biting cold,” he asked, expressing shock that no BJP leader had expressed sorrow over the deaths of farmers during the stir. Instead of slandering the farmers by calling them “Naxalites and Khalistanis,” the Punjab BJP should press its central leadership to revoke the farm laws, the CM said, observing that it had taken just a day for the Governor to respond to the state BJP’s complaint “whereas the Amendment Bills passed by the Punjab House are yet to be sent to the President for approval.”On the Punjab BJP alleging an assault on democracy, Captain remarked: “A party that has virtually destroyed every single democratic institution in the country has no business calling anyone else undemocratic.” — TNS
