03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Six more die due to spurious liquor in Punjab; death toll 110||The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 110 with six more people reported dead after drinking spurious liquor, officials said on Monday.Three fatalities were reported from Tarn Taran, two from Gurdaspur’s Batala and one from Amritsar, they said. So far, the maximum 83 deaths have taken place in Tarn Taran district, followed by 14 in Batala and 13 in Amritsar. The tragedy has been unfolding since Wednesday evening in the three districts.Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said two people are critical while the condition of eight others is stable.Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said one person died on Monday afternoon while another on Sunday.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner G S Khaira said the death toll in Amritsar reached 13 as one more person died on Sunday night. Meanwhile, the Punjab Police arrested 12 more people, including two businessmen, in a crackdown against the illegal liquor trade. So far, police have arrested 37 people in this regard. A manhunt has been launched for eight more accused, including a Ludhiana-based paint shop owner, believed to be a key player in the illegal liquor trade, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta.Two Congress MPs on Monday met Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, seeking a probe by the CBI and ED into the alleged illegal liquor in the state. Attacking their own government in Punjab, Rajya Sabha members Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo claimed that the “liquor mafia” existed in the state and sought immediate action against them. Both MPs said the tragedy was “bound to happen” in the “absence” of timely action by the Congress government against illegal liquor racket.Meanwhile, BJP’s national secretary Tarun Chugh slammed the Congress government in the state, holding it responsible for the tragedy.Chugh sought a probe by a sitting judge of the high court while rejecting the magisterial inquiry ordered by the state government. He also met families of the victims in Batala.Lambasting the state government, the BJP leader said the tragedy has “exposed” the anti-drug drive of the state government.“The government waited for the tragedy to happen rather than taking timely acting against culprits,” he told mediapersons in Batala.Activists of the SAD’s Youth Akali Dal also staged a dharna in Tarn Taran against the government.Led by YAD chief Parambans Singh Romana, they alleged that some Congress MLAs were “patronising the illicit liquor trade”.Romana sought the registration of an FIR against them and said the Shiromani Akali Dal will continue its protest till action was taken against the culprits.“We request the government to take heed or we will be forced to launch an agitation against the legislators as well as the chief minister,” he said.The protesters demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh for each of the families of the deceased. Meanwhile, Punjab Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said some “bad elements” got a chance to start the illegal trade of spurious liquor as the attention of police was on the coronavirus situation.However, he said the culprits won’t be spared.Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi too ridiculed the SAD for blaming the state government for the hooch tragedy.“It was nothing but pot calling the kettle black as similar incidents had occurred in 2012 and 2016 in Gurdaspur and Batala, respectively, during their regime,” said Sodhi in an official statement.Sodhi said in the Batala case, neither a FIR was registered nor any action taken against the main accused.Sensing the gravity of the matter, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh immediately ordered a magisterial inquiry by a divisional commissioner, who has been asked to submit his report within a month, the minister said.The chief minister had earlier suspended seven excise officials and six policemen. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/six-more-die-due-to-spurious-liquor-in-punjab-death-toll-110-121667
03-08-2020||Ferozepur||Senior SAD leader Hari Singh Zira dies of cardiac arrest||Senior SAD leader and former minister Hari Singh Zira died on Monday after a prolonged illness.His son Avtar Singh Zira, alias Minna, is also a senior Akali leader.Family sources said that he was admitted to PGI Chandigarh where he died of cardiac arrest. The cremation will take place in Zira tomorrow.Hari Singh remained MLA from Zira five times since 1977 and also served as Irrigation Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-sad-leader-hari-singh-zira-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-121652
03-08-2020||---||Punjab records 677 coronavirus cases, 19 deaths; tally stands at 18,527||Chandigarh, August 3Punjab on Monday reported 677 COVID-19 cases, taking the state tally to 18,527.Meanwhile, 19 deaths were also recorded in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the state now stands at 442.As many as 416 patients were also discharged today. The discharged cases include 144 from Ludhiana followed by Amritsar (91), Patiala (43), Gurdaspur (26), Fatehgarh Sahib (23), SAS Nagar (18), Hoshiarpur (16), nine each from Moga, Muktsar and Barnala, Fazilka (8) and Pathankot (6).The 18 deaths were reported from Ludhiana (8), Amritsar (2), Bathinda (3) and one each from SAS Nagar, SAS Nagar, Barnala, Sangrur, Jalandhar and Patiala.The number of active cases in the state has climbed to 6,203 while the number of discharged patients has risen to 11,882.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-677-coronavirus-cases-19-deaths-tally-stands-at-18-527-121646
03-08-2020||Amritsar||'Ex-communicated’ Langah pardoned by ‘panj pyaras’, re-takes ‘amrit sanchar’ ceremony||In a surprise development, former Cabinet minister in the previous SAD-BJP regime Sucha Singh Langah, who was ex-communicated by the Akal Takht, was exonerated by the ‘panj pyaras’ at Gurdwara Garhi Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Gurdwara in Dhariwal, Gurdaspur.This move is being ‘understood’ as paving the way for bringing him back to the community fold as Langah intends to re-join the mainstream politics, but the Akal Takht’s verdict played a major spoilsport.The former SAD MLA from Dera Baba Nanak was excommunicated on October 5, 2017, by the Akal Takht after a video, showing him getting intimate with a woman outside of marriage, went viral.This is considered ‘bajar kurahit’, ‘an immoral transgression’ in the Sikh religion.Today, during the annual programme at the gurdwara, Langah, along with his family, formally appeared before the ‘panj pyaras’ of Tarna Dal, a Nihang Singh organisation, to submit apology.After listening to his version, the ‘panj pyaras’ pronounced upon him ‘tankhah’ (religious punishment).He was directed to sweep the gurdwara premises for at least one hour daily for 21 days. Besides this, he will have to wash the dishes in community kitchen and clean up footwear at ‘jodha ghar’.As Langah accepted the punishment, the panj pyaras granted him ‘amrit-sanchar’ (ceremony of baptism).Instantly complying with the tankhah, he also cleaned up the gurdwara premises with a broom.Upon completion of the 21-day ‘tankhah’, Langah has plans to make an appeal to the Akal Takht again for re-induction into the community.“I was overwhelmed that the ‘panj pyaras’ acknowledged my apology. After completion of tankhah, the ‘ardas for atonement’ will be performed in the same gurdwara. Thereafter, I will approach the Akal Takht again for reviewing my ex-communication verdict. I am free from all charges legally and hope that Akal Takht will take sympathetic view and accept me back,” he said.Nonetheless, the ex-communication verdict of the Akal Takht remained intact. Lately, on March 13, 2020, Langah had visited the Akal Takht seeking forgiveness, but the officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had refused to acknowledge his visit and the plea.He had, then, stated that any move regarding the expulsion of Langah could be taken keeping in view the emotions of the ‘Sikh Sangat’ and in the light of principles.Langah was booked for rape, cheating, ransom and criminal conspiracy on the statement of a woman on September 29, 2017, just prior to the Gurdaspur parliamentary bypoll.Later, the woman complainant withdrew her statements claiming that she was not the woman in the purported video and all her statements produced in court were either fake or taken under pressure.SGPC suspends three employees of gurdwaraHours after pardoning ex-communicated former SAD leader Sucha Singh Langah, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal suspended three employees of Gurdwara Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Garhi in Dhariwal (Gurdaspur).Confirming this, Longowal’s personal secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli told that those suspended were Rachhpal Singh, in charge, Khushwant Singh priest and Harmeet Singh kathavachak.“They have been suspended till further orders,” he said.Meanwhile, the flying squad wing along with senior parcharak (preachers) and members of Dharam Parchar Committee were entrusted with the responsibility of scrutinising the circumstances which led to pardoning Langah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-communicated-langah-pardoned-by-panj-pyaras-re-takes-amrit-sanchar-ceremony-121644
03-08-2020||Ravi S Singh||PMO clears names of Sikh faith leaders invited to Ayodhya ‘Bhumi Pujan’||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 3As many as nine saints and other faith leaders of Sikh community are on the list of attendees for the Ram Temple construction related ‘Bhumi Pujan’ ceremony in Ayodhya, scheduled for August 5.The names of invitees, which were drawn up by the “Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust”, have been cleared by Prime Minister Office (PMO).Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the ceremony, and will also lay a silver brick at the Ram Janmabhoomi site, marking commencement of the construction.In view of physical distancing norms, the number of invitees has been restricted. They include 50 spiritual and religious figures of different faiths. The Sikh faith leaders include the head priests of all the five Takhts, and the national president of the RSS-affiliate Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, Gurcharan Singh Gill.As was earlier reported by Tribune, the head priest of the Akal Takht (Amritsar) has been requested to represent Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib and the Takht Sri Damdama Sahib because the three are located in Punjab.Head priests of Takht Nanded Sahib and Takht Patna Sahib will attend the ceremony as these centre are located in two states, Maharashtra and Bihar, respectively.Other Sikh invitees are head of Nanaksar sect having headquarters at Kleran village in Ludhiana, Baba Lakha Singh; head of Nirmal sect Srimant Gyan Dev (located in Haridwar); head of Ravidas sect Baba Pritam Das (headquarters at Jalandhar); head priest of Brahmakund Gurdwara, located in Ayodhya, Gurjeer Singh, and Dr Rameshwarand Hari.Meanwhile, backed by Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, a 48-hour “Akhand Path” started this morning in Brahmakund Gurdwara in Ayodhya as a thanksgiving gesture to the Gurus.Gill said he will be taking soil from religious places of Valmiki and other SCs communities from Jaipur to Ayodhya which will be part of a “Kalash” for the Bhumi Pujan.A Sikh leader, who has already reached Ayodhya, said a delegation of faith leaders from Punjab has left for Ayodhya to take part in the ‘Path’.They are not invitees for the Bhumi Pujan ceremony. They include Baba Nirmal Singh Randhawa who will be carrying waters from five sites having religious significance in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pmo-clears-names-of-sikh-faith-leaders-invited-to-ayodhya-bhumi-pujan-121636
03-08-2020||---||Punjab hooch tragedy: 12 more arrested; manhunt launched for Ludhiana-based paint business owner||Chandigarh, August 3Amid strict instructions from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to further step up investigations into the hooch tragedy, the Punjab Police on Monday apprehended 12 more persons, including two businessmen, and have launched a manhunt for a Ludhiana-based paint business owner who had initially supplied the three drums of spurious liquor that had triggered the wave of deaths.The Chief Minister directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to put the full might of the police force in tracking and apprehending every single person involved in the case and move swiftly to ensure stringent action against each of them. Nobody should be spared, said Amarinder, even as the police launched a departmental inquiry against the two DSPs and four SHOs suspended for negligence.The magisterial inquiry ordered by the Chief Minister is also probing the involvement of all suspects, as well as the 6 police and 7 Excise & Taxation Officers whose suspension was ordered by the Chief Minister on Saturday.Also read: Spurious liquor tragedy: Crackdown continues, 88 nabbed in 4 Punjab districtsWith the latest arrests, the total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 37, including five kingpins of the illicit liquor mafia that spanned several districts of the state. A manhunt has been launched for 8 more identified accused, including the Ludhiana-based paint shop owner, Rajesh Joshi, believed to be a key player in the mafia chain, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.Investigations are also in progress to identify other links, he said, adding that efforts are also in progress to identify the various supply routes across districts since there were multiple buyers of the Ludhiana-based businessman, who was still absconding.The DGP said raids were still continuing. The death toll in the case has meanwhile gone up to 108, with 82 deaths in Tarn Taran and 13 each in Amritsar and Batala.Among the arrests made in the past 24 hours is Ravinder Singh Anand of Moga. Ravinder, who runs a factory manufacturing mechanical jacks, had bought three cans of 200 litre each of the spurious liquor at Rs 11,000 a drum from the Ludhiana businessman. He had recently started manufacturing of hand sanitisers.From Ravinder, the three drums went to one Avtar Singh, also of Moga, who sold it to Harjit Singh and his two sons, residents of Pandori Gola village in Tarn Taran, for Rs 28,000 a drum. Harjit and his sons paid Rs 50,000, with balance still pending, and hid the drums in bushes near their village.Further investigations have revealed that Harjit and his sons (Satnam and Shamsher) gave 42 bottles worth of spurious spirit from the drums to Gobinder Singh, for Rs 6,000. Each of these bottles was diluted by him by 10% to make 46 bottles, which he sold to the sons of Balwinder Kaur on July 28 and 29 in two instalments of 23 bottles each. Balwinder, the first person to be arrested in the case, had further diluted the alcohol by adding 50% water and sold a bottle of the diluted spirit for Rs 100.Meanwhile, Ravinder Sing has further revealed that he was an associate of a Moga-based paint store owner, Ashwini Bajaj, who has been arrested. Ravinder’s questioning disclosed the involvement of Rajesh Joshi, who is evading arrest.The DGP said initial investigations indicate that Gobinder, Ravinder, Darshana Rani, Triveni Chowhan and Harpreet Singh were among the key accused in the case, and their links with other major mafia gang members were being ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hooch-tragedy-12-more-arrested-manhunt-launched-for-ludhiana-based-paint-business-owner-121627
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister speaks to COVID positive 5-year-old Noor on Raksha Bandhan||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted a video of his conversation with 5-year-old Noorpreet Kaur, the young TikTok sensation who wanted to send him a ‘rakhi’ on Raksha Bandhan.Amarinder Singh said in a tweet accompanying the video: “Spoke to our little star Noor on Raksha Bandhan. Happy to share that she is doing fine and am sure she and her father will beat COVID-19 soon. Already looking forward to meeting you. God Bless”.The 5-year-old who became a TikTok star during the lockdown period with over 1.5 million followers wanted to tie ‘rakhi’ to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, but tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday when she underwent testing made mandatory for those who wanted an appointment with the chief minister.Her father Satnam Singh, a labourer at a brick-kiln, also tested positive for the virus along a person who is believed to be part of Noor’s TikTok team.Spoke to our little star Noor on Raksha Bandhan. Happy to share that she is doing fine and am sure she and her father will beat #Covid19 soon. Already looking forward to meeting you. God Bless! pic.twitter.com/U2KG7W8MVd||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-speaks-to-covid-positive-5-year-old-noor-on-raksha-bandhan-121617
03-08-2020||Singapore||Indian-origin intellectual property expert sworn in as High Court judge in Singapore||Dedar Singh Gill, an Indian-origin judicial commissioner and intellectual property expert in Singapore, was on Monday sworn in as a judge of the city-state’s High Court.Gill, whose appointment for the prestigious judicial post was cleared in April this year, took an oath of the office in the presence of President Halimah Yacob.Justice Gill, 61, first joined the Supreme Court bench in August 2018, where he was appointed judicial commissioner.The Supreme Court comprises the High Court and the Court of Appeal.Before that, he was the managing director of the intellectual property department at Drew and Napier.While working for the firm, he appeared as a counsel before the High Court and Court of Appeal for major corporate clients and had established a reputation for his expertise in intellectual property law.After assuming his Supreme Court role, Gill was appointed by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon to manage the intellectual property list of the High Court and worked on reviewing the intellectual property dispute resolution system in Singapore.In addition to intellectual property cases, Gill has experience in cases related to contract, tort and negligence matters.He graduated from the National University of Singapore with a Bachelor of Law with Honours in 1983.With Gill’s appointment, the Supreme Court will have a total of 25 judges, four judicial commissioners, four senior judges and 17 international judges. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-origin-intellectual-property-expert-sworn-in-as-high-court-judge-in-singapore-121604
03-08-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab govt to setup four new COVID testing labs||Four new COVID testing labs are being established by the Punjab government, including one at the College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana.Dr J P S Gill, Director of Research cum Nodal officer of the lab, said that the GADVASU lab is the first one out of the four to get the necessary approval from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He said that diagnostic tests are highly skill-oriented and GADVASU has the expertise and well-established research labs for animal biotechnology, virology, and cell culture and disease epidemiology. Ten scientists of the university have been instrumental in the initial setup of the labs at the Government Medical colleges Amritsar and Patiala.The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Dr Inderjeet Singh, on Monday made a previsit to the lab to oversee its functioning before receipt of samples. Sharing his views, the vice-chancellor thanked the state government for reposing confidence in the capabilities of the university as one of the centres for COVID testing and assured that university will go the extra mile to fight the disease. He extended his gratitude to the state government and Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) for providing the necessary equipment, logistics and the supporting staff for the lab.Dr Gill also informed that they will start processing the samples once the necessary kits are received from the BFUHS Faridkot. To begin with, 20 scientists and lab personnel will be working in two shifts to process 100 to 250 samples per day. The same will be increased to 1,000 samples per day once the lab facilities are upgraded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-setup-four-new-covid-testing-labs-121595
03-08-2020||---||‘Plant 10 saplings instead of 10K, but ensure their survival’||Amritsar, August 2Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated a plantation drive in collaboration with two private firms to keep the city green and pollution free. The MC would plant 500 saplings with tree guards. The move has been inaugurated at Majitha Road by planting trees on the central verge and installing tree guards for their care of plants.Earlier on this occasion, Sukh Amrit Singh from Youth for Global Peace and Transformation and Gurinder Bhatti from ESS Global welcomed the Mayor for inaugurating the plantation driveMayor Karamjit Singh said they started the plantation drive in which about 500 saplings would be planted. All the plants would be protected by the tree guards. He said every year various organisations carried out plantation programmes and thousands of saplings were planted but only a few plants survived and most of them got damaged. He appealed to all the organisations to plant only 10 saplings instead of 10,000, but to take care of them.“Tree guards must be installed so that the saplings can grow and the purpose for which they have been planted can be achieved. It has been observed that the rate of success of the saplings planted in tree guards is 98 per cent and if such plantation drives are carried out for one or two years, there will be no need to plant trees for the next 20 years and the city’s environment will improve,” said Rintu.He appealed to the residents of the city to plant at least one tree and ensure its survival. “As the population of the city is around 13-14 lakhs, the same number of plants can be planted in a year. Though it is the duty of the government to make efforts to protect the environment, it is also the responsibility of the citizens to plant at least one tree. It will be a great contribution to our city and country,” he added.Horticulture Engineer Sandeep Singh, Sanitary Inspector Vijay Sharma and a large number of locals were present on the occasion.Mayor inaugurates dev projects in cityMayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated the work of cemented lanes and interlocking tiles at ward number 20 in Amritsar East Assembly constituency here today. The MC will spent Rs 1.50 crore on cemented lanes at Din Dayal Colony in Verka and install interlocking tiles at a cost of Rs 90 lakh at Sant Nagar Dhup Sari. The Mayor said the funds for the projects had been provided by the government of Punjab for the development of East constituency under the Punjab Environment Improvement Programme. He stated other projects that will transform the city were also in the pipeline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plant-10-saplings-instead-of-10k-but-ensure-their-survival-121276
03-08-2020||---||Sikh bodies to hold protest against UAPA on August 15||Amritsar, August 2Activists of Sikh bodies on Sunday announced that on August 15 they would protest across the state against the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) 1967.The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of senior representatives of three Sikh bodies—Dal Khalsa, Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal. They were of the opinion that to cage the dissent and trampled the rights of dissenting people, the Union and state governments were misusing draconian laws across the board, from Kashmir to Punjab and Delhi to central India.Members of the three Sikh bodies will be carrying black flags and placards while holding demonstrations at all district headquarters on the day when India will celebrate its Independence Day, said Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh and Prof Mohinder Pal Singh of SAD (A).They listed the issues of their protest that include the indiscriminate use of bullying laws including the UAPA and sedition, labelling of nine Khalistani Sikhs as “terrorists”, and Centre’s anti-farmer ordinances and its refusal to release political prisoners, who have completed their jail term. Moreover, our protest is in continuation of our resolve to fight against injustices and enslavement.They, however, clarified that due to pandemic outbreak, the number of demonstrators would be limited at all districts and physical distancing will be maintained.Taking Capt Amarinder Singh to task for defending the police highhandedness against Sikh youth under the pretext of combating the 2020 referendum campaign, he said, “Contrary to Punjab CM’s hue and cry, there’s no threat to peace, brotherhood and harmony in Punjab”.On Sukhbir Badal’s tirade against misuse of UAPA, prof Mohinder Pal asked him to first explain his own dubious track record of misusing these fascists’ laws and rewarding police officers, who were infamous for their brutalities against the Sikh youth.The leaders accompanied by SYP head Paramjit Singh Mand and Dal Khalsa general secretary Paramjit Singh Tanda said around 47 cases under UAPA against youth were registered during Sukhbir’s 10-year regime and equal number of cases have been registered so far in Amarinder’s three-year rule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-bodies-to-hold-protest-against-uapa-on-august-15-121277
03-08-2020||---||In Sangrur, administration to recover Rs26 cr from fake pensioners||Sangrur, August 2As 12,573 fake pensioners were identified in Sangrur, the highest in the state, the authorities have formed special committees for the recovery of Rs 26.63 crore paid to them.However, residents are demanding strict action against officials who cleared the cases of ineligible persons and asked the government to stop the recovery as Covid-19 has already created serious problems for residents.Sources said of the total 1.76 lakh pensioners in the district, 1,19,195 are elderly, 30,515 are widows, 9,513 are dependents while the remaining were handicapped. They all are getting a monthly pension of Rs 750. But after complaints of enrolment of ineligible pensioners in the district, the authorities started a detailed survey and detected around 12,573 fake pensioners, who did not fulfil the mandatory guidelines to get tpension.“The state government has formed committees for further action and recovery of pension from poor residents while there is no action against officials who cleared the cases of ineligible residents. We will not allow the recovery as residents are already facing financial problems due to Covid,” said Avtar Ealwal, state general secretary, Aam Aadmi Party.Of the total fake pensioners, records show that the Andana block has 807, Amargarh 1,121, Bhawanigarh 913, Dhuri 544, Dirba 1,668, Lehra 3,038, Malerkotla 938, Sangrur 1,130, Sherpur 400 and the remaining are in Sunam.“If officials started a pension to my father, it is their fault. Some politicians were also involved in this. We have no money to repay.” said a Dirba resident.Repeated attempts to contact District Social Welfare Officer (DSSO) Lavleen Kaur proved futile as she did not attend her phone.“We have formed committees at the block level under the supervision of the tehsildar to start the process of recovery from fake beneficiaries,” said a senior official at theDSSO office.Panel formed to start recovery process||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sangrur-administration-to-recover-rs26-cr-from-fake-pensioners-121310
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Government to provide Rs300 crore aid to tackle stubble-burning||In order to restrain farmers from burning crop residue, the state government has decided to provide subsidy worth Rs 300 crore (ranging from 50 per cent to 80 per cent) to agriculturists for purchasing 23,500 agro-machines/farm equipment for the management of stubble during the 2020 kharif season. Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Anirudh Tiwari said the state government has invited applications from farmers to provide subsidy for purchasing paddy residue management machines. Tiwari said these machines would be given to 7,000 farmers, 5,000 cooperative societies, panchayats and farmers groups to make “Punjab clean, green and pollution free”. Subsidy to individual farmers would be given at the rate of 50 per cent of cost of the machine and the same would be 80 per cent in case of societies and farmer groups. The state government had already provided over 51,000 such machines to farmers with a subsidy component of Rs 480 crore in the last two years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-to-provide-rs300-crore-aid-to-tackle-stubble-burning-121311
03-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Handicraft clusters to come up in Hoshiarpur, Bathinda||Hoshiarpur, August 2To promote handicraft and strengthen the traditional industry, the state government would develop handicrafts cluster in Hoshiarpur and Bathinda.Attempts would be made to revive wooden inlay handicraft in Hoshiarpur at a cost of Rs 1.42 crore. The work on the clusters would start from the next month and state-of-the-art machines would be set up at Boothgarh village in the district.Cabinet Minister Sundar Sham Arora said, “Hoshiarpur had a distinct identity related to ivory inlay carving and wooden inlay handicraft. After a ban on ivory, plastic was used for carving. The state government has formed a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to revive this industry.”He said, “Under this scheme, 25 per cent expenditure will be incurred by the SPV and 75 per cent by the state government.”Arora said villages, including Boothgarh, Bassi Ghulam Hussain, Basi Mudka, Piplanwala, Bajwara Chhota, Bajwara Bada, Chhawni Kalan, Nangal Shahidan, Navi Bassi, Salwara, Bassi Kikkaran, Adamwal, Kakkon and Navi Abadi, would be a part of the cluster. Around 150 families from these villages would take advantage of this cluster.He said machinery related to wood inlay, including CNC machine, router machine, panel saw, laser machine, wood saw machine and planer, would be installed.Arora said with the establishment of these clusters in Hoshiarpur and Bathinda, numerous employment opportunities would be created in the state.Reviving traditional industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/handicraft-clusters-to-come-up-in-hoshiarpur-bathinda-121312
03-08-2020||---||3% subsidy for setting up milk  units: Minister||Chandigarh, August 2The state government has implemented various schemes to bring out farmers from the traditional crop cycle and increase their income through allied occupations.Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the government has introduced a new scheme wherein 3 per cent discount would be given on interest rate for setting up units of milk/ milk products, meat, cattle feed and silage units. He said this scheme would continue for three years for which Rs 15 crore had been reserved by the Central Government.He said due to change in eating habits of new generation, demand for various types of cheese, yoghurt, condensed milk, ice cream and health enhancing products had increased instead of pure ghee and powder making factories.He directed officials to start an awareness campaign in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-subsidy-for-setting-up-milk-units-minister-121313
03-08-2020||Raj Sadosh
||Choked sewerage bane of Abohar locals||Abohar, August 2 Choked sewerage in Nanak Nagari and Anand Nagari have left streets inundated for about two weeks. Mild showers today left the situation exacerbated as residents feared that the inundation would continue for another week. Besides, waterlogging triggers mosquito breeding, much to the chagrin of people. According to information, the work of raising the slabs of manholes was started recently, but it had to be abandoned halfway as sewage kept on overflowing due to choking of the main line. Rubble scattered over streets made the situation worse. Now, people feel imprisoned in their homes as they hardly venture out. Also the businesses in the mini market stays suspended. “We have no option but to wade through contaminated waterlogged streets to buy essential items, which has increased the risk of skin diseases. This can further trigger an outbreak of waterborne diseases,” said Krishna Devi. Another resident, Praveen Thakral, said,  the main street in Nanak Nagari had been dug up and abandoned by the authorities concerned, endangering the lives of motorists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/choked-sewerage-bane-of-abohar-locals-121314
03-08-2020||---||Threat of locust attack looms large over Malwa||Muktsar, August 2The threat of locust attack still looms large in the region as smaller groups of pests were recently spotted in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts in Rajasthan, besides locusts were also seen in Sirsa district.Locusts can fly around 150 km-200 km daily and are very harmful for vegetation. Muktsar, Fazilka, Bathinda and Mansa districts have been on the edge due to locusts.“Locusts are innumerable and situation is critical in Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Hanumangarh and Churu districts of Rajasthan. Fresh swarm of locusts is not entering from Pakistan, but those present here, have attained young age,” says the report of a locust control room.Muktsar Chief Agriculture Officer Jalour Singh said, “Threat from locusts will be there till August end. However, Muktsar district is safe to date. Locusts were spotted in some parts of Sirsa district in Haryana, which shares its boundary with Muktsar. The flow of air is towards Bathinda and Mansa districts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/threat-of-locust-attack-looms-large-over-malwa-121315
03-08-2020||Abohar||261 kg poppy husk seized||The police seized 261 kg of poppy husk from three vehicles last night. The occupants managed to flee taking advantage of the dark.  Poppy husk bags were seized during a search of a Toyota Fortuner, a Maruti Swift car and a truck.  The occupants of all three vehicles managed to escape. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/261-kg-poppy-husk-seized-121316
03-08-2020||Abohar||Canal relining project report filed||In response to a grievance petition submitted to the Prime Minister, the Jal Shakti Ministry has informed that the Punjab Government had on June 19 sent a detailed project report (DPR) to the Rajasthan Government, stating that the relining of the Ferozepur feeder canal will cost Rs 348.14 crore. In June, the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti had filed a petition before the Prime Minister and the Minister of Jal Shakti, stating that the Ferozepur feeder’s renovation work had been hanging fire due to lack of coordination. In December 2014, the then Minister for Water Resources Department Dr Ram Pratap Sahu of Rajasthan had told the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal of the delay in the relining of Ferozepur/Rajasthan Feeder  and Sirhind Feeder,  which carried water to the state from the Harike headworks in Punjab. Subsequently, Badal had informed Sahu that the process of relining of the canals, worth Rs 200 crore, was in the pipeline, and global tenders in this connection had already been floated. The seepage from the 60-year-old Ferozepur feeder with a capacity of 15,000 cusecs was found to be 21 per cent of the total annual groundwater recharge. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had also taken up the matter with CM Capt Amarinder Singh last year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canal-relining-project-report-filed-121317
03-08-2020||Tribune Reporters||Spurious liquor tragedy: Crackdown continues, 88 nabbed in 4 Punjab districts||Patiala/Ferozepur, August 2In a crackdown against illicit liquor trade, the state police arrested as many as 88 persons from Ferozepur, Mansa, Muktsar and Patiala districts.It took over 100 deaths for the Patiala police to crack a whip against illegal liquor manufacturing hubs operating in various parts of the district which were supplying chemicals and liquor to various parts of the state. The police are trying to ascertain if chemicals from Ghanaur, Rajpura and Banur, meant for use in distilleries, were pilfered and used to make spurious liquor.Three days after deaths in three districts, police teams raided illegal liquor distilleries and arrested 13 persons, registered 31 cases and sealed four illegal kilns besides recovering more than 7,420-litre ‘lahan’, other chemicals and 1,212 bottles of illicit liquor.Sources said the police action against many illegal kilns came after intelligence inputs that large-scale liquor was being manufactured and sold illegally from Rajpura, Ghanaur and Sanaur. “With the active connivance of excise and local police officials, the accused involved in the trade continue their illegal manufacturing units and political patronage ensures them a safe passage,” a source said.Shisha Masih, Ranga Masih and Bhinder were arrested from Hajipur village under the Julka police station with seizure of 2,600 litre ‘lahan’ and 25 bottles of illicit liquor. More than 3,000 litre ‘lahan’ had been recovered from Marauri. A senior police officer said till the time local leaders had the power to get SHOs and DSPs posted as per their choice, illegal liquor trade could not be controlled. “The active connivance of every local leader cannot be ruled out. Heads must roll for allowing Ghanaur and Rajpura become illegal liquor cartels of the state. Chemicals from these two towns are widely used across the state and property details of all local cops posted in these two towns must be probed,” he said. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said those who were putting the lives of people at risk by supplying and manufacturing spurious liquor would not be spared.The Ferozepur police registered 28 cases under various section of the Excise Act within the past 48 hours and arrested 31 persons.SSP Bhupinder Singh said the accused were booked in cases related to illicit trade of country-made liquor. The police had also seized over 1,100 liquor bottles and 853 kg ‘lahan’, he said. The SSP said the illicit liquor was mostly being produced in small hamlets and villages situated along the Sutlej.Meanwhile, the Mansa police arrested 27 persons in 32 excise and NDPS Act cases registered in a single day in the district. The police also seized 3,730 intoxicating pills, 1,945 litre ‘lahan’ and 640 bottles of illicit liquor.In order to tighten noose around persons involved in illicit liquor trade, the Bathinda police today conducted raids at industrial area in the city. Cops checked alcohol making and other units, which use methyl alcohol, at Focal Point. Methyl alcohol, which is mainly used in paint and plywood industry, is transported from the city to Manipur in tankers.Sold illegallySources said the police action against many illegal kilns came after intelligence inputs that large-scale liquor was being manufactured and sold illegally from Rajpura, Ghanaur and Sanaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-liquor-tragedy-crackdown-continues-88-nabbed-in-4-punjab-districts-121318
03-08-2020||---||Search operations on to nab accused: IG||Amritsar, August 2The Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar, today held a meeting with senior police officers of the border range, headed by IG SPS Parmar, and excise officials in order to work out a strategy to curb bootlegging in the border belt.‘Action being taken’We held a detailed meeting over the joint operations to be conducted to curtail the illicit liquor trade. Raids are already underway to put the accused behind bars.— SPS Parmar, IGTalking to The Tribune, Parmar said they held a detailed meeting over joint operations to be conducted to curtail illicit liquor trade. “Combing and search operations are already underway in the entire state to put the accused behind bars,” he said.Joint operations with the Excise Department would be done to check the entire nexus. “Whether the liquor was siphoned from tankers or distilleries, everything is being investigated threadbare,” he said. He said earlier the thrust was on drug peddling in the state and this was undercurrent. Now that the problem had come to the fore, appropriate steps were being taken to stop it. Meanwhile, the Amritsar rural police today arrested 10 bootleggers and smashed two illegal distilleries running in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/search-operations-on-to-nab-accused-ig-121319
03-08-2020||
||Accused used denatured spirit, claim officials||Chandigarh, August 2 An “unofficial chemical examination” of the seized material in villages of Majha by the Excise Department has reportedly found that the base material used to make this spurious liquor was denatured spirit. Denatured spirit is used in paint and polish industry, and of late, for manufacturing sanitisers. Its sale is regulated and it can be transferred only after obtaining a permit. Excise officials told The Tribune that their investigation has so far revealed that the denatured spirit seized in Dera Bassi had changed hands multiple times to hide the source of this spirit. “This spirit, we had learnt, was to be supplied illegally to some industrial consumers and was being moved without permits. There is no direct link between this case and the Majha booze tragedy, it just proves that denatured spirit is being moved without requisite permit and could have been supplied to bootleggers too to make illicit liquor,” a senior official said, adding that the case has now been handed over to the police for thorough investigation. Excise officials believe that some additives were mixed with the denatured spirit as its direct consumption can be fatal. “This can be ascertained from the postmortem of the victims. Also, our lab test reports suggest that the potency of ethanol in the denatured spirit recovered in the tragedy-hit villages was between 140-160 degrees. The maximum potency of ethanol allowed in liquor is 75 degrees. Liquor with this potency is also consumed after diluting it with water,” a top official in the Excise Department said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accused-used-denatured-spirit-claim-officials-121320
03-08-2020||---||Capt Amarinder lashes out at Delhi CM Kejriwal over CBI probe demand||Chandigarh, August 2Countering Arvind Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe into the spurious liquor tragedy, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked his Delhi counterpart “to mind his own business and not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his party’s fortunes in the state”.‘Don’t play politics’Kejriwal should mind his own business and not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his party’s fortunes in the state. So many people have died and all he is interested in is making political meat from the incident.—Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterCapt Amarinder said: “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident.”Trashing Kejriwal’s claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by the local police,” Capt Amarinder asked the AAP leader to verify his facts.Citing the April 22 case of an illicit liquor factory being busted in Khanna, Capt Amarinder pointed out that eight accused had been arrested and a manhunt had been launched for seven others who were absconding. In another case, two kingpins behind an illicit liquor distillery operating in Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, the challan had been filed in the court.Capt Amarinder pointed out that despite the cases of targeted killings in Punjab being handed over to the CBI, it were eventually the state police that solved the same.“Even in the sacrilege cases, the CBI failed to deliver and state police are unravelling the case and have made significant progress. More than the CBI, it is in the interest of the local police to ensure that all criminal cases are solved expeditiously,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-lashes-out-at-delhi-cm-kejriwal-over-cbi-probe-demand-121321
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD: Book MLAs aiding mafia||Thief escapes from Covid isolation ward in AboharAbohar: A thief who tested Covid positive and was undergoing treatment at Saraswati Pharmacy College, Kalatibba Road, escaped from an isolation ward. AssistantSub-Inspector Des Raj said, “Rahul Kumar was nabbed with a stolen motorcycle on July 17. His second sample was taken on July 30 and his report came out negative on August 1. OCYouth Congress to protest against Centre’s ordinancesChandigarh: The Youth Congress would hold a statewide protest against anti-farm ordinaces introduced by the Central Government on August 4.Brinder Singh Dhillon, president, Punjab Youth Congress, said their activists would hold dharnas at 10 places in each segment. He said keeping health guidelines in mind, only five activists would be present on a particular spot. TNSSocial Security Department to implement e-office systemChandigarh: District and block-level offices of the Social Security, Women and Child Development would go “paperless” by implementing e-office system, said Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhary. She directed the Additional Director-cum-Nodal Officer for implementing e-offices at the headquarters, district and block level offices to provide necessary details to the National Informatics Center (NIC). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-book-mlas-aiding-mafia-121322
03-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Women’s role in illegal liquor trade rampant||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 2The spurious liquor tragedy that has claimed over 100 lives in the region in the past three days has brought to the fore the fact that the involvement of women in facilitating the trade cannot be ignored.The Punjab Police have arrested four women liquor smugglers from Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran among 25 persons during raids conducted in the state in the past three days.Yesterday, the rural police arrested a man for selling illicit liquor and also booked his wife in the case. On Friday, it booked two women among four members of a family for selling illicit liquor.There is no specific data about how many women were involved in the trade, a senior police official said, adding the number was quite high and had increased considerably in the past two decades.“The police remain gender-neutral on this count. We catch everyone involved in a crime,” said IG, Border Range, SPS Parmar, while talking to The Tribune. He said a crackdown had been launched and whosoever was indulging in the illicit trade would be taken to task.“The involvement of women in the illicit drug or liquor trade is not new. In fact, it is usually a family business. If the men are outside for some work, the women supply the liquor to the customers,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/womens-role-in-illegal-liquor-trade-rampant-121323
03-08-2020||---||Capt should resign: Cong former MLA||Chandigarh, August 2Former Banga MLA Tarlochan Singh Sondh today said taking a principled stand, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should resign.Sondh said Congress leaders were seeking a judicial probe in the spurious liquor tragedy for the welfare of the state and Congress. “Jobs were promised in every household, but now, precious lives have been lost in so many homes,” he said. “If former Chief Minister Darbara Singh can resign in 1983 after the killing of innocent bus passengers by terrorists, the same yardstick applies to the present Chief Minister.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-should-resign-cong-former-mla-121325
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Pak-backed drugs, arms racket busted||The Punjab Police have busted yet another Pakistan-backed drugs and weapons smuggling racket with the arrest of two smugglers and a BSF constable, who was posted in Tarn Taran district.The police are working to get the kingpin, Satnam Singh alias Satta, extradited from Muscat, Oman. Declared a proclaimed offender, Satta used a fake passport to escape to Oman, said DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding that the accused had five cases of smuggling registered against him. Satta’s ill-gotten property, which he purchased in the name of his relative, at Sandhu Colony Amritsar, has been frozen, he said. The Jalandhar (Rural) Police, which busted the racket, recovered a .30-bore pistol, five live rounds and Rs 24.50 lakh from the three accused – Surmail Singh, Gurjant Singh and BSF constable Rajendra Prashad.Gupta said acting on a tip-off, the Jalandhar (Rural) Police, on July 26, apprehended Surmail and Gurjant, who were coming in a car from Delhi, and recovered 25 gm of heroin from them. During the investigation, both revealed that they were working with Satta, a resident of Naarli village, who had close links with Pakistan-based smugglers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-backed-drugs-arms-racket-busted-121326
03-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Post hooch tragedy, political activity heats up in Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 2The political class has started using the liquor tragedy to hog the limelight even as the deceased’s kin are trying hard to figure out how spurious liquor was allowed to flow so blatantly into the town.Leaders accompanied by their supporters are making a beeline to Hathi gate here. By evening, media men are flooded with press notes, pictures and requests.Yesterday, AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Jai Krishan Singh Rouri made an appearance. Minutes later, former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri arrived. He was followed by BJP (Batala) president Rakesh Bhatia.Sekhri claimed that a Cabinet minister hailing from the area was responsible for the tragedy.Former SAD minister Gulzar Singh Ranike and former Gurdaspur MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali turned up today.The streets where two women bootleggers — Triveni Chauhan and Darshana ‘Faujan’ – were active days ago, are now resounding with speeches and condolences.MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira was in neighbouring Taran Tarn today.Inconsolable relatives, however, are not impressed. “Two days after the firecracker blasts last year, which killed 24 persons, a horde of leaders had made their way into the city. The blasts will be remembered for two things — negligence of the authorities and the unwarranted visits of leaders. Politicians only try to take advantage of our plight,” said Sheila, wailing mother of Bhupinder Kumar (24) whose life was consumed by a pint of spurious liquor.“The town should not be converted into a politicians’ playground. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has taken things square on and suspended negligent officials,” said Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa.Khaira seeks probe||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-hooch-tragedy-political-activity-heats-up-in-batala-121327
03-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Rameeza resigns as Additional AG, Capt turns it down||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The Punjab Advocate-General’s office today virtually plunged into crisis of sorts, with Additional Advocate-General Rameeza Hakeem resigning from the post she had held for more than three years. Wife of Advocate-General Atul Nanda, she was defending the state in many sensitive cases before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.However, her resignation failed to find favour with the Chief Minister. His media adviser Raveen Thukral in the evening urged “all to stop speculating” on her resignation. He said Punjab Chief Secretary had received her resignation late last night, but he had been asked by CM Capt Amarinder Singh to “reject the same as government cannot let go of an advocate of such exceptional calibre and competence.”Among the senior-most law officers, Hakeem was said to be actively involved in the functioning of the AG office. Her resignation was second in quick succession. About a fortnight back, former bureaucrat Suresh Kumar had announced his decision to quit the government by resigning from the post of Chief Principal Secretary.Kumar was said to be upset with the government for not strongly defending his appointment, which was challenged before the High Court. As of now, there is nothing to substantiate the speculation about his displeasure and sources close to Kumar have straightway rubbished any speculation in this regard.The State Legal Department, too, clarified that the delay during the hearing of the matter was not deliberate and most of the adjournments were taken by the petitioner and not by the state. Kumar’s resignation, too, was rejected by the Chief Minister. There is, so far, nothing substantial to suggest a link between the two resignations and their non-acceptance.Hakeem’s resignation soon transformed itself into subject of animated conversations at the Bar and among the sitting judges of the High Court. Nanda, when contacted, refused to comment on the issue. A senior functionary in the AG office said it was a contract between the government and the law officer and the Home Secretary should be talked to about this. The government maintained silence over the issue till late in the evening, when Thukral tweeted about the Chief Minister’s decision.Hakeem at one point of time was considered a strong candidate for designation as senior advocate by the High Court. But an agenda before the Full Court for carrying out of amendments to the criterion for designating advocates as senior was withdrawn and not considered. The amendment would have paved the way for advocates from outside the Punjab and Haryana High Court to be designated seniors.As a result, Hakeem, with Delhi advocate tag, has so far not been considered.Among senior-most law officers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rameeza-resigns-as-additional-ag-capt-turns-it-down-121329
03-08-2020||
||With 10K cases, July worst month so far||Chandigarh, August 2 July was the worst month so far for Punjab with regard to fight against Covid as more than 10,000 new cases were reported and the state’s caseload almost doubled in just three weeks, according to the data of Health Department. The Covid count touched 10,000 mark on July 19, four months after the first case was reported in the state. However, it took just two weeks to reach close to 18,000. In month-wise breakup, the state reported 46 cases in March and 434 in April. The number swelled to 1,783 in May, most cases were from among the Nanded Sahib returnees. The caseload doubled in June with 3,305 cases. However, 10,551 fresh cases surfaced in July.  Same is with the deaths. Till July 19, the state had reported 254 casualties in four months. In next two weeks, the number crossed 400. More than half of the cases have been reported from just four districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala. Put together, the four districts have reported 9,484 of the total 17,063 cases in the state, 55 per cent of the total count.  Similarly, the state has reported 405 deaths. The four districts have reported 261 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-10k-cases-july-worst-month-so-far-121330
03-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||J&K’s tardy travel norms hurting traders||Tribune News ServicePathankot, August 2The J&K Government has put in place a set of cumbersome standard operating procedures (SOPs) at the Lakhanpur inter-state barrier causing inconvenience to people travelling to the Union Territory. At the same time, the government is allowing free movement to J&K residents travelling to Punjab or other states.The barrier is barely 500 yards from the statue of BJP founder Syama Prasad Mukherjee, who had coined the slogan: “There cannot be two constitutions for one nation”. The J&K Government, however, is clearly following two sets of rules.Businessmen say the Ministry of Home Affairs’ guidelines to allow free movement of goods and individuals are being violated with impunity.This has prompted Member of Parliament Sunny Deol to write to Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu seeking his personal intervention.Livelihoods of thousands of Punjab businessmen, lawyers, chartered accountants, doctors, hawkers, auto-rickshaw drivers, employees of private companies and taxi drivers who have business interests in J&K hang in the balance.Pathankot-based IT advocate Sanjay Aggarwal, who used to travel everyday to Kathua before the lockdown, says: “Travel passes are issued by the J&K Industries Department and have to be countersigned by another set of officials, making the process tedious.“To complicate matters, we are allowed entry only twice a week, translating to eight days a month. This leaves us with just six working days as two days are taken up in testing at the Kathua Civil Hospital. Getting tested twice is mandatory. One test costs Rs 2,700, which means we have to pay Rs 5,400,” he adds.He has lost a majority of his 700-strong clients due to his absence, claims Aggarwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jks-tardy-travel-norms-hurting-traders-121331
03-08-2020||Manav Mander||Covid: Ludhiana worst-hit, faces shortage of beds||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 2Ludhiana has the highest Covid case load in Punjab, but there are only 76 beds in the district for level 3 patients who are in need of critical care. On Saturday, 75 beds were occupied in level 3 centres while only one was vacant. In all, 193 new cases and 9 deaths were reported on the same day and 11 patients were put on ventilator support.According to the figures shared by the Health Department, in Punjab, for level 3 patients, there are 122 beds in Amritsar (30 occupied), 103 in Patiala (21 occupied), 96 in SAS Nagar (16 occupied), 95 in Jalandhar (38 occupied) but only 76 (75 occupied) in Ludhiana.Hospitals have been divided into three categories: Covid care centres (level 1) for very mild, mild and suspected cases, Covid health centres (level 2) for clinically moderate-level patients and Covid hospitals (level 3) for severe and critically ill patients.On Saturday, a total of 574 patients were admitted of which 113 were at level 1 centres, 386 at level 2 centres and 75 at level 3 hospitals. In all, 772 beds are earmarked for level 2 and 1,200 at level 1 centres.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Anurag Aggarwal had directed private hospitals to reserve at least 50 per cent of their ICU beds for Covid-positive patients. He also warned the representatives of private hospitals that no lapse on their part would be tolerated.Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said they had enough beds at level 1 and 2 centres and they were planning to increase level 3 facilities.The casualities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-ludhiana-worst-hit-faces-shortage-of-beds-121332
03-08-2020||Moga||TikTok fame Noor tests +ve||The 5-year-old TikTok sensation, Noorpreet Kaur, alias Noor, who became a star during the lockdown period with over 1.5 million followers, tested positive for Covid-19 here today. Noor wanted to tie ‘rakhi’ to CM Capt Amarinder Singh tomorrow on Raksha Bandhan.However, the state government has made testing mandatory for those who seek an appointment with the CM as a precautionary measure. When she got herself tested, she was found positive.It is learnt that Satnam Singh, Noor’s father, who works as a labourer at a brick-kiln, has also been infected with the virus along with one more person, who was a member of Noor’s TikTok team. Officials of the Health Department said a total of 91 persons tested positive in the district in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tiktok-fame-noor-tests-ve-121333
03-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD ex-MLA all set to join Dhindsa camp||Former SAD MLA from Bassi Pathana Justice Nirmal Singh (retd) and his supporters are all set to join the party’s rebel faction led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on August 6. With the inclusion of Nirmal Singh, the splinter SAD group led by Dhindsa will get a major boost to spread its base in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Former Sirhind MLA Bir Devinder Singh has already joined the Dhindsa group. Nirmal Singh was MLA from Bassi Pathana. He had undertaken various development projects in the constituency and was widely respected. When he was denied ticket by the SAD, he shifted to Chamkaur Sahib. His wife and former MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan is also in the Dhindsa group. Sources said Dhindsa group was in touch with the family of late Capt Kanwaljit Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-ex-mla-all-set-to-join-dhindsa-camp-121334
03-08-2020||---||Covid claims 18 more lives in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 2The state reported 18 deaths due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 423. Besides, 792 fresh cases came to the fore, which took the state count of Covid cases to 17,853.Once again, Ludhiana tops the districts in terms of casualties with eight deaths. Four deaths were reported from Patiala, three from Amritsar, and one each from SAS Nagar, Pathankot and Tarn Taran.Apart from that, 146 patients are on oxygen support and 11 are on ventilator support. All deceased in Ludhiana had co-morbidities. They included a 59-year-old from New Sundar Nagar, a 69-year-old from Raikot, who was admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, a 70-year-old from Salem Tabri and a 60-year-old from Azad Nagar.In Amritsar, with three more deaths reported on Sunday, the toll in the district has increased to 83. In terms of cases too Ludhiana continues to be the worst affected district as it reported 147 cases, followed by Patiala (100), Jalandhar (98), Moga (84), SAS Nagar (52), Amritsar (44), Barnala (35), Kapurthala (31).In Jalandhar, with a spike of over 103 cases, the tally has risen to 2,505. An 87-year-old man admitted to the IMA facility and another woman died of Covid-19.The fresh cases were reported from Gulab Devi Road, Guru Nanak Nagar, Raja Garden, Ghai Nagar, Abadpura, Master Tara Singh Nagar, Abadpura, Gazigulla, Adampur, Kartarpur, Chakk Kalan, Shastri Nagar, Rainak bazar, Azad Nagar, Basti Sheikh, Sangat Singh Nagar, Phillaur, Bilga, Rupewal, Madhopur, Nawapind, Gopal Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Rainak Bazaar, Urban Estate, and Police Academy, Phillaur.In Kapurthala, nine people, including three CRPF personnel, tested positive today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-claims-18-more-lives-in-punjab-121336
03-08-2020||Our Correspondent||65 AAP workers booked for violating health norms||Fazilka, August 2The police have booked around 65 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) activists today for violating health guidelines while protesting against high power tariff in Arniwala.On Saturday, AAP halqa incharge Mohinder Singh Kachura along with his supporters protested against snapping of power connections of labourers who were unable to pay inflated power bills.The AAP’ workers had blocked Fazilka-Malout road and sat on a dharna at the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office for five hours.Besides Kachura, Kewal Krishan and Sukhwinder Arora, along with 60 unidentified persons have been booked under Section 283, 341, 188, 147 and 149 of the IPC and 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act.Kachura said the state government cannot gag voice of people by registering cases. He alleged that hundreds of power connections were disconnected by the PSPCL as the needy were not able to pay their bills. He said power tariff in Punjab was four times higher as compared to Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/65-aap-workers-booked-for-violating-health-norms-121341
03-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Uncertainty over exams has final-year students in a fix||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2The final-year students of all state-run universities and affiliated colleges are in a dilemma for over three weeks now regarding their examinations.While the state universities have not promoted the final-year batches, students of most Centre-run institutes and private universities have an edge as their results have been declared and a majority of them have got jobs too.When Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on July 4 announced that no examination would be held and the result of the students should be declared on the basis of previous assessments, there was a sense of relief among the students and parents.However, days later, the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development said the examination would have to be held. On July 11, the CM wrote to the Prime Minister, asking him to get the UGC guidelines on conducting examination reviewed. Since then, there has been no clarity and the state government is yet to take a final call.Anurag Duggal, a final-year student of BSc (Non-medical) at Doaba College, said: “The delay is affecting me badly. My family is facing a financial crisis due to the Covid-19 outbreak. I am not able to get a good job as employers insist on seeing the final-year certificate first.”Abhishek Jamwal, an MA final-year student, said: “I wanted to apply for BEd, but I am stuck as my final exams have not been held yet.”Dr Sucharity, principal, Apeejay College of Fine Arts, said: “We keep flagging their concern in our online meetings with officials of Guru Nanak Dev University, but they say the government will take the final call.”Dean (Academics), GNDU, Manoj Kumar, said: “The decision is to be taken by the state government and university is bound by its order”. Same was the reply of Dr Ajay Sharma, Vice-Chancellor of IKG Punjab Technical University.As confusion prevails in the state-run universities, Centre-owned institutes like Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology and private universities have held assessments and issued detailed marks certificate to the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uncertainty-over-exams-has-final-year-students-in-a-fix-121347
03-08-2020||Fazilka||On green drive: BSF and an NGO plant 600 saplings||Order of the dayMuktsar: Even as the Centre had banned CamScanner app along with 59 other Chinese apps on June 29, various government departments are still using this app for day-to-day work. Hardly a day passes when an official order is not released scanned using this app. Recently, the Information and Public Relations Department released an order scanned via CamScanner. Earlier, the police too had released some documents using this app. Locals say nobody is above law and action should be initiated against those flouting the ban.Legal cells on cardsSangrur: Seven-time president of the local District Bar Association Gurtej Singh Grewal has been appointed as chairman of the legal, human rights and RTI wing of the Punjab Congress. Grewal had started his practice at the local courts in 1989. “We will form legal cells at district and subdivision level across the state with an aim at strengthening the party,” said Grewal.Doing their bitAbohar: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, critical patients in the town are being referred to Faridkot or Bathinda due to the non-availability of a ventilator at the local Civil Hospital. Keeping this in view, Rotary Club, Midtown, donated a portable ventilator to the hospital. While presenting the equipment to the hospital authorities, project chairman OP Trikha assured Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh that PPE kits and masks would also be provided to the staff soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-green-drive-bsf-and-an-ngo-plant-600-saplings-121348
03-08-2020||Amritsar/Bathinda||Bhagwant Mann seeks inquiry by HC judge||Demanding a probe by a sitting High Court judge or the CBI, AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann today said the police-politician nexus was responsible for deaths due to spurious liquor trade in the state.Mann, who visited the victims’ kin at Pandori Gola, Bhullar, Kaka Kandiala and Mucchal villages, alleged that the government functionaries had been hiding the illicit liquor death toll in the garb of Covid.Meanwhile, AAP members staged a protest and raised slogans against the government in Bathinda. The protesters gathered near Fire Brigade Chowk in the afternoon and sought justice for the aggrieved families. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-seeks-inquiry-by-hc-judge-121350
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Opposition blames Cong  leaders for patronising spurious liquor trade||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded action against Congress legislators responsible for “patronising spurious liquor trade” and demanded registration of a murder case against former Tarn Taran SSP Dhruv Dahiya and cases against distillery owners supplying unaccounted extra neutral alcohol (ENA) to bootleggers.The party also asked the Chief Minister to own the responsibility for the tragedy and step down from his chair.Addressing a press conference here, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said Congress legislators, police officials and liquor mafia were responsible for the liquor tragedy and action should be taken against all three instead of targeting low-level officials only.He also demanded that SSP Dahiya, who has been shifted to Amritsar after the tragedy, should be booked for murder. He said many people of the area had approached the SSP and complained about the bootleggers and leaders backing them. “Even the registration numbers of cars and scooters used to ferry illicit liquor were provided, besides the telephone numbers of the couriers and smugglers. Despite this, the SSP turned a blind eye to the entire racket. He should therefore be booked under Section 302 IPC,” he demanded. — TNS‘Why target only junior officials?’Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said Congress legislators, police officials and liquor mafia were responsible for the liquor tragedy and action should be taken against all three instead of targeting lower-rung officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-blames-cong-leaders-for-patronising-spurious-liquor-trade-121351
03-08-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana saw suicide a day during lockdown||Tejas Taneja, 27, of Haibowal had a promising future ahead of him with a decent private job and a mushrooming marble stone business of his father.The Covid-induced lockdown, however, rocked his boat hard. The business was affected, so was his job. Unable to put up with money lenders who kept knocking at their door at odd hours, he committed suicide early July .Tejas’ case is not an aberration. As many as 120 persons have ended their lives from April 1 to July 31, an average of one suicide per day, in the city due to the lockdown impact. In contrast, during the pre-lockdown period, 61 suicides were reported between January 1 and March 31, i.e. one suicide every alternate day.Seek help: PoliceOur helpline numbers ‘1091’ and 78370-18555 can be reached by anyone experiencing signs of depression. We will arrange a counselling session for them. Rakesh Agrawal, Police commissioner, LudhianaA majority of these was triggered by financial crunch as a result of job/business loss or marital/property dispute, and depression, say senior police officials. Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal says there has been a rise in the cases of depression during the lockdown. “But post-lockdown, the suicide rate has fallen. It was less than 20 cases in July,” he says. “Financial trouble remains an underlying factor in a majority of cases where marital or property dispute seems to be the initial cause,” says an official. Police records suggest the next of kin in their statement to the police have cited financial loss as the main reason for suicide.Depressing trend||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-saw-suicide-a-day-during-lockdown-121400
03-08-2020||New Delhi||India to bring 700 more Afghan Sikhs||India is preparing to bring back around 700 more Sikhs who have been ‘tortured’ in Afghanistan. After the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was passed, the first batch of 11 Sikhs reached India on July 26.The first batch of the Sikh families are living in a gurdwara in Delhi. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee is looking after the living arrangements for them.BJP national secretary RP Singh said, “After the first batch, around 700 more Sikhs are willing to come from Afghanistan. The Indian embassy in Afghanistan is in touch with them. We are working to bring them back to India. Relatives of most of them live in Tilak Nagar, so there will be no problem in making living arrangements for them.”RP Singh said it was only due to the bold decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Sikhs suffering from torture in Afghanistan were being brought back. “Had the CAA not been enacted, the victims of religious persecution in the neighbouring countries would have not got Indian citizenship,” he said. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-to-bring-700-more-afghan-sikhs-121392
03-08-2020||Amritsar/Tarn Taran||Punjab liquor toll 112, autopsy delay angers families||With 25 more deaths in Tarn Taran and one in Amritsar, the toll in the spurious liquor tragedy climbed to 112 today.On the fourth day since the Thursday tragedy, the number of dead rose to 88 in the border district of Tarn Taran, while six persons were undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital. Two others had been referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), Amritsar.Read also: Similarly, one person from Madepur colony in Amritsar’s Muchhal village, undergoing treatment at the GNDH, lost his life. His brother, having already lost eyesight, was battling for life at the hospital. One person was referred from Batala and his condition was also stated to be critical. The unprecedented number of deaths has not only left families shattered but also prolonged their wait for bodies due to a delay in post-mortem. Doctors are working overtime to complete the autopsies.Balkar Singh of Muchhal village said Joga Singh, who died on Friday, was cremated today as the family had to wait for two days to get the autopsy done. “Due to non-availability of doctors at Baba Bakala Civil Hospital, the post-mortem could be conducted today only,” he said.Similarly, Sajan Singh of Kadgill village, who had been doing rounds of the Tarn Taran Civil Hospital for the past three days, finally received his father Harjinder Singh’s body after the post-mortem was conducted today.Lakhwinder Singh, a relative of Kaka Kandiala’s Satnam Singh (35) who died yesterday, said they were still awaiting the post-mortem.Dr Rohit Mehta, Senior Medical Officer, Tarn Taran Civil Hospital, said they could currently conduct simultaneous autopsies on two bodies. “Our teams are working overtime to complete the autopsies. The sheer number of deaths has overwhelmed the facility,” he said. “Yesterday, our teams worked till 8 pm and conducted post-mortem on 13 bodies. We have already conducted 10 autopsies today,” said Dr Mehta, adding the doctors were still at work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-liquor-toll-112-autopsy-delay-angers-families-121352
