04-07-2020||Karam Prakash||COVID-19 patients play hide-and-seek; health officials play cops to hunt down them||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 4Besides the treatment, health officials are now playing cops as COVID-19 patients continue to play hide-and-seek with them.The officials in the health department were left high-and-dry when they found out that a COVID-19 positive patient had already left his home to avoid isolation facility.Health officials had reached the patient’s home in Bishan Nagar area of the city to shift him to the COVID-19 isolation facility.The patient had already escaped to his relative’s house before the officials reached his residence. Consequently, the Senior Medical Officer (SMO) alerted all authorities to search for the patient.After six hours of the search operation, the patient was caught from the house of his sister-in-law.It was learnt that three members of the said family had come from Uttar Pradesh last week and all were positive for the COVID-19. However, one of the patients ran away from his house as soon as he came to know that he had tested positive.As per the protocol, the Health Department officials have to convey the patient the test results telephonically immediately after the test reports from the lab reaches to them.“Ironically, as soon as the health officials reach the concerned patients’ residences, they go into hiding,” says the Health Department.A health official, on anonymity, said: “Our six hours were wasted to find the said patient. Is this the way to win the war against COVID-19? Community participation is must if we want to stave off the spread.”Dr Anjana Gupta, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Tripuri, said her team had to counsel the patient before shifting him to the COVID Care Centre.“There is still fear of the virus in the society. We are counselling other people as well besides the patients,” the SMO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-patients-play-hide-and-seek-health-officials-play-cops-to-hunt-down-them-108554
04-07-2020||---||Punjab CM announces cancellation of university, college exams||Chandigarh, July 4Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced the cancellation of university and college examinations in the state in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, though the exams that are currently being conducted online by some universities will continue uninterrupted, a press release by the state government read.In his weekly #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, Captain Amarinder Singh said the university and college students will be promoted on the basis of their previous year’s results. However, students who want to improve their performance will have the option of taking a fresh examination later, once the COVID-19 crisis is over.Universities and colleges were in the process of working out the modalities for implementing the decision, he said, adding that the decision would be announced in the next few days.On the school board examinations, the Chief Minister said the state was following the CBSE decision announced in the Supreme Court a few days ago.Captain Amarinder, however, urged all students to continue with their studies in right earnest despite the cancellation of their examinations. “You have to continue to work for your future,” he told the students.Meanwhile, in a major initiative for ex-servicemen, Captain Amarinder announced an increase in the number of attempts for taking the PCS examination, the press release further read.While the SC candidates among the general category will continue to get unlimited chances, as per the existing system, the general category ex-servicemen will now get six attempts, in line with the overall general category, instead of the earlier four chances.For the BC category of ex-servicemen, the number of attempts had been increased to nine, Captain Amarinder Singh said, adding that he had received several petitions from ex-servicemen to be put at par with the overall general category of aspirants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-announces-cancellation-of-university-college-exams-108541
04-07-2020||---||Passengers travelling to Punjab to compulsorily register on COVA app||Chandigarh, July 4In view of the rising COVID-19 cases, the Punjab government has issued an advisory for all inbound persons travelling to Punjab. This advisory will be applicable from July 7, a press release by the state government read.In accordance with the advisory, any person, whether major or minor, coming to Punjab via any mode — road, rail or air — shall henceforth and till further orders, would be medically screened when he/she enters the state and will be required to e-register himself/herself through any of the following means before starting his/her journey to Punjab.The traveller has to download the COVA app on his/her mobile phone and then register himself/herself and every member travelling with them.Also read: Only two int’l flights a day to be permitted at Chandigarh International AirportAfter that would follow the process of downloading an e-registration slip and pasting it on the windscreen of his/her vehicle if travelling via a personal vehicle through road or carry it with on the phone if travelling via public transport.If the traveller does not have the COVA app, he/she can also log on to the government portal — portalhttps://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration — and then e-register all members of his/her family travelling with them to Punjab. The process of downloading the e-registration slip will follow.In case any inbound traveller does not follow the advisory, he/she will be asked at the border, railway station, airport check post while entering the state to cooperate with the team of the Punjab government, who would then undertake the data-capturing process at the spot itself.Since the process may take a lot of time at the border, the passengers have been requested to comply by the advisory to avoid any hassle.Except for frequent travellers, all inbound persons after reaching Punjab will have to undertake a self-quarantine of 14 days and during this period, they will have to update their health status daily on the COVA app or would have to call the number 112 daily.In case they feel they are developing any symptoms of COVID-19, they will have to immediately call 104. For international travellers, they will be institutionally quarantined for the first seven days and then under home quarantine for the next seven days.Any violation of these instructions will make violators liable for penal action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/passengers-travelling-to-punjab-to-compulsorily-register-on-cova-app-108527
04-07-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab reports 172 new coronavirus cases, five deaths||Punjab reported 172 new cases and five deaths in the past 24 hours, the state’s COVID-19 bulletin showed. Two deaths were reported from Moga, one each from SAS Nagar, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.A 25-year-old man died in Amritsar’s Government Medical College, taking the district’s fatality count to 48.The district has reported 9 new cases, taking this district tally just short of 1,000.Seven persons are on oxygen support and one is on ventilator in Punjab.Of the other districts, Jalandhar reported the highest number of coronavirus cases at 61.Ludhiana (46), Sangrur (16 ), Bathinda (6), SAS Nagar (5), Ferozepur (5), Patiala (3), Kapurthala (3), Gurdaspur (2), Pathankot (2), Moga (2), Tarn Taran (1), Hoshiarpur (1), SBS Nagar (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (1), Ropar (1), Fazilka (1), and Mansa (1) all reported new cases. A 62-year-old woman from Hoshiarpur’s Chakkowal died at Jalandhar’s Military Hospital, Jalandhar. Officials said she had diarrhoea---a less common symptom of coronavirus.The state bulletin says 1,641 people are under institutional quarantine. Some 28 people are on exygen support and three people are critical and on life support. The bulletin also shows 4.306 patients have recovered and been released from hospitals across the state.   District-wise cases        Cases                           Confirmed                            Deaths       Ludhiana                       1017                                        24Amritsar                        947                                          48 Jalandhar                     834                                          21Sangrur                        527                                          14Patiala                           354                                          9SAS Nagar                   286                                           5Gurdaspur                    242                                           5     Pathankot                     224                                          6Tarn Taran                    206                                          4Hoshiarpur                   186                                          7SBS Nagar                  148                                           1Muktsar                       133Fatehgarh Sahib          122Moga                            116                                          4Ropar                           114                                          1Faridkot                        111                                           2Kapurthala                   109                                           5Ferozepur                    107                                           3      Bathinda                      106                                            3Fazilka                         102 Barnala                         69                                             2      Mansa                           49 Total                             6109                                        162||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-172-new-coronavirus-cases-five-deaths-108507
04-07-2020||---||Bhakra Beas Management Board exceeds power generation target by 131 per cent for 1st quarter||Chandigarh, July 4The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has surpassed the energy generation target set by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) for the first quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal by 131 per cent.The BBMB power houses generated 3,326 million units of energy against the target of 2,543 million units for the April 1- June 30 quarter, according to a statement issued here on Saturday.Plant availability of the BBMB power houses has been registered at 99.15 per cent, which is far above the operating availability of 91.28 per cent at the national level.The transmission availability has been registered at 99.84 per cent as compared to the normative availability of 98.5 per cent for hydro-generating stations.The scheduling of the BBMB generating stations has come under the ambit of Availability Based Tariff (ABT) from June 2016 onwards. Under this regime, the BBMB earned Rs 92.47 crore till June, 2020 through Deviation Settlement Mechanism (DSM). This was achieved by optimum utilisation of the available resources and close monitoring of the real time generation schedule and actual energy generated from the BBMB generating stations round the clock and operation of machines, read the statement.  BBMB Chairman DK Sharma applauded the employees for their untiring efforts to maintain excellence in irrigation and power sectors and for their efforts to surpass targets even during the COVID-19 lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhakra-beas-management-board-exceeds-power-generation-target-by-131-per-cent-for-1st-quarter-108496
04-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur couple found dead under mysterious circumstances||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 4An elderly couple was found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Mubarak Mehal Colony here on Saturday.According to information, when Pritam Singh (78) and wife Surjit Kaur (77) did not answer the door after the milkman came, he sounded the neighbours, who found the two lying unconscious in their room. They called the police.“The bodies did not have external injuries. To ascertain the cause of death, we will get the post-mortem done from a board of doctors,” said Rural Sangrur DSP Satpal Sharma.The couple did not have children.It’s shocking as they did not have enmity with anyone, said a neighbourhood shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-couple-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-108470
04-07-2020||Balwant Garg||7 Dera Sacha Sauda followers arrested from Faridkot in 'bir' theft case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 4In a major development, a special investigation team led by Jalandhar range Deputy Inspector General Ranbir Singh Khatra arrested seven Dera Sacha Sauda followers from Faridkot district in the wee hours on Saturday in the Guru Granth Sahib theft case. Among the accused are Sukhjinder Singh alias Sunny, Neela, Ranjit Bhola, Nishan, Baljit and Narinder Sharma, all residents of Faridkot district.Khatra confirmed the development saying the accused had been arrested in the case in which a bir of the Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala. The Punjab Government has withdrawn the sacrilege cases from the Central Bureau of Investigation.On June 1, 2015, a "bir" of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of this 'bir' was found scattered in front of a gurdwara in adjoining village, Bargari, which led to massive protests all over the state, killing of two Sikh protestors at Behbal Kalan, followed by killing of a Dera follower at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 16, 2016.Another SIT, led by Kunwar Vijay Pratap, Inspector General of Police, is probing the police firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-dera-sacha-sauda-followers-arrested-from-faridkot-in-bir-theft-case-108449
04-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||This septuagenarian pedals 100 km everyday to stay healthy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 3Aged 74, Adarsh Nagar resident and businessman Baljit Mahajan pedals around 100 km daily to stay fit. He has traversed 1.29 lakh km in the past four and a half years.According to data on Strava app, Mahajan rode his bicycle for 2,463.7 km in June alone, pedalling for 137 hours and 27 minutes (this was much less than his routine average). As per the data, he completed 151.5 km ride in eight hours and 15 minutes on June 29 and 145.1 km ride in seven hours and 48 minutes on June 28.Owning a sports goods manufacturing business, he says, “It all started when I went to Holland in 1998 as an invitee for a project on manufacturing cricket bats by hand. Landing at airport there, I saw that every car which was in the parking area and also on road carried a cycle. About 3 km away from my hotel, my driver told me that now I would have to walk or take a rental cycle from there to go ahead as the cars were not allowed ahead. Staying there for 32 days, I realised that the air was pollution-free. I came much inspired but my cycle was 24 kg and I did not enjoy it much till I bought a new cycle meant for professionals 12 years later in 2010.”He recalls, “At that time, Firefox company offered us to start their showroom in the city. That's how I got a new cycle. I began promoting cycle by forming a club, encouraging youngsters and children to become members and involving all communities by holding cycle rallies and the numbers began to swell. The trek cycle that I now ride weighs just 6 kg.”Mahajan says his aim is to make the city residents fit through his campaigns. “I get all my tests done every six months and till date, I have had no complication. Being vegetarian, I consume 2 kg of milk everyday in the form of milk, milk shakes, curd, lassi and paneer. I am totally against junk food. I have never tasted tea. My diet also includes nuts and murabbas. My wife Kamlesh Mahajan takes care of it all,” he shares.He added, “While earlier, I used to calculate the length of my ride on speedometer, I got Strava app in 2016. I have mostly remained among the top five, making it to the first in the country several times. But I am not in a competition with anyone at the moment. I ride with my own consistency and my own speed and would like to continue like this.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-septuagenarian-pedals-100-km-everyday-to-stay-healthy-108224
04-07-2020||---||SGPC seeks probe into Pak mishap||Amritsar, July 3Negligence to blameThe cause of the accident will be revealed after the investigations, yet the preliminary reports suggested negligence on the part of van driver, who tried to hurriedly cross the railway crossing by taking a short-cutAt least 21 Sikhs were killed on the spot when their van collided with the Karachi-Lahore Shah Hussain Express, reportedly at an unmanned crossing, near Gurdwara Sacha Sauda at Farooqabad, Sheikhupura, in Pakistan Punjab this afternoon.The cause of the accident will be revealed after the investigations, yet the preliminary reports suggested negligence on part of the van driver, who tried to hurriedly cross the railway crossing by taking a short-cut.Paying homage to the departed souls, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta demanded a thorough inquiry into the incident. The accident had occurred at an unmanned crossing. The Pakistan authorities should probe it and take stern action against those found guilty, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-seeks-probe-into-pak-mishap-108275
04-07-2020||---||Union Minister to visit Punjab to discuss power Bill||Chandigarh, July 3Minister of State for Power RK Singh will be visiting Punjab soon to discuss the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. He said he would consider the suggestions put forth by the state. The assurance follows the state government’s opposition to the proposed Bill, which the Centre is pushing for.A virtual meeting of representatives of all state government representatives was held with the Minister of State for Power today, where Punjab opposed the amended Bill, saying the amendments suggested were a violation of the federal structure of the country. The Punjab Government said it was also against the proposal of doing away with free power to farmers, and replacing it with the direct benefit transfer scheme.Punjab was not the only state to oppose the Bill. Eight other states are learnt to have opposed it, which the Centre wants to bring in for discussion in the next session of Parliament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/union-minister-to-visit-punjab-to-discuss-power-bill-108271
04-07-2020||Fazilka||Power station ransacked in Fazilka, 13 booked||Thirteen residents of Karnikhera village in Fazilka district have been booked for allegedly ransacking the power sub-station at the village.The Assistant Engineer, PSPCL, Fazilka, lodged a complaint with the Sadar Police Station, alleging that some villagers entered the 66-kv power sub-station at Karnikhera around 10 pm on Wednesday.They allegedly broke the gate of the control room and ransacked the furniture there. They tore up government records and assaulted an employee.The villagers said they had been continuously facing long power cuts, which had made their lives miserable during the peak summer season and their repeated complaints fell on deaf ears. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-station-ransacked-in-fazilka-13-booked-108272
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL creates record in power generation||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) generated 3,018 lakh units of electricity yesterday, the highest ever in its history.The corporation’s chairman and managing director, A Venu Prasad, said earlier, the highest-ever generation was achieved on July 3 last year at 2,999 lakh units.He said the PSPCL was providing eight-hour power supply daily to agricultural consumers in Punjab from June 10 onwards besides providing 24-hour power supply to all other categories of consumers in the state. He said all thermal units of the PSPCL and independent power producers within the state had been pressed into service and were running to their full capacity to meet the daily demand of 13,144 MW in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-creates-record-in-power-generation-108278
04-07-2020||Tarn Taran||5-kg heroin recovered in Tarn Taran||The police seized 5.66 kg of heroin near the Zero Line in Khemkaran today.Kamaljit Singh Aulakh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Investigations), said the police personnel acted on a tip-off and confiscated three plastic bottles buried under the soil near the BSF pillar no. 160-161.He said the contraband was hidden by Pakistan-based smugglers and their Indian associates would be identified soon. A case has been registered against unknown persons under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.Aulakh said the police had seized more than 57-kg heroin since January 1. He said the police had attached properties worth Rs 1.06 crore of two smugglers, identified as Kuldeep Singh of Thathi Jaimal Singh village and Amanbir Singh of Singhpura. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-kg-heroin-recovered-in-tarn-taran-108281
04-07-2020||Amritsar||Hike stipend of resident doctors in Punjab: SAD||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to increase the stipend of resident doctors besides waiving their course fee keeping in view their selfless service during the Covid pandemic.Majithia said resident doctors working in state medical colleges were being charged a high fee and given a nominal stipend as compared to their counterparts in Delhi and Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hike-stipend-of-resident-doctors-in-punjab-sad-108282
04-07-2020||---||Rs 5K for changing exam centre leaves BDS students in Punjab fuming||Faridkot, July 3Charging of Rs 5,000 from BDS students who want to change their exam centre has stirred a controversy. The annual exams of over 3,200 BDS students of 12 dental colleges in the state will start on July 7.If charged, fee will be refunded: VCNo fee has been charged from any student for the change of exam centre. This option of exam centre changing was offered for the safety of students in view of the pandemic. If any dental college has collected this fee from students, the university will refund it. — Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, BFUHSDespite many students opposing the examinations and demanding postponement due to the Covid outbreak, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is going ahead with the exams. However, the university has offered students to opt for any of the designated exam centre near their hometown so that they need not go to their colleges for the exams.However, the Dental Students Association in the state on Friday accused the BFUHS of charging Rs 5,000 as fee for “change of exam” centre after many students opted for centres near their hometowns.On June 25, the medical university had issued a notification asking students to opt for any centre they wanted and there was no mention about any kind of fee for this. Now, the students were being charged Rs 5,000 each, alleged the association.However, Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor, BFUHS, said no fee was charged from any student for the “change of exam centre”. This option was offered for the safety of students in view of the ongoing pandemic.If any dental college had collected this fee from students, the university would refund it, the V-C said.Sources in the BFUHS revealed that it was due to some confusion that some dental colleges charged the exam centre fee from students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-5k-for-changing-exam-centre-leaves-bds-students-in-punjab-fuming-108284
04-07-2020||Balwant Garg||Panel declares 76 MD/MS seats vacant in 3 colleges of Punjab||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 3The medical counselling committee on Friday declared 76 of the total 188 All-India Quota postgraduate (MD/MS) medical seats in three government medical colleges of Punjab as vacant.After two rounds of counselling for admission for the 188 seats, the committee has reverted 76 seats back to the state. After merging the vacant seats in the state quota, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has now started the second round of counselling.While 25 of these vacant seats are at Government Medical College, Patiala, 28 and 23 seats have been declared vacant at the Amritsar and Faridkot government colleges, respectively. The seats have fallen vacant due to non-joining and resignation by allotted candidates after the conclusion of second round in the all-India counselling.Besides the 76 seats, the second round of counselling will also be conducted for 313 MD/MS and diploma seats lying vacant in seven medical colleges of the state.The total number of vacant seats for the second round of counselling at government medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar, Faridkot is 189. At four private medical colleges, the vacant seats for the second round of counselling are 197.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-declares-76-md-ms-seats-vacant-in-3-colleges-of-punjab-108285
04-07-2020||---||Urban Local Bodies in Punjab assigned task to collect, recycle construction waste||Chandigarh, July 3The Local Government Department has made the urban local bodies (ULBs) responsible for putting in place a mechanism to collect, recycle and dispose of construction and demolition waste generated in the urban areas of the state.The civic bodies have been made responsible for laying down a system to process the collection, transportation and processing of the waste and track the waste generation. Also, the responsibilities and requirements of property owners, contractors, transporters and the ULBs under the standard operation procedure (SOP) were notified by the department on Thursday.Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra said the SOP would enable the department to standardise the management of construction and demolition waste. “Impetus has been given on incentivising the stakeholders to streamline the entire process. Management of waste, like paints and aerosol, has also been taken into account. Instead of throwing the waste material here and there, the ULB would be responsible for providing space for collection of waste material,” he said.Not only the ULBs, the property owners undertaking construction activity or the contractors engaged would also be responsible for collection and segregation of concrete, soil and other waste material. It would responsible of those undertaking construction to store the construction material within their premises and not cause traffic obstruction on roads. Also, it would be the responsibility of the contractor to deposit the waste at a designated collection centre of the respective ULB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/urban-local-bodies-in-punjab-assigned-task-to-collect-recycle-construction-waste-108286
04-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sans power for 5 days, villagers block Sirhind-Chandigarh road||Residents of around 12 villages near Bassi Pathana today blocked the Sirhind-Chandigarh road over no power supply from the past five days. Villagers raised slogans against the government and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).DSP Sukhminder Singh Chauhan and PSPCL officials rushed to the spot and assured the protesters of restoring electricity supply by evening.Tarlochan Singh, former sarpanch, said due to the dust storm on June 28, power supply in rural areas got disrupted. The villagers had approached the PSPCL officials to restore electricity supply, but to no avail. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sans-power-for-5-days-villagers-block-sirhind-chandigarh-road-108287
04-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||A first, child-friendly police station in Punjab||The state’s first child friendly police station was launched today by ADGP Gurpreet Deo, who has  additional charge of Women and Child Affairs. She said it would help provide an environment to the children where they would be able to express themselves without any hesitation.  The objective behind setting up such a police station was to ensure that every child, hether involved in a crime or a witness to it, has proper and timely access to justice.  Deo said the police station had been set up in coordination with the Bachpan Bachao Andolan. All type of sports activities, toys, books, wall paintings and other material had been made available to build a home-like atmosphere in the police station. SSP Amneet Kondal said the juveniles would be dealt here with the cooperation of the Juvenile Justice Committee and the Child Welfare Committee.  SP (Investigation) Harpal Singh, SP(H) Navreet Singh Virk, SP Amarjit Singh Matwani were present and addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-first-child-friendly-police-station-in-punjab-108288
04-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD leader gets anticipatory bail in Cong worker’s murder case||SAD district chief Swarn Singh Chanarthal, who was booked in the murder case of a Congress worker, got anticipatory bail today.Superintendent of Police (Investigations) Harpal Singh said Chanarthal has joined the probe. Seven out of the eight accused in the case, including two sons of Chanarthal, have been arrested.Meanwhile, sons of the SAD district chief, who had surrendered before the CJM and were remanded to police custody till July 3, have been sent to judicial custody till July 14. The incident had left five persons injured, including sarpanch Gurbaj Singh alias Raju. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leader-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-cong-workers-murder-case-108289
04-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||120 Punjab cops to tighten noose on liquor smuggling from Haryana||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 3Cases on the riseCases of inter-state liquor peddling are on the rise in the region, as 593 cases were registered under the Excise Act and 499 people were arrested in Bathinda and Mansa in the last two monthsThe spike in liquor smuggling cases from Haryana could also be attributed to cheap liquor prices in the stateA special police team has been constituted to keep a check on inter-state liquor smuggling from Haryana in the bordering areas of Bathinda and Mansa in Bathinda Range.Bathinda Range IGP Jaskaran Singh said: “There is zero tolerance policy against inter-state liquor smuggling from Haryana. A team of 120 police personnel has been deputed in the district to plug smuggling routes from Haryana.”The IGP said: “The team has been told to conduct surprise raids instead of holding static nakas on the link roads with Haryana.”Cases of inter-state liquor peddling are on the rise in the region, as 593 cases were registered under the Excise Act and 499 people were arrested in Bathinda and Mansa in the last two months.The spike in liquor smuggling cases from Haryana could also be attributed to cheap liquor prices in the state. Despite continuous patrolling, bootleggers are able to smuggle liquor into the state primarily from Sirsa and Dabwali in Haryana.A police official said: “Nobody will dare to smuggle liquor through routes where check posts have been set up. Those involved in the trade are well aware of the internal link roads that lead to Bathinda.”Another cop said with a number of link roads connecting Haryana with Punjab, it had become tough for them to check every vehicle. However, they were still at it. There were 14 routes to enter Punjab from Haryana, and another route via a drain, the cop added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/120-punjab-cops-to-tighten-noose-on-liquor-smuggling-from-haryana-108290
04-07-2020||---||Unions of traders, workers in Bathinda protest Centre’s policies||Bathinda, July 3On a nationwide protest call, members of various trade and workers’ unions staged protests against the Union Government’s alleged anti-worker, anti-farmer and privatisation policies.The protesters gathered at the Children’s Park area here and raised slogans against the Centre. They also submitted a memorandum of their demands to the Central Government via the district administrative officials.The protesters opposed the proposed decision to auction the land of Bathinda thermal plant, and demanded that the operations of the plant be allowed to restart, while contracts with private firms for power purchase must be cancelled by the government. They also raised concern over the decision to privatise other sectors as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-of-traders-workers-in-bathinda-protest-centres-policies-108291
04-07-2020||Ravneet Singh||Row over post of honorary adviser in Punjabi varsity||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 3Punjabi University’s professors today condemned the move to appoint former PRTC managing director Manjit Singh Narang as an honorary adviser to Vice-Chancellor Prof BS Ghuman.Dr Lakhwinder Singh Gill of Economics Department said the post does not exist as per the university calendar.“Around one year ago, Dr NS Attri, former Botany prof, was appointed the OSD without getting a clearance from the Syndicate. Now, a new post of honorary adviser has been created for an outsider who has no experience in managing the affairs of an educational institute. He will be given perks. As a result, financial liability of the university will increase.” He said: “If the VC is incapable of executing his work, he can resign.”Professors said the university calendar had a provision for a private secretary to the VC and Deputy Registrar already holds that charge.Prof Kesar Singh Bhangu of Economics Department, said, “Such appointments undermine the autonomy of the institute. No such appointments have been done in the history of the university.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/row-over-post-of-honorary-adviser-in-punjabi-varsity-108292
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||18 food safety officers get job letters from Punjab Health Minister||Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today gave appointment letters to 18 newly recruited food safety officers. “To overcome the shortage of staff, appointment letters have been given to 18 candidates. They have been instructed to work with dedication and transparency,” said the minister. KS Pannu, Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, said with increase in strength of officers, they would take stern action against those adopting wrong practices in this trade. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/18-food-safety-officers-get-job-letters-from-punjab-health-minister-108293
04-07-2020||Abohar||Abohar MC officer penalised||Coming down heavily on the Principal Information officer (PIO)-cum-Executive Officer (EO) of the Abohar Municipal Corporation for his alleged absence from a hearing and not replying to a show-cause notice issued on an ex-staffer’s appeal, the Punjab State Information Commission  has imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 and directed the “erring officer” to pay Rs 3,000 as compensation to the appellant. State Information Commissioner Khushwant Singh observed in his interim order that the as PIO had failed to comply with the commission’s order, he was held guilty for not providing the information within 30 days and for willful defiance of the commission’s orders.  —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-mc-officer-penalised-108294
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab IAS-PCS officers’ society road under lens||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the state of Punjab to explain why the acquisition of land for a road to Punjab IAS-PCS Officers’ Cooperative Housing Building Society Limited was being carried out at public expense, while the initial notification said the work would be executed at the expense of the society. Road construction over a petitioner’s piece of land was also directed to be kept in abeyance. Landowner’s pleaIn all, the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash posed six queries “keeping in view the nature of dispute involved and to have transparency and accountability in matters affecting the state exchequer”. The Bench asked the Secretary, Punjab Department of Housing and Urban Development, to file an affidavit in response to the queries.The directions came on an application alleging that the second approach road to the residential society at state expense was mala fide exercise of power by influential officials of the Punjab Government.The Bench was hearing arguments on landowner Gurmeet Singh’s plea for restraining the respondents from laying down the road through his land in Mullanpur Garibdass for alleged public purpose of constructing another approach road. His counsel contended that a 22-foot-wide approach road to the residential society was already in existence.The Bench also asked the Secretary to explain whether then Secretary SS Sandhu was in any manner involved either himself, through his family or immediate relative at any point of time from the purchase of the land till date.The Bench asked for the reason and basis for issuing a notification dated July 8, 2011, stating that the acquisition would take place at the expense of the society and on what basis and for what reason it was changed vide a corrigendum to read “public expense”.Details were also sought regarding the status of the road, and whether it was part of the original master plan. If not a part, at what stage was the road planned and on what basis was the modification/amendment to the master plan carried out to include the road.The Secretary was also asked to explain how the 22-foot-wide road leading to the society was depicted in the master/development plan. The Bench also sought details of the procedure involved in dealing with objections under Section 5-A to a declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, and whether any officer having interest in the society himself or through his family was part of the dealing of the acquisition proceedings.The Bench also asked for details of landowners and farmers affected by the land acquisition for the road catering to the society and the number of residential units planned/sanctioned for society members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ias-pcs-officers-society-road-under-lens-108319
04-07-2020||---||4 more deaths, 153 new cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 3With 153 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the state count of confirmed cases has reached 5,937.Two deaths each were reported from Ludhiana and Amritsar, taking the death toll to 157. Now, the toll in Ludhiana stands at 24.From Ludhiana, a 62-year-old man, who belonged to the Field Gunj area, succumbed to the virus. He was a patient of coronary artery disease and type-2 diabetes mellitus, and had gone through coronary artery by-pass grafting. He had tested Covid-positive and was admitted to the DMCH on June 27. Another person who lost her life to the virus was a 68-year-old woman, a resident of Diesel Shed. She was admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali.From Amritsar, Gurpinder Kaur (50), a resident of Shahid Udham Singh Nagar, lost her life to the virus. She was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.Eleven fresh cases were reported in Amritsar on Friday, and the death toll stood at 47.In all, seven persons are on oxygen support and one on ventilator in the state.As per the state media bulletin, 54 cases were reported from Ludhiana, 19 from Jalandhar, 18 from Sangrur, 12 from Patiala, 11 from Amritsar, 10 from Gurdaspur, six each from SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran, and four each from SAS Nagar and Moga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-more-deaths-153-new-cases-in-punjab-108283
04-07-2020||---||Punjab to begin rapid antigen testing from next week||Chandigarh, July 3Returning migrants to be testedOn the successful completion of the pilot rapid antigen project, which will cover a minimum of 1,000 tests, migrants coming back to the state in the wake of reopening of industries and for work in paddy fields will be tested using the mechanism.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced the launch of a pilot project for Covid-19 rapid antigen testing from the coming week as well as e-registration for persons entering the state through the Shambhu border to ensure strict monitoring of thousands of people coming from the high-risk NCR region every day.On the successful completion of the pilot rapid antigen project, which will cover a minimum of 1,000 tests, migrants coming back to the state in the wake of the reopening of industries and for work in paddy fields will be tested.The state government will procure rapid antigen testing kits to scale up its Covid-testing capacity, which is currently already higher than the Centre’s mandated 140 tests per million per day in regions with positivity factor of less than 10 per cent.Notwithstanding the Centre’s revised guidelines replacing home quarantine for domestic travellers with self-monitoring, the Chief Minister ruled out any such move in Punjab in view of the large number of people coming to the state every day from Delhi/NCR, where cases are currently spiralling.The Chief Minister also made it clear that no vehicle should be allowed to enter the state without a stringent monitoring mechanism in place. He was reviewing the Covid situation and preparedness in the state with senior government and health officials through video-conferencing.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said strict monitoring would be ensured of all entrants with private players being roped in to ensure implementation of home quarantine with phone-based monitoring and regular visits. Further, all entrants to the state would be required to mandatorily register themselves either on the COVA app or the government web portal and the registration certificate with a bar code should be carried on the vehicle windscreen. Those without the certificate printout on their cars would be stopped and made to register on the spot at the border before proceeding further, she said.With the requirement of passes done away with in Unlock 2.0 by the Centre, e-registration would help in monitoring and tracking incoming domestic travellers, she added.Meanwhile, to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria during the current season, the Chief Minister directed the Local Government and Rural Development Departments to undertake a 15-day intensive sanitation campaign in addition to the ongoing spraying of disinfectants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-begin-rapid-antigen-testing-from-next-week-108279
04-07-2020||
||Cases spike, Dera Baba Nanak declared containment zone||Dera Baba Nanak, July 3 Dera Baba Nanak township, which shot into the limelight after becoming the starting point of the 4.5-km Kartarpur corridor, was declared a containment zone after 20 Covid-19 cases were reported in the past 72 hours. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said no movement would be allowed in the zone till further orders. “The situation will be reviewed on a day-to-day basis. Things were getting out of control after 20 persons tested positive. The number of cases actually increased after an asymptomatic youth tried his hand at the game of cricket with his friends. As many as nine cases were reported today itself,” he said. Cabinet Minister and local MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa made a passionate appeal to the people to “stay indoors and refrain from indulging in violations for the sake of their loved ones”.  An official said it was probably for the first time in Punjab that an entire township was declared a containment area. Recently, Gidderbaha town had also been declared a containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-spike-dera-baba-nanak-declared-containment-zone-108280
04-07-2020||Vishav Bharti||3 Himachal Pradesh firms under lens over ‘harmful’ sanitisers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3Jalandhar firm also in dockIt is manufactured by a Jalandhar-based companyFour companies manufacturing hand sanitisers containing lethal methanol have come under the scanner. While three firms are based in Himachal Pradesh, one is located in Jalandhar.The hand sanitisers claimed to kill 99.99 per cent viruses, including Covid-19.As per Punjab’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the hand sanitisers produced by these firms were found containing a high amount (35 to 95 per cent) of methanol. Though methanol was found in several other hand sanitisers as well, the amount was not high enough to prove that these were hazardous. Kahan Singh Pannu, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, said most of the other hand sanitisers were found safe for human use.As per the information available with The Tribune, a hand sanitiser found containing 95.3 per cent methanol was being sold and manufactured by a Jalandhar-based company. The licence to manufacture the sanitiser was issued by the Punjab Ayurveda Department. Now, the FDA has written to the Director, Ayurveda, to take appropriate action against the company. However, all attempts to contact company officials remained futile as the firm had not given its complete address either on the sanitiser wrapper or to the government. However, Director, Ayurveda, Dr Rakesh Sharma said they had referred the matter to the drug inspector in Jalandhar who had issued the licence. “We will take appropriate action soon,” he said.Pannu said they had also written to the FDA, Himachal Pradesh, regarding the presence of the lethal chemical in hand sanitisers being manufactured in the state.The ‘Cosway Hand Sanitiser’ being manufactured by Una-based Cosway Pharmaceuticals was also found containing methanol. However, when contacted, Ashish Kumar, plant manager of the firm, said they had not received any communication from the FDA. “Our hand sanitisers don’t contain methanol. Some fraudster might be selling it under our brand name,” he said.Another hand sanitiser being sold under the brand name ‘Zenitiser’ was reportedly being manufactured by Shri Ramesh Industries Pvt Ltd in Baddi. However, Gurpreet Singh, one of the directors of the company, said they did not make any ethanol-based hand sanitiser and used isopropyl. “A lot of trash is being sold in our name. We have made complaints to the local FDA about some fraudsters in the past as well. We can claim responsibility only for what we make, not for what is being sold by some fraudsters who are using our brand name,” he said. He also said they had not received any communication from the Punjab FDA.An Una-based company’s ‘Alcohol Disinfectant Hand Sanitiser’ was also found containing a large quantity of methanol. When contacted, a person who identified himself as the manager and refused to reveal his name, said each batch of their brand was tested before being sent to the market. “There is no question of selling a methanol-based hand sanitiser,” he said. He gave contact details of the manufacturing chemist of the company for more details, but all calls to the number remained unanswered.All attempts to contact Manish Kapoor, Himachal Pradesh’s State Drug Controller, remained futile as he did not take the calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-himachal-pradesh-firms-under-lens-over-harmful-sanitisers-108296
04-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court for ‘necessary action’ against Sikhs for Justice||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed “necessary action” by the authorities concerned, while disposing of a PIL seeking steps against the banned organisation, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).At the onset, the State of Punjab told the High Court that as many as 16 FIRs had been registered against the organisation. Besides, 116 WhatsApp groups relating to the organisation had been blocked. “All necessary measures are being taken by the state to prevent any kind of anti-national activities being undertaken by the organisation, including blocking the proposed referendum being taken by the organisation,” the state told the Bench of Chief Justice Rajiv Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli.The Bench was hearing a petition filed by advocate Birkramjit Singh Bajwa for steps against the organisation, which had “suddenly become very active furthering the cause of separate state for Sikhs”. The petitioner submitted the organisation was going ahead with all kind of anti-national activities and provoking residents, especially the Sikh youth, to declare a war against the present Punjab Government.Punjab Additional Advocate-General PS Bajwa added SFJ head Gurpatwant Singh Pannu had been declared a designated terrorist by the Government of India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-for-necessary-action-against-sikhs-for-justice-108273
04-07-2020||---||Badals misleading people for political agenda, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, July 3Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday lashed out at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal for “misleading people to promote their petty political agenda in the midst of the Covid crisis”.If sincere, quit NDAIf the Badals are sincere in opposing the fuel price hike by the Centre, why don’t they quit the NDA coalition? — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterIn an attack on the Badal couple, the Chief Minister said the concerted manner in which both of them were running a campaign of deceit and lies had exposed their double standards. The people of Punjab would not be taken in by the political antics and crocodile tears of the Akali leaders, who had looted Punjab for a decade without sparing a thought for the problems of the masses, he said.Flaying Sukhbir over his allegations of ration embezzlement by Congress men in Punjab, the Chief Minister said the MLAs were supporting his government’s efforts to ensure that nobody slept hungry in the state.“The fact was that the quantity of foodgrain received by the state till June was more than the figures given by Sukhbir, with over 90 per cent of it distributed. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the wheat allocated to the state was 2,12,164 MT of which 1,99,091 MT had been distributed, while of the 10,800 MT dal allocated, 10,305 MT had been distributed. In addition, under the Atmanirbhar scheme, wheat (per person) and dal (per family) was provided for 14.14 lakh persons, and the state, after grounding the wheat to flour, added dal to make it 1 kg per person. It also gave 1-kg sugar on its own. In fact, the state government had distributed 17 lakh packets to migrant labourers at the cost of Rs 69 crore from its own funds, with 10-kg wheat, 2-kg dal and 2-kg sugar,” he said.Taking on Harsimrat on the issue of VAT on fuel, the Chief Minister said if she was so concerned about the impact of the escalating fuel prices on the common man, why did she not pressurise the Union Government, in which she is a Cabinet Minister, to put a stop on the uncontrolled hike in prices of diesel and petrol for 22 straight days? He dismissed her purported concerns about the common man, saying it was ridiculous that she should react to the state government’s increase in petroleum tax after consistently ignoring the daily increase in fuel prices by the Centre.‘Dharnas from July 7’Fazilka: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the party would hold dharnas at the village level on July 7 to protest against alleged embezzlement and wrong distribution of ration by Congress leaders. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-misleading-people-for-political-agenda-says-capt-amarinder-singh-108274
04-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||In Covid war, religious leaders to administration aid in Malerkotla||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 3Several religious leaders are playing an important role in helping the authorities enforce lockdown in Malerkotla. Today the administration announced a lockdown in the town on Saturday and Sunday to prevent the spread of Covid-19.As per the latest bulletin of the Health Department, Sangrur has 169 active cases of Covid, while 14 patients have lost their lives. But the gravity of situation in Malerkotla can be gauged from the fact that of the total number of patients, 86 are from Malerkotla and 11 of the deceased also belonged to the town.Though civil and police authorities have been trying to convince residents to follow guidelines, it seems impossible without the help of local religious leaders.“We all must follow the directions of officials as they are working for our safety. I appeal to all city residents to get themselves tested,” said Ertiqaul Hasan, Mufti Azam, Punjab, while addressing locals through a video message released on Friday.Apart from releasing videos on the social media, the religious leaders are also visiting various affected areas. Narinderpal Singh, a member of the management committee of Gurdwara Haa Da Naara Sahib, said they had regularly been visiting containment and buffer zones to convince residents to follow the directions of the government.“Without the help of religious leaders, no one can maintain peace in the area as officials are not familiar with the narrow lanes,” said Manjit Singh Brar, SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-covid-war-religious-leaders-to-administration-aid-in-malerkotla-108276
04-07-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar Partition Museum shortlisted for heritage awards||The Partition Museum has been shortlisted for the 2020 Museums + Heritage Awards for showcasing “Jallianwala Bagh 1919: Punjab Under Siege” in association with the Manchester Museum, UK, under the category of “International project of the year.”The Museums + Heritage Awards event will be held virtually on September 22.This is the first time that the association between two museums has been recognised. “Jallianwala Bagh 1919: Punjab under Siege” included archival and audio-visual material, which shared the narrative of massacre through eyewitness accounts, photographs and official documents.This was a tie up between the Manchester Museum, part of University of Manchester and the Partition Museum set up by the Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust, Amritsar.The exhibition coincided with the centenary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in April 2019 and bicentenary commemoration of the Peterloo massacre.“We have been shortlisted by Museums + Heritage Awards committee for our collaborative exhibition with the Manchester Museum. As our vision for the Partition Museum revolves around the community, this recognition is deeply appreciated,” said Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO and curator of the Partition Museum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-partition-museum-shortlisted-for-heritage-awards-108277
04-07-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Simarjit Bains was falsely implicated: Panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3The Justice Mehtab Singh Gill Commission, set up for inquiry into false police cases, has ruled that Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and his companions were falsely implicated by the police and officials of the Punjab Mining Department during the SAD-BJP tenure in April, 2015, for protesting against illegal sand mining in Ludhiana.The case is the highlight of the 41st interim report, submitted to the Chief Minister on Friday. The Commission, comprising of Justice Mehtab Singh Gill and BS Mehndiratta, both retired, has recommended an inquiry against two senior officials of the Punjab Mining Department, including a General Manager, and two police inspectors, who were posted as SHOs at different police stations of Ludhiana in April 2015.The Commission had earlier given relief to MLA Sukhpal Khaira in a false case registered against him during the SAD-BJP rule. It had also ruled in favour of Akali Dal (A) president Simranjit Singh Mann, who also complained of false police cases against him. In the 41st interim report, Justice Gill said three cases were decided while another 100 were dismissed.The report mentions that till date, the Commission has disposed of 3,530 cases and recommended action in 415 complaints. The Commission takes up those cases where police had not submitted challan in court. The report says that the government had taken action in 326 of these cases.The report mentions that the Commission has returned 224 complaints of false cases received via the Punjab Home Affairs Department, under which the Police Department falls. The Commission said the cases were beyond its jurisdiction as they pertained to the period after July 30, 2017. Justice Gill said the commission had jurisdiction to take up cases from the beginning of SAD-BJP rule in 2007 to July 30, 2017, when CM Capt Amarinder Singh set up the Commission. The Congress government came to power in March 2017. The CM set up the commission as there were allegations of misuse of police by the SAD-BJP regime against Congress workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/simarjit-bains-was-falsely-implicated-panel-108269
04-07-2020||GS Paul||For 40 yrs, Sikh vendor performing sewa at mosque in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3A mosque in Amritsar has a rare ally. Baljinder Singh (60) has been doing ‘sewa’ at Khairuddin Mosque located in the narrow lanes of the walled city in Amritsar known as Jama Masjid.Secular by natureI am a Sikh by birth and secular by nature. Every Friday, I finish my assignments early in the morning so that I can get free by afternoon to reach the mosque. I do sewa till the culmination of prayers. — Baljinder SinghBaljinder has been doing selfless service of taking care of ‘jodas’ (footwear) of Muslim devotees during every Friday prayers held in the mosque.“I am a Sikh by birth and secular by nature. For me humanity is above any religion. Choosing to serve in a mosque was my way of propagating Guru Nanak’s universal message of brotherhood and harmony,” he said.Popularly addressed as “Bha ji” and “Sardar ji”, Baljinder Singh said the service at the mosque has been a routine for him since 1980s. He said, “I take care of their shoes, while they offer prayers inside with a carefree mind.”He said his ancestors had performed ‘joda’ sewa at Chaurian Paudian Jodha Ghar at the Golden Temple from Atta Mandi for 90 years. “Doing sewa is actually in my blood. I also do joda sewa occasionally at Baba Shayam Singh Dera at Atta Mandi Chowk during sangrand and at a temple at Majith Mandi during Krishan Leela programme,” he said.When asked what he gained from sewa, he said, “Just an inner satisfaction. In return, I get blessings from devotees which are pure in nature.”A vegetable seller by profession, he said: “Every Friday, I finish my assignments early in the morning so that I can get free by afternoon to reach the mosque. I do sewa till the culmination of prayers.”“I hardly missed a single occasion here since the past four decades. If I am away to attend any social or domestic exigency, my son Baldev does sewa on my behalf at the mosque on Friday,” he said.He has two sons — Baldev Singh, who helps him in his grocery trade, and Varinder Singh, who is settled in Malaysia. “I have never seen any person with so much selfless devotion in my life,” Imam of Jama Masjid Maulana Hamid Hussain said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-40-yrs-sikh-vendor-performing-sewa-at-mosque-in-amritsar-108270
04-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Judicial probe finds four guilty in Amritsar train tragedy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3A judicial probe ordered by the Punjab Government into the 2018 Dasehra train tragedy that claimed 58 lives in Amritsar has found four civic body employees “guilty of negligence”.Among those found guilty are Secretary Sushant Bhatia, Superintendent Pushpinder Singh, retired Inspector Kewal Krishan and retired Superintendent Girish Kumar. The charges against Kashmir Singh, Additional Divisional Fire Officer, however, could not be proved.The five officials were chargesheeted in October 2019 following a magisterial inquiry by B Pursuratha, Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar. The probe had indicted 23 persons, including organisers, policemen, railway staff and MC officials. The government announced the judicial probe in January this year after the replies of the MC officials were found “unsatisfactory”.Amarjit Singh Katari, former Additional District and Sessions Judge who conducted the judicial probe, has also indicted Anil Arora, personal assistant to then municipal commissioner.The guilty officials have been told to file a written reply within 15 days and appear in person before the Additional Chief Secretary, Local Bodies, on August 26.A speeding train ran over the crowd that had gathered to witness Ravan Dahan near Joda Phatak on October 19. The crowd had spilled on to the railway track by the time the firecrackers went off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/judicial-probe-finds-four-guilty-in-amritsar-train-tragedy-108310
04-07-2020||Lahore||21 Sikh pilgrims die as bus rams into train in Pakistan||At least 21 Pakistani Sikh pilgrims returning from Nankana Sahib were killed on Friday when the driver of the minibus they were travelling in reportedly tried to take a shortcut to avoid a railway crossing and rammed the vehicle into a passenger train in the country’s Punjab province, officials said.Also Read:  According to the Evacuee Trust Property Board, which looks after the minority affairs, 22 persons, including 21 Sikhs — 11 men, nine women and a child from Peshawar — lost their lives in the collision in Shjiekhupura. A Muslim man has also been killed in the incident. The minibus carrying around 26 Sikh pilgrims, all from Peshawar, hit the Lahore-bound Shah Hussain Express, which was coming from Karachi, at a crossing near Sheikhupura district around 1.30 pm. At least five persons were hurt in the accident. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/21-sikh-pilgrims-die-as-bus-rams-into-train-in-pakistan-108311
