04-05-2020||---||To keep them mentally fit, health dept starts counselling Nanded returnees||Patiala, May 4Amid the growing fear of their vilification, the District Health Department has started counselling of Nanded returnees who have been quarantined here.To keep the pilgrims in a positive frame of mind, counsellors held sessions to make them adapt to isolation and face quarantine blues.It would help alleviate the fear of being in isolation, said counsellor Shama Bala. The counsellor said accurate information and proper knowledge of coronavirus would improve the confidence of the COVID quarantined.While holding the session, she said, “As COVID spreads only with a physical contact with a positive patient, we need to fulfil the basic needs of the quarantined. If one feels anxious, irritated, and tired, it means there is a fear of being in a new situation.”She said COVID-related symptoms could also be visible due to the change in season, therefore one should not fear merely on the appearance of such signs because it could be just a cold. “The COVID fear sometimes grows to an extent that people start getting panic attacks. Therefore, it is very important to counsel them, regularly, to reduce mental stress,” she added.Health experts said counselling was important because some even get scared even on the thought of isolation or quarantine.One of the major fears that imbibe various suspected patients was of being termed as “spreaders” of the virus, which had been stigmatising them in a society rapidly, said experts.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said a team comprising Dr Kiranjot Singh, Dr Nidhi Ahluwalia, Dr Yuvraj Narang and Sham Bala was counselling the pilgrims to keep them mentally strong and their spirits high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-keep-them-mentally-fit-health-dept-starts-counselling-nanded-returnees-80328
04-05-2020||---||Sukhbir blasts Digvijay, Amarinder for ‘demonising’ Sikh pilgrims||Bathinda, May 4 Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday blasted senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh for his attempts to hold Sikhs, especially the devout and innocent pilgrims, guilty of spreading coronavirus.“Coronavirus today is a global issue and Digvijay’s statement will defame the Sikhs all over the world as the originators of the coronavirus. It is a part of the old anti-Sikh mindset of the Congress party which sees a Sikh behind every evil and every calamity that happens in the world. It is the same mindset with which the Congress had once made the Sikhs targets of global suspicion and hatred as terrorists. Now that there is a global scare on coronavirus, the Congress has once again tried villainously to put the Sikhs on the global suspicion list.”Coronavirus: Sikh pilgrims pose fresh Covid-19 threat in Punjab - India NewsAny comparison with Tablighi Markaz? https://t.co/WaSvaZQ6g5  “Instead of getting himself filmed on hollow PR videos shedding crocodile tears on pilgrims’ suffering, Capt Amarinder Singh should apologise to Punjabis in general and to the Khalsa Panth in particular for tarnishing the image of the whole Sikh community through shocking statements like Digvijay’s and several Punjab ministers against the pilgrims,” Sukhbir said.I stand in solidarity with Sikh pilgrims returning from Sri #HazurSahib, Nanded. They are our brothers & sisters. Blaming them for spreading #coronavirus by @INCIndia's pawn @digvijaya_28 echoes decades’ old anti-Sikh stance of #Gandhi family. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/cwFZ3MQk2B  Badal added that it would be insane to link the Sikh pilgrims from Nanded Sahib with the spread of coronavirus even in Punjab. “Everyone knows that the virus is a global issue and that it had already been active in Punjab for more than a month before the pilgrims even started moving towards the state,” said Sukhbir in a statement here this afternoon.Sukhbir’s onslaught came in the wake of a tweeted reference by Digvijay Singh linking the Sikh pilgrims with the spread of Coronavirus in Punjab. “The government is the villain while the pilgrims are the victims of this villainy,” said Sukhbir, and asked the CM, his government and party to stop demonising the Nanded Sahib pilgrims for the coronavirus in Punjab.He defended his party’s efforts to bring the pilgrims back from Nanded Sahib. “Both personally and as party president of the SAD, I take full responsibility for the decision to demand the return of these pilgrims back to Punjab. Not just the pilgrims, I want every Punjabi beleaguered anywhere in the world to be brought back home. This is being done all over the world. The only thing the government has to do is to follow the medical norms on incoming people.”Sukhbir also expressed “grave concern over reports of a conspiracy to infect the incoming Naded Sahib pilgrims with the virus on the journey or on arrival as they had been repeatedly tested negative before their departure. He fired a volley of questions at the CM on the government’s “mysterious refusal to follow its own norms on handling pilgrims”.“It is mysterious why the government chose to flout its own norms by neither testing the pilgrims nor keeping them in safe and comfortable quarantines till the reports of tests had been received before sending them home? Why were government’s own guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on social distancing not followed in the matter of seating arrangements in the buses for the pilgrims? Why were so few buses sent to bring in such a large number of pilgrims while it was known that only 25 passengers should travel in a bus according to the official guidelines on viral safety? Were all the staff members, including cops and drivers, etc., tested negative for coronavirus before they were sent to bring pilgrims? Above all, why were the pilgrims not tested and quarantined on return,” he asked. SAD demands a high level, independent inquiry, preferably by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, into this whole episode, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-blasts-digvijay-amarinder-for-demonising-sikh-pilgrims-80319
04-05-2020||Sangrur||Video of cops showing Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala how to use gun goes viral||Barnala Police have booked Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala and eight other people on Monday for curfew violation, police sources said---a development that comes after a video of some policemen teaching the controversial singer how to fire a gun using their service weapons went viral.Also read:Lack resources to pay workers, but exodus a worry: Punjab IndustryPunjab okays home delivery of liquorSeeking regular jobs, de-addiction centre staff in Punjab go on strike Five cops are also among those booked, sources said.Meanwhile, Barnala Senior Superintendent of Police Sandeep Goyal suspended six policemen over the incident, hours after he asked the police station to which the cops belonged to submit a detailed report.He also said that preliminary investigations suggested that some cops from police’s Sangrur unit were also involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/video-of-cops-showing-punjabi-singer-sidhu-moosewala-how-to-use-gun-goes-viral-80305
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh writes to PM, asks for increase in coronavirus testing||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Monday that he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to direct government testing facilities in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase testing.Amarinder said in a tweet that institutions like Chandigarh’s PGIMER and IISER Mohali should increase their daily testing.“Have written to request PM Narendra Modi Ji to direct Govt of India institutes in Chandigarh & Punjab i.e. PGI & IMTECH-CSIR Chandigarh, IISER Mohali, NIPER Mohali, NABI Mohali, and Central University Bathinda to augment viral testing capacity of 2,000 daily,” Amarinder’s tweet said.The development comes after Punjab’s coronavirus cases increased exponentially in less than a week---the figures now stand at over 1,100 cases from 375 infections on April 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-writes-to-pm-asks-for-increase-in-coronavirus-testing-80293
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder seeks Shah’s intervention to send stranded migrants back to hometowns||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Monday, wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking his personal intervention to arrange special trains for the next 10 to 15 days, beginning May 5, for transporting migrant labourers stranded in Punjab to their hometowns.The Chief Minister has urged the Union Home Minister to direct the Ministry of Railways to make suitable arrangements as the migrant labourers, stranded in Punjab, were “understandably restless to return to their native places”.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s request came after more than 6.44 lakh migrant workers, interested in returning to their home states, had successfully registered on the state government’s specially created portal www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in.In his letter to Shah, the Chief Minister said his government would indicate its daily requirement of trains in advance to the Ministry of Railways for the next 10 to 15 days to transport all people who had registered on the portal.At the local level, Captain Amarinder said Punjab officers were coordinating with senior Railways officers and the officers of the recipient states to plan the smooth movement of migrants.The Chief Minister pointed out that a large number of labourers came seasonally from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other eastern states to seek temporary employment in both industrial and agricultural sector in Punjab. These people, who were due to leave in March, normally after Holi, could not leave due to the imposition of the lockdown, he added.Though the state government had made all possible arrangements to provide them food and shelter in the past six weeks, they were now naturally keen to get back home, said Captain Amarinder, urging the Home Minister Amit Shah to immediately intervene in view of the “special exigency.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-seeks-shahs-intervention-to-send-stranded-migrants-back-to-hometowns-80292
04-05-2020||Abohar||Two booked for ‘misleading’ advertisement about Covid-19 in newspaper||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-booked-for-misleading-advertisement-about-covid-19-in-newspaper-80239
04-05-2020||Bathinda||Vitamin supplements for Cops||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vitamin-supplements-for-cops-80237
04-05-2020||---||Retired head constable, son shot dead in broad daylight in Punjab's Samana||Patiala, May 4A retired head constable and his son were shot dead in broad daylight in Samana in Patiala district on Sunday.Tajinder Pal Singh alias Peter shot dead 68-year-old retired head constable Brahmparkash and his 20-year-old son Sunny with his revolver, the Patiala police said. The crime, which occured at 1:30pm, was caught on camera.The police said that after committing the crime, "Peter fled the scene and was caught after a car chase."The victim and the accused were neighbours and had some old property dispute, according to the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/retired-head-constable-son-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-in-punjabs-samana-80229
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab coronavirus tally crosses 1,200 with 132 new cases||Punjab on Monday reported 132 fresh coronavirus cases, all but eight of them Nanded-returned pilgrims, taking the total number to 1,232 in the state, officials said.A total of 795 of around 4,100 pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded have tested positive for the infection so far, a health official said on Monday.The test reports of around 1,800 pilgrims are still awaited, an official further said.Many Sikh pilgrims testing positive for coronavirus have become a major issue in Punjab with the ruling Congress and the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal trading charges.The Nanded-returned pilgrims accounted for about 65 per cent of the total COVID-19 tally of 1,232 in the state.The SAD has accused the state government of mis-managing the return of pilgrims, while Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu charged the opposition party with spreading “misleading propaganda”.Transport Minister Razia Sultana on Monday trashed the reported statement of Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan who had claimed that the pilgrims might have caught the disease from the Punjab bus driver who ferried them back.Among fresh cases on Monday, 52 were reported from Sangrur, 26 from Tarn Taran, 15 from Barnala, 13 from Ferozepur, 12 from Faridkot, six from Gurdaspur, four from Jalandhar, two from Pathankot and one each from Bathinda and Mansa, as per a bulletin issued on Monday.The bulletin also recorded to deaths that happened on Sunday: 62-year-old woman from Ludhiana and 65-year-old man from Phagwara in Kapurthala.The Sunday deaths took the total number of coronavirus fatalities in the state to 23.Meanwhile, a 55-year-old man died in Hoshiarpur district. A resident of Kirti Nagar, he was admitted to Amritsar hospital where he died. The death toll in Hoshiarpur is now two.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 218 cases, followed by Jalandhar (128), Ludhiana (110), Mohali (95), Hoshiarpur (88), Patiala (86) and SBS Nagar (85).Among other places, Sangrur reported 63 cases, Muktsar 49, Ferozepur 42, Tarn Taran 40, Gurdaspur and Bathinda 36 each, Moga 28, Pathankot 27, Barnala 19, Faridkot 18, Mansa 17, Fatehgarh Sahib 16 , Rupnagar 14, Kapurthala 13 and Fazilka four, as per the bulletin.Of the total cases, 23 have died while 128 have fully cured of the infection, the bulletin said, adding three patients are critical and are on ventilator support.A total of 28,545 samples have been taken so far in the state and of which, 21,295 have returned negative and 6,018 reports are still awaited. There are 1,081 active cases in the state, as per bulletin. — TNS/PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-coronavirus-tally-crosses-1-200-with-132-new-cases-80225
04-05-2020||Patiala||Demanding regularisation, employees of de-addiction centres across Punjab go on strike||Demanding regularisation, employees of De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centers and OOAT clinics across Punjab went on strike on Monday morning. The employees held a protest at their centres, wearing black ribbons and holding placards. In some districts, employees also raised slogans against the government.Following the strike by the employees, drug addicts could not get their daily dosage and were seen waiting in queues for the strike to end. The employees are on strike at a time when the number of drug addicts has increased in the state during the lockdown.The employees, who are working under district-level committees since 2014, said they had been providing round-the-clock services to make Punjab a drug-free state and save Punjabi youth from drugs, but authorities were not taking care of them.Parminder Singh, state president, said they were serving the state, but the Punjab government was ignoring their demands of regularisation. He said, “We are trying to rid of the state from drugs, but the government is not taking care of us. We are working on small salaries. The government should put us under the health department and regularise.”"Sixty thousand patients have already got admission to the OAAT clinics and drug de-addiction centres during the lockdown, which has put a heavy burden on the employees," said Parminder Singh.An employee said, “Due to the closure of public transport, they have to cover a distance of 50-100 km every day to reach their places of duty. We are getting a salary between Rs 7000 to 20,000—depending on the rank. It is very difficult to meet household expenses with meagre salaries.”The government Drug De-Addiction & Rehabilitation Employees Union Punjab said if the government didn’t their genuine demands, they would intensify their protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demanding-regularisation-employees-of-de-addiction-centres-across-punjab-go-on-strike-80223
04-05-2020||---||Migrant workers protest by blocking national highway in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 4Hundreds of migrant labourers blocked National Highway 44 at Dhandari here on Sunday, alleging that the concerned authorities failed to provide them with ration. They raised slogans against the state government and police.The protestors also blamed the administration for not making transport arrangement to shift them to their native places located in other states. Some infuriated protestors allegedly pelted stones on the cops and the vehicles moving on the road during the protest.The highway was blocked for nearly half-an-hour by the protestors. Heavy police was deployed at the site to bring the situation under control.Meanwhile, a member of a labourers’ union said, “We came to know about the protest from social media. However, the situation of labourers is not well in the city. Many of the labourers are not getting ration timely. The helpline number for ration always remains busy. Even the migrant workers are not being paid by the factories. Thus, many of the migrants wanted to move to their respective native states at the earliest.”Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that a flag march in the area was conducted after the Dhandari incident. He said, “The SDM and ADCP are conducting meetings with the migrant leaders. We are increasing ration distribution and cooked food supply in the area. We will ensure that nobody goes hungry.”“Videography and drone coverage is being done in the area. Anybody who tries to disrupt the peace of the city will be dealt with a heavy hand. Counselling about trains will start soon after the approval from the central government,” he said.“We are registering FIRs and trying to identify the accused from video footage. We will also verify who were the persons behind the incident and instigated the migrant labourers because they seem to be innocent,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migrant-workers-protest-by-blocking-national-highway-in-ludhiana-80222
04-05-2020||---||GND varsity organises webinar on epidemics, pandemics in history||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3The Department of History, Guru Nanak Dev University, organised a webinar on “Understanding Epidemics and Pandemics in History and Society” here on Sunday. Prof Amandeep Bal, HoD, in her introduction delineated the visitation of diseases across the world history and underlined the need to discuss social and economic consequences of pandemics in general and Covid 19 in particular.In his keynote address, Prof Sukhdev Singh Sohal emphasised the ecology of disease, rapidity and virulence of pandemics in history. He discussed historical experience and making of social and medical perceptions about disease. Fatalism, superstition and stigma affected the social relations. The rise of the ‘clinic’ changed medical perception and enriched medical profession. There was a need to broaden the domain of social sciences through integrating chemical and biological knowledge to social sciences.Assistant professor Dr Ruby Bala explained the ravages of plague in India during 1896 to 1918. She also spoke on the pandemic of influenza that caused the death of millions in India. She showed slides of vaccination camps, quarantine notices, dresses of the medical staff and difficulties of the people.Assistant professor Dr Raj Kumar narrated the plight of Punjabi soldiers in World War I in the trenches, which were full of infection. He showed slides of miseries and narrated the stories the soldiers wrote back to their family members during the war.Prof Jagroop Singh Sekhon of the Department of Political Science mentioned the plight of migrant labourers, limitations of medical support infrastructure causing untold miseries to people. He underlined the importance of the lockdown in controlling the spread of Covid-19. He rooted for the public health system.Prof Sarbjot Behl, Dean, Academic Affairs, Guru Nanak Dev University, in his concluding remarks underlined the need for creating a vibrant health system and social awareness about sanitation and health. More than 150 across India and other countries interacted during the session. Dr Harneet Kaur and Dr Saifali Chauhan, assistant professors, coordinated the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gnd-varsity-organises-webinar-on-epidemics-pandemics-in-history-80166
04-05-2020||GS Paul||Amid crisis, Jandiala Guru craftsmen cry for help||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3Thatheras of Jandiala Guru, who represent the traditional technique of manufacturing brass and copper utensils in Punjab, have now been endorsed in the National List of Intangible Culture Heritage 2020. They had received the UNESCO’s coveted tag of intangible cultural heritage in 2014.It is a matter of pride for Punjab, yet in the absence of any support, the community has been struggling for make ends meet.The artisans allege that amid lockdown, no relief material was supplied to them and cited discrimination by the government representatives.Identified during Mahrarja Ranjit Singh era, they migrated from Gujranwala in Pakistan and established themselves at Bazar Thatherian (market of the Thatheras), Gali Kashmirian, in the small town of Jandiala Guru, about 10 km from Amritsar.Hardev Singh, a member of the community, said they were already reeling under economic crisis and the Covid pandemic had further compounded their problems. At present, out of the total 200 thathera families, more than half of them couldn’t even manage two square meals a day since the lockdown was imposed.“The coveted titles of UNESCO and now national recognition won’t bring about any change in our lives. We used to earn Rs500 after working 12 hours in a day. SGPC and Pingalwara society used to help us out by buying our creations, but this global pandemic has broken our backs. We will not be able to sell our artwork for a long time as they don’t come under essential commodities,” he said.The state government initiated a project named ‘project virasat’, to uplift the lives of this underprivileged community through different social entrepreneurship projects, but it never take off.Singh said in 2018, their hopes were revived when former minister Navjot Sidhu approached them with the Amritsar DC and tourism heads and announced Rs10 lakh corpus fund from the government’s side, but it never happened.Sahil, an artisan, said he opted to work with a cloth merchant instead of carrying on with his father Shammi Kumar’s trade of utensil making, adding that, “I didn’t prefer to continue in the business of utensil making as there was no income. Due to lockdown, I am also jobless these days. The politicians representing our locality discriminate while distributing ration and relief material. I request the administration to provide us with at least essential items till the time normalcy returns.”Dr Sukhdev Singh, state convener, INTACH, who has also authored a book ‘Thatheras of Jandiala Guru: An Insight into the Culture, Craft and Community’ demanded the state government for an economic package for the community to ensure survival of this traditional art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-crisis-jandiala-guru-craftsmen-cry-for-help-80030
04-05-2020||Muktsar||ASI seeks benefits on par with Patiala cop||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-seeks-benefits-on-par-with-patiala-cop-80059
04-05-2020||Muktsar||Testing times||Trouble in sightMuktsar: With shops of opticians lying shut amid lockdown, some people with poor eyesight, especially the elderly whose spectacles have damaged in the last about a month, are facing problems. Shaminder Kumar, a teacher, is nowadays has little to do. He says, "I can't read or watch television. I have two pairs of spectacles, one is lying in my drawer in the school and the other has broken. I am waiting for the shops to open."Farewell goes onlineAbohar: To give farewell to a senior educationist, Gopichand Arya Mahila College here organised an online group video call session. Dr Ragini Mittal retired as head of the department of fine arts. Her colleagues appreciated her contribution towards building students' career. The teaching and non-teaching staff and students shared their views about the veteran teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/testing-times-80058
04-05-2020||---||331 fresh cases, count rises to 1,102||Chandigarh, May 3The state, which has been witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 patients for the last about one week, reported another 331 cases today. The count has now reached 1,102. Besides, three patients succumbed to the deadly virus, taking the death toll to 23 (21 as per media bulletin since two reported late in the evening).In the last one week, 781 cases have been reported and a majority of them are those who have returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded.Of 331 new patients, 75 were reported from Amritsar, 62 SBS Nagar, 46 Hoshiarpur, 43 Muktsar, 33 Bathinda, 24 Gurdaspur, 16 Ludhiana, nine Ropar, four each from Sangrur, Jalandhar and Fatehgarh Sahib, three Mansa and two each from SAS Nagar, Barnala and Ferozepur, one from Patiala.The total count in Amritsar district has reached 218. Among the new patients is a lab assistant at VRDL, Government Medical College here. The authorities have quarantined two junior resident doctors and took their samples. Of the total, 202 are Nanded returnees.Nawanshahr tally has gone up to 85. Of them, 63 are Nanded returnees. The 130 pilgrims have been placed under quarantine centres at the Rayat Bahra Institute and a community health centre in Behram. Jalandhar reported four new cases. They are contacts of previous patients from Qazi Mohalla and Basti Danishmandan.As per the health department, so far samples of 26,439 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 20,197 were found negative and reports of 5,140 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/331-fresh-cases-count-rises-to-1-102-80052
04-05-2020||Amritsar||Four nabbed in sacrilege case||The police have arrested four persons for alleged desecration of the holy book.The accused have been identified as Mangal Singh, his two sons, Tajinder Singh and Parminder Singh and son-in-law Nishan Singh, an ex-serviceman.As the issue came to light, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Dr Roop Singh, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakona and additional manager Rajinder Singh Rubi rushed to the spot.Later, they got a case registered with the Kot Khalsa police. DC Shiv Dular Singh and Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill also reached the police station.A team, led by ACP Narinder Singh and DCP Harjit Singh Dhaliwal, nabbed the accused.Mehta said they received information that some copies of Guru Granth Sahib were spotted in a garbage-laden vehicle of the Municipal Corporation at the dumping site in Fatahpur.The driver, Gurdeep Singh, and his helper handed over the holy book to Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha at Guru Nanakpura.Later, the two guided the police to the house from where they had collected the garbage. A case has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-nabbed-in-sacrilege-case-80046
04-05-2020||Sangrur||Mobile seized from Sangrur jail, 2 booked||Two gangsters lodged in Sangrur jail have been booked after a mobile phone was recovered from one of them.  “During checking, the police recovered a cellphone from the gangsters. The device belonged to gangster Kirpal Singh, who during questioning revealed gangster Sukhpreet Singh Budha was also using the gadget. Both are A category gangsters,” said Sangrur jail SP Balwinder Singh. SHO Sangrur city -1 police station Pritpal singh said they had registered the case following the complaint from the jail authorities. “We will take both the accused in custody in the coming days for questioning,” said the SHO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobile-seized-from-sangrur-jail-2-booked-80045
04-05-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda mandi waterlogged||Heavy rains coupled with strong winds lashed parts of the city today. Resultantly, with the increasing moisture content in grains, wheat procurement has also got affected.Shingara Singh Mann, district chief, BKU (Ekta Urghan), said, “This procurement season, farmers had to face a lot of difficulty, as earlier they had to deal with tardy lifting due to shortage of labour and now, inclement weather is adding to their woes.”The state government should give some relaxation in moisture content, Mann said.Besides this, many low-lying areas in the city have been waterlogged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-mandi-waterlogged-80044
04-05-2020||Moga||Rainstorm dashes Moga farmers’ hopes||Just when the harvesting of wheat was in its last stage, farmers’ hopes were dashed with untimely rainfall accompanied by gusty winds in the district today. This is the fourth time in the past three weeks that the rainfall has hit the region, ruining the ripened wheat crop. Resultantly, thousands of bags of wheat lying at the grain markets were drenched, hindering the procurement process. “This is the harvesting season and we were anticipating a good profit, but untimely rains in the past few weeks have affected the lustre of the foodgrains. In addition, now the farmers won’t be able to meet the required moisture content in grains,” said Ranjit Singh, a farmer of Ghal Kalan village.  Sukhdev Singh, General Secretary, BKU (Ekta), said, “First, farmers were hit by the problem of labour crunch amid lockdown, now with downpour, they will have trouble selling their spoiled produce.” — TNS The government must allow some relaxation in the procurement norms to make sure that the farmers were not harassed at the hands of commission agents and procurement agencies, said Singh.  Heavy storm accompanied with slight rainfall has uprooted many trees and electricity poles in the district. The power supply has also been also hit in many areas of the district. Barricades erected by the police in the wake of lockdown were also blown away. No loss of human life has been reported so far, but damage to property can’t be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rainstorm-dashes-moga-farmers-hopes-80042
04-05-2020|| ---||Farm unions clamour for easy norms as rain hits procurement||Faridkot, May 3 Thousands of wheat bags lying at grain markets in Faridkot, Kotkapura, Jaito and other markets in the district’s rural areas got drenched after a heavy spell of rain on Sunday.  Earlier, farmers were plagued by the problems of shortage of gunny bags to pack the procured wheat produce and tardy lifting of wheat stock from the grain markets. Now, with downpour lashing parts of the region, there seems to be no let up in the miseries of the farmers and commission agents. Another factor that would add to the sluggish movement of procured foodgrains to the stores would be farmers failing to meet the moisture content in wheat criteria, said Jagtar Singh, a farmer who is waiting at the Kotkapura grain market for procurement of his produce. The reason cited behind the delay is lack of gunny bags to pack the produce.  Various farmer unions in the state, including the BKU, have demanded relaxation in the procurement norms related to the moisture content in the grain. No gunny bags have been delivered in Kotkapura and Faridkot during the last five days. Sources in the Food and Supply Department said after getting approval from the Union Government, the state government asked the procurement agencies to use the old gunny bags.  The procurement agencies assigned the task of arranging old gunny bags to the commission agents, who are in confusion in the absence of guidelines with respect to the quality and price of the old gunny bags. Specific directions regarding the quality and price of the old gunny bags should have been given, said Ashok Goel, secretary, Commission Agents Association, Kotkapura.  Some politically-connected persons, who have the wheat lifting contract, are asking the commission agents to make their own arrangements to shift the procured stock from mandis to the procurement agencies stores, alleged many commission agents in Faridkot and Kotkapura. On an average, the contractors are being paid Rs6.50 a bag for labour and cartage charges by the Food and Supply Department, but they in turn are offering Rs1.50 a bag to the commission agents for transporting the produce.  Upset over this, arhtiyas say the market transportation charges are between Rs4 and Rs4.50 per bag.  The contractors were also pawning off their responsibility of unloading the stock at the store of procurement agency to the commission agents, rued Bharat Bhushan ‘Bhushi’, president, Commission Agents Association, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-clamour-for-easy-norms-as-rain-hits-procurement-80041
04-05-2020||Archit Watts||Peddlers’ find novel ways to hoodwink cops||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 3Liquor smugglers and drug peddlers have taken to a novel way of making money in Muktsar district.The Malout police recently caught a man transporting 300 lt of liquor in a pick-up vehicle meant to deliver essential items. On Wednesday, two persons allegedly selling liquor by hiding bottles in plastic drums were arrested.Some alert residents of Kuraiwala village a few days ago seized about 90 sedative pills (tramadol hydrochloride) buried under dry leaves.Similar incidents have taken place in other districts as well. Some liquor bottles were found stored in an air cooler in Hoshiarpur district recently.A few days ago, the Khanna police in Ludhiana district found that five persons arrested for allegedly running an illicit liquor factory were dodging them at checkpoints by claiming that they were distributing essential items.Meanwhile, investigating officer ASI Sukhpal Singh said: “We received a tip-off that the liquor was being smuggled in a canter vehicle. The vehicle was intercepted and 300 lt of liquor hidden in drums was seized. A man has been arrested.”Sub-inspector Ramandeep Kaur, SHO, Gidderbaha, said, “We got information that some sedative pills were recovered from Kuraiawla village. We have registered a case against an unidentified person.”Meanwhile, Ranjit Singh, co-ordinator, anti-drug committees, Muktsar, said, “It is learnt that people involved in the illegal trade of drugs and liquor dodge the police, saying they are delivering essentials.”Sedatives hidden under dry leaves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/peddlers-find-novel-ways-to-hoodwink-cops-80040
04-05-2020||Patiala||Liquor sale may up domestic violence:  Panel||With the Punjab Government allowing the sale of liquor, the State Commission for Women has said the move could result in a surge in domestic violence cases.As per latest figures, cases of domestic violence between February and April 20 increased from 3,287 to 3,993 and daily calls received on the police helpline registered an increase of 34 percent.Dr Ritu Lehal, director, Women Studies Centre, Punjabi University, said the cases of domestic violence could increase with the easy availability of liquor. A resident of Patiala said, “The government could have delayed the opening of liquor vends. People are jobless and frustrated, alcohol consumption will only worsen things.”Chairperson of the commission Manisha Ghulati said there should be a cap on the sale of liquor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-sale-may-up-domestic-violence-panel-80039
04-05-2020||---||Quarantine ‘lapse’ exposed in Sangrur’s Tunga village||Sangrur, May 3In what has exposed the non-seriousness of the authorities, 14 residents of Tunga village, who returned from other districts on May 1 after working on combine harvesters, spent 24 hours with their families without any tests and were put under quarantine at a village government school last evening.Without beds, toilets and electricity, they spent the night in the school and today when they threatened to protest, the authorities put them under quarantine at their houses.Tests were still not conducted. “On Saturday, some police officials and the Health Department put us under quarantine in our village school. But they gave us only rooms and we brought our cots, bedsheets and food from our houses. There were mosquitoes and waste all around. Power failure further aggravated our woes,” said a resident. Villagers have demanded a high-level inquiry and action to prevent the spread of Covid in the area.“The authorities should have put all 14 under quarantine after ensuring at least basic facilities. Only one toilet was opened and that too was dirty. After I raised the issue with the authorities, they quarantined us at our houses. No tests were conducted. The Chief Minister and the Health Minister should immediately look into the matter,” said Gurdev Singh, district vice-president of the BKU, Lakhowal.Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Raj Kumar said he had not received any complaint in this connection. “It’s a serious issue. I will look into the matter,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quarantine-lapse-exposed-in-sangrurs-tunga-village-80038
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP’s award for 108 cops, 7 doctors||To honour cops and doctors rendering exceptional services in the fight against Covid-19, the Punjab Police have selected 108 police personnel, nine PGI doctors and nurses, three government doctors and one social worker for the prestigious “Director General of Police Honour and Disc for Exemplary Seva to Society”.Among the PGI awardees, four are doctors are from the plastic surgery department and three from anaesthesia department, while one award goes to Sister Sheetal. Besides, a collective award is being given to the entire nursing staff and hospital attendants of PGI’s plastic surgery department.The PGI staff is credited with two surgeries and the post-surgical treatment and care which led to the early discharge and speedy recovery of Sub-inspector Harjit Singh, whose hand was chopped in an attack last month. The social worker from Faridkot has been chosen for the award as brought several NGOs on one platform for supplying ration and cooked food to the poor.The police personnel selected for the award include four Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs), 14 Deputy Superintends of Police (DSPs), 14 Inspectors, 13 Sub-inspectors, 21 Assistant Sub-inspectors (ASIs), and 42 head constables and constables spread across 27 revenue and police districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-dgps-award-for-108-cops-7-doctors-80037
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Nod to clinical trials of plasma therapy in Punjab||The state has received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to undertake clinical trials for convalascent plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients. Earlier, the state was allowed to use this therapy when ACP Anil Kohli was under treatment at a Ludhiana hospital, but his condition deteriorated before the therapy could be tried out. Additional Chief Secretary, Governance Reforms, Vini Mahajan said the ICMR had given its nod to conduct the trial. Government medical colleges in Amritsar and Patiala, Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot, Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Amritsar, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and Satguru Partap Singh Hospital in Ludhiana have partnered to undertake the clinical trial of the therapy. The inter-institution coordination would be done by the principal investigators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nod-to-clinical-trials-of-plasma-therapy-in-punjab-80036
04-05-2020||Tribune Reporters||42-yr-old among three die of Covid in Punjab||Ferozepur/Ludhiana, May 3The state reported three deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 23. One of them was from Ferozepur district, the other from Ludhiana and the third from Kapurthala.Was TB patientOne of the deceased was a resident of Alike village in Ferozepur. He was suffering from tuberculosis and admitted to the Civil Hospital on April 29. Later, the victim was shifted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot. After his death, samples were taken and he was found Covid positive.The border district of Ferozepur reported its first Covid death. The deceased was 42 years old, a resident of Alike village. He was a mason.Sources say he was suffering from tuberculosis. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital on April 29 and later shifted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot. After his death, samples were taken and he was found Covid positive.He did not have a travel history and neither any person from Alike village had returned from abroad or any other state. The district administration and the health authorities are clueless about the source of the virus in the village.As soon as his report came out positive, police and health officials declared the village a containment zone.“A Rapid Response Team (RRT) has been deployed in the village,” DC Kulwant Singh said. A Class IV employee of the Civil Hospital alleged the 42-year-old man was in touch with more than 20 employees. He demanded that their samples must be collected.Later in the evening, the deceased was cremated in the village. None of his family members attended the last rites. Only a few officials were present.The other two deceased persons — one of them a 62-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal, Ludhiana, and the other a 65-year-old man, a native of Phagwara in Kapurthala district — lost their lives at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana. Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, Medical Superintendent, DMCH, said the two patients had tested positive for the virus on Saturday.The 65-year-old Phagwara man owned a factory. He was suffering from several diseases. On April 22, he was admitted to Guru Nanak Mission Hospital in Jalandhar. When his condition deteriorated, he was referred to the DMCH on May 1.About 20 of his contacts, including his wife, three sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren, would be kept in isolation wards.A woman from Ferozepur’s Hamadwala village, meanwhile, tested positive. Now, the district’s tally has reached 28. A sudden spike in cases was witnessed in Ferozepur on Friday. On April 30, the district had only one case. A day later, 24 persons tested positive. All of them had returned from Nanded. Officials say samples of all 447 persons have been collected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/42-yr-old-among-three-die-of-covid-in-punjab-80035
04-05-2020||Qadian (Gurdaspur)||Qadian block  a containment zone||Krishna Nagar locality of Qadian block, having a population of 2,000, has been declared a containment zone by the Health Department after a man tested positive for Covid. It is the district’s second containment zone after Bhattian village, where three Nanded returnees had tested positive.  Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said he was supervising the security measures taken by the police at both places.  “All rules pertaining to containment zones are being followed. Nobody is allowed to leave the areas, barring people with medical emergencies. And, nobody is allowed inside the affected zones,” he said. Meanwhile, health officials are keeping their fingers crossed as results of the 244 samples are awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/qadian-block-a-containment-zone-80034
04-05-2020||---||Cong, SAD in war of words over Hazur Sahib returnees||Chandigarh, May 3Following a spike in the number of cases in the state, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress today lashed out at each other. While the SAD alleged that the Congress was trying to defame the pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, the Congress sought an apology from the SAD for “misleading” people on the issue.Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia asked the state government to transfer the entire Hazur Sahib sangat which was quarantined in “unhygienic” government facilities to SGPC serais.He said the SGPC president had already offered to host the pilgrims. “They should be transferred immediately as the government centres are unhygienic and lack basic facilities,” he claimed. He condemned minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for claiming that pilgrims were not accommodated at Dera Baba Nanak gurdwara.Asking Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to sack Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, the SAD leader said Sidhu had already started defaming the pilgrims by stating that they had spoilt all the good work done by the Punjab Government in controlling the pandemic.He alleged that the “good work” of the department had already been exposed by health workers, who had failed to get protective gear.Sidhu, meanwhile, asked SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and other SAD leaders to apologise to the Sikh sangat for their misleading and vicious propaganda over Nanded returnees, especially now after 20-25 sewadars of Gurdwara Langar Sahib have tested positive.Sidhu claimed it was now evident that pilgrims had contracted the virus before entering Punjab. He also said that religious leaders had testified that Nanded pilgrims were tested in Maharashtra, but the Punjab Government had not received any test report till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-sad-in-war-of-words-over-hazur-sahib-returnees-80033
04-05-2020||---||Focus on pandemic, CSIR halts projects||Chandigarh, May 3 While extending financial and technical support to the industry as well as its own laboratories for taking up projects to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has imposed a moratorium on the approval and financial allocation for new projects in other domains. “After consideration on the availability of funds and need for expenditure management, the Director General, CSIR, has approved imposition of a moratorium of three months on approval and financial allocation to different categories of research and infrastructure-building projects during 2020-21,” a communiqué sent by the CSIR Headquarters to all its establishments on April 30 states. The moratorium comes in the wake of revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Finance last month regarding cash management system in the Central government. Pointing out that it was essential to regulate government expenditure and fix the quarterly expenditure plan of all departments, the communiqué states the CSIR had to restrict the expenditure within 15 per cent of the 2020-21 budgetary estimates in the April-June quarter, amounting to Rs796.80 crore. The moratorium would not apply to purchase orders and projects already under implementation, human resource allocations, Covid-related projects and funding for emergency requirements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/focus-on-pandemic-csir-halts-projects-80032
04-05-2020||---||Toll collection restarts today||Chandigarh, May 3 Toll plazas under the state government will resume collecting toll on Monday, but the ones in the containment zones will, however, will not start operations till May 17. The Public Works Department had, on March 27, suspended the collection of toll in view of the nationwide lockdown that was extended till May 3.  Vijay Inder Singla, PWD Minister, said the toll authorities had been directed to ensure social distancing, sanitisation of toll plazas, frequent washing of hands, sporting of masks and hand gloves, and taking other preventive measures suggested by the Central and state governments to contain the spread of Covid-19. The minister said besides providing free passage till May 3, the state toll plaza authorities also provided langar to truckers and drivers of vehicles supplying essential goods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/toll-collection-restarts-today-80031
04-05-2020||Karam Prakash||Officials tell patients to get treatment at native places||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 3It has come to light that the district authorities asked four persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 here on their return from Nanded, to return to their home districts so that Patiala’s tally remained low.It was only after Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu intervened that the patients were admitted to the isolation wards of Government Rajindra Hospital here.“I learnt that the Patiala district authorities had decided to shift Covid-19 patients to their home districts. I intervened and stopped that. I will ask the Chief Minister’s Office to look into the matter, if need be,” Sidhu said.On Friday, officials had decided to shift the four pilgrims to their districts because they were not Patiala residents. Officials of the other districts were informed and those from Sangrur were even on their way to Patiala to take their patient.District-wise tagging of patients is disturbing when the state is fighting hard to contain the spread of the virus. Earlier, people from seven districts and neighbouring state, Haryana, would come for treatment at Rajindra hospital and were never discriminated against.A senior health official said, “We treat every patient equally irrespective of the region. Before the spread of Covid-19, a majority of the patients at Rajindra hospital came from other districts. It is administrative officials who are taking illogical decisions.”Earlier, a Patiala boy, who tested positive for the virus, visited the Ambala Civil Hospital as it was closest to his village Ramnagar. The state nodal officer had then issued a clarification that “a patient would be counted in the tally of the district where he was taking treatment”.But this time, Nanded pilgrims, who tested positive in Patiala but belonged to other districts, were not counted in Patiala’s tally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-tell-patients-to-get-treatment-at-native-places-80029
04-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Clerical errors hamper testing, contact tracing; probe ordered||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 3A few days ago two Covid-19 patients, who were discharged from a local isolation unit, were called back after they were still found positive. On Friday, a 45-year-old woman was brought to the civil hospital. It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity. In yet another case, at least two persons were tracked as positive cases, but they turned out to be someone else.In view of such discrepancies, Dr Gurinder Chawla, Civil Surgeon, has marked an inquiry.To date, 4,067 samples have been taken in the district, of which 74 have been listed as inappropriate. Labs (sending Covid-19 reports of Jalandhar patients) have been changed at least four times. Eventually, three days ago, a private lab has been approved for sampling after the signing of an MoU.In a letter to the Medical Superintendent, Dr Chawla wrote, “While taking samples, information about persons and their contact history is not being sent properly to this office. Names of some patients whose reports are being received by us are not on the lists. This is a serious discrepancy, which has taken place several times.”Dr Chawla said, “We have addresses and complete record of people who have tested positive in the district. Meanwhile, I have marked an inquiry into the clerical errors.”Dr TP Singh, Nodal Officer, said, “There was confusion about some patients a few days ago. Samples from Amritsar were coming without addresses. All inappropriate Jalandhar samples are also being re-sampled. We are maintaining exact count of the people who have tested positive in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clerical-errors-hamper-testing-contact-tracing-probe-ordered-80028
04-05-2020||Faridkot||Mix-up at Faridkot laboratory stirs row||The Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital today declared five Covid-19 suspects as negative and positive at the same time in two different reports. The reports led to confusion among the health officials. While doctors and laboratory technicians later clarified that the inclusion of the names of these five persons on the lists of both positive and negative cases was an error and these persons were confirmed positive cases, patients and their relatives in Moga were a harried lot. The doctors at the VRDL revealed that after receiving samples from a station, the laboratory prepares separate lists for those testing positive and negative. But in this case, the names of five positive cases were mistakenly listed among the negative cases as well. Sources said the error was the outcome of huge burden on the lab, which has limited workforce and inadequate infrastructure. In the last five days, this lab has received 2,235 samples. Of these, 119 were tested positive. On Saturday evening, the lab had 1,076 pending cases. The lab is working in three shifts of six hours each due to heavy rush of samples. In the absence of adequate staff, the lab is also using the services of its post-graduate students of microbiology and laboratory technicians. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mix-up-at-faridkot-laboratory-stirs-row-80027
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Committee formed to reward health staff||To acknowledge the hard work of rural doctors, pharmacists and other staff, the state government is contemplating implementing 4-9-14 scale for rural medical officers (RMOs) and regularisation of pharmacists and Class IV employees associated with them. Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said medical officers, pharmacists and other employees were doing exemplary work. A three-member committee has been constituted to look into the matter and submit a report to the director, RDP. The committee is required to consider implementation of 4-9-14 pay scale for RMOs and regularisation. Dr JP Narula, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association, Punjab, said the demand for implementation of the Dynamic Assured Carrier Progression Scheme to the cadre of rural medical officers had been pending since 2015. The officers had completed nine years of service in May 2020.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/committee-formed-to-reward-health-staff-80026
04-05-2020||---||NHM staff protest, seek regular jobs||Bathinda, May 3National Health Mission contractual employees staged a protest at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Sangat Mandi block, Bathinda, demanding regular jobs.The protesters said they had been working on the frontline to win the battle against Covid-19, with meagre salaries as their only reward.The protesters said they had been rendering their services diligently in these trying times and demanded that it was time the government regularised their services and provided them with benefits of a government employee.Narendar Kumar, convener, NHM Joint Front, Punjab, said, “The NHM contractual staff have been serving people for years, with some of them working for more than 10 years. It’s time the government regularise the employees on priority. The workers have been coerced to work on meagre salaries despite working shoulder to shoulder to win the war against the global pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhm-staff-protest-seek-regular-jobs-80025
04-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Migrants stranded in Punjab to pay for rail travel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Migrants in Punjab who will be ferried to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on ‘Shramik Special’ trains will have to pay the rail fare. To date, 6.44 lakh migrants have registered themselves with the state government for journey back home — 3.26 lakh from UP and 2.22 lakh from Bihar. Workers from Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Arunachal Pradesh too are queuing up for transportation back home.The Indian Railways has categorically told the Punjab Government that it would have to collect the fare from the passengers. The cost for travel in the sleeper class, depending on the distance, varies anything between Rs 500 and Rs 900 per person. “A family of five, we have been depending on dry ration distributed by the state government for subsistence. We belong to Raebareli in UP. It will be impossible for us to pay rail fare for the return journey. I had already packed my belongings, thinking that the government would bear the cost of travel”, said a dejected Shalinder, a Ludhiana-based labourer.Three days ago, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh had directed all DCs to collect data on migrant labourers stranded in Punjab while urging the PM to arrange special trains for their transportation.A senior government functionary said the communication from the Railways had put the state government in a bind. “The Congress government’s goodwill gesture has been stone-walled by the Centre which should have run these trains free of cost as the labourers, rendered jobless by the lockdown, have no money”, he said, expressing surprise at the Centre’s decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migrants-stranded-in-punjab-to-pay-for-rail-travel-79975
