04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 726 new COVID-19 cases, 20 more deaths||Twenty more deaths due to the coronavirus pushed the toll to 4,882 in Punjab while 726 new cases raised the infection count to 1,54,788 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.The new fatalities were reported from several districts — Amritsar, Faridkot, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, Muktsar and Pathankot, the bulletin said.There are 7,785 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, it said.Mohali reported 133 new cases, the highest in the state, followed by 126 in Jalandhar and 100 in Ludhiana.A total of 643 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 1,42,121, according to the bulletin.Nine critical COVID-19 patients are on ventilator support while 163 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 32,95,141 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-726-new-covid-19-cases-20-more-deaths-179974
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann seeks Parliament’s special session to repeal farm laws||Amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann on Friday said he has sought a special session of Parliament for the repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws.He said it is the only way forward to end the “agrarian stalemate.”            Mann, who is a Lok Sabha member from Sangrur seat in Punjab, has written a letter to Speaker Om Birla, seeking convening of a special session of the Lower House to repeal the Center’s three farm laws.In a statement here, Mann also accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of having a “stubborn attitude” towards farmers’ demands.“The Centre is maintaining a stubborn stance against farmers and their demands,” he said, adding had the government’s intentions been clear, the issue would have been resolved in minutes.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.Regarding the implementation of one of the farm laws by the Delhi government, Mann dubbed it as “malicious propaganda” by the BJP and the Congress against the Aam Aadmi Party-led dispensation in Delhi.He said it was Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who first raised his voice against the “draconian” laws at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-seeks-parliaments-special-session-to-repeal-farm-laws-179968
04-12-2020||---||Not scared of ED or anyone else: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, December 4Asserting that he was not scared of the ED or anyone else, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday slammed all opposition parties in the state for playing politics with the lives of the farmers to further their own interests.He and the Congress was solidly with farmers and the Centre must listen to them and accept their demands, said the Chief Minister, lambasting all key opposition players — Prakash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Harsimrat, Arvind Kejriwal and ML Khattar, a press release by the state government read.“For 13 years, I have been going to courts because of the cases initiated against me by the Badals. I am not bothered about ED. I can go to courts and fight for another 13 years,” he said, reacting to Harsimrat Badal’s charge that he was under ED pressure.The Chief Minister, in his meeting on Friday, said he had told Union Home Minister Amit Shah that the amendment Bills passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha were the solution to breaking the deadlock over the farmers’ issue as they were the essence of the state’s future.“I urged him to get the Bills approved  by the President,” he said, adding that yesterday was the third time he met Shah, including once to congratulate him becoming Home Minister and the other two times for the sake of Punjab.Taking about the Akalis’ stand on the Farm Laws, the Chief Minister, in a live video statement on Facebook, said the Badals had publicly done a U-turn on the issue.“I don’t know why Prakash Singh Badal got the Padma Bhushan in the first place,” he quipped, reacting to Badal Senior’s decision to return the medal to the Government of India.Noting that Gen Harbaksh Singh had got Padma Vibhushan for winning the 1965 war, Captain Amarinder asked “What war did Prakash Singh Badal fight or what sacrifice did he make for the community.”“All his life, Prakash Singh Badal has been claiming that he represents the interests of the farmers. Then why did his party support the central Ordinances after initially opposing them, and then did an about-turn and started publicly criticising the legislations?” remarked the Chief Minister.Captain Amarinder pointed out that as a member of the Union Cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal had been very much a part of the meeting that passed the farm ordinances.Lashing out at AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal for twisting his statement on national security, the Chief Minister said it was clearly made in reference to Pakistan and as the Home Minister of Punjab, it was his duty to apprise the Union Home Minister of the dangers of the prolonged agitation.Even old farmers were not spared by the Khattar government, he observed, citing the violence used against the farmers in Haryana. Noting that the Kisan Unions had announced their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march in advance, he said they should have been called for talks, but instead, they were subjected to water cannons and teargas shells.Pointing out that when the farmers sat on Punjab’s railway tracks for two months, not a single stone was pelted, Captain Amarinder said “our farmers have toiled and given their lives to feed the nation”.His government did not take any steps against the agitating farmers as “I knew what’s in their hearts,” he added.Had Punjab’s farmers not saved India and had the Green Revolution not happened, India would have been much different today, he added. He pointed out that the agitating farmers have the support not only of Indians but also from abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-scared-of-ed-or-anyone-else-capt-amarinder-179951
04-12-2020||Chandigarh/New Delhi||The singing fields of Punjab – farmers' agitation gives birth to viral tunes of protest||The fields are alive with the sound of music, not wedding ditties or soulful melodies but songs of resistance born in the farmers' protest against the new agri laws and echoing all the way from Punjab to Delhi.As thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, braved water cannons and teargas to camp at the national capital's borders to demand a rollback of the laws and their representatives held talks with the government, the songs flowed, speaking of pride of the land, strength in unity and the rights of the people fighting a mighty establishment.Shared on YouTube, WhatsApp and other social media platforms, the protest music has found a wide audience. Several singers said it is also an assertion of their Punjabi identity that they say is deep-rooted and comes before caste or creed."This is a big issue for us. We are all connected with the soil," said singer Kanwar Grewal, the voice behind the popular protest songs “Ailaan” and “Pecha” that support the farmers' agitation.He is planning a third song "Jawani Zindabad" to highlight the participation of youth in the protest."Pecha", which has been written by Harf Cheema and sung by both Cheema and Grewal, has got more than 30 lakh views on YouTube. While the song speaks of the rift between Punjab and Delhi, farmers' suicides, the Centre's "kaliya niti karde laagu (bad policies) and rouses people to wake up, the accompanying video has long shots of convoys of trucks and tractors blocking highways and men and women, young and old, shouting slogans and holding flags."The song is about common people fighting against the government for their rights. It is a democratic country. Everyone has the right to express their views. Farmers are protesting and we are using music as a tool,” Cheema told PTI.He said the protest has become a mass movement with not just farmers but traders and small shopkeepers from 18 states also joining the protests.Cheema estimates that 70-80 protest songs have been composed and circulated in the last two to three months since the farmers have been protesting – before gathering at Delhi's gateways, farmers from Punjab had been staging numerous protests, including ‘rail roko' agitations."All this is for farmers who feed us day and night. This is all we can do for them,” said Cheema, who has also penned and voiced the songs “Sarkare” and “Punjab” spotlighting the current stir.Take away agriculture from Punjab and there is not much left, said Grewal, adding that 75 per cent of the population is connected to farming in one way or another."A brother of mine wrote the song and we started singing. It became a rage. We never thought we would come up with songs,” said the singer.Noted Punjabi singer and actor Harbhajan Mann, who has been supporting farmers' protests for the last several months, also came out with a new song on Wednesday." 'Murrde ni laye bina haq, Dilliye'... is all about how farmers, carrying rations for six months, are protesting and stresses that the safety of their fields is very important. It is a fight of their existence,” Mann said.The video of the song shows farmers braving water cannons and breaking police barriers as they try and push their way into Delhi.The Punjabi singer and actor, who had attended the protest in Delhi, on Friday announced he will not accept the Punjab government's 'Shiromani Punjabi Singer' award as a sign of solidarity with the protesting farmers “Though I'm grateful to be selected, I humbly cannot accept the Shiromni Gayak award from the Department of Language. People's love is the biggest award of my career, & all attention & efforts right now from us all must be dedicated to the peaceful farmers' protest,” Mann said on Twitter.He has also come out with "Anndataa, Khet Saadi Maa, Khet Saadi Pagg" (fields are our mother, fields are our pride).   "When farmers are facing tough times, it is our responsibility to stand with them. Farmers feel that these laws are not in their favour. We should support them in their agitation,” said Mann.   Famous singer Jasbir Jassi, best known for his hit "Dil Le Gayee", said it is good that Punjabi artists are supporting the farmers."Punjab ka jo jeevan hai emotional raha hai (Punjabis are known to be emotional). After a long time, Punjab is seen as Punjab. There is no Hindu or Muslim or Sikh or rich or poor. Everyone has come together, including the youth, who were earlier being accused of consuming drugs. The important thing is it has been a peaceful protest,” Jassi told PTI.“It is about the culture of Punjab and Sikhism that they are feeding those policemen who have lathis in their hands. Punjab is known for making sacrifices,” he added.Punjabi musicians Sidhu Moosewala, Babbu Maan, Jass Bajwa, Himmat Sandu, R Nait and Anmol Gagan have also come up with their own songs hailing the fighting spirit of the Punjabis in songs such as “Jatta Takda Ho Ja”, “Asi Vaddange” , “Delhi Aa Punjab Nal Pange Thik Nahi” and “Kisaan vs Rajneeti”.The tune can change too.Singer Jazim Sharma, who hails from Bhatinda and is known for his composition of ghazals with a modern touch recently released a shabad (spiritual song), to bring peace in Punjab on the occasion of Gurpurab.He said the song "Satnam Da Chakra Firaya" is about peace and positivity in challenging times."It's really sad to see what is happening with our kisan brothers. Today is the time when our jawans and kisans are standing against each other which is really disheartening." Others in showbiz are speaking out too.Actor Manav Vij, who  hails from Ferozpur, Punjab, said he is saddened by the situation.“The country's soldier is raising his hand against the country's farmer. How did we arrive at a situation like this?"The issue that our elders have come on the roads means something is wrong,” Vij, best known for his performance in “Udta Punjab” and “Andhadhun”, told PTI.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan thanked Punjabi artists and singers for standing in solidarity with the protesting farmers against the “black laws”.   “It is a historical fact that artists are very important for the success of any struggle. We hail the singers for standing with the farmers,” he said.  The farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, fear the new farm laws will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/the-singing-fields-of-punjab-%E2%80%93-farmers-agitation-gives-birth-to-viral-tunes-of-protest-179930
04-12-2020||New Delhi||Farmer leader Rajewal complains of dizziness, undergoes check-up||Prominent farmer leader and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) President Balbir Singh Rajewal, who has been holding talks with the Centre, complained of dizziness on Friday and was taken to Fortis Hospital in Gurugram for a check-up.Rajewal, 77, was among a group of more than 34 farmer leaders who put out a five-point set of demands that seeks to frame a specific law on minimum support price (MSP) and end the punishment provision for stubble burning, during the fourth round of talks with the Central government here on Thursday."After having his breakfast, Rajewal ji complained of dizziness. We have taken him to Fortis for check-up," BKU General Secretary Onkar Singh told IANS over phone.He said after undergoing certain tests, he was declared 'perfect in health' and allowed to go back."Wishing Bharatiya Kisan Union Leader S. Balbir Singh Rajewal-ji, who is undergoing a check-up in Fortis Hospital, Delhi, a speedy recovery," Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.Wishing Bharatiya Kisan Union Leader S. Balbir Singh Rajewal Ji, who is undergoing a check-up in Fortis Hospital, Delhi, a speedy recovery.  Rajewal was once considered close to the Akalis.He has headed his faction since he broke away from the original outfit in the 1990s. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leader-rajewal-complains-of-dizziness-undergoes-check-up-179926
04-12-2020||Mumbai||'You can abuse me to your heart's content': Dharmendra trolled for deleting farmers’ protest post; clarifies||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Friday urged the central government to find a solution to farmers' protests over the farm laws, a day after he deleted a similar post on Twitter.On Thursday, the 84-year-old actor had urged the government to resolve the protests soon, citing the growing number of coronavirus cases in Delhi."I request the government... please quickly find a solution the farmers' problems... the number of corona cases are on a rise in Delhi... it is painful," Dharmendra had written in a post.However, the veteran actor soon deleted the post, without any explanation.On Friday morning, a user posted the screenshot of the tweet, wondering what prompted the actor to delete the tweet.Dharmendra said, "I deleted the tweet because I felt saddened by comments like these. You can abuse me to your heart's content, I am happy that you are happy. Yes, I am sad for my farmer brothers."Punjabi icon @aapkadharam paaji had tweeted this 13 hours ago. But later deleted it. Kuchh to majburiyan rahi hongi.. yun koi bewafa nahin hota. 😥 pic.twitter.com/RRA0a69AM8The "Apne" actor further said, "The government should find a solution fast, nobody is listening to us."When another user claimed that he must have deleted the post on the insistence of his son, actor and BJP MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol, Dharmendra replied: "I won't say anything about your mentality."Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The protesting farmers mainly from Punjab and Haryana as well as Uttar Pradesh are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector.The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/you-can-abuse-me-to-your-hearts-content-dharmendra-trolled-for-deleting-farmers-protest-post-clarifies-179919
04-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Farmers to intensify stir, call for Bharat Bandh on Dec 8||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4Not satisfied with the ongoing talks with the Centre, the protesting farmers have decided to intensify their stir and burn effigies of the Modi government and corporate houses, across the country on Saturday. A call for Bharat Bandh has also been given for December 8.The decision was taken by 51 representatives of farmer unions, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, in a marathon meeting held at the Singhu border to discuss the proceedings of the meetings with a ministerial delegation on Thursday, and strategise their next course of action.Unhappy with the BJP ministerial delegation insisting on making amendments to the farm laws, the farmers have decided that though they would go for the next round of talks with the government in Delhi on Saturday, they would initiate dialogue only after the Centre assures that the three contentious laws will be repealed and the MSP on crops will get a Constitutional guarantee.They are also demanding that no amendments be made to the Electricity Act.Farmers across the country will emulate the “Punjab model” of protest by ghearaoing all toll plazas in the country run by corporates and stop them from charging the toll tax from commuters, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-intensify-stir-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-dec-8-179918
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protest: Punjabi singer Harbhajan Mann refuses to accept state govt's award||Punjabi singer-actor Harbhajan Mann on Friday announced that he will not accept the state government's 'Shiromani Punjabi' Award, expressing solidarity with farmers protesting against the new central farm laws.The Punjab Languages Department had on Thursday chosen Mann for the award. The department had announced Sahitya Ratna and Shiromani awards for 18 different categories of literature and art.“Though I'm grateful to be selected, I humbly cannot accept the Shiromni Gayak award from the Department of Language. People's love is the biggest award of my career, & all attention & efforts right now from us all must be dedicated to the peaceful farmers' protest (sic),” Mann said on Twitter.Mann, along with many Punjabi singers and artists, has been supporting the farmers' agitation for the last several months.The singer-actor had also attended the farmers protest at the Delhi borders.“You had to be there to experience their energy, fervour & optimism. Amidst adversity, they smile & share moments of happiness. Proud of the peaceful & resilient protesters from far & wide,” Mann said in another tweet.Though I’m grateful to be selected, I humbly cannot accept the Shiromni Gayak award from the Department of Language. People’s love is the biggest award of my career, & all attention & efforts right now from us all must be dedicated to the peaceful farmers’ protest #farmerprotest  He had come out with a new song 'Murrde ni laye bina haq, Dilliye" (Delhi, we aren't turning back without getting our rights) on Wednesday. The video of the song shows how farmers braved water cannons and broke police barriers en route to Delhi border points.You had to be there to experience their energy, fervour & optimism. Amidst adversity, they smile & share moments of happiness. Proud of the peaceful & resilient protesters from far & wide.#5दिसंबर_भारत_बंद #FarmersProtestDelhi2020 #FarmersAreLifeLine #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/2eHzUVDjA5  About a month back, Mann had released another song "Anndataa, Khet Saadi Maa, Khet Saadi pagg" (fields are our mother, fields are our pride).Several Punjabi singers and actors, including Kanwar Grewal, Sidhu Moosewala, Babbu Maan and Harf Cheema, have lent their support to the farmers' cause.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. — PTI As soon as I sat down, this kind Mata Ji asked me "Putt Tu Theek Aa, Chaa Piyen Ga?" This is the true gentle hearted spirit ingrained in the core of this peaceful farmers' protest. I commend everyone spreading awareness & seeking justice for our farmers. #FamersProtest #Punjabi pic.twitter.com/eetFjzq6IG||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-punjabi-singer-harbhajan-mann-refuses-to-accept-state-govts-award-179916
04-12-2020||---||PPCC general secretary Randhir Singh Dhira quits party||Chandigarh, December 24Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) general secretary Randhir Singh Dhira Khudian has resigned from the party citing personal reasons.A resident of Khudian village in the Lambi Assembly segment, Randhir Singh handed over his resignation to PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar here on Friday.Randhir Singh is the grandson of former Member of Parliament Jagdev Singh Khudian.Notably, Khudian family holds sway in the Lambi Assembly segment. Randhir Singh's uncle Gurmeet Singh Khudian, former president of the District Congress Committee, Muktsar, had sought a ticket to fight from Lambi in 2017 Assembly elections, but the party had that time fielded Captain Amarinder Singh from constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ppcc-general-secretary-randhir-singh-dhira-quits-party-179911
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder unveils logo for 400th birth anniversary of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday virtually unveiled the logo of the state-level 400th Birth Anniversary Celebrations of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur—to be held now in a single phase in April-May 2021, on account of the COVID-19 pandemic—instead of the two-phased celebration proposed earlier.Chairing a meeting of the Executive Committee for the celebrations, the Chief Minister suggested dedicating the year-long celebrations to the 'Hind Di Chaddar' as 'Sarv Dharam' year to mark the secular character of the nation.It was tentatively decided at the virtual meeting that the main programme should commence on April 23, 2021, and culminate on May 1 in a grand event.A Nagar Kirtan will be held on April 23, starting from Guru Teg Bahadur’s birthplace at Guru Ka Mahal in Amritsar and arriving at Baba Bakala to mark the launch of the event.Directing Tourism Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to prepare a proposal of works to be undertaken to commemorate the historic occasion, the Chief Minister said, that special development works should be undertaken in all the 103 rural and urban areas of the state associated with Sri Guru Teg Bahadur.He suggested allocation of Rs 40-50 lakh for each of the 80 villages and Rs 1 crore for the development of 23 urban areas in this respect.Captain Amarinder accepted the suggestion of Speaker and MLA KP Rana that separate development projects and funds should be earmarked for Anandpur Sahib and Kiratpur, the two towns associated with the Guru.The Chief Minister asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to discuss with all departmental secretaries concerned and prepare a detailed list of projects and consolidated expenditure involved and submit the same to the Executive Committee for approval.He suggested submitting the same subsequently to the Government of India for funding, as a committee had been formed for the Guru Teg Bahadur celebrations under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal told the meeting his department would arrange for requisite state-level funding once the list of projects is finalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-amarinder-unveils-logo-for-400th-birth-anniversary-of-sri-guru-tegh-bahadur-179891
04-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjabi Twitter steps in as Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut's war of words leaves netizens confused||The unexpected showdown between Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut left the Indian Twitterati hooked all day.  The feud started on Wednesday when Diljit lashed out at Kangana for misidentifying an elderly Sikh woman during the farmers' protests as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh, and claimed that the woman had joined the protest for Rs 100.Kangana deleted the tweet after the severe backlash. This followed an ugly war of words. Every attack from Ranaut, Dosanjh had a counter-attack in 'shudh' Punjabi.While the heated argument was engaging, most of it was in Punjabi—which led to a major section of Indian clueless, especially with Google missing out on accurate translations.Then Punjabi Twitter stepped in— and they did not disappoint. Punjabi is tough. Any translation of this fight?  Even twitter wants translation 😂#DiljitDosanjh #diljit pic.twitter.com/QcABhRvota  Need of the hour. It’s high time for @Twitter to provide a native auto translation for Punjabi tweets. #DiljitDosanjh  Translation:Do they appear to you as one who will incite violence?Every word you say is like that, what do you want?They are like God for usDid nobody teach you any etiquette of speaking?Punjabis will teach you how to speak to those who are elder to you https://t.co/3vOMV1Gwn9  Can someone kindly give us Punjabi-challenged folks a translation of @diljitdosanjh’s tweets? Can’t be missing this :-( https://t.co/M5yiTMZLPG  "Brainless mannerless person, i'm talking about the mother whose photo you shared saying she can be hired for Rs 100. Have you heard her response or should I send it again? Don't divert the topic or run away. Your crooked methods may work in Bollywood, won't work with Punjabis"  Translation: So friend last tweet of the day@KanganaTeam is known to divert attention from the issues at hand The issue is about unfair Farm Bill and we stand with farmers in peaceful solidarity If one wants to fix their Karma they must apologise to the mothers of Punjab https://t.co/wure9HTJ02  Senior?She disrespected our aged mother, where was this seniority then?Does she have any sense on how to speak to elders? Senior, as if!Dont worry about my career buddy, ill take care of it. Why don't you restrain her. https://t.co/4I3A86YOjj  Our mothers are like OUR GODS Who disparages on our mothers and speaks ill of them is NO CELEBRITY FOR US Don’t you dare run @KanganaTeam, answer our mother I think this is it enough for you todayWhenever you have an itch the next time, let us know we’re always ready for you https://t.co/JQgYxvRUJo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-twitter-steps-in-as-diljit-dosanjh-and-kangana-ranauts-war-of-words-leaves-netizens-confused-179880
04-12-2020||---||SC questions Centre on delay in sending proposal to President for commuting Rajoana’s death sentence||New Delhi, December 4Maintaining that pendency of appeals by co-accused has no bearing on Presidential pardon granted to a death-row convict, the Supreme Court on Friday questioned the Centre over delay in sending proposal to the President for commuting Beant Singh murder case convict Balwant Singh Rajoana’s death penalty.Convicted of assassinating ex-Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh in 1995, Rajoana has been in jail for 25 years awaiting his execution. His mercy petition under Article 72 of the Constitution is hanging fire for eight years.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said once the Centre has decided to recommend Presidential pardon for a death row convict, the pendency of appeals of his co-accused can’t be a reason to delay the clemency proceedings.“Appeal of other co-accused has no relevance to the decision to commute the death sentence of some convicts taken to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev,” it noted.Asking Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj to take instructions in two weeks on the issue, the Bench posted the matter for hearing in January next year.The court’s comments came after the Centre contended that the proposal to commute death sentence was not sent to the President as appeal of other co-accused was pending and the convict himself hadn’t filed an appealCiting Devender Pal Singh Bhullar’s case, the petitioner claimed that the “Delay caused by circumstances beyond the prisoners’ control mandates commutation of death sentence.” The inordinate delay caused agony and adversely affected his physical and mental health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-questions-centre-on-delay-in-sending-proposal-to-president-for-commuting-rajoanas-death-sentence-179876
04-12-2020||Mumbai||Shame on you, if you have any etiquette then apologise: Mika Singh to Kangana||Singer Mika Singh is upset with Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut for misidentifying an elderly Sikh woman, who had joined the farmers' protest, as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh."I used to have immense respect for @KanganaTeam, I even tweeted in support when her office was demolished. I now think I was wrong, Kangana being a woman you should show the old lady some respect. If you have any etiquette then apologise. Shame on you," tweeted Mika from his verified account.Mika's tweet on Thursday evening came in response to a tweet by Kangana alleging that the 'Shaheen Bagh dadi' had also joined the farmers' agitation over the new farm laws at various border points of the National Capital Region.I used to have immense respect for @KanganaTeam, I even tweeted in support when her office was demolished. I now think I was wrong, Kangana being a woman you should show the old lady some respect. If you have any ettiquete then apologise. Shame on you.. pic.twitter.com/FqKzE4mLjpShe had retweeted the post with pictures of two elderly women, including Bilkis Bano, and wrote that the "same Dadi" who featured in Time Magazine was "available in 100 rupees".In her tweet, the actress had said: "Ha ha ha she is same dadi who featured in Time magazine for being the most powerful Indian... And she is available for 100 rupees. Pakistani jurno's have hijacked international PR for India in an embarrassing way. We need our own people to speak for us internationally."Mika's tweet came after Kangana engaged in an ugly Twitter battle with actor Diljit Dosanjh over her misidentification of the elderly lady on Thursday.While Diljit received the support from several Bollywood celebrities, actor Gulshan Devaiah took a dig at Kangana without naming her.  "I prefer Diljit Dosanjh vs Alexa. Alexa didn't understand s**t but was at least civil about it," Gulshan tweeted from his unverified account.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shame-on-you-if-you-have-any-etiquette-then-apologise-mika-singh-to-kangana-179874
04-12-2020||Patiala||Former national boxing coach Gurbax Sandhu to return Dronacharya award in solidarity with farmers||Former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu has announced that he will be returning his Dronacharya Award—the highest national award in the field of coaching—in support of agitating farmers.Sandhu said that he was pained to see farmers, especially women, sleeping on the roads to protest against the three contentious farm laws.He said, “I am also the son of the farmers like the majority of sportspersons. I am pained to see my elders protesting on roads, braving the odd weather. The central government should immediately agree to the demands of the protesting farmers.”Notably, Sandhu was instrumental in India’s first medal in boxing at Olympics—when Vijender Singh won bronze in 2008.When asked about joining farmers in their protest in Delhi, he replied, “Though I want to sit with farmers in their protest, but, unfortunately, my health does not allow it. I am not able to walk due to a knee problem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-national-boxing-coach-gurbax-sandhu-to-return-dronacharya-award-in-solidarity-with-farmers-179870
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal at most places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures on Friday hovered above the normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab, officials said.At some places in the two states including Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab and Ambala, Karnal, and Kaithal in Haryana, fog reduced visibility early in the morning, Meteorological department officials said.The minimum temperature at Chandigarh settled at 10.6 degrees Celsius, up to three notches against normal.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 9.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.Hisar registered a low of 7.9 degrees Celsius, down one notch while Karnal registered a low of  8 degrees Celsius.Rohtak (8.2 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (10.2 degrees Celsius) recorded above normal minimum temperatures.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal while Ludhiana's minimum settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius, up to one notch while Patiala recorded a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius, up to two notches against normal.Pathankot (9.5 degrees Celsius), Adampur (7.9 degrees Celsius), Halwara (9.5 degrees Celsius) and Bathinda (9.6 degrees Celsius) too recorded above normal minimum temperatures, officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-at-most-places-in-haryana-punjab-179869
04-12-2020||New Delhi||DSGMC sends legal notice to Kangana Ranaut over 'derogatory' tweets against farmers||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has sent a legal notice to actor Kangana Ranaut, seeking an unconditional apology for her "derogatory" tweets against farmers and activists involved in the protest against the Centre's farm laws, the committee's president said on Friday.The Bollywood star, who is known for her combative comments, was also asked to remove the particular tweets."We have sent a legal notice to @KanganaTeam for her derogatory tweet calling the aged mother of a farmer as a woman available for Rs 100. Her tweets portray farmers protest as anti-national. We demand an unconditional apology from her for her insensitive remarks on farmers protest," Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of DSGMC, said in a tweet. Earlier this week, Ranaut misidentified a woman farmer from Punjab as Bilkis Bano, the octogenarian who made international headlines during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year in the Delhi neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh.She shared a tweet alleging that the 'Shaheen Bagh dadi' also joined the farmers' agitation over the new agri laws at various border points of the national capital.She retweeted the post with pictures of two elderly women, including Bilkis Bano, and wrote that the "same Dadi" who featured in Time Magazine was "available in 100 rupees". Ranaut was also embroiled in a bitter war of words with actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh over the matter on Thursday. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi's gateways to demand a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The protesting farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana as well as Uttar Pradesh, are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-sends-legal-notice-to-kangana-ranaut-over-derogatory-tweets-against-farmers-179850
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Father of fibre optics and patron of Sikh arts Narinder Singh Kapany dies at 94||Narinder Singh Kapany, often described as the 'father of fibre optics', passed away on Friday. He was 94. Also read: The man who bent lightThis profile by Reeta Sharma was published in The Tribune on April 12, 2005:DR Narinder Singh Kapany is among the 10 most renowned Sikhs in the world. He has also earned the title of “Father of Fibre-Optics”. He was named one of the seven “Unsung Heroes” by Fortune magazine and called Businessmen of the Century in its issue of November 22, 1999.Born in Moga, Kapany graduated from Agra University and did advanced studies in optics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology, London. Finally, he received his doctorate from the University of London in 1955. Migrating to the USA, he bloomed as a scientist.Dr Kapany’s research on fibre optic communications, lasers, bio-medical instrumentation, solar energy and pollution monitoring led him to gather more than 100 patents. He became a member of the US National Inventors’ Council. Name, fame and awards began pouring in. At present, he is a Fellow of numerous scientific societies, including the British Royal Academy of Engineering, the Optical Society of America and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.In 1960, he founded Optics Technology Incorporation and served as Chairman of the board, President and Director of research for 12 years. In 1967, the company went public with numerous corporate acquisitions and joint ventures in the US and abroad.In 1973, Dr Kapany founded Kaptron Incorporation and was its President and CEO until 1990, when he sold the company to AMP Inc.For the next nine years, Dr Kapany was an AMP Fellow, heading the Entrepreneur and Technical Expert Programme and serving as Chief Technologist for Global Communications Business.As an academician, Dr Kapany has supervised research activity of postgraduate students. He was Regents Professor at the University of California, Berkeley and at the University of California. At Stanford University, he has been a Visiting Scholar in the Physics Department and Consulting Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering. As an author and lecturer, Dr Kapany has published over 100 scientific papers and four books on opto-electronics and entrepreneurship.But for his already known background, I would have mistaken him as the man next-door when I met him in his California office recently. Unassuming and restless, Dr Kapany is basically a man in love with life. Brimming with a sense of satisfaction, he often breaks in full-throated laughter and has an appetite for good food.As a philanthropist, Dr Kapany endowed a Chair of Opto-Electronics at the University of California in 1999. He is also a trustee of the Menlo School in Menlo Park, California.Dr Narinder Singh Kapany is one of those few persons who can look beyond one’s self. After establishing his credentials in the world of science, he returned to his roots. He realised that the potential of Sikh art has remained unexplored. In 1967 he founded the Sikh Foundation to pursue this cause.In collaboration with international institutions, the California-based Foundation publishes authentic research works on Sikhism. It has also established Sikh Studies Chairs and Fellowships in leading universities in North America and long-term and permanent Sikh Arts exhibits.In 1998 Dr Kapany funded a Chair of Sikh Studies at the University of California in memory of his mother, Kundan Kaur Kapany.Dr Kapany’s achievements are remarkable. As founder of the Sikh Foundation, he has introduced to the First World aspects of Sikhism through books, calendars, posters, greeting cards and exhibitions.A library of 300 books on Sikhism, including 55 scholarly works, and a children’s library of 20 books have been established by his Foundation. The Foundation also undertook a pioneering project of Sikh architectural preservation. In collaboration with UNESCO, the Foundation has restored “Guru-Ki-Maseet”, a Muslim mosque built by Guru Hargobind in Sri Hargobindpur in Gurdaspur.To celebrate 25 years of the Sikh Foundation, Dr Kapany in March, 1999, gifted $ 500,000 to the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco to establish a Sikh arts gallery, which is named after his wife, Satinder Kaur. He has donated over 100 historical and rare Sikh art works from his personal collection to this gallery. He has also donated an equal number of Sikh art works to the Sikh Heritage Gallery at the Smithsonian Institute at Washington, DC.In March 1999 the Sikh Foundation organised an exhibition of “Arts of the Sikh kingdoms”. This was followed by “Splendours of the Punjab: Sikh Art and Literature in 1992” organised in collaboration with the Asian Art Museum and the University of Berkeley.The Foundation also sponsors a Punjabi language studies programme at Stanford University and the University of California. Currently plans are being drawn to start a Sikh high school.Dr Kapany is trying to negotiate an agreement with the Victoria and Albert Museum, London to endow a permanent annual lecture series on the Sikh Arts.The Foundation is also taking steps to counter the current problem of mistaken identity of the Sikhs in America. Recently, the Sikh Foundation also collaborated with a group of Sikhs in Toronto to organise the first-ever Sikh Film Festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/father-of-fibre-optics-and-patron-of-sikh-arts-narinder-singh-kapany-dies-at-94-179849
04-12-2020||---||Those who have labelled farmers ‘Khalistanis’ should apologise: Senior BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla||Amritsar, December 3Senior BJP leader and former health minister of Punjab, Laxmi Kanta Chawla has asked those who had labelled the protesting farmers as ‘Khalistanis’ to apologise to the farmers of the state.“Whosoever has said that they (farmers) are ‘Khalistanis’ or some of them are ‘Khalistanis’, should seek an apology from them and the country,” Chawla said.In a video released by her, she said, “There are a few politicians and others who have used this (Khalistani) word. Do not forget, many among them (farmers) might have served in the armed forces and children of many others are currently guarding the country.” She said the farmers not only produced food but also guard the borders of the country.Praising the farmers and their leaders for holding the peaceful protest, Chawla also has a message for the politicians of the country. “Even if a small protest is held, many public and private properties are burnt and people are harassed. The farmers have been protesting for over the past two months and have caused no damage to any public property. The politicians must learn from the farmers,” she said.Chawla also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to address the problems of the farmers at the earliest so that they did not have to protest on the roads. She also praised the Union Home Minister for reaching out to farmers.Chawla said the government was like parents for the public and parents should not be too adamant. She said the government should sit with the farmers, listen to them and fulfill their justified demands. The government should be serious in its approach otherwise why farmers would gather to hold protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/those-who-have-labelled-farmers-khalistanis-should-apologise-senior-bjp-leader-laxmi-kanta-chawla-179806
04-12-2020||Neha Saini||Protest music sweeps Punjab as singers lend voice to farmers’ stir||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 3The ongoing farmers’ protest against the contentious farm laws has once again validated the effectiveness of protest music as many Punjabi singers, including Diljit Dosanjh, Gurdas Mann and others, have lent their support to the protests.Many others, including mainstream Punjabi singers like Himmat Sandhu, Jass Bajwa, R Nait, Kanwar Grewal, have already released songs that lent support to the farmers’ stir. Protest music is running parallel to the farmers’ agitation.City-based singer-composer Gurshabad has released a song “Delhi De Bhulekhe” (Kirti Di Vaar) to show solidarity with the farmers. The four-minute song talks about the several historical victories of Sikh warriors against political oppression.“I had gone to Delhi where the farmers have been protesting for days now. Inspired by their determination and resilience, I wrote the song in just four hours on my way back home. Music has always been a great catalyst in getting the voices of dissent heard. I wanted to make use of my music to stand up for a cause that I too believe in,” shared the young singer.Gurshabad said more Punjabi youngsters would connect with the movement against the farm laws through music. “Even during the struggle for Independence, songs of political defiance like ‘Pagri Sambhal Jatta’ became protest anthems to connect the young blood,” he said.With mentions of the conquest of Red Fort by Sikh warriors and their stand against political oppression, Gurshabad’s song, he says, finds relevance amid the farmers’ protest. “In the history of the Sikh community, we know that Akal Purakh di Fauj has always stood against any political injustice and oppression. The farmers’ protests are not about any agenda or vested interests, but the state has to understand that they cannot ignore their voices and opinion.”Sharing meals with farmers and witnessing the protests during his visit, Gurshabad said, “Even at the protest site, one can see how sewa is being performed. The farmers are serving langar to everyone and are very organized with their chores while protesting as well. They are protesting aggressively but not in a violent manner. Their aggression is in their determination to fight for their rights.”Meanwhile, the Council of Diploma Engineers’ Association, Amritsar, has also lent their support to the farmers’ agitation. “We support the farmers’ protests and instead of coming down on their dissenting farmers, the Centre should solve the matter through dialogue. The recent attempt to ransack the peaceful protests through force is condemnable,” said Ashwani Kumar, zone convener, Diploma Engineers’ Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-music-sweeps-punjab-as-singers-lend-voice-to-farmers-stir-179805
04-12-2020||Jhajjar||Will seal Delhi if talks fail, warn farmers||Farmers camping at the Tikri border spent the day waiting for the outcome of the meeting of their top leaders with the Centre and contemplating the next course of action to seal all nearby entry points to Delhi if the meeting remained inconclusive.Punjab farmers discussed the issue with local leaders, who stressed taking the help of people residing nearby to execute the plan in an effective manner.“We will not only seal all entry points to Delhi, but also cut off supply of milk and vegetables from Haryana to the national capital. We have done our homework and are waiting for directions from our top leaders,” said Joginder Ghasi Ram Nain, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.Nain said people residing in villages near the Delhi border and khap leaders were supporting the agitation and they would not face any issue in sealing the borders.“We will have no option but to seal all entry points to Delhi if the government does not give any positive response. The plan has been discussed with Haryana leaders, who are making preparations in this regard,” said Purushottam Singh Gill of the BKU (Lakhowal).Vikas Sisar, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said 17 farmers’ organisations in Haryana were fully equipped to seal Delhi if Thursday’s meeting failed to bear any fruitful result.A team of medical practitioners from Bathinda led by Dr Mewa Singh Barar distributed free medicines among the farmers. Aam Aadmi Party activists from Mundka in Delhi organised a langar for the farmers.Sonepat: Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh reached the Singhu border on Thursday in support of the ongoing protest.Members of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh Haryana and Haryana Power Engineers Association, Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad and Nihang Sikh groups led by Baba Balbir Singh reached the inter-state border to extend support.Amanjot Singh (67) of Sangrur said they would stay put till their demands were met. He said they had no problem in staying put as they had come with ration for six months and langar was available at adjoining gurdwaras.Mahenderjeet Singh of Jalandhar said they had come to save their livelihood and had been staying on the roadside for the past seven days for their rights.Gurnam Singh of Bathinda said the government should hear their demands as these were not for farmers alone, but for the common man as well.“The cold wave cannot deter us from our mission as we have been irrigating our fields in bone-chilling nights,” said Simranjeet Singh of a Patiala village.SidelightsTake back cases: JJPChandigarh: The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Thursday demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during the ongoing farmers' agitation. Addressing a press conference, JJP leader Digvijay Chautala said the state government must take back the cases. He said a delegation of the party would meet the Chief Minister and Home Minister in this regard.ZP member quitsHisar: A Zila Parishad member from ward 5 in Sirsa district, Sunita Jhorar, on Thursday resigned from her post in support of the farmers' protest. The Zila Parishad (ZP) member submitted her resignation to the deputy commissioner and urged the Centre to accept the demands of the farmers.Khaps back agitatorsSonepat: Members of the Antil khap arrived at Singhu border with 25 trolleys filled with dry ration. Hawa Singh Pehalwan, khap chief, said they would give all possible support to the farmers. Surender Dahiya, chief of Dahiya khap, said they had urged the government to resolve the issues athe earliest. Ashok Saroha, spokesperson of Saroha khap, said their president Randhir Singh had decided to support the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-seal-delhi-if-talks-fail-warn-farmers-179608
04-12-2020||Rohtak||No dearth of funds, food as support continues to pour in||Farmers from Punjab camping at the Tikri border are fully equipped, as being claimed by them, to carry out the agitation for next several months as they have neither dearth of funds nor shortage of food.They have not only collected a huge amount of funds from their villages concerned but also rationed things like rice, flour, moong, sugar, diesel and petrol to stay put at the border for long. Even locals are providing vegetables, fruits, milk, lassi, sweets and other eatables to them. Significantly, the farmers have now kept their ration safe for future and are using those donated by locals daily.“The preparation for the protest started in November and we had collected over Rs 3 lakh funds from our village for it. The amount has been donated by land owners at the rate of Rs 150 per acre and Rs 40 per bigha,” said Gurlal Singh of Baliyan village in Sangrur district.Singh said a similar pattern was adopted by a majority of the villages in Punjab to collect the funds. “So far, we have spent some money from Rs 3 lakh for buying diesel. Other villagers are ready to donate more if needed, hence money is no issue,” he added.Jasvinder Singh from Muktsar said for the first two-three days, they spent the money for buying milk but now locals were providing them not only milk but also water, lassi, ladoos, halwa, jalebi, fruits and vegetables. Even langar was also being organised by the locals daily. “Hence, we are not using our ration for now. It has been kept safe for the time of crisis,” he added.Satvinder, another protester from Mansa, said “Many NRIs have also been in our constant touch and they want to donate money for the agitation but we have kept their offer on hold as every village committee has, at present, sufficient amount of money to meet their daily requirements,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-dearth-of-funds-food-as-support-continues-to-pour-in-179611
04-12-2020||---||Badal, Dhindsa return their Padma awards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 3Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal today wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, saying he was returning the Padma Vibhushan Award in protest against the “betrayal of the farmers” by the Government of India. “I am returning the award due to the shocking indifference and contempt with which the government is treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation of the farmers against the three farm Acts,” he wrote.Parkash Singh Badal, SADBetrayal by government I am returning my award in protest against the betrayal of farmers by the GoI.Social activist Medha Patkar called it a slap on the face of the Modi government.In a separate announcement, SAD-Democratic president and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said he was returning the Padma Bhushan conferred on him last year. Dhindsa, who recently quit the SAD, was hitherto seen close to the BJP.SS Dhindsa, MPStand by farmersWe too are sons of farmers. We stand shoulder to shoulder with protesting farmers. Pradesh Congress chief Sunil Jakhar hailed Badal’s decision to return the award, but said it had come “too late” as the farmers had been protesting for two months now. He asked the Centre to give in to the farmers’ “genuine” demands and repeal the “black” farm laws.Dhindsa’s son and former Punjab Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa has, meanwhile, given a call to all political parties to back the country’s ‘annadatas’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badal-dhindsa-return-their-padma-awards-179612
04-12-2020||Satya Prakash||SC grants Sumedh Saini anticipatory bail in Multani case||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 3The Supreme Court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case, “considering the fact that the impugned FIR has been lodged by the brother of the deceased after a period of almost 29 years from the date of incident”.“We are of the opinion that the appellant (Saini) has made out a case for anticipatory bail,” said a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, which had on September 15 granted him interim protection from arrest.It also took note of the fact that the offence of murder under IPC Section 302 was added subsequently to the case on the basis of the statements of Jagir Singh and Kuldip Singh, who turned approvers in the case. The top court, however, asked Saini to surrender his passport, co-operate with the investigation. If arrested, the former Punjab DGP would be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties in the like amount, it said.Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. The murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-grants-sumedh-saini-anticipatory-bail-in-multani-case-179625
04-12-2020||---||More batches of farmers from Bathinda leave for Delhi||Bathinda, December 3Fresh batches of farmers are leaving for Delhi to participate in the agitation against the new farm laws. The group is carrying ration and other essentials with them for several months.Balvir Kaur, a leader of BKU Dakonda, said, “Farmers using different modes of transport reaching at the protest venue these days. A group of 50 farmers under the banner of the BKU (Dakonda) left for Delhi from Aklia village. They carried ration and other essential item with them to sustain them there for months. A majority of protesters are women.”Another group of farmers, under the banner of Punjab Kisan Sabha, left from Mansa to take part in the protest. Leading the group Harpreet Singh Bhaini Bagha, a union leader, said, “Banking on massive support garnered both national and international level, our just agitation against black laws have gained required momentum now and it’s time that we keep it going.”Farmers from different villages in Bathinda also left for Delhi to participate in the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-batches-of-farmers-from-bathinda-leave-for-delhi-179557
04-12-2020||thinda||Farmer dies of ‘cardiac arrest’||A farmer in his fifties from Laleana village in Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, died at the Delhi-Tikri border in the wee hours of Thursday.  Lakhbir Singh, who had been protesting farm laws along with other farmers, reportedly suffered a heart attack. He was rushed to the PGI, Rohtak, where he was declared brought dead. “Lakhbir complained of uneasiness on Wednesday night following which he suffered a heart attack. Fellow farmers took him to PGI Rohtak, but he had breathed his last by then,” said  Harjinder Baggi, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). “Known for his seva bhavna, Lakhbir had been doing voluntary service at langars during the agitation. Earlier, he had quite actively participated in protests at Badal village. Farmers  said they had advised him to return, but he refused to go back, saying he was committed to the cause. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-179558
04-12-2020||---||Cooks from Malerkotla to join farmers||Sangrur, December 3 Thousands of farmers protesting at the Delhi border will be able to taste traditional dishes of the Muslim community from Friday morning as Malerkotla has started sending ration and vegetables to them. Apart from it, special cooks having expertise in local cuisine have also gone to support farmers.  “Malerkotla has a history of brotherhood. Here we all support each other and have started sending ration to Punjab farmers who are protesting against the Central laws. All Muslims of the country are supporting farmers and we hope that with this ‘Pyar Ka Kaafla’, we will further strengthen our relationship,” said Ertiqaul Hasan, Mufti Azam, Punjab.  He also said the growing support for farmers would compel the Central Government to roll back the laws.  “Locals are contributing ration and other material in ample quantity as they know it is time to stand with farmers to save the country,” he said. Residents of Malerkotla have contributed ration, vegetables, rice and other required items to support farmers. Three trucks and two pick-up vehicles were sent while in the coming days, more would be sent as per the requirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cooks-from-malerkotla-to-join-farmers-179559
04-12-2020|| ---||Rs 5 lakh relief each for families of 2 farmers||Chandigarh, December 3  Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday expressed grief over the death of two farmers, Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, while participating in the ongoing protests against the Central agriculture laws. The Chief Minister has announced a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased farmers, who hailed from Mansa and Moga districts, respectively. Extending his condolences to the bereaved families of the deceased farmers, the Chief Minister prayed to the Almighty to give them courage to bear the irreparable loss in this hour of grief and grant eternal peace to the departed souls. Notably, Gurjant Singh, from Bachhoana village in Mansa district, died in Delhi, while Gurbachan Singh (80), from Bhinder Khurd village in Moga district, died due to a massive heart attack during a protest at Moga on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-5-lakh-relief-each-for-families-of-2-farmers-179560
04-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Farmer Uprising born of  long struggle||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 3Punjab’s farmers’ movement didn’t spring up overnight, but is born of years of farm leaders’ struggle, several cases slapped on them and stories of facing the police brutality as that of finding support in the masses they fight for.The present uprising is the product of a sustained struggle of past five decades, says Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan). The present crop of leaders, including Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Sukhdev Singh Kokri, Nirbhay Singh Dhudike, Dr Darshan Pal and Surjit Phul are the product of battles for justice waged in the 1970s when incidents like “Moga Goli Kaand” and assassination of popular student leader Pirthipal Singh Randhawa caught the imagination of the youth. The same crop joined the farmers’ legendary uprising that started in 1984, when Punjab’s Raj Bhawan was gheraoed for several weeks.The journey of these leaders is full of sacrifices and struggle. Jhanda Singh Jaithuke, senior vice-president, BKU (Ugrahan) at one point of time was facing around 50 criminal cases. A famous tale goes about him that once cops in Rampura Phul hanged him upside down in the front yard of a police station and beat him mercilessly.“But they couldn’t shake his resolve to build a strong peasant movement. Similar is the story of Sukhdev Kokri and Joginder Singh Ugrahan, who were facing dozens of cases and spent several months in jails. Kokri, at one point of time, had two dozen cases against him, one under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).BKU (Krantikari) president Surjit Phul, who is known for raising voice against any state atrocity, became one of the first victims of the draconian UAPA in 2009.Now the leadership which became active five decades ago is entering the seventies but it has certainly inspired a new crop of farm activists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-uprising-born-of-long-struggle-179561
04-12-2020||---||Cong wary of BJP ‘plan’ to involve Capt in talks||Chandigarh, December 3With farmer leaders adamant on repeal of the Central agri laws, Punjab Congress leaders are wary of BJP’s strategy to involve Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in its meetings with peasants to end the deadlock. The outcome of the meetings, which could go either way, could also prove counter-productive for the party.Capt-Shah meeting shady, says AAPAfter meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday, Capt Amarinder sought an early resolution of the deadlock and urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations. He also appealed to the farmers to find an early solution to the problem that was adversely impacting the state’s economy and posed a serious danger to national security.The Chief Minister categorically said he and his government were not involved in mediation in any way and the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and farmers. However, sources said since the Chief Minister was the first to speak against the Central laws and even passed three amendments to the legislations, he had influence on the farmer leaders protesting on the Delhi borders. The sources did not rule out the possibility of the Centre insisting on the Chief Minister’s participation in the talks with farmers.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party stae youth wing president Meet Hayer said the Chief Minister should tell the people of Punjab whether or not he exerted pressure on Home Minister Amit Shah to repeal the Central agriculture laws. The youth leader said the Chief Minister telling the Home Minister to resolve the issues and concerns of the farmers expeditiously made no sense at this point in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-wary-of-bjp-plan-to-involve-capt-in-talks-179562
04-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar pinnis to power protesters at Delhi border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 3Since 3 am this morning, the local gurdwara at Nauli village in Jalandhar has been reverberating with chants of women singing shabads and praying while they cook sumptuous desi ghee pinnis for their brethren lodged at the Delhi border to protest the farm Acts. Men, women and children have gathered at the dera to prepare pinnis so that these can give strength to the farmers staying put in the chilly evenings on the border.A group of 20 men shall set out from the village at dawn tomorrow to offer the langar and pinnis prepared for the farmers. “Saade veeran vich taakat aave, thand ghat lagge, asi ehi chahunde aan… (We want our brothers to stay safe from cold),” said Paramjit Singh, a resident of the village.Nauli village has been a steadfast supporter of the agitation, ever since farmers began moving to Delhi to oppose the Acts. Announcements were made from the village gurdwara, asking residents to come forward for the marathon cooking at the community kitchen in solidarity with the protests.This morning, women started with an ardass and chanted shabads all day long as they stirred, rolled, cooked and prepared the material for pinnis. While jatthas from the village have been going to offer support to the farmers previously too in the form of langar, this time the village decided to cook a quick snack which can act as an instant boost of energy.Kamaljit Kaur (50), a resident of the village, who has been cooking since morning, said: “Sada ki fayda je kisan veer bhukkhe reh jaan. Sade vaste hi datte hai thand vich. Asi chaunhnde a oh bhukkhe na rehn. (What good are we if our farmer brothers remain empty stomach there. They are standing strong in the cold for us). We are sending them pinnis and langar. It shall give us a lot of satisfaction.”Paramjit Singh, a resident of the dera, said: “We believe wrong Acts have been passed. Farmers have gone in protest against them. We want them to feel strengthened. That’s why we are sending pinnis. We have been sitting here since 3 am. At dawn, 20 men from the village shall leave with over 5 quintal pinnis which we shall give at the bhandara there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-pinnis-to-power-protesters-at-delhi-border-179563
04-12-2020||New Delhi||Diljit, Kangana in Twitter spat||Actors Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut were embroiled in a bitter war of words over the farmers’ protest on Thursday, a Twitter spat that began with Shaheen Bagh protester Bilkis Bano but soon spilled over to name calling, Punjabi identity, the Delhi riots and even some muscle flexing. Diljit is a celebrity singer-actor from Punjab and Kangana is a Bollywood star known for her combative comments. They began bickering on the social media platform on Wednesday evening and continued till well into Thursday. Earlier this week, Kangana misidentified a woman farmer from Punjab as Bilkis Bano, the octogenarian who made international headlines during the anti-CAA protests earlier this year in the Delhi neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh. She shared a tweet alleging that the ‘Shaheen Bagh dadi’ also joined the farmers’ agitation over the new agri laws at various border points of the national capital. She retweeted the post with pictures of two elderly women, including Bilkis Bano, and wrote that the “same Dadi” who featured in Time Magazine was “available in 100 rupees”. When Twitter users pointed out that both the women were different, she reportedly deleted her tweet. The floodgates opened after that. Diljit shared a BBC interview of the woman whom Kangana had wrongly identified as Bilkis Bano and tweeted on Wednesday that her name is Mohinder Kaur. “Listen to this with proof, Kangana. One shouldn’t be so blind... You are saying just about anything,” the actor said in Romanised Punjabi. As the protest by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, gathered momentum, he found support from fellow Punjabi star singers Ranjit Bawa and Himanshi Khurana. In the vitriolic exchange that followed, Kangana called Diljit names and asked if he wasn’t ashamed of defending somebody who “instigated” the Delhi riots earlier this year. She also said her comments were directed towards Bilkis Bano and not Mohinder Kaur. Diljit retorted. “These people aren’t from Bollywood, they are from Punjab. You know how to lie and instigate people by playing with their emotions,” he added. And it went on. Singer Ranjit Bawa waded in with his view and said, “We all love him. Sardars aren’t anyone’s slaves. We have come up on our own.”  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-kangana-in-twitter-spat-179564
04-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur---||Injured Sukhdev firm to stay put in Delhi: Kin||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, December 3 Even as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and BJP social media chief Amit Malviya have been slugging out over the photograph of Kapurthala-based farmer Sukhdev Singh (67), his family today confirmed that he had got injured after being hit by the police batons. The photograph of Sukhdev Singh running to save himself from the police lathicharge had been posted by Rahul Gandhi a few days back on his Twitter handle, after which the BJP teams had counter-posted a short video to somehow show that he had not been hit. Today, the farmer’s testimonial video, who is stranded at the Singhu border, went viral. In the video, he showed injury marks on his left arm while also complaining that he got hit by the police on the back and lower legs.  Sukhdev’s family at Sanjogla village here said he had told them about the injuries on the very first day when he got hurt. “We told him to return if he was not feeling well because of his wounds but he was adamant to stay back. He said he had taken medicines for pain relief. He told us, ‘Hun tan morcha fateh karke hi aawanga’ (I will return only after our protest brings us victory),” said his 30-year-old son Sewa Singh. Sukhdev’s wife Malwinder Kaur said, “My husband left here on Day 1 of the morcha. He neither belongs to any farmer association nor has he ever participated in any protests earlier but he was determined to go this time. He picked some clothes and ration and left in a trolley that ferried farmers from the village and told me that he may not return for a month or so.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/injured-sukhdev-firm-to-stay-put-in-delhi-kin-179565
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Writers return Akademi awards||Expressing solidarity with the ongoing Punjab farmers’ movement against the recent farm laws, three Punjabi writers have returned their Sahitya Akademi awards. A press note issued on Thursday by the Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, the biggest body of Punjabi writers, said among those who had returned their awards were literary critic Jaswinder Singh, Punjabi playwright Swarajbir Singh and Delhi-based poet Mohanjit. Five years ago, a number of Punjabi writers had returned their awards following the killing of several intellectuals and rationalists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/writers-return-akademi-awards-179566
04-12-2020||Amritsar||Pak drones carrying arms spotted in Ajnala||At least five drone sorties carrying arms or contraband were made in past three days from across the border by Pakistan-based “anti-national forces” supported by the ISI in Kot Razada border village in the Ajnala sector here, police sources said.The first attempt was made on the intervening night of November 30 and December 1 while BSF jawans heard buzzing sounds of drones in the area during next intervening night (December 1-2). They also fired indiscriminately to shoot it down, but they returned to Pakistan.Though an initial search operation yielded nothing, intensive search operations are continuing in the area. According to sources, the sorties were made between 11.15 pm to 12.30 am on the intervening night of December 1 and 2 and between midnight to 12.40 am on November 30- December1.Similar drone sorties were made in September this year to pump in around 80-kg weapons. This had come to light during the interrogation of an alleged terror module busted by the Punjab Police following seizure of weapons in Tarn Taran.As the winter sets in and dense fog engulfs the region, the BSF faces a stiff challenge to check the movement of drones from across the international border.The BSF officials said the issue of purchasing an anti-drone system with 360-degree surveillance capacity and GPS jamming system was being taken up at appropriate levels.“Until then, we are working in close coordination with the Punjab Police to strengthen the second line of defence in order to check the movement of drones where they can drop the consignments of drugs or arms,” a BSF official said.The BSF had been holding monthly coordination meetings with the Punjab Police in this regard, he added.The use of drones first came to light in September last year when the police nabbed some alleged Khalistani operatives and recovered a burnt drone from their possession. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-drones-carrying-arms-spotted-in-ajnala-179567
04-12-2020||Bathinda||Lab official booked in blood transfusion row||The city police have booked another medical lab technician (MLT) in the infamous HIV-positive blood transfusion row that took place over the past two months here at the blood bank unit of the Bathinda Civil Hospital.MLT Richa Goyal was booked under Section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Goyal was booked at the behest of the district attorney who also sought documents for scrutiny to find out the role of Dr Karishma Goyal in the matter.Kotwali SHO Devinder Singh said: “We have booked MLT Richa Goyal as the blood issued by her later infected patients. We have conducted raids but could not arrest her. Earlier, MLT Baldev Singh Romana was booked and arrested on charges of attempt to murder and is in judicial custody.”Apart from Richa Goyal and Baldev Singh Romana, Dr Karishma has already been dismissed from her services by the Health Department after cases of HIV-positive blood transfusion to thalassemia patients started to surface in October this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lab-official-booked-in-blood-transfusion-row-179568
04-12-2020||Karam Prakash||Survey: Most Covid victims suffered from diabetes||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 3Diabetes has emerged as the single biggest contributing comorbidity factor behind Covid-19 deaths in Punjab.Around 88 per cent of the deceased had diabetes, the state Health Department said.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, State Nodal Officer, said diabetes was one of the most prevalent comorbidity factor behind Covid deaths in the state. He said as per a ‘death audit’ by a team of PGI doctors, diabetes was followed by hypertension and kidney ailments.He said, “Though the audit team is yet to submit the final report, the findings have already been discussed in meetings. The team had conducted an audit of around 3,000 Covid deaths.”Bhaskar said a large number of Covid deaths had multiple comorbid conditions, which reportedly became the cause of their deaths. Health experts said patients with comorbidities were immunocompromised, therefore, they were at a higher risk.The committee has also observed that patients, in majority of the cases, had reported late to government facilities and consequently, their health had already deteriorated to a severe condition before they reached the hospitals.Regarding the second Covid wave, Dr Manjit Singh, Director, Punjab Health Department, said, “We are fully prepared for the second wave as we have already recruited 107 specialists and 367 medical officers. Besides, testing will be increased to above 30,000 per day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/survey-most-covid-victims-suffered-from-diabetes-179569
04-12-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Magistrate needs to examine complainant, witnesses: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 3 In a significant judgment on the issue of summoning an accused residing beyond a magistrate’s jurisdiction, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the judicial officer was required to examine not only the complainant, but also his witnesses, for taking a decision on the existence of sufficient grounds for proceeding against the person. Justice Sanjay Kumar asserted there appeared to have been some ambiguity and lack of clarity on the exact scope and extent of the inquiry posited under Section 202 of the CrPC in so far as an accused living beyond the area of jurisdiction of the magistrate was concerned. But the issue stood settled in light of Supreme Court judgments in the matters of Vijay Dhanuka and Abhijit Pawar. “In terms of these two decisions, it is now clear that it would be sufficient if the magistrate, for the purpose of deciding whether or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, examines not only the complainant but also his witnesses,” Justice Kumar said. Section 202 deals with the summoning of an accused residing beyond the magistrate’s jurisdiction. In his detailed order, Justice Kumar added if the magistrate considered and applied his mind to the statements made by the witnesses in addition to the statement made by the complainant, apart from documentary evidence, if any, while coming to the conclusion on the existence of enough grounds to proceed against the accused, it would be a sufficient exercise on his part to pass muster under Section 202 of the CrPC. Justice Kumar said there was no restriction placed upon the magistrate that he should not go by such statements, if already recorded under Section 200 of the CrPC while inquiring into the matter and applying his mind at the stage of Section 202.  “Application of mind on the part of the magistrate is what is made the sine qua non (essential condition) to fulfil the mandate of holding an inquiry under Section 202 CrPC and such application of mind must be manifest and apparent from the order issuing process,” Justice Kumar asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/magistrate-needs-to-examine-complainant-witnesses-hc-179570
04-12-2020||---||Record 129% hike in paddy arrival at Fazilka||Our CorrespondentFazilka, December 3Fazilka district has recorded maximum rise in the arrival of permal variety of paddy in Punjab this year, which has raised eyebrows.According to official sources, Fazilka recorded 2,81,187 MT paddy arrival this year, as compared to 1,23,059 MT last year, which means 129 per cent increase. There is more than one reason for the steep increase in paddy arrival this year. Firstly, private traders, including some rice millers, have imported paddy at lower price from other states. Sources said the private traders had purchased paddy at Rs 1,200 to 1,300 per quintal while the MSP was fixed at Rs 1,888 per quintal by the government. The paddy was purchased from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan.“The arrival of paddy from other states cannot be ruled out but the quantity cannot be ascertained,” said Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO), Fazilka. Some trucks were also seized by the government on the border whileentering Punjab.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that an increase in paddy yield was also reported this year. Sources in the Agriculture Department said last year, the yield was recorded at 4,715 kg per hectare, which had increased to 5,890 kg per hectare due to conducive weather this year.On the other hand, the arrival of basmati variety of paddy has come down drastically. Last year, 4.18 lakh MT of basmati paddy was recorded, which has come down to 2.86 lakh MT this year, showing that farmers had switched over the permal variety of paddy due to ensured MSP being offered by the government and uncertainty in the price of basmati paddy. “The area under cultivation of permal variety of paddy has increased this year,” the CAO claimed.Official sources said Punjab had seen an all-time high paddy procurement this year, with a jump of nearly 25 per cent as compared to the previous year.Sources said Sangrur topped the table with procurement of 22.5 lakh tonne, followed by Ludhiana 19.5 lakh tonne and Patiala with 16 lakh tonne. The procurement season also prolonged for 45 days as compared to just a month last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/record-129-hike-in-paddy-arrival-at-fazilka-179571
04-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Man arrested for abetting suicide of wife, daughter||The police claimed to have resolved the mystery surrounding the death of three members of a family of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar.  The deceased were Geetinder Kaur (35), her mother Pritam Kaur (60) and Geetinder’s daughter Gurnoor Kaur (10). DSP Sucha Singh said Rajbir Singh, husband of  Geetinder Kaur, had been booked and arrested under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC by the police. The case has been registered on the statement of Gurmeet Kaur of Malout (Muktsar), aunt of Geetinder. She alleged that Rajbir Singh used to harass Geetinder mentally and physically. “Rajbir Singh misbehaved with Geetinder on Wednesday too,” alleged Gurmeet Kaur in her statement to the police.      Geetinder got married to Rajbir Singh in January after divorcing her first husband. She was pregnant and her mother had come to look after her. Gurmeet alleged that when Rajbir Singh tortured Geetinder on Wednesday, she, her mother and her daughter consumed some poisonous substance and died. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-arrested-for-abetting-suicide-of-wife-daughter-179572
04-12-2020||---||AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s petitions dismissed||Chandigarh, December 3Nearly five years after a Ludhiana Court issued summons to now Aam Admi Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on a complaint filed by MLA Bikram Singh Majithia alleging defamation, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today refused to interfere in the matter.Dismissing two petitions filed by Sanjay Singh, Justice Sanjay Kumar asserted the summoning order clearly demonstrated application of mind by the Magistrate at Ludhiana. All relevant issues were duly considered by him before issuing summons.Then serving as Revenue Minister, Majithia had filed a complaint dated January 7, 2016, for defamation, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Section 499, read with Sections 500, 501, 502 and 120-B of the IPC.He alleged on September 5, 2015, the petitioner made scurrilous and defamatory statements against him at a rally at Moga, which were published in an English daily by the accused editor, editor-in-chief and a reporter (not The Tribune). Again, the petitioner made similar statements about him on December 27, 2015, at a public rally at Fatehgarh Sahib and they were published in the newspapers. The import of these statements was that he was involved in drug trafficking.Justice Kumar observed it appeared that the accused editor, editor-in-chief and reporter, thereafter, apologised to Majithia and the complaint was dismissed as withdrawn insofar as they were concerned. The petitioner alone remained as the accused in this complaint case.Justice Kumar added it appeared that Sanjay Singh misled the High Court to the effect that exemption had not been granted on July 18, 2019, upon his application, though it was actually otherwise.The petitioner filed an application immediately thereafter for the order’s modification, but that was after he secured interim relief on the strength of his factual misstatement. “This conduct on his part could not be countenanced as the counsel appearing for him before the Magistrate at Ludhiana would have been well aware of the outcome of the exemption application on that day itself, even if the order had not been uploaded or was not available”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-mp-sanjay-singhs-petitions-dismissed-179573
04-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Last season’s dues pending, cane crushing starts at Fazilka||Fazilka, December 3 The crushing of sugarcane began at the Fazilka Cooperative Sugar Mill amid farmers’ wait for their dues of the last crushing season, amounting to over Rs 8.54 crore.  Fazilka Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu inaugurated the crushing today.  As per sources, sugarcane is cultivated across 1,300 hectares in Fazilka district. The mill is running under its capacity due to the shortage of sugarcane.  “Farmers are reluctant to grow sugarcane due to a delay in the payment by the government,” said Lal Chand Jhinja, a traditional grower of Beganwali village of Fazilka district.  Girish Chander Shukla, general manager of the mill, said, “There is a requirement of 16 lakh quintals of sugarcane to run the mill to its optimum capacity for stipulated 130 days, but Fazilka farmers have been able to contribute only 8 lakh quintals, which is half the required quantity. We will have to bring the sugarcane from other areas to meet the requirement,” said Shukla.  Shukla said subsidised sugar was being offered to the sugarcane growers. He called upon the farmers to grow more sugarcane to sustain the functioning of the mill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/last-seasons-dues-pending-cane-crushing-starts-at-fazilka-179574
04-12-2020|| ---||Sahitya Ratna Awards announced||Chandigarh, December 3 The Punjab Language Department has announced Sahitya Ratna and Shiromani Awards for 18 different categories of literature and art. The awards were finalised in a meeting of the State Advisory Board chaired by Higher Education and Languages Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa here today. After the selection, he congratulated all award winners. He also expressed hope that they would continue to play a constructive role in building a better society. Punjabi Sahit Ratan for the year 2015 has been awarded to Om Prakash Gasho, to Gurbhajan Bhullar for 2016, to Gulzar Singh Sandhu for 2017, to Fakhr Zaman for 2018, to Dr Tejwant Mann for 2019 and Dr Barjinder Singh Hamdard has been selected for 2020. Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar award has been bestowed on Joginder Singh Kairon for 2015, Taran Gulzar for 2016, KL Garg for 2017, Atarjit Singh for 2018, Kirpal Kazak for 2019 and Dr Manmohan has been selected for 2020. Shiromani Hindi Sahitkar has been given to Vinod Shahi for 2015, Sukhwinder Kaur Bath for 2016, Raji Seth for 2017, Bali Singh Cheema for 2018, Ajay Sharma for 2019 and Dr Kirti Kesar has been selected for 2020. Shiromani Urdu Sahitkar has been given to Mohammad Fayaz Farooqi for the year 2015, Nadeem Ahmed Nadeem for 2016, TN Raj for 2017, B. D. Kalia Hamdam for 2018, Mohammad Bashir for 2019 and Rehman Akhtar for 2020. Shiromani Sanskrit Sahitkar for Rama Kant Angrish for 2015, Ved Prakash Upadhyay for 2016, Damodar Jha for 2017, Kanhiya Lal Parashar for 2018, Virender Alankar for 2019 and Dr Sharan Kaur for 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sahitya-ratna-awards-announced-179575
04-12-2020||Patiala||Scrap power Bill, say PSEB engineers||The PSEB Engineers’ Association supported the protesting farmers and opposed the draft amendment of the Electricity Act - 2003 through the Electricity (Amendment) Bill-2020. “The state has rejected the proposed amendments. The move of the Centre to implement the farm laws is a part of the strategy to introduce privatisation at every step,” said Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president, PSEB Engineers’ Association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scrap-power-bill-say-pseb-engineers-179576
04-12-2020||Patiala||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan reviews Patiala developmental works||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan held a meeting with Deputy Commissioners of the Patiala division regarding various developmental works today. She said the government was hopeful of getting the Covid-19 vaccine. She directed the DCs to ensure the provision of toilets in government schools and anganwadis, having the facility of drinking water, by December-end. Mahajan was in Patiala to review the status of the ongoing projects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-secretary-vini-mahajan-reviews-patiala-developmental-works-179577
04-12-2020||Faridkot||Chairman of 3 Adarsh schools booked for fraud||The chairman of the management committee of three Government Adarsh Schools in Faridkot and Moga districts has been booked for allegedly misappropriating funds received from the School Education Department for disbursing salaries to teachers. The police found chairman Narinder Singh Randhawa of the Sukh Sagar Welfare Association and his daughter Harsimran Kaur, principal at one of these schools, guilty of cheating. The department had also found Randhawa guilty of making fake enrollment of 22 teachers in these schools. It is alleged that six teachers, each at Adarsh School Middumann and Pacca villages and 10 teachers enrolled at Adarsh School, Ransingh Kalan, never visited the schools but their salaries were being drawn by the chairman. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chairman-of-3-adarsh-schools-booked-for-fraud-179578
04-12-2020||Amritsar||Seepage in Golden Temple walls||IIT-Ropar to hold e-convocationRopar: Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, will hold its ninth convocation virtually. IIT director Sarit K Das said the pre-recorded convocation would be streamed on YouTube at 2.30 pm on Friday. TNSGuru Nanak Chair at Canada varsityAmritsar: To promote Sikh religious studies, the Concordia University in Montreal has set up a Guru Nanak Dev Academic Chair. The first Chair on Sikh religion in Canada has been dedicated to the 550th Parkash Purb of the founder of Sikhism. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seepage-in-golden-temple-walls-179579
04-12-2020||---||Protest against Khattar: Chandigarh police use water cannons on Punjab Youth Cong workers||Chandigarh, December 2The UT police today resorted to the use of water cannons to stop workers of the Punjab Youth Congress from marching towards the residence of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The police said around 11 am, a large number of Congress workers, led by Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon, marched from the Sector 15 office of the Punjab Congress headquarters to the Sector 3 residence of the Haryana CM to protest against “mishandling” of farmers in Haryana and Delhi.The police said during the protest, the workers broke barricades. Water cannons were used to stop them, but they managed to proceed towards the CM’s residence. However, they were stopped near the Sector 2/3 small chowk.The police have registered a case against Barinder Dhillon and others under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station.Some Youth Congress workers allegedly pelted journalists from electronic media with stones following which a scribe was injured.Capt condemns attack on scribesThe Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, has strongly condemned the alleged attack on some journalists by Youth Congress workers. He expressed regret that a scribe was hurt and promisedstrict action against the perpetrators of the violence. “You’ve to lead by example and uphold law,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-against-khattar-chandigarh-police-use-water-cannons-on-punjab-youth-cong-workers-179060
04-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s first women president Kanupriya joins farmers’ protest at Singhu border||Panjab University’s first women president Kanupriya has been protesting along with farmers at Delhi’s Singhu border. Talking about the agitation, Kanupriya said she had been taking part in farmers’ struggle ever since they gave a call for Punjab Bandh on September 25.Now in Delhi for five days, she talks about her political aspirations and reasons for stepping into the protest.“I do feel responsible for societies that stretch beyond Panjab University. This movement has brought economic consciousness among peasants, who are now fighting against privatisation and corporatisation,” said Kanupriya.“I joined the protest because the government maintains that these farmers have been misled. If you don’t have food security, there are more chances of war-like situation,” she added.“There’s no active politics than participating in people’s struggle. Many people have tried and failed. I don’t want to try a failed experiment,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panjab-universitys-first-women-president-kanupriya-joins-farmers-protest-at-singhu-border-179073
