05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hikes rates of diesel and petrol by about Rs 2 per litre||Hard pressed for funds, the Punjab Government on Tuesday amended the value added tax to hike rates of diesel and petrol by about Rs 2 per litre. The hike will be effective from intervening midnight of May 5 and 6.Punjab follows Delhi which has already raised diesel price by Rs 7.15 and petrol by Rs 1.67 some days ago.Haryana had increased petrol prices by Rs one and diesel by Rs 1.10.The Punjab Government on Tuesday late evening notified amendments in Schedule E appended to the Punjab Value Added Tax Act, 2005 thereby increasing “rate of tax”, from “11.8 per cent to 15.15 per cent”.The amendments were notified after due approval to the same was accorded by the Governor in exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 8 of  the Punjab Value Added Tax Act, 2005 (Punjab Act No.8 of 2005), and all other powers enabling him in this behalf.
05-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Fresh FIR against Moosewala after another video goes viral||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 5Within 24 hours, Punjab police have registered another FIR against Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala for violating curfew at Dhuri police station after his another video went viral on Tuesday.Police officer say in the latest video, Moosewala can be allegedly seen firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range.Sangrur SSP Dr Sandeep Garg said case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against Moosewala, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal, Jang Sher Singh and five policemen, including a Sub-Inspector, two Head Constables and two Constables.“After getting video in the evening and in the preliminary investigations it has come to light that before going to Badbar firing range, they went to Ladda Kothi shooting range. We have registered another case under same sections as registered by Dhanauala police against the same accused and started investigations” SSP Garg told The Tribune.Also read: SHO suspended for providing gunman to suspended DSP in Moosewala caseAfter a video went viral on social media on Monday, the Dhanauala police had registered a case against Moosewala and others for violating curfew. On Monday after the video went viral, Dhanauala police registered case on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, who also ordered immediate suspension of DSP (Headquarters), Sangrur and ordered departmental inquiry for dereliction of duty.Apart from Virk him, five other police officers Sub-Inspector, two Head Constables and two Constables were also suspended and all cops were cops were posted at Sangrur. “The departmental inquiry against all suspended six cops is on. We would conduct thorough investigations,” the SSP said.
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sanctions Rs 35 crore for transportation of stranded migrants||The Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government on Tuesday sanctioned Rs 35 crore, in the first phase, towards its share of the migrants’ cost of transportation by the Indian Railways.The first special ‘Shramik Express’ train carrying 1,200 stranded migrants left Punjab for Daltoganj, Jharkhand, on Tuesday.The state government is estimating that 5 to 6 lakh of the stranded migrants could opt for train travel to return to their homes from Punjab, with the rest expected to go by road.Taking Rs 640 as the average ticket price, the State Executive Committee has approved Rs 35 crore as the initial amount needed. The funds have been sanctioned under the National Disaster Relief Act, 2005.According to an official spokesperson, 25 per cent of the sanctioned amount has been transferred on immediate basis to the DCs, who have been authorised to pay to the Railways directly and give the tickets to the registered passengers.The remaining amount will be transferred to the DCs, who have been asked to prepared state-wise lists of stranded migrants wanting to go back to their native places, on a daily basis, the spokesperson added.All the workers who wish to travel back to their homes have been enrolled on the state portal and the schedule of the trains with other relevant details are being communicated to them via SMS.As per the available data, more than 6.44 lakh migrant workers interested in returning to their home states have registered on the state government’s specially created portal – www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in.The Chief Minister had on Monday written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking the commencement of special trains for their transportation from May 5.In his letter to Shah, the Chief Minister had mentioned that his government would indicate its daily requirement of trains in advance to the Ministry of Railways for the next 10-15 days to transport all the people who had registered on the portal.State government officials are coordinating, on the ground, with senior Railway officials and officials of recipient states to facilitate the smooth movement of the migrants, the spokesperson added.A large number of labourers come to Punjab seasonally from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and other eastern states to seek temporary employment in both industrial and agricultural sector.They could not leave in March, as they usually do, due to the imposition of the national lockdown.
05-05-2020||---||Will give 21,000 Punjabis abroad wanting to return option for quarantine on payment basis in hotels: CM||Chandigarh, May 5As the state prepared to handle a large influx of NRIs from other nations and stranded people from across the country, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday issued a series of directives to check the spread of the deadly Covid, including strict directives to the Health Department to ensure mandatory screening of all such returnees, with institutional quarantine for those coming back from high-risk regions of India, and hotel/home quarantine for the NRIs.To deal with the additional pressure, the state government has also decided to rope in universities and state-run labs, with the Chief Minister sanctioning an immediate amount of Rs 12 crore for equipment and operational expense for 6 such institutions, namely Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL), North Zone Jalandhar; GADVASU, Ludhiana; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjabi University, Patiala; Punjab Biotech Incubator, Mohali, and Punjab Forensic Lab, Mohali.The state government has also decided to come to the rescue of the central government testing facilities, which are unable to enhance their capacities due to non-availability of kits from ICMR.The Chief Minister has directed such centres to purchase kits for use for testing in Punjab from the open market, for which the state government will bear the expenses.The state is currently testing 2,800 persons a day, a significant increase from 1,500/day last week.The Chief Minister also directed the DCs to prepare a list of private hotels that can be utilised for paid quarantine, while asking the Health Department to make an inventory of functional/non-functional private hospitals.The decisions were announced during a video conference held by the Chief Minister with health and medical experts. During the meeting, Capt Amarinder also ordered an immediate readiness audit of level 1 and 2 facilities, pointing out that as of now, 21,000 Punjabis settled abroad want to return home. He also directed the expert committee to formulate its own guidelines and protocols and not take any chances.Making it clear that he did not believe in the reliability of the certificates that the respective nations were required to give to the returnees, the Chief Minister said the NRIs should be given the option for quarantine, on payment basis, in hotels and at home, under supervision, pending testing, which should be done within 4-5 days of arrival.On those coming from within the country, the Chief Minister said given the Maharashtra (Nanded) experience, wherein 27 per cent of the more than 1,000 Punjabis who had returned so far had already shown positive results, the state government would take no chances. All such returnees would have to be quarantined in state centres, he added.Earlier, in his detailed presentation, Dr KK Talwar underlined the need for RT-PCR testing of all those returning from red zones around the country. If positive, they should be shifted to Level 1, 2 or 3 healthcare facility as per the clinical status, and if negative, they should be strictly home quarantined for 14 days, put on COVA app, and follow-ups done by health teams. In terms of other preparedness, the meeting was informed that university campuses and hostels were being roped in, at Level I, to quarantine those with mild symptoms of Covid. For Level II, 500 beds were ready at 24 centres, which included all district hospitals, as well as isolation centres at Phagwara and Khanna. Private hospitals were being involved to scale up the facilities at Level II and III.
05-05-2020||Kapurthala||Denied free ration, policeman’s kin kill depot holder in Kapurthala||A depot holder was allegedly beaten to death after he refused to give free ration to a policeman’s family members in Kapurthala on Tuesday.Police have registered a case against four people, including three members of the policeman’s family, in this regard.According to police, the incident took place in the Lahori Gate locality of Kapurthala when depot holder Anil Mahajan (35) and his brother were distributing slips for free ration, meant for BPL families under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The accused have been identified as Debo, her sons Bhola and Arjun, and their friend Nanu. Police said depot holder Anil Mahajan was beaten to death as he did not give free ration to the accused.They had asked Mahajan for their free ration slip, on which the depot holder replied that their name was not included in the list.This infuriated them after which they attacked the depot holder with lathis and mercilessly beat him to death, police said.The body was sent to the local civil hospital for a post-mortem.The accused are absconding, police said. PTI
05-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||23-year-old declares a migrant woman COVID-19 positive in his video, booked for spreading fake news||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5A 23-year-old man from Subhanpur village was booked by Kapurthala police for allegedly spreading fake news on the COVID-19 pandemic.Notably, the accused circulated a video via WhatsApp group, in which it was shown that a migrant woman from Bihar was being taken to a quarantine centre, and he declared in the video that she was COVID-19 positive.In the video, the man said: “A COVID-19 positive case has been reported in Subhanpur.” This led to panic among the residents of the village.The police said the woman was taken for a check-up by the health team and police officials, and the accused recorded the entire video.“The problem is that he declared the woman COVID-19 that resulted in fear among people, even when her tests reports have not arrived yet,” SHO Subhanpur Jaspal Singh.He added after the video went viral, the Senior Medical Officer told him about the incident after which the police plunged into action and registered cases.“There is no chance that we will leave such miscreants who are spreading fake news at this time,” he said.The cases have been registered against the accused under Section 505 (Statements conducting to public mischief), Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act 2005.
05-05-2020||Aman Sood||SHO suspended for providing gunman to suspended DSP in Moosewala case||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 5Patiala police on Tuesday suspended “with immediate effect” Inspector Gurpreet Bhinder posted as SHO, Julka police station, for allegedly providing head constable Gagandeep Singh as gunman to now suspended DSP Daljit Virk in an “unauthorised manner”.A notice by the SSP asks “why three months of salary should not be deducted from the suspended SHO”.The action comes two days after controversial Punjabi pop singer, Sidhu Moosewala, was booked by Barnala police in a criminal cases against him and five police personnel, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range went viral on social media.Two national-level shooters — Karam Singh Lehal and Jang Sher — also named in FIR against MoosewalaThe cases were registered on directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, who also ordered immediate suspension of DSP (Headquarters) Sangrur, Daljit Singh Virk, pending inquiry on charges of delinquency in duty.Meanwhile, two national-level shooters — Karam Singh Lehal and Jang Sher — have also been named in the FIR against Moosewala.Lehal was skeet shooter and Jang Sher a junior trap shooter for Indian shooting team. Jang Sher Virk is the son of suspended DSP Daljit Virk.After the video went viral, the DGP directed the Sangrur SSP to conduct a preliminary enquiry, which prima facie established that the DSP had facilitated shooting at the firing range in Badbar village, at a time when the entire state is under curfew.“For this lapse Inspector Gurpreet Singh Bhinder and HC Gagandeep Singh are suspended with immediate effect and departmental enquiries are also initiated against both officers,” the Patiala SSP said.In addition to this, a separate show cause notice has been issued to Inspector Gurpreet Singh Bhinder regarding violation of orders of DGP Punjab vide letter no 320-85 /PS/DGP/ PB (Unauthorised Deployment of Force ) regarding deduction of three-month pay.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu confirmed the developments claiming that “lackadaisical attitude and dereliction of duty will not be tolerated”.“Anyone providing gunmen without authorisation will face the music,” he said, adding that Bhinder has provided a gunman attached with his police station to the suspended DSP.Already a criminal case, under Section 188 of IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, has been registered at Police Station Dhanaula, Barnala, against Sidhu Moosewala, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal, Jang Sher Singh, and five police officers, including one Sub-Inspector, two Head Constables and two Constables.Meanwhile, Punjab Police Headquarters has moved a reference to the State Home department for initiating departmental enquiry against DSP Daljit Singh Virk, the spokesperson further disclosed.
05-05-2020||Gurdaspur/Patiala||Punjab gangster tests positive for coronavirus; 30 cops quarantined||A notorious Punjab gangster tested positive for coronavirus in Gurdaspur's Batala, where he was brought on a production warrant in a murder case from a Patiala jail.Gurdaspur Civil Surgeon Krishan Chand said gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria's test report came on Tuesday afternoon, confirmed him to be a coronavirus case.Over 30 policemen who questioned him in the murder case of Akali leader Dalbir Singh will be quarantined, said Batala SP (Headquarters) Jasbir Singh Rai.Rai said their blood samples are being taken by a team of doctors.Bhagwanpuria, whose real name is Jagdeep Singh, was brought to Batala from the Patiala jail on April 30.He has several criminal cases, including murder and robbery, registered against him. He will be admitted to a hospital for treatment, the SP added.Meanwhile, Bhagwanpuria's mother Harjit Kaur, who is a sarpanch of Bhagwanpur village in Batala, held a protest outside the Civil Lines police station, demanding that her son be given better treatment. Meanwhile, the development has sent Patiala district authorities scurrying to screen inmates and jail authorities at Patiala Central Jail, where Bhagwanpuria was kept before he was taken to Batala on April 30.  District authorities have zeroed in on around 12 people--- including inmates and jail officials---who may have come in contact with the gangster, who was kept a separate cell since April 21, when he was found with a mobile phone. “We have informed the health team who came in contact with gangster while he was lodged inside the Patiala Central Jail,” said a Jail official.In the meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said,“The team today visited the jail and did an exercise of contact tracing. If need be, we will take the sample of close contacts tomorrow.” --- PTI/TNS
05-05-2020||---||Punjab police not to deploy personnel with medical issues, women with kids under 5 on frontline Covid duty||Chandigarh, May 5Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, on Tuesday, barred all police personnel with medical issues, as well as women police officers with children under 5 years of age, from frontline duty, in a bid to protect them from undue exposure of Covid-19.The decision has been approved by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who has asked the DGP to ensure all protective and welfare measures for the COVID-19 frontline warriors.The DGP said there had been concerns expressed on this count during several calls received on the newly-launched tele-counselling facility for anxious police COVID-19 warriors and their families.At present, there are over 48,000 police personnel engaged in curfew enforcement and relief measures across the state. The facility was launched on April 20 to equip police officers and their families with additional information and skills to cope with the psychological aspects of the COVID-19 duties, including a high degree of risk of contracting the infection.Several calls were received regarding issues of health and safety of women police personnel who were either lactating mothers or mothers of children under age of 5 years, who needed the mother’s constant presence.Separation from young children was causing hardship, worry and anxiety, especially in cases where the husband and wife were both members of the police force, said the DGP, adding that in response to these concerns, it was decided not to deploy such women on the frontline duty.Similar apprehensions were forthcoming with respect to personnel suffering from various medical issues, especially respiratory distress, which could aggravate their risk factors, he added.Necessary directions have been issued to Range IGP/DIGs, Commissioners and SSPs to ensure that police officials with pre-existing medical issues, and women police personnel with children below 5 years of age, are not posted on frontline duties in view of their peculiar and specific circumstances.Giving details of the tele-counselling service, launched by Punjab police in partnership with Chennai-based NGO Mastermind Foundation, ADGP (Community Affairs) Punjab Gurpeet Deo said the foundation director, Col Thiagarajan, had offered to the state police the services of a panel of 10 trained psychologists, who had volunteered for this unique initiative.Within two weeks of its inception, the app-based helpline has received and handled around 130 calls, of which 104 calls resolved through counselling whereas in about 23 cases, counselling is ongoing. The remaining cases pertained to administrative issues.The app provides audio guided therapy, psychometric tests and also contains articles on mental health. It addresses common problems such as stress and anxiety, and includes training for developing mindfulness.In addition, on the request of DGP Punjab, doctor members of the Punjab IPS Officers’ Wives Association (PIPSOWA) have also created an awareness video for Punjab police personnel and their families, which outlines the early warning signs of COVID-19 and the precautions which need to be taken to avoid contracting the virus.
05-05-2020||Pathankot||Research fellow spreading awareness about coronavirus through giant hoardings in Pathankot||In her crusade against the coronavirus, a 34-year-old gold medallist in visual arts is making giant hoardings of the “corona devil” to raise awareness about lockdown in Pathankot city.Renu Kashyap, along with her brothers Yogesh Pal Sunny and Gagandeep, is spreading the message why it is important to stay home, wear masks and gloves and follow social-distancing norms.During the pandemic, people are contributing to support government efforts in different ways, and Kashyap said she is doing it through paintings.“We can see several people still violating the lockdown norms who ignored the frequent administration appeals after which I, as an artist, have made planning to spread awareness about COVID-19,” the junior research fellow in visual arts said.She started her campaign against the virus after Pathankot Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira got “impressed” by her idea during a discussion.“We have planned to draw images and slogans on 10 different locations in the city. Five have been done,” said Kashyap, who has got a two-year fellowship in the Ministry of Cultural Affairs.“At a particular point, giant images of a corona devil with size near about 20 by 20 feet were being made by me and my two brothers. It’s my way to fight against the global pandemic,” she added.Kashyap has received three state awards from former Jammu and Kashmir Governor NN Vohra for her work on sculptures.Additional Deputy Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplash said this is a great move by her to spread awareness. PTI
05-05-2020||Gurdaspur||Danish woman works overtime against coronavirus in Gurdaspur||A Danish woman, fondly called a 'videshi bahu' or 'memsaab' in Gurdaspur in Punjab, has taken it upon herself to make the poor people in the district aware about the deadly virus menacing through the world and ways to keep it at bay.Working among slum residents, Natasha Natalie Sommer is energetic and full of life and voluntarily assists the Punjab Red Cross Society in helping the underprivileged.She said she was inspired by the work done by the Punjab unit of the Society after her husband, Malkit Singh, was successfully treated for drug addiction by it.Sommer had fallen in love with Singh, from Sundal village, on a social networking site and came to India in January last year and solemnized marriage with him as per the Sikh tradition.Singh then told her about his addiction and she took him to Siberia for treatment.However, on his return to Punjab, Singh again got into drug addiction, after which Sommer took him to the de-addiction centre of the Red Cross Society where he recovered.Inspired by the Society's work, she started serving the weaker sections of the society.And even during a pandemic, she is doing her bit in slums like Ram Nagar and Bhatha colony, keeping in mind the dreaded situation back home, though her country – Denmark – has tackled the coronavirus relatively better than the rest of Europe.The Nordic country was among the first outside Asia to ease restrictions, in mid-April, and has not reported an increase in the rate of spread of the contagion.From distribution of food packets, masks, sanitiser and other essential items to helping others prepare them, Sommer is contributing to the fight against the virus in all ways she can."We are serving in slum areas and spreading awareness. I know this pandemic is too hazardous as several people in Europe have been gripped by the disease. The situation is not good here too. We have to serve the poor to keep the pandemic under control," she said.Romesh Mahajan, a well-known philanthropist in Gurdaspur, said people in the villages stand up to have a glimpse of the “memsaab”.Though she hails from a well-to-do family, she is humble and always cheerful, Mahajan said. PTI
05-05-2020||Faridkot||Faridkot reports 26 new coronavirus cases, district tally stands at 44||Faridkot reported 26 new coronavirus cases, officials---a development that makes it the highest single-day rise yet for the district.Of the number, 22 were people just returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded. The number includes a 5-year-old child.Four others were agricultural labourers who just returned Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, where they had gone in March t to harvest mustard.This takes the total number of cases in Faridkot district to 44. Of these, 37 are pilgrims.Meanwhile, two of Faridkot’s three patients who tested positive mid-April have been declared cured after they tested negative in two consecutive tests.
05-05-2020||Jalandhar||With 1200 migrants, Shramik Special train leaves Jalandhar for Jharkhand||The first ‘Shramik special’ train, carrying 1,188 migrant workers stranded in Punjab, left Jalandhar for Daltonganj in Jharkhand on Tuesday.The train ferrying migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar left at 1.15 PM and is expected to reach its destination at 10 AM on Wednesday.Migrants across India have been left without work amid the lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus. Unable to meet ends here since the last 40 days, the migrants were in high spirits to join their families in their native villages.Vikas Kumar, an 18-year-old man, who had arrived here at the beginning of this year, said the lockdown had made survival difficult for over a month now.“I had come here to earn some income so that I could support my family back in Palamu district in Jharkhand. However, I am jobless since the COVID outbreak. I can’t tell when I will resume my job but I am glad that finally, I’ll be able to eat three times a day. I could manage to eat regular meals only until for the first week of the lockdown, thereafter we relied on the ‘langar seva’,” he said.Another migrant, Deenanath (40), who was standing on the queue to get his registration clearance at the railway station, said that he had run out of ration and money immediately after the lockdown.“As a daily wage earner, my family of five was dependent on the little savings that sustained us for not more than ten days,” he said. He was staying here with his wife and three children at a rented accommodation near Focal Point.“The landlord kept asking us to pay the rent. So I gave him Rs 600, but soon after I didn’t have any money and there were days when we slept on an empty stomach. My wife and children are happy now that they will be at home without any shortage of food. I will also do farming back home to keep my pockets filled,” added Deenanath.Many other migrants, including women and children, boarded the train. The migrants started began coming to the station at 8 AM. Amid high security, only those who had completed their online ticket registration and gone through COVID testing were allowed to board the train.The decision to run the train came after the Centre allowed the inter-state movement of migrants and students during the lockdown. ADC Jasbir Singh said special arrangements were made to bring the migrants to the station. Roadways buses were roped in to bring the migrants from assigned spots and all necessary precautions were taken, including screening of passengers and maintaining social distancing at the station and inside the buses. The migrants were not anything and the administration paid Rs 7,01,200 to railway authorities before the commencement of the journey.
05-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Night before train journey, migrant workers were too excited to sleep||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5Monday night was a sleepless night for many of the migrant labourers who had waited for nearly two months to go back to their families in Jharkhand. Knowing that the Shramik special train was to leave for Daltonganj, Jharkhand, on Tuesday, the migrant workers were too excited to sleep. There was also fear that they might miss the train if they slept.They got a message from the district administration at 11.30pm and they reached for medical screening at three centres at 5am even though the train was to leave at 1pm.While sitting in the train as it was ready to leave, an elated Surender Yadav said that his wife and four children were in Jharkhand while he had been living in Jalandhar all alone. “My children would cry daily and ask me to come home. The moment I received the message about the train, I called my children,” Yadav said.Sanjay, another migrant worker, said that it was a restless night for him. “We couldn’t sleep. There was excitement and fear both. We were just praying for everything to go smoothly and that we reach the railway station on time,” he said.Till they boarded the train, there was uncertainty in their minds. Migrant worker Vijay said that although they had arrived early in the morning at the centres for the screening by the health workers, only when they boarded the train they could heave a sigh of relief that they were finally going back to their families.
05-05-2020||Vijay Mohan||Expecting massive inflows, Bhakra Beas Management Board advises states to be proactive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5With the Himalayas having received heavy snow during the winters, Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) is expecting massive inflows into the reservoirs at Bhakra and Pong. Consequently, the board has advised beneficiary states to take proactive measures ahead of the dams’ filling season to deal effectively with the situation.According to BBMB sources, the average depth of snow cover in Bhakra’s catchment area at present is 480 mm as compared to 230 mm last year. This translates to fresh water equivalent of 19-20 billion cubic metres. About a third of the catchment area lies in Himachal Pradesh and the remaining in Tibet along the course of the Sutlej.In 2019, there was excess inflow into Bhakra and Pong dams following freak weather events, causing floods in some parts of Punjab. “Last year, the inflows were about 4-5 billion cubic metres (BCM). This year, it could be 6-12 BCM depending on the snow melt which varies due to weather conditions,” a senior BBMB official said.BBMB officials said the situation is being monitored regularly. “A committee comprising chief engineers of member states has been set up for the purpose, which video-confers every week and decides upon pro-active releases and other related steps to be taken,” he said. With summers setting in, inflows are increasing due to snow melt. States are being advised to draw additional water and fill up their canals and drains so that reservoir levels are depleted appropriately to cater for the expected inflows. “We are stressing that the states use canal water to the maximum extent possible and also use this for recharging ground water,” the official said. The dam’s official filling season lasts from May 21 to September 30.Already, the level at Bhakra dam is over 30 feet lower than that of last year. Data compiled by the Central Water Commission show that the dam’s reservoir at present is filled up to about 33 per cent of its total capacity. While the storage was 56 per cent at this time last year, the present level is more than the average for the past 10 years for this time. At Pong dam, the present storage is about 58 per cent as compared to 46 per cent last year and the 10-year average of 29 per cent.The average inflow into Bhakra during the past 40 years was 4.63 BCM, while the outflow was 4.04 BCM. The highest inflow and outflow during this period was in 1990, recorded at 7 BCM and 5.02 BCM, respectively.
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports 219 new cases, state tally now over 1,450||Punjab on Tuesday reported 219 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s infection tally to 1,451.Gurdaspur (48), Tarn Taran (47), Fazilka (34), Faridkot (27), Sangrur (22), Muktsar (15), Ludhiana (14), Jalandhar (6), Kapurthala (5) and Patiala (1) all reported new cases, the state's evening bulletin showed.About 73 per cent of Tuesday's cases---160---were pilgrims.Fifteen migrant labourers were among those who tested positive on Tuesday.Gurdaspur reported the highest number of case on Tuesday---of its 48 new cases, 41 of which were pilgrims who had recently returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. They had gone there to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib and had been living together at the shrine complex.One was a prisoner.Gurdaspur's tally stands at 84.Tarn Taran reported 47 new cases, of which 46 were pilgrims. One was a patient who recently came back from Jaisalmer. The development takes the district's tally dramatically to 87.Fazilka had 34 new cases---33 pilgrims and one migrant---taking the district's tally to 38.Faridkot saw 27 new COVID-19 positive cases. 22 of whom were Nanded pilgrims. The number includes a 5-year- old child.The remaining were migrant labourers.The development takes up the district's tally from 18 to 45.Sangrur reported 22 more COVID-19 cases, a development that takes the district's numbers to 85. Twenty-one of them were pilgrims.Kapurthala reported five new cases, all pilgrims. The district's infection tally now stands at 18.Muktsar reported 15 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 64 One was a pilgrim, nine were migrants and three were policemen.Among those who tested positive were two Assistant Sub-inspectors (ASIs) posted at the Malout (City) police station and one policeman of Chandigarh tpolice, who belongs to a Muktsar village.Ludhiana reported 14 new cases, nine of which were pilgrims. Four were contacts of a previously diagnosed case and one was a new case with no known contacts diagnosed with the virus. The district's total stands at 134.Jalandhar reported six new cases of the deadly disease, taking the district tally 134. Of these, three were pilgrims and one was a combine worker.  One other was a new case. The new patients have been quarantined at a center in Meritorious school.Patiala reported one case, a contact of an already diagnosed person. This takes the district tally to 87.A gangster, Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, tested positive at Batala Civil Lines police station, leading to district authorities screening over 40 policemen, a superintendent of police among them, officials said.This has yet to be added to the state's tally. Cases in Punjab have risen dramatically over the past week alone---74 per cent of the state's coronavirus infections have been recorded since Wednesday.Eighty-seven per cent of the 1,076 cases registered over the past one week have a Nanded connection.Amritsar has the highest number of cases in Punjab at 218. At 134, Ludhiana now has the same number of cases as Jalandhar. They are followed by SAS Nagar (95) cases, Hoshiarpur (88), Patiala (87) and Taran Taran (87) Sangrur (85), SBS Nagar (85), Gurdaspur (84), Muktsar (64), Faridkot (45), Ferozepur (42), Failka (38), Bathinda (36), Moga (28), Pathankot (27), Mansa (17), Fahegarh Sahib (16), Kapurthala (18), Ropar (14), and Barnala (19).Ten districts---Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, Tarn Taran, Sangrur, SBS Nagar and Gurdaspur---account for over 69 per cent of Punjab's cases. Punjab also revised its death tally to 25---taking into its count two deaths recorded on Monday. A 55-year-old Hoshiarpur man and a 22-year-old woman from Amritsar both died of the infection on Monday.Also read: With 1200 migrants, Shramik Special train leaves Jalandhar for JharkhandMeanwhile, the first special train carrying 1,188 migrant workers stranded in Punjab left Jalandhar for Daltonganj in Jharkhand. Migrants across India have been left without work amid the lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus.
05-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Hoshiarpur's wooden inlay industry needs support to get back on track’||Hoshiarpur’s unique wooden inlay-work handicrafts has been facing tough times. Gurnesh Jain, owner of Kanhaya Lal Brij Lal, established in 1855, feels that subsidy, relaxation in tax and government support are required for this artisan-based wooden inlay industry to survive. In an interview with Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, he throws light on effects of the lockdown on the industry. Here are the excerpts:How has the lockdown affected the wooden inlay industry?It is almost closed. There is little production as some employees are working from home only to support them. It is like something is better than nothing. They are carving designs and doing the inlay job at their home only.Do you expect resumption of work on a large scale in near future?We are learning and keeping the workplace clean and sanitised. Masks, spectacles and gloves should be provided to every employee. Though the 'work from home' concept is not new in this industry as several rural artisans earlier used to do so, now Covid-19 has again revived it. But there is little production as some employees are working from home only to support them.Gurnesh Jain, owner of Kanhaya Lal Brij LalChances are looking bleak. Since the industry is ultra non-essential and comes after even luxury, it may get hit harder after the lockdown. Something innovative needs to save the industry.Has any major order or investment been cancelled or deferred?We fear most of the orders will be cancelled. It will be difficult to keep the prices same, which were promised before the lockdown. In the coming days, we have to be ready to face bigger issues due to a hike in the expenditure and cost incurred to sustain the industry and labour during the lockdown.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Since the earnings are nil, we are using our bank credit limit for paying the salaries to our workers. We are also paying workers some amount in advance.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown?We are keeping the workplace clean and sanitised. Masks, spectacles and gloves should be provided to every employee. Though the 'work from home' concept is not new in this industry as several rural artisans earlier used to do so, now Covid-19 pandemic has again revived it.Do you see the current scenario a challenge or an opportunity?It is an opportunity with a challenge to survive. There is an opportunity because it is teaching us how to sustain in tough conditions. It is a challenge because we have been making efforts to survive.What are your expectations from the government?Cottage industrial units should be allowed to open under specific minimal guidelines. The government should help us to work amid the changing style of business. Realising our constraints, the government should motivate and train us to abide by its advisories. Instead of punishing the industry for any violation, the government should motivate it to comply with norms. It must reduce the GST after the lockdown in order to attract people towards wooden inlay-work handicrafts. Besides, we are looking forward to packages from the government as it seems costlier to pay employees from our own pocket. It has to give the industry loans and subsidies. The government should set up a task force to bring innovations in designs for using wood.
05-05-2020||Manav Mander||Doctors feel unsafe in ‘substandard’ kits||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 4Doctors, who are on the front line of the fight against Covid-19, should be the government’s main priority, but they are ill-equipped to win this battle against the deadly virus. The personal protection equipment (PPE) kits provided to them are not up to the mark when it comes to their quality.Doctors at the Civil Hospital have complained that the quality of PPE kits given to them is below standards.A few staff members fell unconscious due to low-quality material used in manufacturing of these kits.Dr Milan Verma, a surgeon from the Civil Hospital, has shot a letter to the Civil Surgeon, Deputy Medical Commissioner, and the District Nodal Officer for Covid-19, raising her concern over the substandard kits. The letter says the PPE kits provided to the staff seem to be made of plastic-like material and their quality is not up to the mark.Dr Verma says the white-coloured kits supplied to the staff are of poor quality. Glasses and shoe covers were already torn in many kits while some are without masks. A few doctors and paramedics fell unconscious after wearing these kits, says the letter.“The staff have to go to the isolation ward and they should be fully protected. But they are themselves falling unconscious after wearing these kits. With the sub-standard material used in manufacturing of these kits, there are also chances of the staff getting infected. These kits should be replaced with quality kits that are as per the government standards,” said Dr Verma.He has also demanded that the company supplying these kits should be blacklisted.The Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Dr Geeta, said she would discuss the matter with the higher authorities.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga, said: “The PPE kits provided to the staff at the Civil Hospital are supplied to them by the government. If the staff are facing problems, we will visit the company supplying the kits and also take up the matter with the government.”Sanyam Aggarwal, District Nodal Officer for Covid-19, said: “These are supplied to us by the department and we further distribute it to hospitals.”There are 22 suppliers approved by the state government for supplying PPE kits. Barring two suppliers, one from Mohali and the other from Kapurthala, all of them are based in Ludhiana.
05-05-2020||Vijay C Roy||Software glitch delays salary of Punjab staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4The Punjab Government has taken in-principle decision to pay full salary to its staff, but around 3 lakh employees could not be paid salary for April due to a software glitch. The state’s monthly salary and pension bill is around Rs 3,000 crore.‘New system in use’A new system is being used for payments…We can disburse Rs3,000 crore in a day, but we don’t want the system to crash. — Manpreet Singh Badal, Finance MinisterThe National Informatics Centre (NIC) operates the new Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) which is used for approval and disbursal of salary, pensions, bills and other payments. The state contract with a private IT firm had ended in March.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, however, said, “We are not deferring salaries and pensions in view of the fiscal crisis. At present, the NIC is operating our IFMS to disburse salary which is connected to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Even the RBI has changed its vendor for IFMS. It’s a new system that’s why we are going slow until we have proper integration. At present, we are making payment of about Rs 150-Rs 200 crore every day. We can disburse Rs 3,000 crore in a day, but we don’t want the system to crash.”“Last month also, the salary was transferred on April 15, 16 and 20. It’s getting delayed just because of a technical glitch, ” he added.
05-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab okays home delivery of liquor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4Punjab will begin home delivery of liquor after the 9 am-1 pm opening hours. Instructions in this regard have been issued by the Excise and Taxation Department. Liquor vends in the state are to reopen on May 6.Having incurred Rs 500 crore excise duty loss in April, by allowing home delivery between 1 pm and 6 pm, the government hopes to boost liquor sale, hence enabling the licencees to pay pending excise duty.“When the lockdown was announced, old licencees were granted extension and they paid 60 per cent of the fee.The remaining had to be paid in the last week of March,” explained Vivek Pratap Singh, Excise and Taxation Commissioner.“Also, if liquor is home-delivered, it will prevent crowding at the vends,” he added. But licencees say liquor being cheaper in neighbouring Haryana and Chandigarh, the move is bound to encourage smuggling. Liquor licencees have written to the CM, seeking 50% cut in the licence fee and more time to deposit the pending fee, according to Varinder Sharma, a contractor.
05-05-2020||---||Punjab stares at crisis, 8.3 lakh migrants prepare to leave||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4Punjab is staring at a work force crisis in the coming days as 4.66 lakh migrant workers in Ludhiana alone are keen to return to their hometowns. The industrial hub houses nearly 40 per cent of the 2.52 lakh industrial units in the state.Punjab CM writes to Union Home Minister Amit Shah for special trains for the next 10-15 days.Till Monday, 8.3 lakh migrants, including 4.4 lakh from UP and 3 lakh from Bihar, had registered themselves for their journey back home. Industrialists say the exodus will lead to multiple problems, pushing the production cost.Also read:Seeking regular jobs, de-addiction centre staff in Punjab go on strikeLack resources to pay workers, but exodus a worry: Punjab Industry“The migrants have not been paid wages for the past 40 days. The exodus will create labour shortage and hiring new labour will become more expensive. Once the lockdown is lifted and the workers are asked to come back, they will demand their pending wages,” said Badish Jindal, national president, Industries and Trade Forum.The UP and Bihar governments today asked Punjab to stall inter-state movement of their natives by a few days as they were busy managing the influx from Maharashtra and other states. To facilitate the movement of migrants, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking special trains for the next 10-15 days.Meanwhile, the first batch of 150 migrant workers today left Patiala for Hanumangarh and Ganganagar by road.“As per the directions of party president Sonia Gandhi to all PCCs, the Punjab Government has decided to pay the fare to the Railways for ferrying the migrants”, PCC chief Sunil Jakhar said.Exodus will impact state’s industrial hub
05-05-2020||Abohar||Mobile tower catches fire||A fire reportedly broke out in a tower in densely-populated Nai Abadi here, triggering panic among residents today.The reason cited behind the mishap is short-circuit.A team of fire brigade, led by Rajesh Kumar, doused the fire in an hour, but by then the flames had spread to the ground floor of the house owned by a supplier of electrical fittings.The tower located on the rooftop of the house in street 10 had reportedly been given to more than one mobile phone service provider despite protest by locals. — OC
05-05-2020||Mansa||Soldier cremated with state honours in Mansa||The last rites of Naik Rajesh Kumar (29), who was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Handwara (J&K) on Sunday, were performed with full state honours at his native Rajrana village in the district today. A contingent of the Indian Army gave him the guard of honour. Villagers gathered to bid him adieu.Kumar was serving in the Brigade of Guards Regiment, part of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles. He is survived by his father, mother, two brothers and two married sisters.DC Gurpal Singh Chahal, SSP Narinder Bhargav and others paid tribute to the brave solider. The SSP said: “ The district police is ready to provide any help to the bereaved family. Kumar’s sacrifice is incomparable as well as it is an irreparable loss to the nation.” — TNS
05-05-2020||Amritsar||SGPC suspends staffer over sacrilege charge||The police have arrested four men, one of them an SGPC employee, on the charge of sacrilege. The SGPC staffer, identified as Nishan Singh, was suspended on Monday.The other accused were identified as Nishan Singh’s son-in-law Mangal Singh and his sons Tajinder Singh and Parminder Singh. They were arrested on Sunday.Golden Temple additional manager Rajinder Singh Rubi said Nishan Singh, an ex-serviceman, was a sewadar at Gurdwara Pipli Sahib here.The matter came to light when an MC garbage vehicle was lifting some sacks from the house of Mangal Singh in Guru Nanak Pura area. On smelling a rat, the vehicle driver looked inside the sacks and, to his surprise, he found holy books inside.He handed over the holy books to a gurdwara. Subsequently, the SGPC and the police were informed.Nishan Singh was present at Mangal’s house at that time. — TNS
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court relief for man accused of misappropriating wheat||The Punjab and Haryana HC today granted interim bail to a Kapurthala man, who claimed that 40 wheat bags allegedly misappropriated by him were actually loaded in a vehicle by him for distribution among the needy.The petitioner-accused Vijay Kumar Arora was seeking the grant of anticipatory bail in his petition filed against the state government. As the case came up for hearing through videoconferencing, Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal’s Bench was told that the petitioner was seeking anticipatory bail in FIR registered on April 8 for criminal breach of trust and other offences registered under Sections 408, 409 and 417 of the IPC, and provisions of the Essential Commodities Act at Kapurthala city police station.His counsel contends that the allegations against the petitioner were that 40 bags each containing 30 kg wheat were being misappropriated by him. He, however, contends that these bags had been loaded in a vehicle for distribution among the needy. He also contended that the petitioner was not involved in any other case.Justice Grewal said: “In the meantime, the petitioner is directed to appear before the IO and join investigation. In the event of her arrest, the IO shall release the petitioner on ad-interim bail subject to his/her satisfaction.” — TNS
05-05-2020||---||Cong worker killed in Kapurthala; 22 booked||Jalandhar, May 4Congress worker Balkar Singh (45) was murdered inside his house in Kapurthala on Sunday over an old enmity, the police have said. In all, 22 persons have been booked in connection with the murder. All of them are on the run.Three accused have been identified. They are Bhupinder Singh Shera (26), Gurtej Singh (24) and Bhalla (24). The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC, and the Arms Act at the Sadar police station in Kapurthala.Balkar’s brother, Numberdar Tirath Singh, claimed: “The accused are drug peddlers. They had been threatening my brother as we had testified against them in a case of attack on the police a few years ago. My brother was earlier attacked for our stance against the drug dealers.” The police, however, refuted the claim.The family refused to cremate the body until the accused were apprehended. The body has been kept in a freezer for the time being.Balkar is survived by his parents, wife and three daughters. “We fear for our lives now,” Tirath Singh said.On Sunday evening, Balkar Singh, alias Mantri, was at his shop run from his home when three people came on a motorcycle and attacked him with weapons.Balkar Singh ran inside home, but the attackers shot him. Injured, his family took him to hospital, where he was declared brought dead.DSP Harinder Singh said, “The police are investigating the matter. The attack was a result of an old dispute. So far, three accused have been identified to be involved.”Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh reiterated that the deceased and the accused had an old enmity. He said, “Balkar Singh and his brother were booked in some case and they are out on bail. Moreover, as per the police record, none of the accused has been booked under the NDPS Act.”
05-05-2020||---||Samana man nabbed for killing ex-cop, son||Patiala, May 4The police have claimed to have cracked the double murder case of a retired head constable and his son, who were shot dead in Samana on Sunday.The accused, identified as Tajinder Pal Singh, was arrested on Monday.Tajinder Pal Singh, alias Peter, allegedly shot dead retired head constable Brahmparkash (68) and his son Sunny (20) over a property dispute, the police have said. They were neighbours. The crime took place around 1.30 pm on Sunday.After committing the alleged crime, Peter fled. He was caught after a car chase, the police said.The incident was captured in a CCTV camera.The accused could be seen collecting empty bullet shells after committing the crime.
05-05-2020||---||Tardy lifting, Punjab farmers to protest today||Muktsar, May 4Irked over the slow pace of wheat lifting from the grain markets, farmers have decided to lodge protests from Tuesday.The problem of tardy lifting will be resolved soon and new gunny bags will be available in the mandis by Tuesday. Agricultural officialNearly 1.5 lakh tonnes of wheat is yet to be lifted from the grain markets and purchase centres across the district.As per a report, 6,98,338 tonnes of wheat arrived at mandis till Sunday evening and 1,82,433 tonnes were yet to be lifted.Some officials of the Food and Civil Supplies Department said the problem would be resolved soon and new gunny bags would arrive in the mandis by Tuesday.
05-05-2020||---||Relaxation cosmetic, say Bathinda units||Bathinda, May 4The state government’s decision to allow the industry to resume operations has failed to enthuse the local units, which termed the move “cosmetic”.As per government’s order, industrial units falling beyond the municipal corporation limits and those operating from industrial areas and focal points would be able to resume their operations after fulfilling the guidelines.Owners of small units are in dilemma as these units have been operating from commercial or residential areas falling within the municipal limits.Apart from other small-scale industry, the air cooler manufacturing units are among the worst-affected. They worry if not allowed to open in the peak season, they would suffer immense losses.Talking to The Tribune, Anil Goyal, president of Malwa Coolers’ Association, said, “At least 70 per cent of cooler manufacturers have been operating from within the MC limits and they won’t be able to resume operations.”
05-05-2020||Moga||Efforts on to increase testing: Minister||Tarn Taran DC motivates staffTarn Taran: With the district reporting its first six Covid-19 patients on April 27, the administration faced a peculiar problem as employees, including those from the Health Department, were hesitant to go to quarantine centres. At this moment, Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal took it upon himself to motivate the staff. He went to the quarantine centre set up at Bhai Bhago College of Nursing without wearing a PPE kit on April 28 and interacted with the isolated persons. “Instead of taking any coercive measures, we decided to motivate them and it worked,” Sabharwal said. TNSRush, choas in Abohar marketsAbohar: In a violation of the curfew, hundreds of people came out as shops opened in the town on Monday. The administration had announced a separate schedule for opening of shops for four hours on different days to avoid overcrowding. But locals even walked past the barricades that were erected to streamline the movement of people. OC
05-05-2020||---||Muktsar village health centre shut as 2 test +ve||Muktsar, May 4The community health centre (CHC) at Doda village here remained shut today after two of its employees were tested Covid-19 positive on May 2.Health Department officials said the samples of nearly 40 employees of the health centre, who have been quarantined, had been sent for testing. The CHC and dispensaries coming under it have nearly 70 employees. A laboratory technician and a ward attendant deputed at the health centre were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Besides, a combine harvester driver, who had returned from Rajasthan to Doda village, was also found infected. The spread of infection among the health workers has compounded the worries of the department. The process to identify other close contacts of the infected employees was on.Meanwhile, the local health officials today received reports of 35 suspected patients. They were all tested negative. Officials said as many as 328 stranded people were today sent back to their home states.
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ramp up testing at Central institutes: Punjab Chief Minister||Concerned over the limited testing capacity of Covid-19 samples, particularly amid the movement of migrants back home, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s direction for ramping up the capacity to 2,000 tests a day at each of the six premier research institutions in Punjab and Chandigarh. All six institutions are under the Central government.These are the PGIMER, Chandigarh; IMTECH-CSIR, Chandigarh; Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali; National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Mohali; National Agricultural Biotechnology Institute, Mohali; and Central University, Bathinda. The Chief Minister on Monday wrote to PM Modi, requesting him to issue directives to the six institutions to scale up their testing capacity and assist the state government in its fight against the global pandemic. The state government, he said, was making efforts to contain the spread of the virus in keeping with the guidelines issued by the Centre. So far, the state has conducted 24,908 Covid-19 tests out of which more than 1,000 have been found positive. — TNS
05-05-2020||Tribune Reporters||Seeking regular jobs, de-addiction centre staff in Punjab go on strike||Bathinda/Phagwara, May 4Members of the Government De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees’ Union, Punjab (contractual and outsourced staff) observed a pen-down strike here on Monday. The members said despite rendering services for years, they had not been regularised by the state government.Inderpreet Singh, vice-president of the union, said, “Contractual and outsourced staff members have been providing services at the de-addiction centre just as regular staff for years, but we have been forced to work on a meagre salary of Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per month. Moreover, there is no health insurance for our family members.”The strike was observed by contractual and outsourced staff at government-run de-addiction centres across the state. Meanwhile, addicts who had come to take medicines at the OPD of de-addiction centres and OOAT clinics were a harried lot. Later, they lined up outside the centre and raised slogans against the state government. Meanwhile, hundreds of drugs addicts had to face inconvenience due to the protest by contractual employees of de-addiction centres in Phagwara, Nurmahal, Nakodar and Phillaur.
05-05-2020||---||Shortage of gunny bags worries wheat growers in Punjab||Bathinda, May 4The shortage of gunny bags at purchase centres has hit wheat procurement in the region, worrying both farmers and commission agents.The state government had directed the authorities concerned to purchase B sample bags from the local market in case of shortage of jute bags, as jute mills have been lying closed amid lockdown, but still the problems persists.Irked over the shortage of bags, the farmers protested outside the Nathana market committee office here today.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said: “We have visited many grain markets in Bathinda district and mostly every market is facing the shortage of gunny bags.”He sought that the state government should provide sufficient bags and speed up the lifting process.Sukhmander Singh, a farmer from Mehta village, said: “My produce has been lying at a grain market in Mehta for one week. The procurement is slow due to the shortage of bags.”Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said: “Earlier, there was shortage of bags as jute mills were closed and there was restriction on the movement of people. Now, there is no shortage.”He said the entire crop would be procured by May 8.
05-05-2020||Amritsar||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu to rescue of craftsmen||A day after The Tribune highlighted the plight of the thathera community (utensil-makers) amid the Covid-19 lockdown, former legislator Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Monday visited their locality in Jandiala Guru and distributed ration kits among nealy 200 families.“After reading about the hardships being faced by them due to the lockdown, I decided to provide them with essentials,” she said. — TNS
05-05-2020||Shivani Bhakoo||Lack resources to pay workers, but exodus a worry: Punjab Industry||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 4Around 4.5 lakh migrant workers, working in factories, brick-kilns and construction sites have got themselves registered with the local administration to go back to their native lands. This has worried the local industry.‘We’re helpless’We know the labourers will go back once the lockdown is lifted. It will be a Herculean task for the industry to start afresh with limited force. But how do we pay them salaries when we are not earning a single rupee? — Badish Jindal, IndustrialistThough the industrialists are worried over migrants leaving the city, they expressed helplessness in providing them regular salaries, especially when factories were shut.“We know the labourers will go back once the lockdown is lifted. It will be a Herculean task for the industry to start afresh with limited labour. But how do we pay them salaries when we are not earning a single penny?” said Badish Jindal, president, Federation of Punjab Small Industries’ Association. Though the state and Central governments gave many assurances to the labourers to stay back, the exodus is a reality.‘Left in the lurch’We have been serving the industry for long. But when the crisis unfolded, our employers left us in the lurch. These are hard times and we want to go home. We will return depending on the circumstances. Ajay Pandey, migrant workerThe industrialists said even if they think of starting operations, there were no workers for that.“We are worried and confused over what to do in these circumstances. The limited labour will demand wages which suit them. The operations in manufacturing units are a challenge now as the trend of leaving Ludhiana by migrants is not going to end. The industry will not come out of the crisis soon,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations.A migrant worker Ajay Pandey said, “We have given our whole life to run the industry in Ludhiana. When the crisis began, our employers left us in lurch. These are really hard times for us and we want to go back.”When asked if he wished to come back, he replied, “Not in the near future, perhaps later, depending on the circumstances.” Another migrant Master Ashok, working at a garment unit, said, “We want to leave the city as soon as possible. Emotional support is more important at this hour than livelihood. Our families back home are worried for us and we want to be with them.”
05-05-2020||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal considers Punjab||Revenue loss huge, may freeze capital expense: Punjab Finance Minister||To what extent, lockdown has affected the state’s economy?We are losing about Rs150-Rs160 crore a day in terms of tax revenue. Besides, our electricity board is losing about Rs25-30 crore a day. This means the loss is Rs6,000 crore a month.Will you be able to achieve the budgeted revenue collection this fiscal? What kind of shortfall you foresee?Even as Punjab is going to open now, the supply has been ruptured. It will take a minimum of six months for it to be restored. Secondly, there is a worry over demand. Many people have lost their livelihood. I fear that demand will be absolutely flat for some time. We might even see a negative trend. In the first quarter, we might end up losing about Rs7,000 crore in tax revenue. Even if we limp along in the next three quarters, the total loss will be around Rs18,000-Rs20,000 crore this fiscal.How are you planning to cope with the revenue shortfall?We might defer capital expenditure for the next fiscal, which would be around Rs10,000 crore for the current year, although I am aware that if no capital expenditure takes place, it affects the quality of governance. You can’t bring the state to a standstill. On the positive side, Punjab is a major agri-powerhouse where some meaningful agricultural activities are taking place.Will the state raise duties such as VAT on petrol and diesel, and excise on alcohol?It’s a double-edged sword. You can have more money by increasing the petrol prices, but it will be like rubbing salt on the wounds of people who are already suffering. I have to strike a balance. It is tempting, but it won’t be good for MSMEs too.What kind of stimulus package are you expecting from the Centre?I am not sure how much the Centre will be able to put through because it is also in a bad shape. It may come up with a lakh and a half crore for the industrial sector, besides offering cheaper credit. I think its hands are also tied and it can’t go beyond a certain point.What steps could be taken for supporting labourers and workers in small-scale industries?We want to open e-commerce to realise the full potential of the small industry. Secondly, we need to have quick policy on getting migrants back. Anticipating manpower need in different sectors, we must publicise the available work. We have to get out of no-production cycle. For this, we need to take steps to restore supply and demand disruption.What lessons are to be learnt from this pandemic?I think not only Punjab, but the entire nation needs to reposition itself in key sectors like pharmacy and pesticides, where China has a complete hold. Besides, we need to give a big push to digital education, entertainment and medical services. We also need to automate government functioning and focus on ease of doing business.
05-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||50 days on, online system of hearing cases still sluggish||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4Nearly 50 days have lapsed since the Punjab and Haryana High Court shifted to restricted functioning mode following the Covid outbreak. But it is still hearing just about 10 cases a day through videoconferencing, virtually turning it into a “denial of justice” phase.The new system, conceptualised by the Chief Justice for streamlining the hearing of cases, came into force from today. But its efficacy remains in the realm of debate for a substantial number of litigants and advocates.It has compelled the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana to shoot off a communiqué to the Chief Justice, seeking reconsideration of its decision to keep open the courts only for virtual hearing. The council has, among other things, stated that the decision to totally close down the courts, when relaxations have been given by the governments, would be unjust, hard and required to be reconsidered.The High Court on March 17 also imposed restrictions on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, making it clear that only urgent matters such as bail and stay would be heard. All other matters were required to be adjourned. The restrictions were extended till May 1 by the High Court for itself and the subordinate judiciary.The High Court on May 2 came out with a new order aimed at perking up the system, making it flexible to accommodate more cases through virtual hearing. But the first day of the new system saw just about 11 cases being heard. Although the cases were filed under the old system, the lawyers do not visualise marked improvement in the mechanism.“Hearing in extreme urgent cases is also almost a denial of justice as most of the advocates are not well-equipped with the functioning of e-courts or appearing through videoconferencing. They are living in limited accommodations and will not be in a position to spare a separate room for videoconferencing,” says chairman Karanjit Singh.He adds that a committee headed by former chairperson Lekh Raj Sharma has recommended functioning of the courts with minimum footfall. As such, the functioning of all the courts in Punjab and Haryana, including High Court, with limited number of advocates and staff, was required to be allowed.Lawyers write to CJ
05-05-2020||---||Sidhu Moosewala booked for ‘violating’ curbs, six cops suspended||Chandigarh, May 4Acting against controversial Punjabi pop singer Sidhu Moosewala, the Barnala police on Monday registered criminal cases against him and six police personnel, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range went viral on the social media. The video purportedly showed some policemen teaching the singer how to fire using their service weapon.The cases were registered on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, who also ordered immediate suspension of DSP (Headquarters), Sangrur, Daljit Singh Virk, pending an inquiry on charges of dereliction of duty. Apart from him, five police personnel were also suspended.After the video went viral, the DGP directed the SSP, Sangrur, to conduct a preliminary inquiry, which prima facie established that the DSP had facilitated the shooting at the firing range in Badbar village, at a time when the entire state is under curfew. On receipt of the report, a departmental inquiry was initiated against the DSP.The DGP took a stern view of the DSP’s act of deputing police personnel attached with him at the shooting range unauthorisedly, and acting in a manner unbecoming of an officer.A criminal case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered at Dhanaula police station, Barnala, against Moosewala, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal, Jang Sher Singh and five policemen, including a Sub-Inspector, two Head Constables and two Constables. All the police officers were posted in Sangrur district and further investigations were in progress, an official spokesperson of the police department said.
05-05-2020||---||After spike for 2 days, dip in fresh cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 4With 130 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 1,232. With two deaths confirmed by the government, the toll is now 23.As per the media bulletin, Sangrur reported highest 52 cases today followed by Tarn Taran with 26 cases, Barnala 15, Ferozepur 13, Faridkot 12, Gurdaspur six, Jalandhar four, Pathankot two, and Bathinda and Mansa one case each.The fresh 52 cases have shocked the Sangrur administration, taking the total number to 63, of which three have recovered. All who have tested positive are under treatment at various quarantine centres of Sangrur. Of the recent patients, a majority are those who returned from pilgrimage while 48 are residents of various parts of the district. “We have been providing them treatment at various quarantine centres and have made the required arrangements,” said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.In Barnala, 15 more people tested positive. The total number of active positive patients has increased to 19. Barnala Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka said all positive patients had been shifted to the isolation ward and the health authorities had started contact tracing.With four more testing positive in Jalandhar district today, the tally has reached 128. All are returnees from Nanded. The positive cases include a 50-year-old man from Guru Ramdass Nagar, Salempur, a 54-year-old man from Janian Kalan village, a 57-year-old man from Adampur and a 54-year-old woman from PAP.Besides the cases reported in the state bulletin, three others were confirmed positive in Amritsar, which include a couple from Raj Nagar and a 50-year-old man from Babu Labh Singh Nagar.As per the Health Department, samples of 28,545 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 21,295 samples were found negative and reports of 6,018 were awaited.Meanwhile, one more Covid-positive patient, identified as Mahesh Singh, died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. He was brought to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, from the Kirti Nagar locality on outskirts of the city, and referred to Amritsar on May 1. He was reportedly a chronic alcoholic and suffering from a lung-related problem.
