05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM asks farmers to ease rail roko agitation, cites coal, fertiliser shortage||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday urged protesting farmers to ease their ongoing 'rail roko' agitation and allow goods trains to pass through, in the larger interest of the state.However, he reiterated his government's complete support to the farmers in their fight against the Centre's new farm laws.Different farmers' bodies had stepped up their agitation by resorting to blocking rail tracks for an indefinite period from October 1 in the state to protest the new farm legislations.Although farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting at rail tracks in Amritsar and Ferozepur since September 24.In an appeal to the protesting farmers, the Chief Minister urged them to ease their rail blockade in order to ensure that the state was able to meet its critical needs and ensure that the citizens, including the farming community, were not put to any serious inconvenience in the coming days.In a statement here, the CM pointed out that due to the prolonged blockade of goods trains, the situation at Punjab's coal plants was critical and they were left with only five to six days' supply of coal.Once the supplies run out, the government will be forced to shut down these plants, which will severely impact the state's electricity supply and cause immense hardship to the citizens, he said.Further with not a single fertilizer rake entering Punjab for the last one week, there could be severe shortage of fertilizers for use by farmers for sowing of the wheat crop, he said. There is, therefore, an urgent need to allow inflow of fertilizer rakes into the state to ensure that there are sufficient stocks for the Rabi season, he said.           Amarinder also pointed out the need to create space for storage of rice and wheat, to be harvested by Punjab's farmers in the coming seasons.For this, the existing stocks of these foodgrains would have to be lifted and dispatched by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to other parts of the country, he said.The CM asked the farmers to take cognisance of these grave concerns and let goods trains to ply through Punjab in order to allow movement of coal, fertilizers and food grains.Such movement was essential to prevent any serious inconvenience to the farmers and other Punjabis, he said, exhorting the kisan unions to heed his personal request in the larger interest of the state. PTI
05-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Man shot dead near toll plaza in Hoshiarpur||Unidentified armed assailants shot dead a man near a toll plaza in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district on Monday, police said.Anakhveer Singh, a resident of Nangal village, was shot dead near the Lachowal toll plaza on the Hoshiarpur-Tanda road in the evening, according to the police.Singh, who ran a drug de-addiction centre, was going towards the Tanda side in his SUV. When he reached about 450 metres ahead of the toll plaza, at least seven unidentified people in two cars intercepted his Scorpio vehicle and fired six-seven shots at him, police said.A case has been registered and an investigation is on, poilice said. PTI
05-10-2020||Patiala||Patiala reports less than 50 corona cases for first time in 3 months||For the first time in about three months, Patiala district on Monday, reported coronavirus cases below 50. Patiala reported only 39 cases, thereby taking the district count to 11,898. The Patiala Health Department informed that there were only 39 corona positives of 1,550 people tested for corona here today.Of the 39 positives, 22 were from Patiala city, three Rajpura, three Samana, four Kauli, one Shutrana and two each from Dudhan Sadhan and Kallon Majra.  The department said the recovery rate had also improved and was about to touch the 90 per cent mark. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 10,613 patients had already recovered. He said, “Though situation has improved, the people should not take the virus lightly. People should come forward for testing if they have any flu like symptoms.”Meanwhile, the district reported only one COVID death over the past 24 hours. With this, the total death count stands at 343 in the district so far.Dr Malhotra informed that a 72-year-old patient, who was suffering from hypertension, died during treatment of COVID-19 at Rajindra Hospital.
05-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cannot borrow money for shortfall in GST compensation: Manpreet Badal||Punjab told the GST Council on Monday that it cannot borrow money, as suggested by the Government of India, for the shortfall in GST compensation to the states.In case of the Centre’s failure to release this compensation, the state will have to adopt “all other legal options at its disposal for dispute resolution with the Centre”. We want our full compensation for GST, as was promised to the state before the GST roll out, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, reportedly told the Council today.The state has not received any compensation this fiscal, though half the financial year has passed by. A sum of Rs 9,000 crore is due to the state (for April-September).Talking to The Tribune after the GST Council meeting ended late in the evening, Manpreet Singh Badal said since there was no headway in the deadlock between some states, including Punjab and the Centre, his advice to Punjab Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his other Cabinet colleagues, would be to explore other legal options, in case Punjab did not get its full GST compensation now and its demand for setting up a GST Resolution Mechanism, is not accepted by the Centre. “Punjab has lost 25 per cent of its revenue base because of the lockdown and subsequent economic downturn. It is unfair not to compensate the state in these hard times,” he said.“States going in for additional borrowing, as suggested by the Centre, is not viable. The Centre has a sizeable sum in the compensation kitty, and an additional sum of Rs 13,000 crore will go additionally in this Compensation Fund due to revised allocation of IGST for 2017-18. All this will collectively form 45 per cent of the revenue gap. For the remaining 55 per cent, should the Centre jettison everything? It would be best if the Centre borrowed the shortfall and compensate states. More than the economics of borrowing, it sends a strong signal to all stake holders in Indian economy of keeping accounts transparent and upfront,” he said.It may be mentioned that during the ongoing financial year, the total shortfall in revenue faced by Punjab till September, is 18.68 per cent, over the corresponding period last year. Of this, the highest shortfall has been in the GST collections (Rs 2104.62 crore). The only area where the state has seen an increase in tax collections is in excise (up by Rs 150 crore over last year). Though the revenues have started looking up since the last month, the state is feeling the pinch on account of the COVID-induced economic slowdown.Finance Minister Badal reportedly also questioned the chairman of the GST Council about how the Centre was proposing payment of compensation to states, beyond the transition period.“We have got legal advice from the Attorney General, saying that no provision exists in the Compensation Act for extending the period of five years for payment of compensation to states. It is only in the case that all states agree to shift part of the compensation outside the transition period that this can be done. Will the Centre go against the advice of the AG? It is legally binding on the Centre to pay the compensation, and we will do all within our means to get this compensation for Punjab,” he said.
05-10-2020||New Delhi||Punjab’s woman sarpanch draws attention of Union govt for ‘water to all’ movement||A woman sarpanch of Punjab, Kulwinder Kaur Brar, has been taken note of by the Union government for her effective leadership of “water to all” movement in her Mehma Bhagwana village in Bathinda district helping in implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).Besides the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, her role has drawn the attention of authorities in Punjab government.The JJM is Centre’s flagship programme which aims to provide piped water connection to every rural household in the country by 2024.“Today Mehma Bhagwana village is a perfect example of community participation and mobilisation to own the JJM scheme where the village has 100 per cent functional household water connection and running it successfully for a population of 1,484 people, which can be emulated by other villages,” a Union Jal Shakti Ministry’s functionary said.But for Kulwinder Kaur, the journey has just begun, as she now plans to work towards grey water management and installation of solar lights in the village.She also has plans to see women from her village become economically independent under the umbrella of self help groups.Since childhood she has seen village women suffering due to paucity of potable water in the village. The JJM was used as an opportunity to turn things right. To take the mission further, the Village Water and Sanitation Committee (VWSC) members went house-to-house explaining importance of piped water supply.  The Gram Panchayat waived off expenditure charges of fees of housheold regarding tap connections.The next milestone was to regularly take up water issue in panchayat meetings. Patriarchy was the main hurdle in implementing this idea, she said.Although Kulwinder Kaur leads the Gram Panchayat as a Sarpanch, very few women actually attended the Gram Sabha.Social milieu, however, gradually changed due to her efforts. Now nearly 80 per cent women attend the Gram Sabha and share their concerns.
05-10-2020||Patiala||Farm acts, labour laws 'cleverly' brought in during pandemic: Rahul Gandhi in Punjab||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi having “cleverly” passed the controversial farm ordinances and the equally divisive labour law amedments at the time of a global pandemic.Gandhi, who was addressing his second rally in the day at Samana in Patiala, said that the new laws were brought in “believing that none of these communities will hit the roads fearing coronavirus”.“However I assure the Modi government that farmers are already on roads and agitating. The whole idea to mislead the nation on farm ordinances has failed,” he said, also bringing in India’s standoff with China into the speech.“Even China is trying to take advantage of it this (coronavirus pandemic) and already the Chinese are occupying Indian land while all our prime minister is doing is just lying,” he said.He accused the central government of making policies that benefited only the country’s rich.“Modi government is busy to protect interests of only few individuals,” he said at a farmers’ rally organised in Samana against three controversial new farm acts.“It forgets that the Indian economy is based on the farmers and small and marginal traders and the poor labourers,” he said in his second rally in the day. He pledged his party’s support to the farmers cause against the new controversial acts.He said people who didn’t believe him now would likely “repent it later”.“In two to three years (they) will face the reality as to how the BJP is out to finish the lower middle class and farming community in particular,” he said.“Punjab took up farming to feed the nation. Neither Modi nor any party could that take away that from the state that has fed the whole country ever since the green revolution,” he said.Significantly, former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu did not attend the rally.Gandhi addressed a similar rally on the controversial farm acts at Barnala Chow in Sangrur earlier in the day.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh criticised the central government’s policies on Monday as opposition parties join farmers’ protest against three controversial farm laws.Amarinder, who was speaking at a farmers rally in Samana where Congress president Rahul Gandhi will address the crowd shortly, called the central government’s agriculture policies faulty and said that they posed a serious threat to the sector.  “Future of farming and farmers is facing a threat due to faulty policies. Congress understands the pain of the farmers who face losses,” he said.He said that the new policies could also pose a serious threat to food security, especially when corporates are brought into the picture.“The Public Distribution System which is stocked to feed the poor families in the country and ensures that the poor are fed — also faces a threat. Big companies will buy produce and will not be able to fill the PDS at subsidised rates and the loss will be of not only farmers but also the poor across the country,” he said.“Farmer and Arhtiyas are backbone or not only state but India’s economy,” he said.Farmers across the country, but especially Punjab, have been holding huge protests against the three controversial farm laws that Parliament passed recently.Farmers are especially worried about the impact of the new laws on Minimum Support Price. Farmers see the new laws as a step toward doing away with the MSP. They argue that the new laws aim at weakening the APMC system, which will in turn lead to exploitation of farmers.
05-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||In serious lapse, thalassemia patient given blood of HIV-positive person in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 5In a serious lapse, the blood bank at Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital in Bathinda issued blood of HIV-positive person, without checking it, to a thalassemia patient kid, putting his life in danger.Moreover, it is also learnt that in May, a woman patient was also given blood of the same HIV-positive person.The negligence of the blood bank officials has now come to the fore. Earlier, efforts were made to suppress the issue but when officials came to know about this, SMO Dr Maninderpal Singh constituted a committee to probe into this matter.As per information, a woman was admitted to a medical ward in the hospital for loss of blood and Dr Gurvinder Kaur was treating the patient. On May 5, the woman was given two units blood. The next day, more blood was required.A regular donor donated his blood through an NGO at blood bank but the officials at the blood bank, without checking the donated blood, issued the blood to the patient. It was later found out that the donor was HIV-positive.The blood bank officials have been blamed on two accounts — firstly, they did not check the blood before issuing it and secondly, they did not inform the patient that she had been issued the blood of an HIV-positive.Now after three months again on Saturday, the same donor donated his blood at the blood bank and this time as well, the blood was issued with negative marking on it to a kid suffering from thalassemia. He was admitted at the children’s ward in the Civil Hospital.SMO Dr Maninderpal Singh said: “A committee of three members has been constituted, which has started a probe into this incident. After the submission of the report, action would be taken in this incident.”Civil Surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said: “A kid patient, who has been given the blood of an HIV-positive person, is being given treatment so that there should no side effect. This is serious negligence on the part of the blood bank officials and the committee will submit its probe report within a day or so, after which it would be ascertained who was at fault.”
05-10-2020||Sangrur||Rahul Gandhi slams Modi govt for 'destroying' procurement system||The Rahul Gandhi-Captain Amarinder Singh tractor juggernaut was unstoppable for the second day of the three-day 'Kheti Bachao Yatra' on Monday, with the two leaders continuing their unsparing attack on the Modi government for its "shameless bid to destroy not just the farmers but the entire nation with their black laws".The central government’s assault on farmers would lead to the ruin of the entire nation, warned Rahul Gandhi, addressing a rally at Barnala Chow in Sangrur at the start of the tractor rally, which was scheduled to travel through Bhawanigarh, Fatehgarh Chhana, Bahmna, to join another rally at the Grain Market in Samana in Patiala district.Also read: Can't allow Rahul to bring huge crowd from Punjab to disturb Haryana's atmosphere: Anil Vij The farmers, however, will not be scared into submission, said Rahul, warning the Modi government that they will brave COVID to fight for their rights out on the streets of Punjab and the rest of the country.Joined by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who lashed out at the Union Government for destroying the time-tested farmer-Arhtiya relationship to hand over Agriculture to big corporates like Adanis and Ambanis, Rahul made it clear that the Congress would not stop fighting for the farmers. Farmers will be left at the mercy of big industrialists by these new laws, whom they will never be able to fight or go to for help, the Congress leaders said, adding that the farm laws will spell doom for the farming community.“Will you go to Adanis and Ambani's when in need, as you do with to the Arhtiyas at present?” the Chief Minister asked the farmers, while Rahul said once these industrialists take control of food, every household will have to pay three-fold for the produce, leading to devastation and suffering for the entire nation. Not only will the farmers lose their land and livelihood, but others associated with the Mandis and the food procurement chain will also be rendered jobless said, Rahul.The Congress MP said the need of the hour was to strengthen the existing system and to correct the flaws in it, rather than to destroy it. Modi is only clearing the ground for his industrialist friends to take over, he added.Rahul lashed out at the BJP-led Government of India for trying to finish agriculture after failing to generate the promised employment. It is not Ambani and Adani who create jobs but small businesses and MSMEs, which Modi has been ruining with his ill-conceived moves like demonetisation, GST etc, he added. Pointing out that for six years Modi had been attacking the poor with his policies, Rahul said with demonetisation the common people’s hard-earned money was diverted through the banks too big industrialists, and with GST he has ruined the SMEs and small traders. Even the COVID crisis has been used by the Prime Minister to help out his capitalist friends, whose loans and taxes he has waived off or reduced said, Rahul.Amid slogans of 'Captain Paanian Da Rakha Zindabad', the Chief Minister told the people in the heartland of the Malwa region, which produces the highest yield in wheat and paddy, that the Modi government had backtracked on every single promise, be it the constitutional promise of GST or employment or doubling of farmers’ income. For seven months, Punjab had not got its share of GST, leaving the state struggling to manage amid COVID, he said.Asserting that the Congress, with Rahul leading the way, will fight for the farmers till their last breath, the Chief Minister appealed to the MP to repeal the black laws once he becomes Prime Minister. Rahul has come to hold the hand of the farmers, he said, terming the new Farm Laws an act of total injustice with the farming community. The Modi government does not know how agriculture works in Punjab and the country, he said, adding that these legislations would pave the way for scrapping MSP and winding up FCI, as per the Shanta Kumar committee recommendations.Warning that these laws will led to the closure of the Mandis, he said his government could not let the Union Government do that and will take all steps, including a Vidhan Sabha session to counter the new legislations, and challenging the Centre’s laws in Supreme Court.Recalling his bonding with Sangrur, Chief Minister said that “this is the land of my forefathers and its sacred soil produced martyrs like Shaheed Udham Singh, who kept the soil of Jallianwala Bagh with him to act as a constant reminder to avenge the tragedy of 1919.” “We derive inspiration from such heroes and martyrs,” said Captain Amarinder Singh.PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, ex-Chief Minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Cabinet Ministers Balbir Sidhu and Vijay Inder Singla also spoke on the occasion, which was attended, among others, by AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, Haryana Congress leader Deepender Hooda. Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi also shared the stage, along withDhuri MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy.The occasion also saw a farmer named Mukhtiar Singh from Kanjhla village, holding four acres of land, narrating his tale of woes to the Chief Minister and other leaders.The venue resonated with slogans of `Kissan-arhrtiya-mazdoor Ekta zindabad’ by the farmers, arhtiyas and labourers who had gathered in large numbers to welcome Rahul and Captain Amarinder, before they embarked on a tractor rally through Fatehgarh Chhana, Bahmna (Samana, District Patiala). The rally was scheduled to end in a public meeting at Grain Market, Samana.
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Pandemic has had a deep impact on wildlife: Expert||Kapurthala, October 4The world is fighting against an invisible opponent that has forced us all to push the pause button in our lives. This global pandemic has set off a ripple effect across the nations. This crisis has also had a deep impact on wildlife. While the world has come to a complete and utter standstill, nature seems to be reclaiming its territory, and the wild animals near urban cityscapes are taking this opportunity to step beyond the comforts of their forested homes. Basanta Rajkumar, Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF), Punjab, said this during a webinar on ‘Impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on Wildlife’ to celebrate World Wildlife Week, 2020, on Sunday.Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC), Kapurthala, had organised the webinar, in which Basanta Rajkumar was the keynote speaker. He spoke about the severe effects of Covid-19 on wildlife tourism.Besides, an e-book ‘The Lost Species’, portraying extinction of animals and plants, jointly published by the PGSC and Department of Forest and Wildlife Preservation, was also released.He said the global wildlife trade had been thrown into the spotlight and wildlife tourism had severely felt the impact of this pandemic.He said all around the world there have been reported incidents of animals venturing into cities, as people have started confining themselves at their homes in an effort to control the spread of coronavirus. “This global pause has given us a chance to rethink our relationship with nature. We must learn to co-exist if we want to sustain our urban ecology. Quarantine is affecting wildlife in an unexpected ways. In countries like India, monkeys and several other wildlife species are very much adapted to urban environments and are heavily dependent on human generated food waste to survive,” he added.Director general, Science City, Dr Neelima Jerath said human actions including deforestation, encroachment on wildlife habitats, intensified agriculture and acceleration of climate change have pushed na1ture beyond its limit.She said around 1 million species of flora and fauna have already become extinct due to deforestation and 50,000 species were being lost annually that was creating an imbalance in our eco-system.“If we continue on this path, wildlife loss will have severe implications on humanity, including the collapse of food and health systems. The emergence of Covid-19 has underscored the fact that when we destroy forests, we destroy the system that supports human life. Nature is sending us a message, which we need to decode and take collective action,” she said.Director, Science City, Dr Rajesh Grover said: “Wildlife Week in India is celebrated during the first week of October to focus on the importance of wildlife preservation for a balanced and healthy environment. Its ultimate objective is to sensitise people, appreciate our wildlife and work towards its conservation.”
05-10-2020||---||Hathras rape: Grief, anger sweep Jalandhar as residents take to streets||Jalandhar, October 4Demanding strict punishment against those responsible for the gruesome rape of a 19-year-old girl at Hathras, UP, members of the Istri Jagriti Manch today held meetings, protests, candle marches and awareness demonstrations across various villages in the district.Giving a call for protests across the district after the Hathras rape incident – Jagriti Manch activists toured various villages raising questions over the lack of action in the brutal Hathras incident. Meeting and protests were held across villages – Ismailpur, Sapranwan, Kharshaidpur, Bulanda among others.A candle light march began from the Udhowal village this evening in which activists and residents, including small girls walked across the village with candles in their hands and carrying placards bearing signs – “Auratan Virodhi Mansikta Murdabad”, “Bacchian Khilaaf vadh Rahe Zulm nu Nath Pao”.Women also raised slogans – “Down with anti-Dalit UP government”, Down with Manuwadi UP government”, “Down with Upper caste Brahminical system,” Down with patriarchy” and “Justice for Hathras victim”.The prime demands of the women included Rs 2 crore compensation for Hathras rape victim’s family, suspension if IG Piyush Moriya, suspencion of SP and DM for protecting culprits and for destruction of evidence by burning the victim’s body at night.Anita Sandhu, district president, and activist Jasbir Jassi said women were finding themselves exceedingly unsafe in various parts of the district. They said the partisan role played by the UP Police and administration, following the rape of a girl in Hathras raises questions about the justice in our country.Activists also condemned subsequent rape incidents at Balrampur and Kanpur in UP as well as incidents reported in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. They said this goes to prove that be it any government – the safety of women is not being prioritised across various regions in the country.
05-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||‘Uttar Pradesh govt’s attempt to suppress Press is shameful’||A candle march was held in Dasuya on Sunday evening by Valmiki Shakti Seva Dal and Shiv Sena Hind under the chairmanship of Bunti Jogi, North India in-charge of the Shiv Sena Hind.The march began from Valmiki Temple Rishi Nagar and going via Vijay Market, Main Bazaar, Old Bank Road, Miani Road and Gurunanak Market ended again at Valmiki Temple. Here, a five-minute silence was observed to pay tribute to Hatharas gang-rape victim Manisha. Shiv Sainiks shouted slogans condemning the Uttar Pradesh Police and the Hathras administration.Bunty Jogi demanded that the cruelty meted out to Manisha was a shame on humanity and the accused should be hanged in public without delay. He said Manisha was the daughter of the country and not of any particular community and hence, every person of the country was striving to bring justice to her.He strongly condemned the UP Government for stopping the media from bringing out the truth. He said the UP Government was under severe condemnation all over India for perpetrating the freedom of the press, but still the Yogi government remains shameless. Chairman of Valmiki Samaj, Manohar Lal Bhatti said the officers posted in Hathras should be sacked immediately. — TNS
05-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Tried-&-tested system in peril||NEK Singh, a small farmer of Khokh village near Nabha, has been staging a dharna at the Shambhu barrier in Rajpura along with hundreds of other farmers. He says the prospect of economic slavery through the proposed abolition of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), once the private market yards are established under the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, has forced him and many others to protest. “If a mass movement against the move to abolish the existing mandi system has started during this time, when paddy is being harvested, you can understand how serious the issue must be for farmers,” he says.Being an agrarian economy, the smooth running of agricultural operations is crucial for the economic growth of Punjab. The move to abolish APMCs, if successful, threatens to tear the socio-economic fabric of the state, simply because of the huge unemployment it could create. The private market yards, if established, would need neither commission agents nor arhtiyas and labourers in mandis, and farmers would eventually get much less for their produce.The repercussions for Punjab are huge in case these mandis were to be abolished. “The state has spent thousands of crores of rupees on creating infrastructure in 151 principal market yards, 284 sub-yards and 1,430 purchase centres, and buying 13,300 acres of land where these yards are situated now. If these APMCs were to be abolished, the 33,000 commission agents, their 50,000-strong support staff and three lakh labourers will be rendered unemployed. Last year, the agents got Rs 1,611 crore as commission for buying the produce and labourers got Rs 1,100 crore as labour charges. Once private mandis become operational, these people will become redundant and lose income. The new laws appear to be a conspiracy against Punjab, meant to destabilise the state, just as the SYL canal project had ruined the state decades ago,” says former minister Lal Singh, now the chairman of the Punjab Mandi Board.Little wonder then that for the past two weeks, Punjab has been on the boil because of the purported move to abolish the APMCs. These APMCs were established in the early 1960s to protect farmers from price misinformation. With the establishment of mandis, farmers were assured of knowing the exact price for their produce and a fair transaction. Traders could operate in these APMCs only after getting a licence, which ensured government control on them and thus assured price to farmers for their produce. Farmers say that the present system under APMCs has worked for wheat and paddy in Punjab. “But look at what happens to other crops like maize and cotton, which in spite of being under MSP, do not fetch an assured price because there is no guarantee of the government buying these crops. Farmer will sow a crop after he knows the MSP. People in Punjab took to maize, thinking they would get MSP of Rs 1,850 per quintal. But it is now selling at Rs 800-1,000 per quintal. If the government purchase was to stop for wheat and paddy — as seems to be the intent behind the corporatisation of agriculture — wheat and paddy farmers would meet the same fate as that of maize growers,” says Baljinder Singh, who is staging a protest at Dagru village in Moga.“Certain levies (about 8.5 percent) are imposed on buyers (in Punjab’s case, Food Corporation of India), which were meant for creating infrastructure within mandis and for infrastructure development in villages, mainly a strong network of roads. The Centre does not want to give this money to Punjab, so it is trying to withdraw from government purchase, and bring corporates into foodgrain procurement,” says Harbans Singh Rosha, president, Arhtiya Association, Khanna.Last year, Rs 4,000 crore was collected as market fee and rural development fund. This was used for strengthening the infrastructure in mandis and for the upkeep and maintenance of 71,000 km of the rural road network.A sum of Rs 65,000 crore per annum goes into the pockets of farmers from the sale of wheat and paddy in the APMC. “Initially, the private mandis will lure farmers by giving them Rs 80-100 per quintal higher than the MSP. But it is clear that the MSP regime will be abolished soon, and farmers will be left at the mercy of corporates,” says Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).
05-10-2020||Amritsar||Why burn paddy straw when you can earn out of it?||The district administration has appealed to farmers to follow the example of Deshpal Singh, a farmer from Talwandi Dogra village, who had stopped the practice of burning crop residue in fields after harvesting. DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira lauded the role of the farmer for leading by example.Deshpal Singh said he had stopped burning crop residue in 2008. He said with the crop residue now being purchased partially by cardboard industry and partially by ‘gujjars’ as dry fodder for animals, the farmers can recover most of the money spent on alternate management of residue.“Earlier, we had to spend Rs1,500 per acre but now with a market getting developed for the crop stubble, we can recover half of the amount from sale of crop residue,” he said, adding that alternate management helps in enriching the soil while the burning results in loss of nutrients.Khaira said other farmers should learn from the example of Deshpal. He said the government had provided machines on subsidy for stubble management and farmers should make full use of the same. — TNS
05-10-2020||---||Farmers' protest outside BJP MP Shwait Malik’s residence continues||Amritsar, October 4The protest by farmers against the farm laws outside BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik’s residence entered its third day on Sunday. The farmers said they would gherao BJP leaders at public events.The protest is being led by 31 farmer associations. Punjabi film actress Sonia Mann also attended the protest. Leaders of the Kirti Kisan Union, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Kisan Sangharsh Committee claimed that BJP leaders were finding it difficult to attend public meetings as farmers are anguished and protesting against them.The farmers demanded acceptance of long-pending demands of farmers that could provide a solution to various malaises inflicting the agrarian sector. They said instead of providing profitable price to farmers for their produce, the government is keeping them at the mercy of exploitative corporate houses.They alleged that the previous agriculture related laws, too, were anti-farmer but the BJP, by passing the new laws, has made it clear that government is indifferent towards the plight of farmers.Meanwhile, activists of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) staged a protest against the new laws here on Sunday. The protesters also burnt an effigy of the Union Government. Speaking on the occasion, RMPI general secretary Mangat Ram Pasala said in order to save farmers, the Union Government should stop working for corporate houses.
05-10-2020||Muktsar||Farmers firm on no entry to politicians||NGO felicitated with UNDP awardFatehgarh Sahib: The Mehar Baba Charitable Trust, an NGO in Bassi Pathana, was awarded with United Nations Development Programme award under the NGO Category for Social Upliftment & Welfare of Sustainable Development Goals Action Awards 2020. The award announced by the state Planning Department was conferred by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan. The trust has adopted 187 villages of Fatehgarh Sahib, and so far it has imparted training to 4,826 people, including 3,419 women; coached 476 hockey trainees and of them, 103 have been selected by the state and national level sports academies. It has held medical camps, where patients were provided medicines for free. Besides, 53,231 surgeries have been performed and 13 anganwadi centres have been established.Despite Covid, vaccination programme onAbohar: The post-partum unit of the Civil Hospital continues to function as usual. Vaccination of pregnant women and children here continued following Covid prevention guidelines to prevent problems that could arise due to non-vaccination. According to Luxmi Rani and Baljinder Kaur, in-charge of the Post-Partum unit, vaccination was done free of cost on each Wednesday and Friday. About 1,600 women and children were vaccinated each month.Contributed by Archit Watts, Surinder Bhardwaj, Raj Sadosh
05-10-2020||---||FIR against cooperative society secretary for fraud||Muktsar, October 4The police have booked a secretary of the Kolianwali cooperative society for allegedly embezzling the stock and funds.The accused, Gurjeet Singh, is presently under suspension.He was booked on the complaint of assistant registrar of the cooperative societies, Malout, under the relevant sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act.
05-10-2020||Muktsar||Woman booked for extortion in Muktsar||The city police have booked a woman for allegedly blackmailing a resident by threatening him to upload his ‘obscene’ video on social media.The victim alleged that the woman, a resident of the Bura Gujjar Road, along with some unidentified persons, had taken Rs 5 lakh from him earlier, and was now demanding Rs 20 lakh. — TNS
05-10-2020||Muktsar||Solve drainage issues: Govt||After the National Consumers Awareness Group complained to the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs that the water supply, sewerage system, storm water drainage system and sewerage treatment plants (STPs) were not functioning in Muktsar town, the Under Secretary to the Government of India has written to the Principal Secretary of the Urban Development Department of the state to take necessary action.The letter reads,“As implementation of AMRUT scheme is the responsibility of the state/concerned ULB, it is requested that necessary action, as deemed appropriate, may be taken on the complaint and Shyam Lal Goyal be informed of action taken directly, under intimation to this ministry.” — TNS
05-10-2020||Anirudh Gupta||7 years on, Ferozepur-Patti railway link awaits acquisition||Ferozepur, October 4Even seven years after the “crucial” 25.47-km Ferozepur-Patti rail link project was given the “green” light in the Railway Budget, the state government has failed to acquire land for its construction.The line, once operational, will shorten the distance between northern states, including Punjab, and trade capitals of Gujarat and Maharashtra to a large extent, besides facilitating quick movement of defence forces towards Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The government has constituted an expert group to review the social impact assessment aimed at identifying land in 11 villages to be acquired.Reportedly, 165.69 hectares is required for the project, including 70.01 hectares in three Ferozepur villages and 95.68 hectares in eight villages of Tarn Taran.Once completed, the distance between Ferozepur and Amritsar will be reduced by 32 km, while travel between Amritsar and Mumbai will be shortened by 240 km. Further, the distance between Jammu and Mumbai will be reduced by 267 km.The link will connect two important regions of the state — Malwa and Majha. The Ferozepur-Amritsar link was snapped during the Partition, when a portion from Ganda Singh Wala (now in Kasur) up to Khem Karan went to Pakistan, necessitating the need for alternative (Ferozepur-Patti) connectivity.In the 2013 Railway Budget, then minister Pawan Bansal had given the nod to the project, but it was delayed as the state government could not provide land.Ferozepur Division DRM Rajesh Aggarwal said the Railways would start the construction work as soon as the state government allocated land.Ferozepur (Urban) MLA Parminder Singh Pinki said the link would act as a catalyst in ensuring the all-round development of the district.
05-10-2020||Fazilka||Fazilka pensioners seek treasury office||It’s been a decade since the Fazilka subdivision was granted the status of a district, yet over 5,300 pensioners are at the receiving end, as the government has not set up a district treasury office (DTO) so far. As a result, the beneficiaries have to travel to Ferozepur to get their routine work done.The district Pensioners’ Association had shot off several letters to the authorities concerned, but to no avail.Association’s General Secretary Om Parkash Sharma even sought information from the Finance Department regarding introducing news posts for the setting up of the DTO in Fazilka in 2015, but nothing concrete ever came out of it.Sharma said in the wake of “callous” attitude of officials and red tapism prevailing in the government departments, the association knocked on the door of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2017. Subsequently, the Finance Secretary assured the court to appoint officials in six months, and later the court disposed of the case.The association has again filed a petition in the court after nothing was done on the ground.The court has summoned the Finance Secretary to the Government of Punjab and the Fazilka Deputy Commissioner to present their views in the court in this regard on December 18.The association’s general secretary added senior citizen pensioners had to travel about 150 km to reach the Ferozepur DTO.The pensioners have demanded the DTO to be set up immediately. — OC
05-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Double whammy for Bathinda, Mansa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 4While the world is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, residents of Bathinda and Mansa districts have another reason to worry, as dengue has started spreading its tentacles in these areas.Even doctors are in a fix, as both dengue and Covid have similar symptoms.Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil SurgeonDengue cases on riseBesides Covid patients, now we have to also deal with rising dengue cases.A number of people diagnosed with dengue are undergoing treatment at home only, as they fear hospitals to be a Covid hotspot.In Bathinda, the dengue awareness drive has been badly hit due to the lack of manpower, as staff was busy performing the Covid-19 duties.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “Dengue cases have started to surface in the district. Municipal Corportaion teams have started conducting fogging opertaions, and our medical teams are busy performing Covid-19 duties. However, we are managing it well.”Besides Covid patients, now the doctors were also required to deal with dengue cases, said Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda.Health activist Dr Vitull K Gupta said people should ensure that they don’t have stagnant water anywhere in their houses. Mosquito control work should be ramped up in the city.
05-10-2020||---||Indo-Pak trade embargo has hit Punjab’s economy||Though trade is an engine of economic growth, Indo-Pak trade also needs to be understood in its strategic politico-economic importance for both neighbouring countries. The relevance of the land route trade through the ICP-Attari, too, needs to be appreciated in this vein. Eventually, it has the potentialities to provide trade access to the Central Asia and Middle East, besides paving the way for developing friendly relations with neighbours, so important for India’s aspirations of becoming a superpower. Both countries should act and behave in a responsible manner and keeping in view the larger interests of their citizens, they should resume trade at the earliest possible, notwithstanding their political animosity.The strengthening of trade has huge potential for growth and employment not only for Punjab (border and landlocked state) but also for the north-west India. It is equally true for Pakistan’s Punjab.Immediately after Independence, India and Pakistan had a huge stake in each other’s trade. However, over time, their bilateral trade witnessed a drastic decline, mainly because of the fear psychosis. Their trade relations have always been subject to a faceoff between economic rationality and politico-security rationality and the latter has always been the deciding factor.The nine-year trade embargo, driven by the three-week war in 1965, supports such a perception. In the process, they lost an opportunity to reap the benefits of their huge trade potentials. The current trade embargo — virtual embargo in February 2019 when India imposed a 200 per cent customs duty and Pakistan imposed a trade embargo in August 2019 — is also a manifestation of their hostile political relations.According to a World Bank report (2018), the bilateral annual trade potential between India and Pakistan is to the tune of $37 billion. In my PhD thesis (1985) on Indo-Pak trade, I estimated that in 1995, their bilateral trade should have been around $7 billion. However, their actual trade was just around $2.56 billion in 2018-19. Around 25 per cent of it is taking place through the ICP-Attari. Just imagine how much gains would have been there even if half of the World Bank estimated trade-potential could have been realised.Paradoxically, informal trade between the two nations has always been there despite the trade embargoes — often via other countries, such as the UAE. The border and landlocked states, such as Punjab, have always been the worst sufferers in such a scenario as trade originating from Punjab and its neighbouring states becomes economically unviable as compared to the states having proximity to sea ports.Exports originating from Punjab can reach Pakistan — through ICP-Attari — in much less time and at a much lower transport and trans-shipment costs as compared to the sea ports and via a third country. The same is applicable to imports from Pakistan.A study by the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), completed in August 2020, revealed that the current trade embargo has had a significant adverse impact on Punjab’s economy. To disseminate the findings, we organised a webinar on September 14, in which 13 panellists comprising eminent scholars, diplomats, industrialists, exporters/importers from India and Pakistan expressed their views. Besides, about 75 other participants from the academia, civil society, traders and students attended the webinar. All panellists and participants advocated that the adverse political relations should not come in the way of normal trade relations as the latter can, rather, help normalise political ties.We were expecting active participation of MLAs and MPs of Punjab as 41 MLAs and all 20 MPs were invited to the webinar, but no one, except one MLA, responded. Their presence at the webinar would have sent a positive message to the stakeholders, besides empowering them to formulate a collective and affirmative strategy to prevail upon the Union Government.Our field study revealed that Punjab (border and landlocked state) and its stakeholders (exporters, importers, manufacturers, truck operators, porters, roadside eateries, filling stations, weighing bridges, retailers and wholesalers, private schools, health clinics, repair shops, auto-dealers and liquor shops, tea and beverages etc) have suffered huge losses in income and employment due to the closure of ICP-Attari for trade.Entrepreneurs, truck owners and traders are unable to repay the installments of loans. A large number of truck owners had to sell their trucks at a much lower price to repay the loans and many trucks are lying idle and getting depreciated. The parents had to withdraw children from private schools, the seriously ill people are suffering for want of treatment, and many are facing mild to serious depression.Our estimates have revealed that the above-mentioned service providers just in Amritsar district have suffered an income loss of about Rs 152 crore during the last 18 months of trade curbs and embargo. Exporters and importers have suffered an income loss of Rs 1,178 crore during the same period. Government agencies — Customs, plant protection, quarantine storage department and Central Warehousing Corporation — also lost revenues of about Rs 774 crore during the same period.Based on these moderate estimates, the total income loss comes out to be Rs 2,104 crore during the last 18 months of trade curbs and embargo. This, however, does not include the financial loss to the manufacturers-cum-exporters and truck owners whose investment has been rendered idle, besides maintenance cost. Leaving aside the government revenue, most of the income loss is to the stakeholders in Punjab. The consequent operation of inverse-multiplier is aggravating the losses.Some small-scale manufacturers of agricultural implements in the Malwa region of Punjab had to forego the export of straw reapers to Pakistan — worth Rs 60 crore per annum, with a huge potential in future as the product is in high demand — because of the trade embargo. Exporters of cotton (Nahar Spinning Mills and Vardhman Group) are also suffering from an unused capacity of specially designed spindles of particular counts, suiting the requirements of Pakistan importers.Direct employment of nearly 12,000 workers (including 2,500 porters, 1,000 drivers and cleaners), in addition to a huge indirect employment, have gone because of the trade curbs. Thousands of families have lost their livelihood. Needless to say, the Covid-19-driven lockdown must have pushed them into a more vulnerable situation.Views are personal
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Rs 1.5 cr tourist centre to come up at Saragarhi Memorial||Ferozepur, October 4A tourist facilitation centre (TFC) will come up at the cost of Rs 1.5 crore at the Saragarhi Memorial, depicting the bravado of 22 Sikh soldiers, under centrally sponsored “Swadesh Darshan” scheme mooted for the integrated development of Heritage Circuit in the state.Following a report, “Saragarhi Memorial cries for facelift”, in these columns recently, the state government has expedited the process for its beautification and renovation.Parminder S Pinki, Ferozepur MLAWork on PGI centre soonThe work on PGI Satellite Centre will start soon. The project will prove to be a boon for the lakhs of residents of the border area who have to travel to far-flung places for healthcare needs.Ferozepur MLA Parminder Singh Pinki in presence of senior officials laid the foundation stone for the TFC on the premises of the Saragarhi Memorial gurdwara.Pinki said the artwork depicting the cultural heritage of Punjab would be displayed at the TFC. “The centre will provide information about the Battle of Saragarhi, besides offering various facilities for the comfort of tourists,” said Pinki.Several other initiatives were being mooted for the development of various memorials, including Hussaniwala Martyrs Memorial, for which Rs 6.5 crore would be spent.Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said the construction work for the TFC had been allocated to a New Delhi-based company and would be completed within a year.Pinki said a light and sound show would be started at the memorial and a leisure valley would come up in the ground adjacent to the site.The memorial was constructed to pay tribute to the 22 soldiers of the 36 Sikh Regiment of the British Indian Army who died fighting over 10,000 Afridis during the Battle of Saragarhi on September 12, 1897, in North-West Frontier Province, now in Pakistan.
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Private firm to spend Rs 10L on upkeep of martyr’s hideout||Ferozepur, October 4After the poor upkeep of the double-storey building, which served as the hideout of the Krantikari Party led by Shaheed Bhagat Singh, was highlighted in these columns, the Sonalika Group, which runs International Tractors Limited, has taken up the responsibility to maintain the structure.Talking to The Tribune, AS Mittal, vice-chairman, Sonalika Group, said initially they would spend Rs 10 lakh on the facelift of the memorial, and subsequently more funds would be provided as per requirement.Mittal, who is also the vice-chairman of the Punjab State Planning Board, said it was a tribute to the great martyr who lit the eternal flame of liberty for the freedom of the country.Several other NGOs have expressed interest to provide funds for the development of the place, where revolutionaries, including Bhagat Singh and his comrades, used to chalk out strategies to fight the British.The hideout was declared a protected monument on December 17, 2015, under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964, after a prolonged battle by locals followed by a writ petition in the High Court by advocate HC Arora.Still no steps were taken to preserve the building.
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Closure of Gang canal to hit farmers hard, says samiti||Abohar, October 4The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS) has flayed the state Irrigation Department for insisting upon the closure of Gang (Bikaner) canal for the next 10 days on account of cleaning work.KSS spokesman Subhash Sehgal said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had been requested to instruct the officials concerned to honour the decision, taken on September 18 at a meeting between the Water Resources Department and six farm organisations to defer the cleaning work to April 2021, as by then farmers would be through with the harvesting of wheat.The Gang canal is one of the oldest irrigation systems in Rajasthan. It was built in 1928 to supply water to the northwestern part of Sriganganagar, and discharges 2,500 cusecs of water.The World Bank had provided Rs 466 crore for carrying out the renovation work in the first phase in Ferozepur and Fazilka districts.At a time when sowing of mustard in more than 30,000 acres was going on, the supply of water had been reduced to 1,600 cusecs, Sehgal said.The samiti said the Gang canal had not been cleaned after 2013, but it was not in the interest of farmers to sever the supply of water this month. It would be appropriate to suspend the supply of water from the last week of March to mid-April next year when fields would be empty, he said.Sehgal said if the cleaning work was not deferred till April 2021, CM Capt Amarinder should direct the department to carry out the work without suspending the supply of water, the samiti spokeperson added.
05-10-2020||---||Initiative to shun plastic bags||Barnala, October 4Two self-help groups (SHGs) at Jodhpur village in the district have made 15,000 paper bags from old newspapers. The district administration has started distributing these bags free of cost to make the city plastic-free.A huge pile of newspapers was lying with Deputy Commissioner Tej Pratap Singh Phoolka that helped in making the paper bags. After seeing the pile of old newspapers at his office, Phoolka shifted the stock to two SHGs, Baba Himmat Singh group and Baba Vishawkarma group, for making paper bags.“Since we are working hard to convince people to shun plastic bags, after seeing old newspapers in my office, I decided to use that for paper bags. Apart from utilising the waste, we have given work to SHGs. I have asked other officials to explore more such things,” the DC said.He has directed officials to distribute paper bags in all markets of the district and convince residents to shun plastic bags.
05-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Many parents enrolling children in govt schools in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4With many people losing their livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic, financially-stressed parents are shifting their children from private to government schools.At Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Virk, 30 students from private schools have taken admission this year. This is almost three times the number last year.Saroj Rani, Shivani’s auntCan’t pay pvt school feeShivani’s father isn’t getting as much work as he used to get before the pandemic. We cannot pay private school fee. So we have shifted both children to a government school.Sukhwinder Kaur, who runs a grocery store, stares at uncertainity amid reduced earnings this year due to the pandemic. Her husband, who is in Muscat, has been laid off and is unable to send money. She has planned to enrol her daughters in a government school as she is unable to pay private school fee.Sukhwinder says, “Private schools only care about fee. They began pressuring us that unless we pay fee, our daughters won’t be allowed to appear in exams, nor will they be allowed to attend classes. We are left with no option but to enrolour children in a government school.”The dreams of Shivani, daughter of a daily wager, to go back to her old school have been dashed as hit by the pandemic, her family can’t afford private education anymore. Both she and her brother have been enrolled in a government school at Patara. Her aunt Saroj Rani says, “Her father isn’t getting as much work as he used to get before the pandemic. We cannot pay private school fee. So we have shifted both children to a government school.”Hardeep Singh, a driver with a leading transport company, said, “When I lost my job, I decided to shift my children to government school. I have friends, cousins and acquaintances facing a similar situation. Everyone in the transport business is barely surviving. We cannot afford to send our children to private schools now. Both my sons know their father is out of job so they have dealt with the change smoothly. The silver lining is that government schools are also good.”
05-10-2020||---||Four ex-servicemen, 14 doctors booked for fraud in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 4The police have booked 24 persons, including 14 doctors and Army veterans, for misappropriation of funds released under the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS).An investigation carried out by the Army authorities found them guilty of cheating, forgery, mischief and breach of contract. The inquiry report was submitted to the Cantonment police here for lodging an FIR against the accused.Indicted in Army probeThe doctors belonged to six private hospitals and a diagnostic centre which were empanelled by the Ministry of Defence under the ECHS for providing treatment to Army pensioners and veterans and their dependents.The doctors who have been booked are Dr Gautam Verma, Dr Sunil Dutt, Dr Lakhbir Singh Randhawa, Dr Arshdeep Kaur, Dr Parminder Singh, Dr Surinder Gupta, Dr Sachin Gupta, Dr Manish Chanday, Dr Ashish Kumar, Dr Rakesh Madaan, Dr Susheel Mohindru, Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, Dr Gurpreet and Dr Harmeet.Others named in the FIR are Parveen Kumar; Subedar Kashmir Singh (retd); Salwinder Singh Sandhu Sarpanch of Sarli Khurd village in Tarn Taran; Subedar Satwinder Singh (retd), Parkash Kaur and her husband Naik Shinda Singh (retd) of Butala village; Amarjit Singh of Gaggarbhana village; Sepoy Jagroop Singh of Lalpura village; Jatinder Singh of Neelkanth Hospital; and Baljinder Singh, a photocopy shop owner.In his complaint to the police, Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander, Station Headquarters, Amritsar Cantonment, said during an internal investigation conducted by the complainant in the matter, all accused were found guilty of connivance and misappropriating government funds. He alleged that they fabricated the records of admission of ECHS card-holders.“The doctors made fraudulent admissions with an intention of fraud,” the complainant alleged while adding that Jalandhar Army authorities had already issued “Stop referral” letters to the hospitals in May and September this year.
05-10-2020||---||Medical college doctors in Faridkot raise Covid safety concerns||Faridkot, October 4Several medical professionals at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) here have accused the hospital authorities of apathetic attitude. With more than 100 Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment at the GGSMCH, the doctors said they were at risk of catching infection and that their calls for help had gone unheeded.Most among these are 170 junior resident doctors who are pursuing postgraduate courses here. These junior doctors are doing round-the-clock duties in Covid wards here.Describing them as “cannon fodder” in the fight against the pandemic, the association of the junior doctors recently met the Superintendent of the medical college and urged him to ensure their safety in the hospital.They claimed besides increased risk of catching infection due to unregulated entry of a large number of attendants, relatives and other persons into the hospital, there was a growing threat to their personal security.In a memorandum to the Superintendent, the doctors claimed many among them were women who performed round-the-clock duties. Unregulated entry was posing a threat to their security during night hours.The doctors alleged there was inadequate lighting on the road to the emergency and in Covid isolation wards, leading to incidents of harassment of doctors and theft of vehicles. More than 50 doctors and paramedical staff in the hospital have already got infected with Covid here.Dr Shleikh Mittal, Medical Superintendent, said, “The security issue of doctors has been raised with the police and we are solving their other problems also.”
05-10-2020||---||Mass retirement puts Health Department in a fix||Bathinda, October 4Health Department’s efforts to contain Covid-19 spread in the district got a major setback with the retirement of more than 65 staff members, including pharmacists, staff nurses, clerical staff, drivers and Class-4 employees.While the number of positive cases is on the rise and death toll is going up, the district Health Department, which is already grappling with staff shortage, now faces even bigger challenge of containing the pandemic and at the same time rendering quality medical services at the Civil Hospital and other health centres.A senior functionary in the Health Department said with staff members getting relieved in one go, the existing staff would be burdened with extra workload now.Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “In the wake of Covid-19 spread, staff members whose retirements were due in March and afterwards this year, was stalled (extension) and now they have been relieved of their services. Around 65 to 70 staff members from different units have been relieved on September 30 and numbers of retirement are likely to increase in the coming days. Though it will put an additional burden on the existing staff, the hiring process has already been started. Meanwhile, we will be getting in touch with the higher authorities to state our demands in terms of requirements.”Jagdeep Singh Virk, president, Pharmacy Officers’ Association, said, “As many as 15 pharmacy officials have been relieved of their services recently which will put additional burden on the existing workers.”
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Abohar Municipal Corporation issues notice to developer||Abohar, October 4The Municipal Corporation (MC) has issued a notice to a Delhi-based developer firm to seal an under-construction shopping mall at Tara Estate here as the firm has not deposited the outstanding development fee of Rs 63.98 lakh.Last month, ADC-cum-Commissioner of the MC Abhijeet Kaplish had directed the tehsildar not to register the sale deed of any booth in the shopping mall until a no-objection certificate was issued by the MC.The Commissioner had also directed the Executive Engineer of the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board not to issue connections to anyone in the shopping mall until the promoters paid development fee to the MC. The notice said the proposal for the construction was approved on October 10, 2011.
05-10-2020||Kulwinder Sandhu||PM acting at behest of corporates: Rahul Gandhi||Tribune News ServiceBadhni Kalan (Moga), October 4To protest the Centre’s new farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi along with Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today launched a three-day tractor rally at Badhni Kalan in Moga district. Addressing a gathering, Rahul vowed to scrap these new laws when the Congress returned to power at the Centre.Alleging that the BJP-led NDA government was acting at the behest of select corporate houses to “destroy” the farmers, he said: “Modi ko Ambani aur Adani chalaate hain (Modi government is run by Ambani and Adani). What can the farmers expect from a PM who is a puppet in the hands of big corporate houses?”You (PM Modi) claim that the farmers are happy with the farm legislations. Why are they then protesting against the laws? — Rahul GandhiHe claimed the Union Government wanted to dismantle the mandi system in order to benefit the capitalists. “But we will not let that happen. We will not let them destroy the farming sector. The Congress fully backs the farmers’ agitation,” he told the gathering. Pointing out that the plight of the farmers was worsening, he said while the Centre had announced incentives for the industry and waived bad loans, it had done nothing to help the farmers.Rahul attacked the UP government over the Hathras incident, alleging that no action had been taken against those responsible for the rape and death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman.The ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ saw a sulking Navjot Sidhu on the dais with the CM. Rahul and the CM sat on a tractor driven by PCC chief Sunil Jakhar while AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and Navjot Sidhu were on another tractor with young Deepender Hooda on the driver’s seat.Sunil Jakhar, PPCC ChiefI am a farmer, and I know what the future holds for us. Owners of land will become labourers in their own fields.Capt Amarinder Singh said he feared the MSP system might be done away with by the Modi government in the coming years. “Hence, farmers across the country must come on a common platform to fight for their rights.” Sidhu demanded a special House session to nullify the new farm laws. He said Punjab must announce its own MSP for crops, including oilseeds and pulses. “We will triumph only if we send Ambanis and Adanis out of the state”, he maintained. “I am a farmer, and I know what the future holds for us. Owners of land will become labourers in their fields”, warned Jakhar.
05-10-2020||‘Everything will be privatised’||‘Won’t be taken in by political theatrics’||In the official garb of Acts, the Central Government is toeing the World Trade Organisation’s line and going in for the complete privatisation of agriculture. Like the telecom sector where private companies have virtually ousted the BSNL, the government will soon be withdrawing from the crop purchase regime, leaving farmers at the mercy of corporates. The governmenthas already expressed its intention to privatise the railway sector. It shouldn’t come as a surprise if tomorrow the government decides to hand over the school education and healthcare completely to the private sector. We fear the government is withdrawing from its role as a welfare state.Leave aside farmers, the government is not even listening to the opinion of the leading experts, including economists, on agriculture who have highlighted the gaping holes in the Acts. Even big countries, like the United States, take care of farmers by offering sizeable subsidy to them. Dr Darshan Pal, President, Krantikari Kisan Union ‘Protest gaining momentum’Finally, various farmer unions have realised how important it is to speak in one voice. The protest is gaining momentum now. Earlier, farmer groups were working on different paths. For example, the Bhartiya Kisan Union, the biggest farmer organisation in the state, has many groups, including Dhakaunda, Ekta Ugrahan and Rajewal besides others. At the national level, we have more than 250 farmer organisations, but no common voice. Even reports of the Intelligence Bureau pointed out that farmers were not united and speaking in different voices, giving an impression to the authorities that the movement lacked the direction.Since September, there have been winds of change. All unions have now joined hands to stay relentless in their pursuit to ensure the government cedes to farmers’demands. We belong to the land of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and won’t give up even if the government tries its best to repress our voice. Rattan Singh Randhawa, Vice-president, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha ‘Pressure tactics won’t work’With a commitment to fight it out till the end, farmers are on the road. We know the government has exercised its power to silence the voices of dissent in the country, like those of a medically challenged Prof GN Saibaba, 80-year-old poet Varavara Rao and peaceful protesters of Jamia Millia Islamia. We will not succumb to any pressure come what may.The issue is not about the withdrawal of the Acts, it is more about the farmers being ignored and not taken into confidence before finalising such crucial Acts that impacted them. What kind of democracy are we talking about? Let alone talking to farmers, the government did not even bother to follow the proper procedure to get the Bills cleared in Parliament. Was there any need to bring the ordinances in the first place? We will not relent till the government decides to withdraw the Acts. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, President, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) ‘Political parties stand exposed’Farmers are aware of the political theatrics being played out on the pretext of standing by their side. All of them stand totally exposed before farmers, particularly the SAD and Congress. Both have been responsible for the farmers' plight over the past several decades. They have been forced to come out on the streets only to remain politically relevant.The SAD leadership cannot deny the fact that they were very much a part of the formal exercise of the government that brought in the laws affecting the farmers. A Union Minister has gone on record to say that Harsimrat Kaur Badal never objected to the farm laws. The SAD president is asking the minister to make the proceedings public. Why cannot they both tell the truth? Farmers in many villages have, in fact, put up banners banning the entry of politicians. Leaders such as Bhagwant Mann of the AAP are attending farmer rallies like a common participant. Balbir Singh Rajewal, President, BKU (Rajewal)
05-10-2020||---||Hold joint meeting with stakeholders: SAD to Punjab govt||Chandigarh, October 4The SAD core committee today urged the Union Government to immediately convene a joint meeting of all stakeholders in the ongoing farmers’ struggle, including representatives of farmers, farm labourers, shopkeepers and political parties, to resolve the crisis arising out of the controversial Bills passed by Parliament recently.‘Sack Dharamsot’In a resolution, the SAD core committee demanded immediate sack of minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for “perpetrating an unprecedented scam of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds” belonging to the students from the Scheduled Castes.Seeking more autonomy for the states, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the setting up of a high-powered committee, comprising senior leaders of his party, to coordinate with regional and other like-minded parties in the country to buttress the federal structure. The committee would try to form a national front against the National Democratic Alliance on the farmers’ issue.Principal Adviser to SAD president Harcharan Singh Bains said the panel would be chaired by party’s secretary general Balwinder Singh Bhunder, with Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Naresh Gujral as members.The panel would coordinate with the leaders of other regional parties as well as those who had been consistently advocating more fiscal and political autonomy to the states. The core committee also set up a three-member panel to coordinate with farmer organisations. Bhunder, Prof Chandumajra and Sikandar Singh Maluka would be part of the committee. It further announced the setting up of a committee under the chairmanship of former Speaker and senior Akali leader Charanjit Singh Atwal to safeguard the interests of the Dalits and economically weaker sections of society.The core committee emphasised the need for safeguarding “peace and communal harmony” in the state.Meanwhile, the core committee condemned the step-motherly treatment meted out to the Punjab language in Jammu and Kashmir, which had once formed a part of the Khalsa Raj. “The cultural, literary and lingual bonds between Punjab and J&K have strong and unshakeable foundations and the decision of the government to leave Punjabi out of the official languages list is a gross injustice to the sacred language,” it observed.
05-10-2020||---||KZF module busted in Punjab, 2 ultras in police net||Chandigarh, October 4The Punjab Police today claimed to have busted a Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terror module with the arrest of two terrorists — Makhan Singh Gill, alias Amli, and Davinder Singh, alias Happy, both residents of Noorpur Jattan village in Hoshiarpur district.Sophisticated arms and ammunition, including an MP5 sub-machine gun (with two magazines and 30 rounds) and a 9mm pistol (with two magazines and 30 rounds), besides an Etios car, four mobile phones and an Internet dongle have been seized.DGP Dinkar Gupta said during preliminary investigations, Makhan disclosed they were in touch with Canada-based Harpreet Singh, who had instigated them to set up a terror module in Punjab to carry out targeted killings.Makhan, who had earlier been a close aide of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) chief Wadhawa Singh Babbar, claimed KZF operative Harpreet was a frequent visitor to Pakistan and was an associate of Pakistan-based KZF chief Ranjeet Singh, alias Neeta.One linked to BKI chiefn Trained in Pakistan, he had stayed in the US in 1980s and 90s and with BKI chief in Pakistan for 14 yearsHe was earlier arrested for involvement in arms smuggling and other terror-related offencesThe accused told the interrogators the seized weapons had been arranged by Neeta through his associates. A couple of other handlers from Germany and the US had also figured in the module and were involved in the transfer of funds to Makhan through different money transfer services, including Western Union, and other channels, said Gupta.The DGP said Makhan was a hardcore pro-Khalistan militant who had earlier been arrested by the Punjab Police for involvement in arms smuggling and various terror-related offences. As many as seven cases had been registered against him.Pakistan-trained Makhan had stayed in the US during the 1980s and 90s. He had also stayed with the BKI chief in Pakistan for over 14 years, said the DGP.
05-10-2020||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Capt Amarinder Singh give each other the cold shoulder||Chandigarh, October 4Amid the party high command working out a rapprochement between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, the two leaders cold-shouldered each other in the presence of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who arrived in the state on Sunday to kick-start his three-day ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ against the farm Acts.The differences between the Chief Minister and Sidhu were visible at a public meeting today as both the leaders did not exchange pleasantries. While the Chief Minister missed out mentioningSidhu in his speech, the cricketer-turned-politician while thanking Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and the senior leadership mentioned his bête noire at the end.AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat, who played a key role to ensure Sidhu participated in the rally and share the stage, did address the firebrand party leader in his speeches. Sidhu was, however, seated away from Rahul and the Chief Minister.During the tractor rally also, Sidhu was not made to sit on the tractor that had Rahul Gandhi and Capt Amarinder Singh riding on either side as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar drove it. Sidhu sat on the trailing tractor with Rawat and other leaders.During his address, when Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa gave him a slip on behalf of Rawat, Sidhu in a bodily gesture asked Randhawa to let him speak. “Ghodhe ko eshara hi kafi hota hai, lat kisi aur ko mar lo. Menu pela bhi betah ke rakhya si,” quipped Sidhu in a chaste Punjabi as he made an indirect reference to being sidelined in the government when he resigned as minister last year.Last time the cricketer-turned-politician shared the stage with the Chief Minister was at the inauguration of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor in November last year.Speaking at the rally, Sidhu put his government on the mat by asking it to come forward to help the farmers by paying the minimum support price (MSP), if the Centre stopped paying it.Only recently, Capt Amarinder Singh made it clear that Sidhu could not be made PPCC president as Sunil Jakhar was doing a fine job, though he was welcome to join back as Power Minister.Rahul in sangrur for today’s rallySangrur: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday evening arrived at a PWD rest house in Sangrur amid heightened security. “Rahul Gandhi will stay at the rest house and would lead the tractor rally from here on Monday,” said Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla. OCBJP Dalit leaders join Congress in AboharAbohar: Two senior BJP leaders of the Dalit community and the husband of a former councillor, who had resigned from the party in protest against the farm laws, have joined the Congress. Former councillors Mani Ram Adani and Malkat and Paramjeet Pamma are prominent Dalit faces. OCYAD hoardings come up, target RahulBathinda: The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) has put up hoardings in Bathinda, targeting Congress former president Rahul Gandhi. The hoardings carry the SAD president’s five posers to Rahul over the new farm laws.
05-10-2020||---||Rahul Gandhi rode 1980 modified tractor||Moga, October 4Two Agriculture Department officials — Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Balwinder Singh and Plant Protection Officer Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar — had especially modified the tractor used in the Congress rally today. The ‘Hindustan Super 80’ tractor that Rahul Gandhi rode belonged to progressive farmer Gurmeet Singh of Cheeda village.Under the supervision of the two scientists, a local workshop modified the seats for a comfortable ride. “Cushioned seats with safety rods in front were installed. The foot rests were also modified for comfortable seating,” said Dr Brar.Gurmeet said he had purchased the tractor in 1980 and kept it in running condition. “I was happy to learn that Rahul and the CM were to use my tractor,” he said.Another 2019 Mahindra tractor, belonging to Sharanjit Singh, a farmer of Rode village, was modified by the officials. However, Rahul chose the Hindustan Super 80 for the rally. Both farmers said they would foot the bill incurred on the modifications.
05-10-2020||Pathankot||BJP takes out tractor rally in Pathankot||The state BJP took out a tractor rally here on Sunday to make farmers aware of the benefits of the new farm laws, which have triggered protests in some parts of the country.The party said many farmers joined the rally which was led by state BJP president Ashwani Sharma. Asked to comment on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s state visit to protest against the contentious farm laws, the BJP leader said, “The Congress is misleading farmers. These laws are for the benefit of farmers, but they are spreading the falsehood that the MSP and government procurement will end.” — PTI
05-10-2020||Sangrur||Malerkotla residents lend helping hand to protesting farmers||Under the banner of Sikh Muslim Sanjha foundation, Malerkotla residents have been supplying cooked rice to protesting farmers in various parts of the state since the launch of their stir against the farm Acts. Malerkotla residents have announced that the supply of rice will continue till the protest ends.“The ‘black Acts’ of the Central Government are against farmers. We all must support their protest to make it a people’s fight. We have been supplying cooked rice to protesters at various places since the stir began. It’s our duty to stand with our brothers,” said Dr Naseer Akhtar, president of the foundation. In July, foundation members had also sent wheat to the Golden Temple to help authorities continue langar (community kitchen) services. For such initiatives, the foundation is solely relying on the contribution from its members. Farmers have appreciated Malerkotla residents. — TNS
05-10-2020||---||Religious bodies in Moga keep langar going||Chandigarh, October 4With indefinite dharnas by farmers continuing across the state, the responsibility of ensuring a constant supply of “cha and langar” has been taken over by gurdwaras, temples and even religious deras.From collecting dry rations to preparing the langar, the religious bodies that dot the rural landscape of the state are coming out in overwhelming support of farmers, protesting the agriculture laws brought in by the Centre.Commission agents and pesticide and insecticide dealers — all part of the agrarian economy — are funding the farmer unions as well as religious bodies to ensure the protesters do not go hungry.In Mansa, where 4,000 farmers gather every morning to protest, the local mandir committee has offered to serve langar. “They (farmers) feed us all through the year, it is time to do our bit,” says a member of the Sarpeni Mandir Committee, which has been serving langar to protesters at the railway tracks. While tea is served thrice a day, meals are given twice daily. Balwinder Sharma, a protester, says 150 quintals of ‘atta’ and 1,200 litres of milk are being consumed at the site every day.In Rampura Phul, where 7,000 farmers are staging a protest, langar is prepared by farmers, though local gurdwaras are lending support. Balwinder Singh Jethuke, a protester, says many farmers bring along dry ration such as flour, while local gurdwaras also chip in. “We make sure even policemen on duty are fed. In the past few days, local commission agents and pesticide dealers have come out in support and have given monetary help ranging from Rs 5,100 to Rs 3,100. We have collected money from farmers and this is being used for transport of protesters and langar,” he says. In Sangrur, Gurdwara Gursagar Mastuana Sahib has been contributing generously towards langar at the railway station, says farmer Gurdeep Singh of Badrokha. “The protesters bring along milk and vegetables for the langar from home. Many women volunteer to cook the langar,” he says.Presently, sit-ins are going on at 240 places across the state. Other than religious bodies, most protests are self-funded. Surjit Kaur of Chhajli village donated Rs 5,000 from her savings to ensure the protests against the “black laws” go on. Shail Preet, a young farmer from the village, says they had been donating between Rs 200 and Rs 1,000 each to ensure farmers do not run out of food.“Some funds are collected by farmer unions from their members every six months, which are being utilised now,” says farm activist Randeep Singh.
05-10-2020||---||Malwa farmers disappointed as basmati fetches low price||Bathinda, October 4The early variety of basmati — PUSA 1509 — has started arriving at the grain markets in the Malwa region, but farmers are disappointed as they are fetching low price for their produce, even lower than last year. In 2019, the same variety fetched Rs 2,400 and more per quintal, whereas this year it has touched as low as Rs 1,700 per quintal.The opening price for basmati’s early variety has led to worries among farmers who grow late basmati variety, PUSA 1121 and PUSA 1718, which last year fetched Rs 2,500 to 3,200 per quintals, respectively. Both these are much superior varieties and come in the market in October.The basmati is not covered under the assured procurement system as wheat and paddy. Therefore, the prices are governed by the market dynamics. Farmers cannot earn much as they have to sell basmati immediately in mandis to private players like exporters and big arhtiyas after harvesting and they only get what is the prevailing rate at that time. A similar trend has been witnessed at the mandis of Jalalabad and Fazilka.Jagsir Singh, a farmer from Muazzam village in Fazilka, said, “I brought 50 quintals of PUSA-1509 and got Rs 1,950 per quintal, which is less than last year.”Shingara Singh Mann, secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “Basmati varieties PUSA 1509 and 1121 were available from Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,200 last year. This year the government encouraged us to cultivate basmati as it saves water. We also increased the area under its cultivation. However, the government has failed to ensure a fair price for our yield.”
05-10-2020||---||Covid-19: Average positivity rate falls below 5 pc in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 4Covid-19 seems to be on a decline in Punjab as the last week’s average positivity rate remained below 5 per cent. A fortnight ago, it was over 10 per cent.While the state has been conducting over 25,000 tests a day, average positive cases remained around 1,200 in the past week. The average positivity rate between September 14 and 20 was over 9.83 per cent. However, it started declining after that and the positivity rate of the week between September 21-27 came down to 7 per cent.In the September 28-October 4 week, it dipped to 4.2 per cent.Similarly, on Sunday, a total of 23,334 samples were collected and 857 patients tested positive. Thus the positivity rate came to 3.67 per cent.According to experts, the fall in the positivity rate indicated a decline in the over-all spread of infection. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, School of Public Health, PGI, Chandigarh, said, “The same signals are coming from other indicators as well. The number of deaths and cases have also declined.”However, he cautioned that all precautionary measures must be taken.On Sunday, 857 patients tested positive for Covid-19. In the district-wise break-up, Ludhiana reported maximum 169 cases, followed by Jalandhar (147), Amritsar (138), Patiala (77) and SAS Nagar (39). The total tally has reached 1,18,157.In the past 24 hours, 42 deaths were reported. Among the districts, Ludhiana reported 10 deaths; Patiala 9; Jalandhar 5; Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Hoshiapur 3 each; SBS Nagar 2; and Pathankot, Ropar, Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Muktsar, Faridkot and Fatehgarh Sahib 1 each. The number of deaths has reached 3,603.
