06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports highest single-day spike of 1,946 Covid cases||Punjab reported the sharpest single-day spike of 1,946 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, pushing the COVID-19 tally to 63,473 in the state.The previous record of new cases reported in a day was 1,746 on August 27.Fifty-four more COVID-19 deaths took the toll to 1,862 in the state, according to a government medical bulletin.Thirteen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Patiala, six from Kapurthala, five from Amritsar, three each from Faridkot, Moga, Jalandhar and Bathinda, two from Pathankot, Muktsar and Hoshiarpur and one each from Barnala, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, it said.Among places which reported new cases included Jalandhar (261), Pathankot (205), Gurdaspur (186), Bathinda (168), Ludhiana (161), Mohali (154), Patiala (150), Hoshiarpur (135), Amritsar (133) and Faridkot (88).Punjab has been seeing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases and adding over 1,000 coronavirus cases every day for a few days.A total of 1,606 coronavirus patients were discharged from several places, including Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mohali, Sangrur, Bathinda, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur, after recovering from infection.So far 45,455 people have been cured of the contagion.There are 16,156 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.Seventy one critical patients are on ventilator support while 571 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 11,93,260 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
06-09-2020||GS Paul||In a first, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar delivers ‘message’ to commemorate Khalra||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 6In a first, the officiating Jathedar of Akal Takht Harpreet Singh has remembered prominent human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra on his 25th 'martyrdom day'.The family members of Khalra and human rights activists initiated ‘sehaj path’ at a gurdwara near his house in Amritsar.Recognising Khalra’s contribution to the Sikh community, Harpreet Singh read out the ‘message’ from Takht Damdama Sahib. He said it was Khalra only who never cared for his life while launching a crusade against the ‘hukumat’ (government) for the Sikhs who were killed under a “deep-rooted conspiracy”.“The ‘anti-Sikh’ policies of the governments still existed, but with a changed format. The only variance is that earlier the Sikhs were being physically tortured to eliminate whereas now they were being intellectually targeted by creating division among them,” he said.  The local municipal councils of Canadian cities -- Burnaby, New Westminster, Surrey and Brampton -- and Manteca, Bakersfield, Santa Clara in USA too declared to observe September 6 as ‘Jaswant Singh Khalra Day’.On the other hand, neither the SGPC nor the SAD cared to acknowledge the man who fought against the disappearance and extra-judicial killings of thousands of Sikh youths who were subjected to fake encounters during the turbulent times of Punjab before he himself was disappeared on September 6, 1995 when Punjab police picked him up from his residence in Amritsar.Later his body was found near Harike. His wife and human rights defender, Paramjit Kaur Khalra, pursued his legal case and the Punjab mass cremations case, which exposed the black days of Punjab during militancy. After a decade-long battle, Patiala court pronounced life imprisonment to five police personnel.Khalra, the then general secretary of SAD (human rights wing) had estimated 25,000 bodies had been disposed of in crematoria across Punjab.He was also the first human rights activist whose portrait adorned the Central Sikh Museum of the Golden Temple in November 2003.Talking to The Tribune, Paramjit Kaur said she had no regrets about couldn’t careless attitude of SAD or the SGPC, but showed her gratitude towards Giani Harpreet Singh.“Earlier, it was the former SGPC chief Gurcharan Singh Tohra who showed guts to install Khalra saheb’s portrait at Golden Temple and now for the first time in the history that a Jathedar like Giani Harpreet Singh had acknowledged my husband. No other Jathedar ever spared a thought to remember Khalra’s contribution for Sikhs,” she said.However, she added “Badals came to power while playing ‘Khalra card’ only in 1997 by promising justice for him”. “Later, they forget their promises and we also parted ways. So, no expectation from them. We are on the mission of protecting human rights, as dreamt by Khalra saheb,” she said.
06-09-2020||Parvesh Sharma||2.88 crore habit-forming drugs worth Rs 15 crore seized from father-son duo’s godown||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, September 6Barnala police have seized 2.88 crore habit forming drugs from the New Delhi Godown of Krishan Kumar Arora and his son Gaurav Arora, who were arrested last month. Police claimed that both were one of the biggest manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceutical opioids in the country and were illegally supplying 18-20 crore tablets, capsules and syrups, worth Rs 70-80 crore, across 17 states every month through drug supply gangs, including Mathura and Agra gangs, that were busted recently.“Krishan and his son Gaurav are in police remand till September 7. On information shared by both, we have confiscated 2.88 crore habit-forming drugs from their Godowns in Narela of Delhi. The market value of seized drugs is around Rs 15 crore and its biggest seizure,” said ASP Mehal Kalan Dr Pragya Jain, who has been heading all investigations of case and leading various teams of Barnala police.Both were arrested from Rajouri Garden in Delhi on August 27 by a team of the Barnala police, comprising Jain and Crime Investigations incharge cops under the supervision of SSP Sandeep Goel.“Apart from the duo, we have also arrested 35 other accused, who were helping both in running their illegal trade. They had created a network of couriers to supply drugs. Investigations are going on,” said ASP Jain.Barnala police got a clue about their network in February after busting the Mathura and Agra gangs, which led to major seizures and arrests in May and July.
06-09-2020||Mohali||8 coronavirus fatalities take Mohali’s death count past 100||Mohali reported eight coronavirus deaths and 215 new cases on Sunday, taking the district’s infection count to 4,882, officials said.Four of the eight new fatalities were people over 60---a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon, a 71-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, a 64-year-old woman from Phase 2 and a 60-year-old man from Kurali. All four died at GMCH Patiala.Two of those who died were in their 40s---a 41-year-old man from Mohali and a 45-year-old woman from Mubarikpur. They both died at GMCH Patiala.  A 57-year-old man from Nayagaon who had hypertension died in Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 32, and a 55-year-old woman from Kharar died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.Mohali urban reported 87 of Sunday’s COVID-19 infections. Cases also came from Kharar (36), Gharuan (33), Boothgarh (2), Dhakoli (42), Dera Bassi (11), Banur (2) and Kurali (2), officials said.Mohali reported 96 new recoveries on Sunday.Forty-six per cent of Mohali’s cases are still active. The district’s death toll now stands at 107.
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Over 3,800 Punjab policemen COVID-19 infected so far||Over 3,800 Punjab policemen have tested positive for COVID-19 since the pandemic began, an official statement said on Sunday.It said senior police officials are calling up COVID-19 infected personnel to motivate them to fight the disease.The Punjab Police is also providing free health kits with a pulse oximeter, sanitisers and medicines to the infected policemen, it said.According to the statement, 3,803 policemen in the state have tested positive for the disease so far. Twenty of them have died, while 2,186 cops have fully recovered.At present, 1,597 policemen are COVID-19 positive, it said."All COVID positive police personnel are being provided health kits which include a digital thermometer, pulse oximeter, sanitisers, medicines, vitamins etc. These kits cost Rs 1,700 including taxes but are being provided free of cost to the positive police officials," the statement said.The state police phoned over 500 COVID-19 infected personnel, who are undergoing treatment at hospitals or home quarantined.The senior officers involved in the exercise not only enquired about the health and well-being of the personnel but also assured them of every possible support.Some senior officers with medical backgrounds even gave the police personnel therapeutic guidance and advice.More than 20 police officials who have recovered from the disease have willingly donated plasma, it said. PTI
06-09-2020||Bathinda||Youth Akali Dal leader Sukhman Sandhu shot dead in Bathinda||Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader Sukhman Sandhu was shot dead by unidentified persons near thandi sadak area in railway colony of Bathinda on Saturday night.Sukhman was the vice president of YAD's Bathinda unit.Police teams reached the spot on Sunday morning and have started a probe into the incident.DSP City 2 Gurjit Singh Romana said Sandhu was murdered and a probe has been started in the incident.Sandhu was a resident of Lal Singh Basti and had been associated with SAD for a long time. He had opened fire on Congress workers in Lal Singh Basti area polling booth on Lok sabha election poll day in 2019. He was arrested by the police and was sent to jail but was now out on bail.The incident has created panic in the Bathinda as this is the third murder in the last three days.
06-09-2020||Aditi Tandon||Centre rushes high-level teams to Punjab, Chandigarh amid rapid surge in Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 6As India overtook Brazil to become the world’s second-most COVID-affected nation, the government drew out a plan to help states contain the disease.The Ministry of Health has rushed Central teams to Punjab and UT of Chandigarh, which have been witnessing a recent case surge and high mortality.The high-level teams will assist in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of COVID patients with the aim to reduce mortality and save lives.They will also guide in effectively addressing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow-up.The two-member teams will comprise of a Community Medicine expert from PGIMER, Chandigarh and an epidemiologist from NCDC.These teams shall be stationed in the state and UT for ten days to provide extended guidance in managing COVID.Punjab has reported a total of 60,013 cases, whereas it has 15,731 active cases on date.It has registered 1739 deaths. The testing per million figure for the state is 37,546 (India’s average figure is 34,593.1 at present).With 4.97 per cent, it hovers at the lower spectrum of cumulative positivity.Chandigarh is reporting 2095 active cases, whereas its cumulative cases stand at 5268. Testing per million and cumulative positivity stand at 38054 and 11.99 per cent, respectively.The Centre is actively supporting the states that are seeing a sudden surge in the number of COVID cases and those that are reporting high mortality by deputing multi-sectoral Central teams. The aim is to reduce overall case mortality to less than 1 pc.India’s COVID-19 load today crossed 41 lakh with a record 90,632 daily infections.As many as 31,80,865 people have recovered, taking the national recovery rate to 77.32 per cent.But the total load of 41,13,811 with 70,626 deaths (1,065 in 24 hours) has the Centre worried.
06-09-2020||Patiala||Sole Punjab MLA in Rajindra Hospital for COVID treatment shifts to private hospital in 24 hours||Leaving hospital authorities and district administration in a tight spot, a member of legislative assembly (MLA), Punjab left the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala and shifted to a private hospital on Saturday evening.Nirmal Singh was the only coronavirus-positive MLA who had preferred a government hospital to a private one for treatment of coronavirus.Now Singh is also taking treatment at a private hospital in Patiala.The development, once again, has raised questions over the treatment and facilities at Government Rajindra Hospital.The MLA was admitted to the Rajindra hospital on Friday after spending some time under home isolation.Interestingly, Singh -- in a video shared by the district administration -- was seen appraising facilities and doctors at the Rajindra Hospital. In the video, he had said, "No one should go to a private hospital and visit only government facilities -- including Government Rajindra Hospital."Confirming the development, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that the MLA had requested them to shift him to a private hospital.It has been learned that MLA was given a special room at Rajindra Hospital.Satnam Singh, the MLA's son, told The Tribune: "My father was home isolated, however, he shifted to Rajindra Hospital after he had difficulty in passing urine. We took him to a private hospital as the washrooms were not clean and hygienic at Rajindra.”Meanwhile, hospital authorities said that MLA shifted to a private hospital due to personal reasons.
06-09-2020||Our journey together was horrifically and abruptly cut short. On Wednesday||Pash, my father: Daughter Winkle Sandhu remembers the revolutionary Punjabi poet||Born on September 9, 1950 at village Talwandi Salem in Jalandhar, Avtar Singh Sandhu wrote under the pen name of Pash. Inspired by the Naxalite movement, he was known for his poetry of resistance. The four volumes of his poetry — ‘Loh Katha’, ‘Udadiyan Bazan Magar’, ‘Saddey Sameyaan Vich’ and ‘Khilre Hoye Warke’ — have been translated into several languages. He was gunned down by militants on March 23, 1988. He was 38.Thirty-two years hence, my father lives on and inspires people’s hearts, ignites discussions, makes it to university syllabuses and is often the theme of research scholars’ PhDs. Even today, his poetry changes lives of the youth and inspires young men and women to follow in his footsteps. It goes without saying, I am proud to be the daughter of this revolutionary, powerful, influential, progressive and daring poet.Also read: Pash's love-hate relationship with his contemporariesI was born in a small village of Talwandi Salem (Jalandhar) in January 1981. Those were times when people would shed tears at a daughter’s birth. But here was my father — celebrating my coming into this world, distributing sweets to everyone in our village and playing loud music on the speaker! Many were perplexed at his happiness, but only he understood the beauty, sincerity and value of a daughter’s birth and what she brings to a family.I was seven when tragedy struck. A first-grader, I didn’t realise what a loss it was for Punjab. I just knew I would never be able to run into my father’s arms again, or hear his voice, share milestones together, or be able to be loved by him. Slowly, the memories faded.As I grew up, my family helped me understand him, who he was, as a father, more so as a writer. My aunts Pammy and Rajinder, uncles Ajit and Sucha, my mom, my grandmother and some of my father’s closest friends — Surinder Dhanjal, Chaman Lal, Sukwinder Kamboj and Amarjit Chandan, to name a few — told me what he was like and I today feel that even though he isn’t here, I know him. I am forever indebted to my grandfather, Maj Sohan Singh Sandhu, who was my best resource person on my father. After Papa’s death, he was the father figure in my life.In the past three decades, people have come to me from all over the world to express how much love and admiration they have for my father. To say the least, it makes me feel immensely proud, speechless with gratitude and taken aback by all their words. Every time I go back to Talwandi Salem, it brings me great pleasure to live in our home, to see and feel the ‘khet’, the fields he loved so much, and to live the simple ‘pind’ life he wrote about. I can’t wait to share these moments with his grandchildren.Every poetry festival I have ever attended across the world has a dedicated segment to recognise Pash, and there’s always a follower, believer or passionate human being who wants to connect with his poetry and follow in his footsteps. Organisations such as International Pash Memorial Trust and radio and TV channels across the world help keep Pash’s poetry alive.As the years go by, I have taken the place of my Dadaji by teaching my own children, Armaan and Anayat, about their grandfather and make sure they know who he truly was, his importance, and what powerful poetry he has left behind for the world to read and experience.If he were alive today, I feel my family would have been living a very different life, but I try my best to live by his words and ideology.Some of my father’s poems have guided me in some of my most difficult life decisions and I will be forever grateful to him. He has also shaped me into the woman I am today. He has given me and my mother the strength to live on through his words.His portrait hangs in my living room with the poem ‘Sab Ton Khatarnak’ right beside it. I feel he looks at us every day, making sure we don’t let anyone destroy our dreams. When recently faced with a seemingly insurmountable challenge, this poem carried me through, serving as the wind beneath my wings.Pash’s poetry provides succour and strength, sustenance and hope to carry forth and guide the next generation to carve its own path. Such powerful and progressive poetry is and should be recognised, celebrated and lived by.
06-09-2020||---||It’s official, Punjab University to conduct final semester exams from Sept 17||Chandigarh, September 5Panjab University today officially announced to conduct final semester exams of both postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) courses in a blended (online/offline) mode from September 17 to 30.Exam procedureScraps entrance testsHowever, the practical examinations for UG/PG exit or terminal classes will be conducted online from September 10 to 15. The roll number of the students will be uploaded on the university’s website from September 12.The UG exams will be of two hours: from 9 am to 11 am. The question papers, as per the date sheet, will be uploaded on the website, puchd.ac.in, at 8.30am and these will also be emailed to the Chairperson/Director/Principal, who will send the question paper to the students concerned using different electronic modes. The Director/Principal of the institute/college/USOL will also upload the question paper on their official website from where the students will download the paper.After two hours, the students will send back a scanned answer book by uploading the same to the source. If by any chance, they are unable to submit online, they can submit the same in a sealed envelope physically to the nearest nodal centre or by registered/speed post and a list of all nodal centres will be uploaded on the university’s website.Similarly, the PG exam will be held from 10 am to 12 am.Special chanceIn case, the student cannot appear online, a special extra chance will be given to appear for the physical exam as and when the situation improves. The evaluation will be completed within five days of termination of exams and results will be declared accordingly.Coordination committeePU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar has constituted a special monitoring coordination committee, which will monitor day-to-day issues related to exams, technical hurdles, administrative issues and logistics pertaining to online exams. A special dedicated email will be generated by the controller office for addressing grievances regarding online exams. The nodal centre will be created where all kinds of facilities related to online conduct/post conduct activities will be provided.
06-09-2020||Archit Watts||Covid norms: Cops more harsh on activists than netas, suggest 10 FIRs||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 5The Muktsar police have been accused of adopting double standards when it comes to lodging FIRs over violation of Covid safety norms.A closer look at 10 related FIRs over the past fortnight suggests the violators who participated in political protests have been booked by the police as unidentified persons.On the other hand, whenever any farmer outfit or student body organised a demonstration, their activists were booked by name.For instance, some Akalis protested in Malout on September 2 against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over alleged SC scholarship scam. The case, however, was registered against unidentified persons.The police followed a similar pattern during an AAP protest, led by its two MLAs from Faridkot district, in Muktsar on September 1.But an agitation by farm activists against the Centre’s ordinances on agricultural reforms didn’t meet the same fate. The protesters had their names registered in FIRs lodged on August 20, 25, 26 and 27. At Doda village on August 21, people were booked by name for holding a gathering at a house.“The law should be same for all. Why aren’t the police naming politicians,” asked a farm leader.While Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi wasn’t available for comment, another senior official said he would look into the matter.54 attend pool party despite curbs, bookedLudhiana: At least 54 persons attending a pool party at a farmhouse in Jhammat village were booked by the Ludhiana police late Friday night for violation of lockdown norms. Among them were wards of politicians. The resort owner was booked too. Bottles of liquor, cases of beer and two hookahs were seized.
06-09-2020||Sangrur||Jobless teachers protest||2 more peddlers identifiedAmritsar: The Tarn Taran police have identified two more aides of drug peddlers nabbed by them on Friday. A manhunt has been launched to arrest them. SSP Dhurman Nimble said during interrogation, the police came to know about two more persons to whom the peddlers used to hand over the contraband after retrieving it from the Indo-Pak border. TNSFarmers’ rally on Sept 14Sangrur: To mobilise support for their rally against the “anti-farming policies” of the Central government in Barnala on September 14, farmers under the banner of the Kirti Kisan Union on Saturday organised meetings in various villages. TNS
06-09-2020||---||Missing ‘Saroops’: SGPC makes U-turn, won’t file criminal case against guilty||Amritsar, september 5Taking a U-turn on the registration of a criminal case against those responsible for the misappropriation of records of 328 “saroops”, the SGPC executive, which met today, decided to punish them as per the Sìkh Gurdwara Act and Panthic tradition.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC Chief‘Won’t allow external interference’No external authority can be allowed to interfere in the Shiromani Committee’s affairs.A partial report of the probe has been uploaded on the SGPC’s website. Earlier, the executive, at its August 27 meeting, favoured criminal proceedings against these employees. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said no external authority could be allowed to interfere in the affairs of the Committee.He categorically stated: “No desecration of holy scriptures had taken place and to take mileage out of the mistake committed by some black sheep, the opposition initiated a ‘smear campaign’ against the entire Shiromani committee.” Longowal claimed that the employees did not deposit the “Bheta” (monetary value) of these “saroops” and pocketed the amount.The “saroops” did not figure in the records of the Shiromani Committee. He said these were in the houses of the Sikh Sangat as per the Rehat Maryada.All members of the executive and office-bearers of the Shiromani Committee will tender an apology at Akal Takht on September 18.He said the executive also called upon the erring employees to appear before the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs to seek an apology.In a separate decision, the committee called its budget session on September 28, which could not be held due to Covid-19 restrictions. The members also mourned the death of SGPC members Sajjan Singh, former member Chetan Singh Samao and former chief secretary Harcharan Singh.Meanwhile, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation stated that it was an attempt to brush the matter under the carpet. Its members requested Giani Harpreet Singh, Jathedar, Akal Takht, to take stern action against the guilty.Meanwhile, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Cabinet Minister, demanded the SGPC president’s resignation for dereliction of duty.
06-09-2020||---||SGPC ex-chief secretary Harcharan Singh dead||Amritsar, September 5Former chief secretary of the SGPC Harcharan Singh, 75, died of a heart attack this morning. He is survived by his wife Dalwinder Kaur and daughter Nimrata Kaur.Though the attack was mild, Harcharan Singh could not be saved, his nephew Navjot Singh said. The SGPC executive had on August 27 announced to initiate criminal proceedings against him as he, along with other officials, was held accountable for misappropriation of 328 “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib.He was also summoned at Akal Takht, along with the 2016 SGPC’s executive body, on September 18 for not maintaining records and performing mourning prayers for the loss of “saroops” in an accidental fire in May 2016 at Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan in Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.A former Deputy Chairman of Punjab and Sind Bank, Harcharan Singh was handpicked in August 27, 2015, by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on a contractual basis for three years.His hefty salary of Rs 3 lakh per month and perks had also courted controversy, which he volunteered to reduce to Rs 1 lakh in March 2017.Short of completing a two-year term, he resigned in July 29, 2017, citing “personal reasons”. The post was created first in 2003 for veteran Akali leader Manjit Singh Calcutta for a paltry sum of Re 1 for a brief stint.It was specially revived for Harcharan Singh for the second time in the SGPC’s history to look after the financial affairs.
06-09-2020||GS Paul||Being made scapegoat, claims former SGPC official Dr Roop Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5Breaking silence for the first time after the issue of misappropriation of “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib surfaced, former chief secretary of the SGPC Dr Roop Singh said he was being made a scapegoat. Dr Roop Singh, SGPC Ex-Chief secretaryPoser to SGPCIf I was among the guilty officials, why wasmy resignation accepted?I should have been chargesheeted.He had quit on moral and ethical grounds and his resignation was accepted by the SGPC executive on August 27. The report that was partially made public by the SGPC today held Dr Roop Singh guilty among 14 other officials and staff members of the publication and allied departments for embezzlement of 328 “saroops”.“I was unnecessarily tortured. It was only after I tendered my resignation, voices were raised against the SGPC president. If I was among the guilty officials, why was my resignation accepted? I should have been chargesheeted. I didn’t even get any official confirmation about the acceptance of my resignation,” he said.“At whose behest the “saroops” were sent is yet to be disclosed,” he said.“An office note that speaks about 80 “saroops” getting damaged in the May 2016 fire was deliberately leaked because it had got my signatures on it. The truth was that the note was written by assistant supervisor Kanwaljit Singh and I had just forwarded it to my subordinate to take necessary action. How could I be held responsible for it,” he said.
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Finish probe into scholarship scam within 15 days: Colleges to Punjab govt||The Joint Association of Colleges (JAC), comprising 1,650 Punjab colleges, has asked the government to complete the SC Scholarship probe within 15 days.The JAC is representing 13 associations of Punjab. Jagjit Singh, chairman, JAC, said the government had framed the policy of holding scholarship funds and issuing statements of scams followed by repeated audits and investigations since 2017. He said the government had not adopted any policy to monitor the scholarship scheme.The government has not clarified any policy for the session 2020-21 due to which the future of lakhs of SC students and educational institutions is at stake. This confusion and evasive policy of the government have broken the education structure of Punjab financially due to which lakhs of SC students are being denied higher education. — TNS
06-09-2020||Saurabh Malik---||30 years on, woman moves court to claim house papers from CBI||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 5 For Kamaljit Kaur, the ordeal appears to be unending. More than three decades after Rs 5.7 crore was looted from a Punjab National Bank branch in Ludhiana, Karamjit Kaur — widow of once an accused in the case — has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for return of house documents seized by the Central Bureau of Investigation during the course of probe. While the Supreme Court had acquitted nine persons sentenced to 10 years in jail under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act for looting the bank, her husband Sukhpreet Singh alias Satnam Singh did not live long enough. The court was told that he died in October 1989 before facing the trial. Appearing on her behalf, counsel Mansur Ali told the High Court that an FIR in the matter was registered under the provisions of the IPC and TADA by the premier investigating agency. While he was alive, the petitioner’s husband entered into an “agreement to sell” for the purchase of a house in Mohali. But the house documents were taken into custody by the CBI authorities. The petitioner approached PUDA and GMADA functionaries for the transfer of the house on the basis of the “agreement to sell” and a Will executed by the seller. But the Estate Officer, Urban Estate, Punjab, informed the petitioner that papers were in CBI’s possession. The CBI was required to return the papers to the PUDA/GMADA authorities following the acquittal of the accused. “If the papers are in the court, the CBI is required to get the same released to respondents PUDA and GMADA. The respondents should approach the CBI for the same.... The fact that the trial has resulted into acquittal by the Supreme Court, all the papers of the house in question are liable to be returned,” he added. The Bench has put the State, PUDA, GMADA and the CBI on notice. The case will now come up in November first week.
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||High Court directs Punjab to submit FIR details against all serving police officers||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked for details of FIRs registered against all serving police officers in the State of Punjab, including their nature and status. Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal has also asked the State, through its home secretary, to specify the current posting of the officers.The direction by Justice Grewal came after the Bench was told a large number of police officers facing criminal cases were still in service. Justice Grewal was hearing a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Surjit Singh, dismissed from service by Moga Senior Superintendent of Police.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, his counsel submitted the impugned order of dismissal from service were passed without taking into consideration another order passed by an Inspector-General of Police, whereby the petitioner had been reinstated in service after the registration of an FIR against him. — TNS
06-09-2020||---||Punjab State awards for 74 teachers, officials||Chandigarh, September 5School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday conferred state awards on 74 teachers and officials at a function held at the auditorium of Thapar Institute, Patiala. He also paid respects to the former President, scholar, philosopher and Bharat Ratna awardee, Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was born on this day in 1888. The Cabinet Minister awarded certificates to four Patiala teachers. As many as 70 teachers were given awards through video-conferencing.Singla, while lauding the efforts of teachers and staff of the Education Department, said teachers were the biggest contributors to the development of any country and on Teacher’s Day, he paid respects to the fraternity.The minister added that government schoolteachers had been working tirelessly to raise the standards of education in the state. With their efforts, the quality of education and infrastructure had improved.“Punjab has registered 15 per cent growth in enrolments. Around 45 per cent of the government schools in the state have been developed as smart schools,” the minister said. Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar thanked the teachers for their commendable job during the Covid-19 pandemic.Cancellation of NEP sought
06-09-2020||Abohar||Two held for Rs 12 lakh fraud||The Rajasthan police arrested two Abohar residents for allegedly duping people of lakhs of rupees in Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana by creating a fake investment software.  The SIT that arrived from Sriganganagar nabbed Manjit Kumar of Ramsara village, 10 km from Abohar, and Harish Chander of Hardyal Nagar here.  The police said on July 20, Pritpal Singh of Vivekananda Colony had registered an FIR alleging that Manjit had cheated him and his friends of Rs 12.82 lakh. — OC
06-09-2020||---||Increase beds, Manpreet tells private hospitals||Bathinda, September 5In the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal today held a meeting with the district administration, Health Department officials and representatives of the Indian Medical Association.The minister took stock of the situation and directed big private hospitals in the city to make arrangements for 150 beds each and ventilators for Covid patients.
06-09-2020||---||GST evasion: Excise officials to go on mass leave||Chandigarh, September 5Excise and taxation officials today announced that they would proceed on a two-day mass leave on September 7 and 8 for alleged witch-hunting in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) evasion ‘scam’. The Vigilance Bureau (VB) had informed Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the entire fraud was turning out to be a multi-layered scam, spanning across northern states.The VB had arrested eight officials of the Excise and Taxation Department after registering an FIR against its 15 personnel.Reacting sharply to the VB’s claims, the Confederation of Associations of Officers (Excise and Taxation) decided that all officials (from the Excise and Taxation Inspectors to the Additional Commissioners) would proceed on a two-day mass leave.The Confederation of Associations of Officers said during these two days, no work would be done in any of the offices related to the GST and excise. The officials said despite a representation made to the Chief Minister, the Chief Principal Secretary to the CM, the Chief Secretary and the Secretary, VB, on September 3, two more officers were arrested by the VB on Friday.Sources said the CM had asked the VB to expose the racket and thoroughly probe the matter. The VB is learnt to have identified at least 10 passers (tax-free pass to person who bribed officials), who are the key players in the tax evasion and a common link between traders and the excise and taxation officials.
06-09-2020||Ludhiana||Docs: CT scan not standard method for Covid detection||Swab test is the standard protocol laid down by the Ministry of Health while CT scan gives quick results. Many people are now going for a CT scan to detect Covid. However, such people go unnotified.The technique is being used because it saves time and the results are accurate. Dr Ramesh Chander, state president of the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association, said CT scan was not the first choice for the detection of Covid. “CT scan is done to rule out any complications in the lungs. Sometimes, the patient tests negative but has symptoms and that is where CT scan helps,” he said.Read also: Instead of Covid test, Ludhiana doctors prescribing costly CT scanDr Sunil Katyal, president of Ludhiana unit of the Indian Medical Association, said before going for the tests, the patients were told about the cost factor and their preference was asked. Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council, however, said, “The government has laid down the standard protocol but many are still going for other diagnostic techniques.” — TNS
06-09-2020||Vijay C Roy||Ease of doing business: Punjab ranked 19th, industry expected it to fare better||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5Blame it on the lax implementation of reforms or poor feedback, there has not been much improvement in Punjab’s ranking in the ease of doing annual business ranking of states and Union Territories released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. Sibin C, Director, Industries & Commerce, PunjabShocked by ratingWe implemented almost all reforms and expected that we would be among the top 10 states. However, the result came as a shocker to us.Punjab has been placed at the 19th position (out of 36), a one-point improvement from the 2017-18 ranking, when it was at the 20th spot.The state was eyeing to be among the top 10 states. “We have implemented almost all reforms and expected that we would be among the top 10 states. However, the result came as a shocker to us. Once the details are out, we will analyse the shortcomings and act accordingly,” said Sibin C, Director, Industries, and Commerce, Punjab. The ranking of states based on the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan was started in 2015. To date, state rankings have been released for 2015, 2016 and 2017-18. The Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 includes 180 reform points covering 12 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single-window system, labour, environment, etc.However, the most prominent areas were access to information and transparency enablers, labour regulation-enablers and construction permit enablers.The final ranking is based on two separate scoring systems, with a majority of the assessment conducted on the basis of states providing evidence of reforms in policies and procedures. According to sources, Punjab didn’t score well on the feedback part, which led to a decline in the overall ranking.In the rankings released by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the single-biggest jump in ‘State Business Reform Assessment 2018-19’ was witnessed by Lakshadweep, which came up by 19 places to the 15th position. Industrially advanced states such as Gujarat and Maharashtra slipped further to the 10th, 13th positions, respectively. The government said the trend was anticipated.
06-09-2020||---||‘Humiliated’ by panchayat, Dera Bassi man ends life||Dera Bassi, September 5In an incident that reeks of kangaroo court proceedings, an elderly man committed suicide due to humiliation after he was forced to take off his turban and place it at the feet of a village panch.The police have booked six persons, including the village sarpanch, for abetting suicide of a 52-year-old man Shyam Singh in Shatabgarh village near here today. The deceased, in a suicide note found in his pocket, stated that he was ending his life by hanging to death after facing humiliation by the village panchayat. On the basis of the statement of the deceased’s son Virender Singh, police have booked sarpanch Usha Devi, her husband Baljit Singh, former sarpanch Jai Singh, Ranjit Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Jagpal Singh.Inspector Gurwant Singh said, “The deceased’s son said that a false case was foisted on his father for obstructing the construction work of streets in the village.Shyam Singh claimed it to be his property while the accused claimed that it was village land.” A village panchayat was called where the deceased was asked to apologise by placing his turban at former sarpanch Jai Singh’s feet. Feeling humiliated, my father committed suicide,” said Virender Singh.
06-09-2020||---||Free food packets for poor families in home isolation||CHANDIGARH, SEPTEMBER 5In order to encourage residents to undergo Covid-19 tests, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced distribution of free food packets to the needy who do not want to get themselves tested fearing isolation, which would impact their meagre earnings.The Chief Minister said the distribution of food packets would help encourage poor families to go for early testing, which was imperative to check the spread of the pandemic and control the fatality rate.The programme will start from Patiala, one of the worst-affected districts with widespread propaganda, he said. The Chief Minister directed other districts to make similar arrangements.Noting that people were scared of hospitalisation, he said the government was encouraging home isolation to combat this fear and had also decided to remove posters/stickers from homes of patients to end the stigma attached with isolation. The Chief Minister also asked Congress ministers and MLAs to communicate with masses on the ground to combat the negative campaign related to Covid tests and organ harvesting, which was “being propagated by the Aam Aadmi Party”.Meanwhile, casualties due to Covid are going on unabated as 69 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours in the state. Apart from that, 1,515 fresh cases were reported. With the fresh deaths, the total count has reached 1,808 and the number of cases has risen to 61,527.
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh tests negative, ends self-isolation||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ended his week-long self-isolation after testing negative for Covid. The Chief Minister had isolated himself after coming in contact with two MLAs who had later tested positive. This was the third time the Chief Minister had got himself tested for Covid since the outbreak of the pandemic. — TNS
06-09-2020||Prabhjot Singh||Jagtar Singh on Khalistan Struggle: Rivers on Fire||Journalists are mandated to act as watchdogs in liberal democracies. While judging a journalist or his or her work, especially in the context of Punjab which saw an extended period of unrest and violent strife, it is important to understand the trying circumstances in which they worked.Punjab saw the longest spell of President’s rule, besides promulgation of draconian laws to contain militancy. A state that was once acknowledged as the sword arm or sports arm of the country, besides the food bowl, was tottering at the brink.An experienced journalist would invariably use objectivity and verification, combined with storytelling skills, to make a subject both credible and newsworthy. It is not to suggest that what a journalist writes has general acceptance. Objectivity itself is subjective. Like everything else, criticism of journalistic works often has political dividends. Increasing attacks by politicians on the credibility of a journalist or a media house have often been part of a conscious strategy to weaken both the accountability and credibility of journalism in general and a journalist in particular.Of late, we have been witness to a collapse of the notion that politically relevant facts can be discerned by news professionals, reiterating the general belief that journalists are no more apolitical, leaving readers uncertain about ingesting the messages communicated to them as credible. These changing perceptions apart, there are old-timers who continue to discharge their role as torchbearers. Jagtar Singh, a veteran journalist and columnist, is one of them. He has the distinction of being an eyewitness from the very beginning of the Khalistan movement.His latest book ‘The Khalistan Struggle: Rivers on Fire’ is the story of militant struggle in the border state. The jacket says that it is the first attempt to tell the people as to what sparked this, who were the people involved initially and how this discourse evolved.Pramod Kumar, Director, Institute for Development and Communication, in his Foreword, says that to revisit the recent past by an actor, in this case a journalist who actively covered the decade-long politics of extremes, is always fraught with danger. These explorations provide crucial information for historical scrutiny. The process of reconstruction of facts involves subjectivity laced with political and ideological positioning.Going by the author, the book in hand is about the Sikh religio-political discourse in the context of both the peaceful and militant struggle from the earlier days. He has taken up only selective militant actions, as these were the incidents which shaped the discourse at crucial moments. This book shatters several myths about the struggle and the players involved.The prime focus, as the title suggests, is on the emotive issue of sharing river waters. Most of the essays are well documented. However, a few important revelations made in the book, including one about the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, need corroboration. The author says that while the names of all those who assassinated her and those part of the design are in public domain, at least three more people were part of the plan to avenge Operation Bluestar.He mentions that one of these three, Manbir Singh Chaheru, purchased a plot in Mohali for Bimal Kaur Khalsa, wife of Delhi Police SI Beant Singh, one of the two assassins. It appears to be a post-action (assassination) association that brought Bimal Khalsa in contact with Chaheru and Damdami Taksal. All said and done, it was the religious hurt that made Beant and Satwant kill Indira Gandhi. The author’s revelation, however, cannot be dismissed as he may have gathered new information.On the divisive subject of river waters, Jagtar Singh has tracked history very well. As expected, he has also talked about riparian law or principles. He has been successful in bringing out another important legal aspect that the state legislature never ratified any of the water awards. The Assembly took up the issue twice, first during the Akali government of Surjit Singh Barnala that annulled the 1981 award, and the action taken by the Congress government of Capt Amarinder Singh to annul all water agreements. It may sound strange that none of these legislative pronouncements could become effective. The issue has once again been thrown open by the apex court, necessitating the Centre to get back to the rigmarole of holding meetings with the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana.When the Barnala government annulled the 1981 award (Indira-Darbara Award), the Assembly simultaneously endorsed the Rajiv-Longowal Accord that mandated setting up of a tribunal to resolve the water-sharing dispute. The Eradi Tribunal, after an interim report in 1987, failed to give its final report. The author has obliquely mentioned the Tribunal.
06-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Begging menace haunts  visitors at Amritsar Heritage Street||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5The menace of begging has gripped the Heritage Street and Golden Temple complex. The residents claimed that the number of beggars increased after Covid-19 spread.Wandering in the Heritage Street, these beggars give a tough time to devotees, walking their way to and fro the shrine. Though the state government and district administration insist on maintaining the social distancing, the beggars often put the visitors in an embarrassing situation by holding their arms and forcing them to give them money.Davinder Singh, a resident of Rauke village in Moga District said, “I never give money to beggars as it encourages the menace, which is also an offence. But here a child started begging from me at Saragari parking and walked along me till the Jallianwala Bagh. Finally, I gave him Rs 10 to him to get rid of him. They are trained to emotionally blackmail the devotees and would not give up until they get money”. Children posing as salesmen force the visitors to buy pens, handkerchief and “keskis”.Ironically, the Prevention of Begging Act is enforced in the city for the past many years, yet the police have not registered even a single case under the act. A majority of the beggars have reached from the other state.“Earlier, beggars used to come from other states. But now, even the locals have started resorting to the practice. There is a need to comprehend what pushes them to start begging. The number of beggars has witnessed a rise in the past a few months,” said Ravi, a resident of Katra Ahluwalia.
06-09-2020||Gurdaspur/Pathankot||MP Sunny Deol’s two-day Gurdaspur visit triggers protests from Congress men||After a gap of nearly six months, MP Sunny Deol finally made an appearance in his constituency but failed to kick off his old habit of evading mediapersons, triggering rumours, speculations and conjectures of different types.During his Gurdaspur tour, the MP made it a point to ask his staff to ensure that nobody else would be present when he met Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq and ADC (General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu.In a brief meeting, he was apprised of the measures the administration was taking to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The DC also urged him to speak to officials in New Delhi wherein a special development plan for the border district till 2030 could be executed.During his conversation with officials, he asked them to guide him on what he could do to contain the virus. “I told him to issue an appeal to the constituents to break the transmission chain by getting tested and subsequently going into isolation, if found positive,” said the DC. — TNS
