06-08-2020||---||Punjab hooch tragedy: 135 more arrested; CM to visit Tarn Taran on Friday to meet kin of victims||Chandigarh, August 6With 197 new cases and 135 more arrests in 24 hours, the Punjab police have busted several modules as part of its state-wide crackdown on illicit liquor mafia, while further tightening the noose around the suspects in the hooch tragedy case.A total of 284 drums of methanol were seized from the Millar Ganj, Ludhiana, shop of the key accused, Rajiv Joshi, who had sold the three drums that had triggered the chain of deaths in three districts in one of the state’s worst such cases. The death toll in the case stands at 133.DGP Dinkar Gupta said while investigations into the tragedy were continuing and the two SITs set up to fast-track the FIRs, the police continued with coordinated raids across districts on the orders of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to “finish the illicit liquor business”. The last 24 hours saw the recovery of 1528 litre of illicit liquor, 7,450 kg of Lahan and 962 litre of smuggled illicit liquor in raids at various locations, he said, adding that 11 working stills were also recovered in the 197 cases registered since yesterday.The DGP added that Lahan was recovered by Amritsar Police in a special drive supervised by senior officers.Since the raids started in the wake of the hooch tragedy, a total of 1,489 FIRs have been registered and 1,034 persons have been arrested, said Gupta. A total of 29,422 litre of illicit liquor, besides 12,599 litre of licit liquor and 5,82,406 kg of Lahan, along with  20,960 litre of alcohol and spirits, have been seized and 73 working stills recovered in the state-wide raids.The raiding teams are coordinately closely with the Excise Department, as per the Chief Minister’s directives, said the DGP, adding that the raids will continue in the coming days so that every single person involved in manufacturing and trade of illicit liquor or smuggling of liquor is arrested and action taken against them as per law.The Chief Minister is, meanwhile, reviewing the progress of the hooch tragedy case on day-to-day basis and will be meeting the families of some of the victims tomorrow in Tarn Taran. He has also directed the DGP to register murder cases against all those found directly involved in the case.
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||26 more Covid-19 deaths in Punjab; highest single-day spike of 1,049 cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 26 more deaths due to COVID-19, pushing the toll to 517, while the highest single-day spike of 1,049 cases took the state’s infection tally to 20,891, according to a bulletin.Thirteen fatalities were reported in Ludhiana, seven in Jalandhar and one each in Amritsar, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Sangrur and Tarn Taran, it said.There total number of active COVID-19 cases in the state now stands at   6,715, according to the bulletin.Among districts which reported new cases are Ludhiana (190), Bathinda (150), Patiala (136), Jalandhar (114), Mohali (104), Amritsar (60), Gurdaspur (54) and Moga (46), the bulletin said.On Thursday, 716 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 13,659, it said.Twenty-six patients are on ventilator support, while 150 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 6,34,271 samples have been taken for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
06-08-2020||GS Paul||Golden Temple replica row reaches Akal Takht, again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6Once again, the voice against the Gurdwara Singh Sabha structure at Mastuana in Sangrur that has downright resemblance to the Golden Temple has been raised.  A delegation led by Parshotam Singh Phaguwala, who has repeatedly been launching protest against it, today approached the Akal Takht demanding to summon rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa who heads the trust under which this temple and other educational institutions were being run.Parshotam Singh alleged that Dhindsa has taken over the administrative control of Mastuana property spread in 400 acres, various education institutions in his hands and misusing them for political gains for over a decade.He resented that despite several representations to the SGPC, observing hunger strikes on many occasions, no action was taken.“We want Akal Takht’s intervention to take action against raising Golden Temple lookalike, as it hurt the Sikh sentiments. Dhindsa should be summoned at the Akal Takht. He had lost the case against SGPC in gurdwara tribunal but challenged it in High Court. He should be removed from all positions and the charge should be handed over to the SGPC so that need based changes could be made to alter the design of shrine,” he said.Raising Golden Temple’s replica is also a violation of Akal Takht’s edict pronounced in 1995. The shrine is situated on the premises of Gurdwara Sachkhand Angitha Sahib and took shape partially in 1994. The further construction was stopped for some time but it got carried on in between.In 2009, Akal Takht had directed the SGPC to get this controversial structure altered by introducing several modifications like filling the ‘sarovar’ with sand and remove the bridge leading to Shine like structure, but  except for closing ‘har ki paudi’, its management never made the mandatory changes in its design as per the 2009 edict of the Akal Takht.
06-08-2020||Vibha Sharma||Basmati GI tag war: MP CM ‘condemns’ Amarinder’s letter to PM Modi||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 6Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday “condemned” Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding Madhya Pradesh’ efforts to get a Geographical Indication (GI) tag for its “famous Basmati rice”, terming the move “inspired by politics”.“I condemn the letter written to the Prime Minister by the Congress government of Punjab in the matter of GI tagging of Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh and consider it politically inspired.“I wish to question the Chief Minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh, as to what hostility he has with the farmers of Madhya Pradesh. It is not a matter of Madhya Pradesh or Punjab, it is a matter of farmers of the entire country and their livelihood,” an official statement said, quoting Chouhan.Referring to the historical connection of Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh, Chouhan recently urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to grant a GI status to the state’s Basmati rice “to encourage farmers and Basmati rice based industries”.According to Madhya Pradesh officials, amidst Chouhan’s efforts to get GI tag for the famous basmati rice exported by the State, the Chief Minister of Punjab wrote a letter to Prime Minister yesterday, seeking his intervention in this regard.In his letter, Singh said it would affect the interests of Punjab and other states whose Basmati rice already has a ‘GI tag’.Singh also said Pakistan could also benefit if this happens, as per MP officials. However, according to Chouhan, “The case of Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) with Pakistan has no connection with the claims of Madhya Pradesh.“Because it comes under the GI Act of India and has no connection with the claims of Basmati rice within the country. Exporters of Punjab and Haryana are buying Basmati from Madhya Pradesh.“The central government’s export data confirms this. The Central government has been supplying ‘breeder seed’ of basmati rice to Madhya Pradesh since the year 1999,” he said.Chouhan said it is recorded in the then ‘Scindia State’ records that in the year 1944, seeds were supplied to the farmers of the state.The Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad, has recorded in its ‘Production Oriented Survey Report’ that Basmati rice is being produced in Madhya Pradesh since the last 25 years, Chouhan said,  adding that GI tagging to Madhya Pradesh will stabilise the prices of India’s basmati rice in the international markets and boost the country’s export.“Basmati is being produced in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh since the year 1908 and has been registered in history. Basmati rice of Madhya Pradesh is considered very tasty and is famous both in the country and abroad for its flavours and fragrance,” he said, adding that IIRR, Hyderabad, and other specialist institutions have confirmed reports in connection with the traditional cultivation of basmati in Madhya Pradesh.Chouhan has sought a Geographical Indication (GI) tag for ‘Basmati’ rice produced in his state.A GI tag is an indication used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to the origin. The tag conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness and plays a major role in trade, improving its prospects. Geographical indications are typically used for agricultural products, foodstuffs, wine and spirit drinks, handicrafts, and industrial products.
06-08-2020||---||Punjab ministers seek expulsion of Bajwa, Dullo from Cong; duo hit back||Chandigarh, August 6Two days after Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar sought strict action against party MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, the entire Punjab cabinet on Thursday also pitched for the duo’s immediate expulsion for “anti-party and anti-government” activities, which they termed as gross indiscipline.The actions of the two Rajya Sabha MPs call for immediate and strict action against them by the party high command, said the Cabinet ministers, seeking the dismissal of Bajwa and Dullo for attacking their own Congress government in the state over the hooch tragedy.Response to Punjab Cabinet. pic.twitter.com/oiRfqa3XaA  Hitting back at the Cabinet ministers, Bajwa and Dullo said, “If the performance of the party cannot be criticised even if the government is working against the interest of the public which has reposed faith in the party and elected them to power, then this is against the principles of democracy.”In a press release, the duo sought to remind Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar that it was “he who had also been criticising Capt Amarinder Singh's working as Chief Minister during this tenure and now he is acting as if Amarinder Singh as CM has never failed in performing his duties”.“As regards the sacrilege case, it needs to be specifically pointed out that till date Punjab Police does not have the original case file with them which is still lying with the CBI. The State did not even file a contempt petition for getting back this case file and are misleading the public by stating that they are investigating the case. We are disheartened by the lack of effective action by the State Administration in ensuring that the families who have lost loved ones due to the liquor mafia are delivered justice,” Bajwa and Dullo said.The ministers, in a joint statement, called for the whip to be immediately cracked on the two MPs, without any laxity or delay.Indiscipline could not be tolerated at any time, least of all when Assembly elections in the state are less than two years away, they said, pointing to the MPs’ repeated attacks on the state government, including Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Questioning their decision to raise concerns on the hooch tragedy, the ministers said the two MPs had never, in their Rajya Sabha term, bothered to raise any issue of the interest of the state they represent. “Why did they not press for the completion of the ED probe into the drugs issue during the Akali regime? Why did they not protest in the House against the anti-farm Ordinances of the Union Government? Why did they never speak about the CBI’s failure to probe the sacrilege cases,” the ministers asked.The ministers said by bypassing all party and government forums to protest against the government handling of the hooch tragedy and to approach the Governor for CBI and ED inquiries into the case, the two MPs had not only attacked the very basis of democratic governance but had sought to undermine the Punjab Police force, which was effectively cracking down on the liquor mafia despite the Covid pandemic pressures it was currently handling.This is not the way democratic systems and institutions are meant to function, said the ministers, pointing out that a CBI probe was needed only if the police failed to deliver, which was definitely not the case at present. In any case, they pointed out that the whole of Punjab had been witness to CBI’s total lack of efficiency in investigating the sacrilege cases. Even the targeted killings were solved not by CBI but by the state police, the ministers said, expressing full faith and confidence in the Punjab Police ability to bring every guilty individual to book even in the spurious liquor case.Moreover, the decision on recommending or not recommending a CBI probe rests with the state government, and not with two MPs, who are unable to even represent the interests of Punjab properly in Parliament, the ministers said.What was even more unacceptable was the fact that instead of feeling even remotely apologetic, these MPs continue to be on the offensive, going so far as to launch a personal attack on PPCC president Sunil Jakhar. How can party MPs from a state go around openly criticising the chief of their own state unit, they asked, adding that the Congress had a strong leadership in Punjab and did not need two undisciplined members denting the image.Response by Bajwa, Dullo:
06-08-2020||Raj Sadosh||90,000 litre of illicit liquor found dumped near canal in Abohar||Abohar, August 6In a major achievement during the drive launched after death of 116 people due to spurious liquor, officials of Excise department, Khuyiansarwer police and Rajasthan police on Thursday detected and destroyed about 90,000 litre of illicit liquor that had been dumped along the Gang (Bikaner) canal.Deputy Commissioner, Excise, Jaskaran Singh Brar said the department had taken the help of Khuyiansarwer police station as well as their Rajasthan counterparts.Assistant Commissioner Excise RS Romana said the department was continuously investigating such sensitive places. On a tip-off, Excise Inspector Jasbir Singh Gill took action. He said there was a dense tree cover on the banks of the canal that passes through Abohar. Bootleggers had dug deep pits to dump illicit liquor.In a joint operation was launched near Tootwala village, the department detected about 90,000 liter stored alongside the canal. It was destroyed on the spot.In another raid Excise Inspector Harjit Singh with the help of Abohar Sadar police recovered and destroyed 500 litre of illicit liquor from the banks of Abohar Branch Canal near Chanankhera village.It may be recalled that excise and police teams of Fazilka and Muktsar districts had destroyed thousands of litres of illicit liquor near Chanankhera village in the past five-six years but the accused were seldom nabbed. The canal bank was considered major hub of illici liquor preparation in the region, but lot needs to be done to crack the mafia, people said.
06-08-2020||Mohali||Highest spike of 68 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Mohali district||The Mohali district witnessed a highest spike of 68 new cases of coronavirus taking the total count to 1,119.Meanwhile, 36 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital on Thursday.Most of the cases have surfaced from Kharar, Derabassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon, Mohali and Lalru city.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said all the patients were responding well to the treatment.As of now there are 1,119 positive cases and out of these 625 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital while there are 477 active cases with 17 deaths in the district.
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||BSF constable held in cross-border smuggling case dismissed||A BSF constable, who was arrested by the Punjab Police in a cross-border drugs and weapons smuggling case, has been dismissed from service, said an official statement of the BSF on Thursday.Border Security Force Constable Rajendra Prasad was held along with two others by the Punjab Police on July 28 from his native place of Sriganganagar in Rajasthan."As per the Punjab Police investigation report, Constable Rajendra Prasad of 71 Bn BSF was found guilty in the charge of collusion with smugglers,” read an official release issued by the BSF (Punjab Frontier)."Subsequently, on August 4, under the zero-tolerance policy, Constable Rajendra Prasad (was) dismissed from the service under the provision of the BSF Act and Rule with effect from August 4," it added.Prasad, posted at a border outpost in Chhina village in Taran Tarn district, was found to be the part of cross-border drugs and weapons smuggling racket that was busted by the Punjab Police.A .30 bore pistol, along with five live rounds and Rs 24.50 lakh in cash were recovered from Prasad and two other accused – Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, the police had said.According to the Punjab Police investigations, Prasad had allegedly helped the gang in getting 17kg of heroin and two foreign-made pistols in May.During questioning, Surmail and Gurjant had revealed that they were working with a cross-border smuggler, Satnam Singh alias Satta, a resident of Taran Tarn district.Satta was closely linked with Pak-based smugglers and smuggled heroin and weapons from Pakistan.They also disclosed that BSF constable Prasad was also involved in the smuggling racket. PTI
06-08-2020||Patiala||COVID patient at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital alleges negligence, asks for help on social media||Government Rajindra Hospital is once again under scrutiny for lack of patient-care at its COVID-19 isolation ward. A coronavirus patient at the hospital used social media to express his helplessness and anger after no one attended his distress call on Wednesday night.Talking to Tribune, the patient said, "The entire night I kept screaming for help, but nobody came to attend me. Finally, I had to break the glass of the door to raise an alarm for help. Then an attendant came for help."The patient, Davinder Preet Singh, said that his health had continuously been deteriorating, however, the doctor came only once in four days.He further said that he could not walk down to the washroom as it was 100 meters away. "My bed has not been changed for long. I can't go to the washroom without help."Finally, he said that he wanted to move out of the Rajindra Hospital and get treated at a private hospital.Notably, a few days ago, a relative of a patient, who died at Rajindra Hospital, had also alleged negligence by the hospital authorities.Dr. Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, said, “At present, the said patient is being looked after and most likely will be shifted to HDU for the enhanced supply of oxygen.”Dr. Harjinder Singh, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “My team has already attended the said patient. His bed will also be shifted near to the washroom. We are doing our best to take care of the patients.”
06-08-2020||---||Contractual employees send ‘get well soon’ card to Capt Amarinder||Jalandhar, August 5‘Get well soon Punjab sarkar’ reads the front page of the card that the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Mid-Day Meal Daftari Karamchari Union has sent in the name of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh as a mark of protest.‘Jaldi theek hove Punjab sarkar, lokan di hun ehi pukaar, sarkar ji quarantine vicho aao baahar’, adds another line.Notably, the union members have been seeking regularisation. In a sarcastic comment, the staff members said the government was sending an unwell person to 14 days’ quarantine, but the government itself was in quarantine for the past three years because they were hardly working and not listening to the demands, which is why the card was sent.Ashish Julaha, one of the active members of the union, said teachers appointed under the SSA in 2018 were regularised by the government, but the non-teaching staff that was appointed much earlier was still working on contractual basis, which was not right on the part of the government.They have been demanding regularisation for long. They said nearly a 1,000 employees in Punjab had been working on contractual basis and were getting meagre salaries.The protesters said most of the employees were getting wages ranging from Rs4,000 to Rs15,000, which was not acceptable. “Is it even possible to run families with such a meagre income?” they asked.‘Unique protest’ not the first timeEarlier also, they held a series of protests by adopting unique ways. On January 24, the staff members had cut a cake made in the shape of a Twitter logo. The members wore caps, on which ‘24th January Anti-Promise Day’ was written. The CM in a message, tweeted a year ago, had said that he would regularise the services of the employees working on contract basis, but the promise was not fulfilled by him, which is why they decided to celebrate the day as ‘Anti-Promise Day’.The tweet of the CM posted a year ago was printed on the cake. Also, to protest against the state government, the contractual workers had held a ‘Shok Sabha’ (condolence meet) of the manifesto of the Congress that was released before coming to power. The members had then said the promises made by the government had not been fulfilled.
06-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Pandemic effect: Online shopping takes the sheen off markets||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5Post relaxations of imposed curbs, shopping trends in the region have taken a peculiar shape. As life continues to limp back to normalcy in the markets, consumer behaviour, however, is yet to adapt to the pre-lockdown spell. The change has seen local customers spend more on essentials such as grocery and household supplies, while demand for garments, footwear, gifts and travel has dramatically dropped.After no business for almost two months, garment shop owners opened their stores on May 17. Since then they have been reeling from the effects and trying to make up for the losses. Being aware of the fact that people are still hesitant as the Covid threat is still looming large; the best bet of the current times is switching to online sale of merchandise.Anil Kumar, a local ladies garment dealer at Rainak Bazaar, says, “Though shopkeepers are opting for all available avenues to counter the setback faced, the absence of customers has hit businesses hard. Earlier, we used to make 50-60 deals in a day. Now, we are just making 8-10 deals after sitting for over 10 hours in the shop.” The business has reduced to 40 per cent and is hardly making up for his expenses. “We are currently relying only on our old customers,” Kumar adds. The weekends, once, was the high time but now due to restrictions “the sale on weekends remains dry.”Similarly, owner of Ganesh Cloth House, feels customers’ response is pathetic this year as compared to 2019. Taking a jibe on bringing business back on tracks, he adds, “We need same kind of panic buying that surfaced in March during the announcement of curfew.”A switch to online platformsUndoubtedly, maximising sale through online modes has emerged as the most popular option. While the businessmen and shopkeepers in the city are perturbed over the downfall in the profit, a recent report on the impact of Covid-19 on consumer behavior by McKinsey & Co, published in July, after conducting weekly, bi-weekly and monthly surveys in 12 countries, highlighted that 92 per cent Indians have changed their behavior amid the crisis.Many urban consumers, increasingly working from home are reluctant to visit crowded public places and are going online for their shopping needs. If demonetisation had compelled people to shift towards cashless payments, Covid has lured them into shopping online. Hence, traders are getting themselves acquainted with digital platforms, and retailers and wholesalers are also hiring delivery personnel and training the staff for e-commerce.Rehmat Collections, a leading retail garment shop near Babrik Chowk, has also adopted similar means to boost up sale. Training of staff wherein video call demonstrations and phone bookings for contactless delivery of goods are being taught as they hang by new measures to get back into groove.Arjun Papneja, the owner, says the lockdown had starved their business. The last two months were crucial. That was the time for winter stock clearance and bringing in the summer one. “Utilising the relaxation time of 9 am to 8 pm, we are making all efforts to increase the sale while ensuring social distancing at our shop. Not more than two-three customers are entertained at a time and are also directed not to rush outside the shop.”“We have circulated our phone numbers among our clients. They take appointment prior to coming,” Papneja adds. Apart from this, they are also offering free home delivery facility. “Our staff assists clients in choosing outfits and after selection we hire workers to deliver it on their doorstep,” he shares.In a bid to make up for the loss, the retailers have also slashed the prices of garments. “We have cut prices by 30-50 per cent,” Papneja tells.A visit to shopping malls is no longer the same. The entry is granted only after strict adherence to guidelines. Safety and hygiene of the customers are the top priority. “Visitors look for reassurance and visible safety here. Consumers are wary but they still have needs. Hence, we have adapted to the new normal to make sure patrons feel safe while shopping,” An official at the Lifestyle store in Viva Collage mall was quoted as saying.While sale of masks with matching outfits have gone up, the lack of buyers is not the same as before. The closure of eating joints and cinema halls has massively affected the customer count. Only essential items are being sold in good numbers these days.Likewise, joint managing director of MBD Group, Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, says, “Retail business started in the unlocking phase; we have seen growth in sales and footfall now after Unlock 3.0. Retailers & Mall patrons at MBD Neopolis mall in Ludhiana and Jalandhar are adapting to the new ways of conducting business. We are sitting at 50 to 60% of trading figures compared to last year at the moment and it is improving on a monthly basis and sale numbers are gradually gaining pace.”Sports equipment a big hitAmid lockdown many people gravitated towards fitness. While sales in most of the malls remained minimal, the sporting brands have managed to keep head above the water. Jatinder Singh, Decathlon store manager at the MBD mall, says, “We managed 20-30 per cent sale as people purchased sports and fitness equipment. People also showed interest in purchasing bicycles as the lockdown motivated them to go green.”Labour shortage woesAfter witnessing a huge downfall in their profit for two months, the shortage of labour has now become a major issue. Owners of many stores are either asking their workers to come back or are pasting posters outside their retail outlets to recruit manpower.Customers are keen as well as cautious to visit malls. Window shopping has minimised, but actual buyer wants to shop and does shop without hassles. Mall patrons and mall managements both are cautious and using all preventive methods to create awareness about hygiene.— Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, A residentTraining of the existing staff, video call demonstrations and phone bookings for contact-less delivery of goods are among the new measures being adopted to bring the business back on track. Not more than 2-3 customers are entertained at a time and they are also directed not to rush outside the shop.— Arjun Papneja, Rehmat CollectionsThe business has reduced to just 40 per cent that hardly makes up for our expenses. We are currently relying only on our old customers. Besides, owing to the restrictions in movement, the sale on weekends remain dry. We are desperately waiting for markets to return to normalcy.— Anil Kumar, Garment Dealer at Rainak BazaarThis is the first summer that our frequent visits to the markets have hung up. Being a shopaholic, I and my friends used to visit every store and shops to check what new stock was available in the market, but now, we are just sitting at homes scrolling e-commerce sites. I only prefer to bring clothes on my own. — Mayuri Muskan, a residentInstead of making frequent visits to the market, we prepare a list of items that we need and step out of our homes only once or twice a month. This way, we not only maintain our safety, but also equip ourselves with fresh stock. Also, we have avoided purchasing readymade garments this time. — Manju Mathpal, A residentLuckily, I don’t like to shop much and during the lockdown, I didn’t buy any new clothes or shoes. I went out to buy groceries and other household items only. Moreover, I even asked my family to refrain from frequent market visits. Along with fruits and vegetables, we bought groceries on the same day. — Jaipaul Kalia, A resident
06-08-2020||Known for his hit Punjabi film Ik Sandhu Hunda Si||Emotional quotient: Director Rakesh Mehta finds stories based on family and relationships fascinating||While directing, do you ever feel that something in the script is missing? Did you feel that with Ik Sandhu Hunda Si?As a director, I didn’t feel anything was missing while directing the movie. But of course, it does happen to almost every director after watching the film after a year or so. We feel that we could do better, shoot an extra scene or something like that. It’s pretty normal.What kind of scripts and stories are coming your way? What interests you in a story?I personally like emotional stories and I am certainly making my dream project about a father and a son very soon.With films like Yaara Ve, Rang Punjab, Nanak and Vaapsi, how has been your journey so far in Pollywood?Nanak is only on the papers yet. All other movies which I have made, I am quite satisfied with the appreciation I have received. Maybe the box office numbers don’t favour me sometimes but it doesn’t mean that I have made bad films.Has Covid-19 affected the Punjabi film industry?Not only films but the entire world has been affected and Punjabi film industry is no exception. The projects are delayed, theatres are closed, shooting are not happening, technicians, supporting actors and other daily workers are also jobless. It’s very sad for everyone.What will be the future of Punjabi film industry post Covid-19?Well I can’t predict the future, but I am very optimistic that it will be much better when we come back this time.What are the three mantras you follow while making a film?Content, casting and concentration.Do you think it is a wise decision to resume shoots following the government’s guidelines?For me it is difficult to shoot following certain guidelines but there are people who are already doing it and I appreciate their efforts.What are the three things that you have learnt from this lockdown?First, our needs are very small, second, we can do everything on our own, third, we can live with no dependence.Do you think OTT is the future?OTT is an alternative for many small films, which generally don’t get good release dates due to big films’ line-up. OTT has definitely taught everyone a lesson that contentis the most important factor in a film. Now, we can never take the audience for granted. We have to up our game.Would you like to direct a web series?Yes, I am working on a web series now.What changes do you see in yourself post Covid-19?Self-dependence.What advice would you give to people to stay safe?Wear the mask and sanitise yourself.What are the reasons that Punjabis are popular all over?We are people with a big heart and survive in every situation.One place you like to visit in Punjab when you are stressed?My city, Amritsar.Which are your favourite Punjabi dishes?Mutton curry.Which is the best place to eat Punjabi food in Punjab?Well, there are many but I would stick to Amritsar.Is there any Punjabi film, which is close to your heart and why?Chan Pardesi, Chauthi Koot, 1984, Vaapsi and Yaara Ve.. all these films for their honesty and purity.Favourite Punjabi songs?Many, especially songs sung by Kuldeep ManakThree prominent holy places you like the most?Of course the Golden Temple, Anandpur Sahib Gurudwara and Gurudwara Nanaksar.How are you keeping yourself fit these days?Jogging and walking every day.What will be your priority after the normalcy returns?To get back to work.What are your upcoming projects?I am currently working on my Hindi web series and my favourite story, both of them will hopefully go on the floors once the pandemic is over.—Dharam Pal
06-08-2020||Vijay C Roy/Shivani Bhakoo||Ludhiana cycle valley project to see the light of day next year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Ludhiana, Aug 5The Punjab Government’s ambitious International Cycle Valley project, spread across 380 acres at Dhanansu, near Ludhiana, is likely to see the light of day next year. Bicycle giant Hero Cycles today announced it would commence operations in the first phase of the project by March 2021 with an installed capacity of four million cycles per annum.15-crore milestoneHero Cycles, which has a 43% market share in the country, has so far manufactured 16.73 crore units with over 15 crore at the Ludhiana plant alone.This was stated by Pankaj M Munjal, CMD, Hero Motors Company, at a webinar to mark the milestone of 15-crore production mark at Ludhiana plant. The company started production in 1956 when it produced 639 bicycles. Hero Cycles, which has a 43% market share in the country, has so far produced 16.73 crore units with over 15 crore at the Ludhiana plant alone.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh congratulated the Hero family on the occasion during a video conference, which was attended by dealers of Hero Cycles from across the country, supplier partners, core team members from all over the world and senior government functionaries.“We are a major player at the upcoming International Cycle Valley project. The state-of-the-art Hero Industrial Park is being set up at sprawling 100 acres and it will increase our manufacturing capacity to 10 million units per annum by the last quarter of FY21,” Munjal said.Currently, the company has a manufacturing capacity of over six million units annually with a highly integrated network of plants located in Ludhiana, Ghaziabad, Bihta (Bihar) and a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Sri Lanka.Though Ludhiana is a hub of the cycle industry of India, its growth has been stagnant for the past few years. Of the total cycles produced in the country, Ludhiana has a lion’s share and it produces over 1.5 crore cycles per annum.
06-08-2020||Batala||Will urge CM to increase relief amount: Minister||Teachers protest revision of pay on Central patternBathinda: Members of the Democratic Teachers’ Front took out a motorcycle rally to protest against “anti-people” policies of the Centre and state governments, in Bathinda on Wednesday. Resham Singh, president of the front, said, “We vehemently oppose the state government’s decision to revise salaries on the pattern of Central Government pay scales.” TNSActivists protest ‘police atrocities’ under UAPAChandigarh: A number of democratic rights activist on Wednesday organised protests against the alleged police atrocities under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Activists, under the banner of the Association for Democratic Rights, held protests in Sangrur, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala and other places. Prof Jagmohan Singh, president of the association, said the Act should be quashed as it was being misused. tnsTourism Dept to give free skill training to youthChandigarh: The state Tourism Department will provide free training and skill development to youth interested in pursuing their career in the tourism and hospitality sectors post Covid-19. Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said more than 2,000 students would be trained under the umbrella scheme of ‘Hunar Se Rozgar Tak’ and they would also be assisted in placement. TNS
06-08-2020||Bathinda||Women seek debt waiver||Kirti Kisan Union leader Amarjit Honi said the Covid-induced lockdown had hit self-employed women hard and they were not in the position to repay the loan. TNS
06-08-2020||Archit Watts||On Covid duty, doctor without pay for year||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 5An ex-serviceman, posted as a microbiologist at the Civil Hospital, Muktsar, and on Covid duty, has been running from pillar to post to get his salary for the past 13 months.Major Sunil Bhardwaj (retd) had resumed his job after a break at the Civil Hospital on June 21, 2019. He was posted at the Civil Hospital, Amritsar, on July 1, 2019, and then transferred to the Subdivisional Hospital, Patti, on September 25, 2019. But due to some reasons, he could not join there.Later, he was transferred to the Civil Hospital, Muktsar, in February this year. However, he claims the Health Department had not given him a single penny in this period.“I have now written to the Chief Minister and Director, Health Department to help me get my due,” Dr Bhardwaj claimed. He said, “I am unable to meet the expenses of my family. Is this the way to deal with a person having an Army background?”Dr HN Singh, chief medical officer, Muktsar, said, “The microbiologist joined here a few months ago. If he gives us the last pay certificate, we will help him in getting the salary. Now, it is up to him to bring the certificate.”Meanwhile, Dr Satish Kumar, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Muktsar, said, “Dr Bhardwaj had given me a representation for his salary, which I immediately forwarded to the authorities concerned.”
06-08-2020||---||Warring, Muktsar ex-MLA spar over market committee posts||Muktsar, August 5Former Muktsar MLA Karan Kaur Brar, who is the daughter-in-law of former Chief Minister Harcharan Singh Brar, has decided to write to the party president seeking action against Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for ‘interfering’ in the Muktsar Assembly segment.Suba Singh Bhuttiwala, who belongs to Warring’s group, was recently appointed the chairman of the Bariwala Market Committee. Bariwala falls in Muktsar.The other office-bearers of the Bariwala Market Committee belong to Karan Kaur’s group. Karan Kaur said, “Raja Warring is interfering in my Assembly segment and I will write to the party president for strict action against him.”Warring said, “Suba Singh belongs to Bhuttiwala village, which comes under the area of the Bariwala Market Committee. There is nothing wrong if a Congress man has got some post.”
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||BKU to intensify protest against  ordinances||The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has decided to intensify its agitation against three farm ordinances from August 15 to 21. In an official press release, the union claimed that they would not allow any Akali-BJP leader to enter any village and their members would gherao leaders of the alliance in case they decide to come to villages.A decision in this regard was taken at a state-level meeting of the union held here on Wednesday. Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the union, said their members would put up nakas on all entry and exit points of villages. — TNS
06-08-2020||Patiala||DSP’s attempt to stop press meet stirs row; SSP seeks explanation||The Patiala SSP has sought an explanation from a DSP after he allegedly tried to stop a press conference here on Wednesday. Kamaljit Singh, 70, a resident of Patiala, alleging land grab and threat to his life from the henchmen of a politician, reached the club for the press conference.Kamaljit alleged that he had bought land at Shadipur village in 1997, but the sellers occupied it illegally. He was being pressurised by the henchmen of a politician. He claimed that he had submitted a complaint at the Sanaur police station, but no action was taken.Meanwhile, Ajaypal Singh, DSP rural, entered the club and allegedly tried to stop the press conference. The members of the club then submitted a complaint to SSP Vikramjeet Singh Duggal, who later sought an explanation from the officer.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal condemned the incident. — PTI
06-08-2020||---||Declared ‘tankhaiyas’, Langah aides apologise to Akal Takht||Amritsar, August 5A day after former member of SGPC’s Dharam Parchar Committee Rattan Singh Jaffarwal and committee member from Kadian Gurinderpal Singh Gora were declared ‘tankhaiyas’ by the Akal Takht, both submitted their apologies to the Takht.They were charged with violating Akal Takht’s ‘hukumnama’ against Langah by having association with him and seeking pardon for him from the ‘panj pyaras’ of Nihang organisation Tarna Dal on August 3.They said they were committed to the Akal Takht and had submitted their clarification to the Secretariat. They had appealed to the Jathedar to listen to their pleas sympathetically and pardon them, they said.On his picture with Langah that went viral, Gora said he never participated in the ‘amrit sanchar’ ceremony and the picture might be morphed.Langah was excommunicated by the Akal Takht on October 5, 2017, after his objectionable video had gone viral. Though he was acquitted by the court later as the complainant withdrew the charges, the Akal Takht’s verdict stands till date.
06-08-2020||---||Extortion racket in jail busted, 3 held||Faridkot, August 5 The police today busted an extortion racket allegedly being run from the Central Jail in Faridkot by arresting three persons. The kingpins of the gang are already lodged in the jail for their involvement in criminal activities. On the direction of gang leaders Ajay Kumar and Vicky Kumar, who are lodged in the prison, five members of the gang were extorting money from shopkeepers in Faridkot, Jaito and Muktsar. The accused have been identified as Sukhjinder Singh of Faridkot, Jaspal Singh of Dhudi village, Jaspal Singh of Jaito, Neeraj Kumar and Deepak Kumar of Muktsar. With the arrest of Sukhjinder Singh and two others, the police claimed it had busted the extortion racket being operated from the jail. Gurwinder Singh Bhullar, Station House Officer, Faridkot, said the arrests were made following a tip-off that Ajay Kumar and Vicky were passing instructions from the jail to their henchmen to extort money. The accused were provided three pistols. Two of the pistols had been recovered, he said.
06-08-2020||---||Project to facilitate jobs for youth||Chandigarh, August 5 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday through video-conferencing launched a collaborative `Pride of Punjab’ programme as a partnership between the Department of Youth Services and Sports and YuWaah — a joint initiative of  United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), other UN agencies, civil society organisations and the private sector.  The project will work with the youth to help them realise their aspirations and support other young people in their journey.  The Chief Minister underscored the project’s importance in facilitating employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for the youth with the support of the state government, United Nations agencies, private sector and civil society organisations.
06-08-2020||Vishav Bharti---||Over 450 cops +ve, yet DGP says no to random testing||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 5 In a decision that has raised eyebrows, the Director General of Police (DGP) has asked the health authorities not to randomly collect samples of any police official for Covid-19 testing. As per the communication sent by the DGP to senior police and health officials, the random sampling is being stopped till further orders. The exercise was going on for the past several months.  Sources in the Health Department said the decision had been taken as a number of policemen were found Covid-positive over the past several weeks. Following this, a large number of police personnel had to be quarantined, which was hampering the work.  Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid, said around 450 policemen, including senior officers, had been tested positive since March. DGP Dinkar Gupta said they had stopped only random sampling of police officials. “We will be testing only those policemen who are symptomatic,” he said.
06-08-2020||Faridkot||Two corona patients go missing, booked||The Kotkapura police have launched a search for a 22-year-old NRI woman and a migrant daily wager, who fled their homes after testing positive for Covid-19. Both have been booked under the Disaster Management Act.Health officials believe that the NRI woman, Charanjit Kaur, of Laleana village in Faridkot district, who came out positive in a repeat test on August 1, has fled to Hong Kong where she works as a chef.A senior official said when a health team reached Charanjit Kaur’s home, the family members pretended that she had gone to Mansa for Raksha Bandhan.Faridkot Civil Surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said: “We have lodged a formal complaint with the police. We fear many people could have been exposed to the virus.” — TNS
06-08-2020||---||Patiala doctors warned against ‘shirking’ work||Patiala, August 5In the wake of mounting Covid cases, the authorities at Government Medical College here have issued a warning to re-employed professors for their tendency to shirk from regular duties. The warning was issued to those who were found absent from duties, purportedly fearing Coronavirus, and marked present on the attendance register. The GMC Principal, in the order, said surprise checks would be conducted and if any re-employed professor found absent then strict action would be taken.The Tribune had already highlighted that re-employed professors had been getting paid without performing duties. It has been learnt that authorities were scared to take any action against re-employed professors, owing to their seniority.“Everyone knew about the dereliction of duties by re-employed professors, but no action was taken. Even now, they might not come for duty because they are not accountable for anything,” said a senior professor.A senior official of the Medical Education Department said: “We have warned the re-employed professors to perform their duties sincerely, else action will be taken against them.” GMC Principal Dr Harjinder could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
06-08-2020||---||Supreme Court rejects Mulakkal’s discharge plea||New Delhi, August 5The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed nun rape case accused Bishop Franco Mulakkal’s petition seeking quashing of charges against him, saying there was no merit in his case. Will have to face trial “You don’t have a case. There is no merit in your plea,” a three-judge Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said. The accused Bishop had claimed that he had been falsely implicated after he questioned financial dealings of the victim.Mulakkal (56), the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese, had challenged the July 7 order of the Kerala High Court dismissing his plea. The trial court had also rejected his plea. After dismissal of his petition by the top court, he will have to face trial in the case.Mulakkal was arrested in September 2018 after a nun in the Missionaries of Jesus congregation filed a complaint accusing him of raping her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at Kottayam in Kerala. The Kerala Police have already filed a chargesheet against him, listing 83 witnesses.
06-08-2020||---||No coercive steps against Chadha Sugar Mill, rules Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, August 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered that coercive steps would not be initiated by the state and its functionaries against Chadha Sugars and Industries Private Limited, pursuant to decision dated July 15 on the recovery of dues.Justice Lalit Batra of the High Court also issued notice of motion to the state and other respondents on the petition filed by Chadha Sugars through senior advocate Chetan Mittal, Kunal Mulwani and Aditya Sanghi.Recovery was stayedThe petitioner approached the High Court, where the recovery was stayed. The Bench later directed the Chief Secretary to constitute a high-powered committee to take a fresh decision after affording an opportunity of hearingThe petitioners contended that the state agreed price was much more than the fair remunerative price fixed by the Central Government. When all private mills refused to mill the sugarcane crop for 2015-16 season, a conscious decision by the government was conveyed through a letter dated November 23, 2015, that all private mills in the state would disburse Rs 245 per quintal and balance of Rs 50 would be disbursed by the government.In view of the decision, sugarcane crop was lifted as payment of Rs 245 per quintal was to be made to farmers by sugar mill and balance amount of Rs 50 per quintal was also released in terms of the decision. After the season was over, a reserve decision was taken unilaterally and behind their back, following which notice was issued for recovery.The petitioner approached the High Court, where the recovery was stayed. The Bench later directed the Chief Secretary to constitute a high-powered committee to take a fresh decision after affording an opportunity of hearing.The petitioners and others were assured that action would not be taken and matter would be resolved. But after lapse of about three years, the respondent “purportedly decided to recover the dues” without complying with the previous order.
06-08-2020||Manav Mander||Covid duty at pvt hospitals irks rural docs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 5Rural medical officers (RMOs) have alleged discrimination by the Health Department in the assigning Covid-19 duties. Four RMOs from Ludhiana have been assigned duties at a private hospital, even as they were working at government hospitals.Since the Covid outbreak, RMOs have been alleging discrimination in assigning duties by the Health Department. In the fresh roster issued by the Ludhiana Civil Surgeon’s office, four RMOs have been assigned dutes at the emergency ward of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. They have been asked to collect information related to Covid-positive patients and revert to the Civil Surgeon’s office.“We were assigned duties at government hospitals. Our only request was to allow us to open rural dispensaries as well by giving us some break in between so that the rural population is not ignored. The RMOs have been assigned duties at private hospitals, which is uncalled for,” said Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services Association, Punjab.Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said, “The decision has been taken after consultation with the DC. The duties can be assigned anywhere. The roster will be changed after a week. Nobody will be burdened.”
06-08-2020|| Saurabh Malik---||Punjab and Haryana High Court upholds penalty on cop for disregarding summons||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 5 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has upheld the punishment of two annual increments stoppage imposed upon a senior Punjab Police officer for his failure to appear before a trial court despite issuance of summons and warrants on no less than 23 occasions. Justice Deepak Sibal made it clear that the petitioner was required to act with responsibility to set an example for his subordinates. Unfortunately, he acted otherwise. Raminder Singh, serving as SP (Detective), Civil Lines, Hoshiarpur, had moved the High Court against the state government and another respondent for quashing of order dated August 26, 2019, regarding the stoppage of two annual increments without future effect. He had also challenged the inquiry report dated May 21, 2019, vide which he was held guilty of the charges levelled against him. Justice Sibal was told that a report was sent by UT Additional District and Sessions Judge to the High Court Registrar-General stating that the trial court issued 17 summons, three bailable warrants and three non-bailable warrants to the petitioner for appearing as a prosecution witness in connection with a murder case registered in March 2016 at Mauli Jagran police station. But the petitioner appeared before the court on July 25, 2018, upon issuance of non-bailable warrants. “Therefore, you have committed grave negligence by not answering the summons/warrants issued by the court for 23 times,” read the charge levelled against the petitioner. Justice Sibal asserted a perusal of the charge revealed that the petitioner had been charged with negligence on account of his non-appearance in a trial at Chandigarh in spite of the fact that he had been issued summons on 17 occasions and bailable and non-warrants on three occasions each. Dismissing the petition, Justice Sibal made it clear that the findings of guilt regarding the petitioner’s negligence were found to be reasonable and not perverse.
06-08-2020||---||CM Capt Amarinder Singh opposes MP’s GI tag claim, writes to Prime Minister||Chandigarh, August 5Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to not allow geographical indication (GI) tagging of basmati to Madhya Pradesh in the larger interest of Punjab and other states, which already have GI tag for basmati.Noting that the All India Rice Exporters Association is also vigorously opposed to consider any claim of MP for GI tag, raising concerns about its negative impact on Indian export potential, the Chief Minister said India exported basmati to the tune of Rs 33,000 crore every year, but any dilution in the registration of Indian basmati might give advantage to Pakistan (which also produces basmati as per GI tagging) in the international market on quality parameters.Relevance of tagA geographical indication (GI) tag can be issued for goods that are originating in the territory of a country or a locality in that territory. It works like a trademark, wherein a product belongs exclusively to a particular territoryIn his letter to the PM, Capt Amarinder has drawn his attention to the economically and socially important issue, saying GI tagging of MP basmati would negatively impact the state’s agriculture and also India’s basmati exports.Urging Modi to direct the authorities concerned not to disturb the status quo in this matter, the Chief Minister said this was essential for safeguarding the interests of farmers and Basmati exporters of India.Madhya Pradesh, said Capt Amarinder, “does not fall under the specialised zone for basmati cultivation.” He claimed that MP’s move to get its area included for basmati tagging was a direct violation of the GI tagging procedure and laws and any attempt to breach the GI tagging areas would not only hit the status of aromatic basmati cultivation in India’s specialised area, but would also negate the purpose of GI tagging regulation.Apart from Punjab, other states that already have GI tagging for Basmati are Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Western UP, and select districts of Jammu and Kashmir.
06-08-2020||---||Slap murder charge on hooch tragedy accused, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, August 5In an important development, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the DGP to book those directly involved in the spurious liquor case for murder under Section 302 of the IPC.Promising justice to the victims, the Chief Minister also mooted enhancement of punishment for spurious liquor manufacturing and smuggling under the Excise Act to ensure that repeat offenders remained behind bars and were not able to come out easily to indulge again in the crime.‘Stringent action under excise act’Promising justice to the victims, the Chief Minister mooted enhancement of punishment for spurious liquor manufacturing and smuggling under the Excise Act to ensure that repeat offenders remained behind bars and were not able to come out easily to indulge in the crime again .On a suggestion of Advocate General Atul Nanda that a strict law like PCOCA was needed to combat organised crime like illicit liquor smuggling, the Chief Minister asked the sub-committee, headed by Brahm Mohindra to examine the provisions of the proposed law, to finalise and submit its report at the earliest.The Chief Minister’s directives came during two separate video-conferences — one a Cabinet meeting and the other a review meeting of the case with top police and administrative officials. The Chief Minister also led his council of ministers in observing a two-minute silence as a mark of homage to the victims of the tragedy.“Finish off this business, clean up the border. This has to stop,” the Chief Minister told the district officials, adding that the illicit liquor business had been going on in border areas for a long time, with use of lahan, but now it had assumed an even more dangerous proportions with the new trend of smuggling from neighbouring states.The Chief Minister set a 10-day deadline for the concerned DCs and police officers to identify and process cases to provide targeted additional relief for their families. The Chief Minister has already announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia compensation to the families of each of the victims of the tragedy, in which the death toll currently stands at 113, with several more under treatment, which is being provided free in hospitals.
06-08-2020||---||Another victim succumbs, toll reaches 113||Amritsar, August 5The death toll in the spurious liquor tragedy rose to 113 with one more death reported in Tarn Taran district. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said one more person lost his life in the district. “There are 13 people under treatment in various hospitals. Six of them were referred to Amritsar for eye treatment, while one was in critical condition,” the DC said.Tarn Taran has witnessed 84 deaths, followed by Amritsar (15) and Batala (14). Dhruv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar (Rural), said a total of 105 cases had been registered against illicit liquor traders since August 1. “As many as 40 persons have been arrested with 1,216 litre illicit liquor and 6,745 litre lahan.Meanwhile, a team of excise officials raided Jiobala village in Tarn Taran today and recovered 400 litre lahan from the house of Paramjit Singh Pamma.Inspector Amrik Singh said a case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act had been registered at the Sadar police station.In another case, the Patti Sadar police raided the houses of two brothers in Sahbrahn village and recovered 1,050 litre lahan and 6 litre illicit liquor.
06-08-2020||---||Will urge Governor to dismiss Cong govt: SAD||Chandigarh, August 5The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee met today and resolved to meet Governor VP Singh Badnore tomorrow to demand the dismissal of the Congress government in the state in view of the spurious liquor tragedy.The core committee also decided to start an agitation to expose Congress men “involved” in the illicit liquor nexus. In the second phase, the agitation will be taken to Delhi, where the members will hold protests outside the residence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi.YAD leaders gun for congress MLAJalandhar: Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders on Wednesday held a protest outside the residence of Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Sikki over the liquor tragedy. Sikki has claimed that an attempt was being made to defame him and his assistant. TNSAddressing the meeting, Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Chief Minister and the Congress government were responsible for the murder of over 110 persons in the spurious liquor tragedy. Since Capt Amarinder had refused to own moral responsibility for the tragedy and resign, the party would urge the Governor to immediately dismiss the government, he added. The core committee also reiterated the party’s demand for an inquiry by a sitting High Court judge into the tragedy as well as the illicit liquor trade allegedly being run by Congress men.It was also decided to hold a dharna in front of the office of the Patiala district police chief from August 7 to protest the laxity in the recovery of a ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib, which was stolen from Ardaspur Sahib Gurdwara in Kalyan village two weeks ago. Badal would lead the dharna on August 7, after offering prayers at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in Patiala between 11 am and 1 pm. Subsequently, the dharna would be held on a daily basis, with party workers from each constituency in the state participating in it, the committee decided.
06-08-2020||Amritsar||For speedy probe of booze tragedy, two SITs formed||Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta today ordered constitution of two special investigation teams (SITs) to fast-track investigations into all FIRs registered in the booze tragedy. ADGP (Law & Order) Ishwar Singh will supervise the SIT’s investigation. The Punjab Police have registered five FIRs — three in Tarn Taran and one each in Amritsar and Batala — in the case. The DGP said SP-level officers had, for the first time, been nominated as investigating officers (IOs) to ensure conviction of the offenders. The IOs have been directed by the DGP to ensure a thorough and comprehensive investigation and expeditious filing of final reports in the courts concerned. DIG, Ferozepur Range, Hardial Singh Mann, will head the SIT investigating FIRs registered in Tarn Taran; IG, Border Range, Amritsar, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar will lead the other SIT for FIRs registered in Amritsar and Batala. — TNS
06-08-2020||---||Raiding excise team attacked in Moga||Moga, August 5A team of the Excise and Taxation Department was allegedly attacked by liquor smugglers when it raided a makeshift room in a paddy field suspecting sale of illicit liquor at Mahla Kalan village in Baghapurana subdivision of the district.Inspector Balkaran Singh of the Excise and Taxation Department was accompanied by Gursewak Singh and Inderjit Singh, both liquor contractors, and their employees besides some police personnel, when he conducted the raid late last night.The excise official, in a statement recorded with the police, said he seized a drum containing 200 litre lahan from the spot and loaded it on a vehicle, but suddenly, the smugglers and their associates attacked them with sharp-edged weapons and sticks. They forcibly spilled the lahan in a bid to destroy the evidence. Balkaran Singh said no one was injured in the incident.A criminal case under Sections 323, 341, 506, 186, 353, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered at the Baghapurana police station against Lakhbir Singh and his associates Deepa Ghali, Gurwinder Singh and Happy, all residents of Mahla Kalan village along with 10-12 unidentified persons.
06-08-2020||Patiala||No outcome, Ghanaur distillery case may see quiet burial||The Ghanaur illegal distillery case is in for a quiet burial. The special investigation team (SIT), formed to probe the politician-smuggler nexus, has finally completed its investigation without managing to recover any money or confiscating assets of any of the accused.Much before the liquor tragedy in the Majha region that has killed over 110 people, this was one of the first cases in the state that highlighted the illicit liquor trade.A challan against the accused was presented in a local court wherein the police failed to recover money from the accused, who allegedly did a brisk business during the Covid lockdown by selling spurious liquor.The SIT managed to arrest Dipesh Kumar, said to be the kingpin who set up the illegal distillery, and a daily wager on the first day of the raid. Later, Congress-backed Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh and other accused presented themselves to the police. The police investigation suggests that the distillery did a good business during the lockdown.“We can only say that Dipesh and Amrik sold liquor worth lakhs of rupees every day, selling popular brands and saving a lot of money. While Amrik was never grilled, Dipesh said he was already under debt and had no money with him,” said SP (Investigation) Harmeet Singh Hundal.Sources say that despite confessions by Dipesh during the police remand regarding excise and local cops taking bribes and meeting him personally, the issue wasn’t probed in detail. “Even the fact that the illegal liquor was bought from him by the accused, who already owned government-auctioned liquor vends, was never probed in detail,” they said.“We presented a challan against six accused and there was no recovery of any kind made from any of the accused,” confirmed Shambhu SHO Gurmeet Singh. “Already sarpanch Amrik Singh is out on bail while godown owner Vijay Kumar is evading arrest,” he said.“Dipesh even met a few excise officials and it is still not clear if it was done to directly bribe them,” said a top source. “Dipesh used a strong political recommendation to approach certain excise officials,” he added.Despite initial leads that sarpanch Amrik Singh is a partner in many authorised liquor vends in and around Rajpura, the SIT failed to draw a conclusion as to where the fake liquor manufactured in the cold store was sold.“We could not ascertain if premium liquor brands sold at vends across the state and in Haryana were made at this illegal distillery. Not much effort was made to collect samples,” said a senior cop probing the matter.‘Gaps’ in probe
06-08-2020||---||Probe ordered by CM eyewash: Sunny Deol||Batala, August 5Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol has termed the magisterial probe ordered by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh into the spurious liquor tragedy as an “eyewash”.This has triggered strong reactions from Congress men, with Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa even going to the extent of telling him “to keep his unsolicited advice to himself and not interfere in the working of the state.”In a statement, Deol said: “Ordering a magisterial probe will be an eyewash and will serve no purpose until a full-fledged, free, fair and impartial investigation is done.”Meanwhile, Randhawa, whose assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak falls in the jurisdiction of the Batala police, said: “People are still mourning their loved ones and here you are coming up with uncalled-for advice. Have you even cared to visit the constituency even once after the tragedy?”AAP: cong failed to fulfil promisesChandigarh: In a joint statement, AAP MLA and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and party MLA Aman Arora said the Congress had failed to fulfil the promises made to the people of Punjab ahead of the 2017 elections. The illicit liquor trade was a fallout of the ill-designed policies of the Congress government, they said. tns
06-08-2020||---||Soon, smartphones for 1.73 lakh school students||Chandigarh, August 5The state Cabinet today paved way for the distribution of 1.73 lakh smartphones among the students of government schools. The first lot of 50,000 phones will be given to students who will be appearing for Class XII examinations this year through the online system amid the Covid pandemic.Cabinet decisions The Chief Minister has already ruled out any Chinese connection of the company, Lava, from which the phones are being procured. The distribution of the first batch of 50,000 phones, which has already been received by the state government, will begin shortly. The phones will have a touchscreen, camera and preloaded government applications like e-Sewa app with content related to Classes XI and XII, as approved by Department of School Education. The second batch will arrive soon and the entire distribution process will be completed by November this year.The Cabinet noted that four months of the academic year 2020-21 had already lapsed without regular on-campus classes. While private schools shifted to online classes, the students of government schools faced a competitive disadvantage, especially those studying in Class XII. Though it was initially decided that the first batch of smartphones would be given to girls, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said both boys and girls of Class XII of government schools, who do not have smartphones to access online classes, would be provided the same. This, he said, was necessary to ensure that such students did not suffer in times of the pandemic due to lack of access to education.While extending the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana for one year, the Cabinet decided to bring government employees/pensioners and employees of non-government organised sectors, including private sector/boards and corporations, into its foldThe Cabinet gave its approval to the release of Rs 1,388 crore grant-in-aid to the panchayati raj institutions. It also gave the nod to release Rs 1,046 crore to ramp up civic infrastructure in 167 urban local bodies under the Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme. The Cabinet approved a four-year strategic action plan (2019-23) and annual action plan (2019-20) of six departments, taking the total number of state departments with such plans in place to 24.To come with preloaded govt apps
06-08-2020||GS Paul||Lost parents to liquor tragedy, kids find saviour in Sonu Sood||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5Actor Sonu Sood, who won accolades for helping migrants reach back safely to their native places during the lockdown, has come to the rescue of four children who lost their father, a rickshaw-puller, in the Tarn Taran spurious liquor tragedy, and their mother, who couldn’t bear the shock of losing her husband.The four — Karanbir (13), Gurpreet (11), Arshpreet (9) and Sandeep (5) — were accommodated temporarily by their uncle Sarwan Singh (deceased Sukhdev’s brother). He too felt helpless due to his meagre earnings.“Due to financial constraints, I am unable to take care of my brother’s children. I am an auto-rickshaw driver. My wife, three daughters and a son are dependent on me,” he said.The actor came across their plight through one of his friends in Punjab. Extending a helping hand, he tweeted: “I assure these little kids from Punjab will have a good home, a nice school and a bright future ahead.”Talking to The Tribune, Sood said: “They are no more orphans now. I am there to take care of them. I was keenly following the liquor tragedy. I was moved to know the story of Tarn Taran-based four children. We are on the lookout for a best place where they could be accommodated and get good education.”Sood roped in his friend Karan Gilhotra from Chandigarh to trace them and extend the help. Gilhotra, who is the chairman of the PHD Chambers of Commerce in Punjab, said already a children’s home, Mata Chaya Ashram, in Abohar, had been shortlisted for the children. “If their guardians permit, we will shift the children there. They will have homely atmosphere and their education will be taken care of by us,” he said.
06-08-2020||---||Punjab reports record 29 deaths, 894 new cases||Chandigarh, August 5With 894 fresh Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths in the past 24 hours, the case count has almost touched the 20,000-mark.Ludhiana saw most casualties as nine deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. Five deaths were reported from Patiala, four from Jalandhar, three from Gurdaspur, two from Sangrur, and one each from Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa and Ropar. Mansa and Faridkot districts reported their first Covid casualties. Apart from that, 148 patients are on oxygen support and 22 are on ventilator support.In terms of cases too, Ludhiana continues to be the worst-affected district as it reported 303 cases followed by Patiala (185), Jalandhar (101), Barnala (33), Bathinda (29), SAS Nagar (27) and Tarn Taran (23).
06-08-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Liquor deaths: Punjab ministers press for action against excise officials, cops||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 51.73L smartphones for Class XII pupils by NovemberThe Cabinet approved 1.73 lakh smartphones for Class XII govt school students. The first lot of 50,000 phones will be given to those appearing for the board exams this sessionTaking up the issue of spurious liquor deaths in three Majha districts, Punjab ministers at a Cabinet meeting today pressed for stern action against excise and police officials, saying that instead of going after small operators, the masterminds of the illicit liquor trade must be nabbed.Citing the example of a Ludhiana trader booked in the case, one of the ministers pointed out that the police had yet to catch those responsible for supplying denatured spirit. Another minister sought to know the action taken against the SSPs transferred out of the affected districts — Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur — and the action initiated against excise officials for failure to monitor distilleries in which some politicians had stakes. The Opposition has been accusing Congress MLAs of shielding those involved in the illicit liquor business and liquor smuggling.Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu demanded that PCOCA (Punjab Control of Organised Crime Act) be slapped on the accused as crime syndicates continued to be run from prison cells with several hardcore criminals suspected to have ties with “terrorists”.
