06-06-2020||Mohali||Punjab Police’s surprise birthday celebrations for Mohali nonagenarian||The last thing Manmohan Singh expected on Saturday was a visit from the cops.Singh, a retired principal of Sports College, Jalandhar, who lives with his family in Mohali’s Phase 10, turned 91 on Saturday, and he expected it to be not unlike his other birthdays.  So when a group of policemen arrived at his gate on Saturday morning, armed with a cake, a potted plant for a gift and plenty of smiles, Singh was pleasantly surprised.Singh cut his birthday cake at the gate owing to lockdown restrictions still in place in Punjab.The event, organised as a gesture of goodwill towards senior citizens during the ongoing lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus pandemic, was jointly organised by the Punjab Police, Mohali Senior Citizens Association and HelpAge India.Mohali Senior Citizens Association President Principal Swarn Chaudhary and Secretary General SS Bedi said it was Panchkula Police that first inspired them to start the initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polices-surprise-birthday-celebrations-for-mohali-nonagenarian-95491
06-06-2020||Patiala||Patiala reports eight new coronavirus cases||Eight people tested positive in Patiala on Friday, officials said.Patiala’s eight new cases include a family of five in Rajpura who authorities said did not reveal to authorities of their recent return from New Delhi. It was only when their neighbours raised an alarm did they undergo tests on June 4, officials said.The other cases also had a recent travel record.Also from Rajpura, a 42-year-old man who has been under quarantine since his return Doha has also tested positive. The seventh case was a 26-year-old who recently came back from Gurugram.The last patient was a resident of Malerkotla town of Sangrur district. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said he had come to Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital for his regular treatment when he tested positive.Dr Harish said: “All the positive patients have been already moved to the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital. Rapid Response Teams have been pressed into the job to trace the high-risk contacts of the positive patients”.District officials say the new cases take Patiala’s tally at 137, although the new cases have yet to be added to the official state tally for the district, which still stands at 126.It’s not unusual to find some disparities between district and state numbers---officials say that the district tally only reflects initial numbers that are later adjusted according a patient’s district of residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-reports-eight-new-coronavirus-cases-95490
06-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Paddy season: Punjab farmers taking buses to Bihar, UP to bring labour||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 6Facing labour shortage due to Covid-19, Punjab farmers are now taking buses to Bihar and Uttar Pardesh to bring workers for paddy transplantation.Sixty labourers reached Barnala district on Friday; 90 farmers have got the permission to ply buses to UP and Bihar. Four more buses carrying labourers will reach here in two-three days.In other districts also farmers are sending special buses to bring labourers.“We had sent two buses to UP’s Pilibhit and Dhaka Mathari in Bihar. In total, we have spent around Rs 1.8 lakh. Farmers and labourers will share the cost of transportation. In two buses, 60 labourers have reached Kaire and Channwal villages of district,” said Jagseer Singh Chhiniwal, Barnala district president of BKU (Lakhowal).Sources said in Barnala district, around 90 farmers have got permission from the Deputy Commissioner to bring labourers from other states for paddy transplantation. The labourers brought from other states will be quarantined at various places and health department officers will conduct their mandatory tests. After getting the reports, farmers will be allowed to get the work done from these labourers.As per Barnala DC TPS Phoolka: “We have started giving permission to farmers to bring labourers from other districts. But we are taking all the precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We have been giving permission with the condition that farmers will get the tests of labourers done before sending them to fields.”Talking to The Tribune, farmers from other districts also confirmed that they had been trying to bring labourers from other states.“Labour shortage has created serious problems for farmers. Though farmers from across Punjab have been trying to bring in labour from outside, it is not possible for many of them. The Punjab government should take steps to bring labour rather than allowing farmers because government can do it easily,” said Jagjeet Singh Dallewala, Punjab president of BKU (Sidhupur) from Dallewala village of Faridkot district.Farmers alleged that last year the local labour was charging Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per acre for paddy transplantation, but this year they have started demanding Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,500.Many have also hired rickshaw pullers for the job.“The spread of coronavirus has compelled me to restart paddy transplantation after a gap of 15 years,” said Shankar, a migrant labourer, working in fields at Thalesa village of Sangrur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-season-punjab-farmers-taking-buses-to-bihar-up-to-bring-labour-95489
06-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Amid Covid crisis, Patiala school teacher chips in to help needy||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 6As soon as the nationwide lockdown was announced, Satvir Singh, a government school teacher, decided to help the needy.Satvir, a maths teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Punjabi University, went to the two flour mills in two villages—Shekhpura and Theri and asked the owners to provide the poor with atta and rice, on his behalf.After two months, flour mills have now sent the bill of ration to the teacher. Satvir said a total of 360 kg of flour and 185 kg of rice was given to the poor families during the lockdown.A contended Satvir believed that there were around 12,500 villages in Punjab, and had someone in every village taken the responsibility to supply the ration to the needy no one would die of hunger, and no labourer would have left Punjab.  “Both the villages, Shekhpura and Theri, were dear to me because I would carry out NCC activities, therein, as ANO of 3PB AIR SQN NCC. Moreover, said villages are nearby, therefore I selected these villages. I am contented that I could contribute my bit during this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. I had told the flour owners to give atta and rice to the needy—on my behalf.”After lockdown has been relaxed, Satvir has now started to spread the awareness about coronavirus in the villages. “I am now working on creating awareness about the virus. I have already pasted posters on coronavirus awareness,” said Satvir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-covid-crisis-patiala-school-teacher-chips-in-to-help-needy-95473
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar reports new spike, reports 26 new coronavirus cases||Punjab reported 54 more cases of coronavirus and two new deaths, the state’s COVID-19 bulletin showed on Saturday.Punjab’s COVID-19 infection tally now stands at 2,515. The state recorded two new deaths on Saturday---Amritsar and Pathankot reported a death each, taking the state's death tally to 50.Amritsar registered a spike in cases on Saturday---26 new cases that it registered took the district tally to 434.Ludhiana (10), Pathankot (5), Fatehgarh Sahib (4), Faridkot (2), Mansa (2), Bathinda (1), Moga (1),  Fazilka (1), Barnala (1), and SAS Nagar made up the rest of Saturday’s numbers.Of Amritsar’s 26 new cases, 10 were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), 13 were contacts of already diagnosed cases and three were self reported, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.Ludhiana's 10 included seven contacts of already diagnosed cases and one person who recently came back from Odisha.Three of Pathankot’s five cases were self-reported and two were classified as ILI.All four of Fatehgarh Sahib’s new cases recently came back from Uttar Pradesh.One of Faridkot’s two cases was a contact of an already diagnosed case.Mansa reported two new cases on Saturday---its first cases in almost a month. The district had last reported new cases on May 11.A policeman tested positive in Mohali (SAS Nagar)Bathinda, Moga and Fazilka all reported cases with travel histories. Barnala’s lone case was a contact of an already diagnosed case.Additionally, the bulletin showed eight more positive cases in Punjab, but did not include these in the final tally.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (434), Jalandhar (270), Ludhiana (232), Tarn Taran (159), Gurdaspur (148), Hoshiarpur (134), Patiala (126), SAS Nagar (125), SBS Nagar (106), Sangrur (104), Pathankot (86), Ropar (71), Muktsar (70), Fatehgarh Sahib (69), Faridkot (69), Moga (66), Bathinda (55), Ferozepur (46),  Kapurthala (40), Mansa (34), and Barnala (25).    Amritsar alone accounts for 17 per cent of Punjab’s cases.The state's death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (9), Amritsar (8), Jalandhar (8), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).The state currently has 373 active cases. Eight people are on oxygen support, and three are critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin said.Patiala reported eight more coronavirus cases---including a patient from Sangrur's Malerkotla who was tested positive. Patiala's new cases have yet to be added to the state tally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-reports-new-spike-reports-26-new-coronavirus-cases-95454
06-06-2020||---||Punjab reshuffle: Vishwajit Khanna is new Financial Commissioner Revenue||Chandigarh, June 6A major administrative reshuffle was effected in Punjab on Saturday with Vishwajit Khanna becoming the new Financial Commissioner, Revenue, relieving the state’s senior-most IAS officer, K B S Sidhu.Khanna was the Financial Commissioner Development and has been hailed for the smooth procurement of wheat amid the COVID-induced curfew. The charge of Financial Commissioner Development has been given to Anirudh Tewari, who was in charge of the Finance department, and has just been promoted to the rank of Additional Chief Secretary.The administrative reshuffle set the rumour mills working overtime in corridors of power as it comes at a time when the new Chief Secretary is to be decided well before August. This week, the incumbent chief Secretary, Karan Avtar Singh has reportedly also applied for the post of chairperson of Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority.Sources in the government say that the reshuffle was on the cards for quite some time, but was held back after the pandemic broke out. It was earlier speculated that Tewari would be posted as the Financial Commissioner Taxation, but following the controversy surrounding the excise policy because of the lockdown, an old hand in excise department, A Venu Prasad was brought in at the last minute. Prasad also gets the charge of CMD, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, but his charge of Mines and Geology department has been given to Sarvjit Singh.Among the other officers transferred today are K A P Sinha, who has been relieved from the charge of Principal Secretary Food andCivil Supplies and is now in charge of the Finance department. K Siva Prasad replaces him in the Food and Civil Supplies department and Alok Shekhar gets Sinha’s additional charge of parliamentary affairs department.Other than this, Amanpreet Kaur Sandhu is posted as ADC, Mansa, and PCS officer Rajesh Kumar Sharma is deputy principal secretary to chief minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reshuffle-vishwajit-khanna-is-new-financial-commissioner-revenue-95445
06-06-2020||Aman Sood||Booked in arms act case, Nabha police let off Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala with a fine for traffic violation||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 6Just days after claiming to have raided places to track him down, the Nabha police on Saturday challaned Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala in a traffic violation case and curiously let him go.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar went viral on the social media, the police had registered a case against Moosewala and five policemen under Section 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act. Later, stringent sections of the Arms Act were added to the FIR.Ever since police claimed to have raided places to arrest the singer.However, on Saturday, the singer’s vehicle was stopped and he was challaned by the cops for using black tinted glasses on his car and then let off.  Nabha DSP Rajesh Chhibber said, "Nabha SHO Sarabjit Cheema stopped his vehicle for using black glasses. Later, as the singer verbally claimed that he had procured bail in the cases against him, the SHO let him go.”As soon as he was intercepted, people gathered around the controversial singer's jet-black Scorpio.The police have come under criticism for letting off the singer, allegedly under influence.“The decision of any action against the cops who handled the case will be taken after discussion with the top brass as Moosewala took the plea that he had been asked to join investigation in the shooting case,” said sources.Since Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu is on leave, SP City Varun Sharma said he was looking into the matter. Senior officials said since the Nabha police did not have an arrest warrant, Moosewala was allowed to go.Sources, however, said many police officials reportedly took pictures with the controversial singer when he was at the DSP office. The singer even sang a few lines for the police officials, sources claimed.Meanwhile, a look at websites of Sangrur and Barnala district courts shows that Punjabi Singer Sidhu Moosewala has not yet applied for anticipatory bail in either court with regard to two FIRs he faces for defying last month’s curfew orders in Punjab and illegally using service weapons of some policemen.The FIRs he faces pertains to two separate incidents last month---one in which he was seen using service weapons of some policemen at a practice firing range in Badbar in Barnala district and another in which he used his own weapon at another range in Laddai Kothi in Sangrur.The incidents led to two FIRs against him---the first one on May 4 in which some policemen wre booked as well, and the second one on May 5.The incidents came at a time when Punjab was under curfew called in an effort to slow the spread of coronavirus.Moosewala faces charges of defying an order by a public servant (Section 188 of Indian Penal Code) as well as sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/booked-in-arms-act-case-nabha-police-let-off-punjabi-singer-sidhu-moosewala-with-a-fine-for-traffic-violation-95410
06-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh ||Punjab issues guidelines for opening of malls, restaurants, hotels and religious places from June 8||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6The Punjab government has allowed the malls to open from June 8, subject to the visitors having COVA app on their mobiles.Besides, the entry to the malls will be on the basis of token to ensure that the strength of the visitors in the mall and each shop located within does not exceed 50 per cent of the visitor capacity.In detailed guidelines issued for opening of malls, restaurants and religious places from June 8, the state’s Home Department on Saturday said the mall operators would have to ensure the time duration for each group of visitors.The maximum capacity of the people allowed in each shop in the mall would be fixed on the basis of maintenance of 6-ft distance, ie, an area of approximately 10x10 for each person entering the shop. For restaurant, only takeaway and home delivery has been allowed till 8 pm, as of now. There would be no dine-in facility till further orders.The government would review the situation on June 15. The hotel restaurants will remain closed and food will be served in the rooms for hotel guests.The night curfew will be strictly enforced and movement of individuals will be permissible only from 5 am to 9 pm, based on their schedule of travel by flight/train. The air/train ticket would serve as a curfew pass for one-time movement of these guests to and from the hotel during the curfew hours. For religious places, the maximum number of persons at the time of worship will not exceed 20 with due distancing; the worship time should be staggered in smaller groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-issues-guidelines-for-opening-of-malls-restaurants-hotels-and-religious-places-from-june-8-95398
06-06-2020||Amritsar||Skirmishes blemish the otherwise peaceful Bluestar anniversary at Golden Temple||Amid tight security and pandemic fears, the anniversary of Operation Bluestar was observed at the Golden Temple peacefully on Saturday.Barring minor skirmishes between activists of certain Sikh organisations with the police to gain entry into the complex, the event was largely peaceful. The ‘parkash purb’ of sixth guru, Guru Hargobind, was also observed.  The recitation of kirtan and bhog of akhand path, dedicated to the occasion, was also performed. Due to pandemic fear, there was scant presence of devotees. Later, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh addressed the audience from the podium of the Akal Takht.Considering the social distancing norms, the Akal Takht, SGPC and Damdami Taksal had decided to commemorate the anniversary with ‘maryada’ and in a low-key manner. Devotees were appealed to recite Gurbani and perform ardas at homes only.Later, reacting to the pro-Khalistan slogans raised by some Sikh youths, Giani Harpreet Singh said if these were raised to disrupt the programme then it was not right.“But, if Sikh youths raised the slogans after the event, I don’t disapprove of it, as it was a natural outcome of their religious sentiments as they remembered the martyrs who laid down their lives for the Panth. The attack on the Golden Temple can never be forgotten by the Sikhs and will always be commemorated,” he said.He said the Operation Bluestar ought to be scripted and compiled in a full-fledged documentation having eyewitness accounts of the Army attack. He asked SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, who was also present, to constitute a panel of intellectuals and put on record the statements and interviews of those who bore the brunt of the attack. “This document should be published in multiple languages and widely distributed,” he said.Amritsar was virtually turned into a fortress for the event. Even the media were not allowed inside the complex.Taking into account the history of the anniversary, Punjab Police, paramilitary forces and intelligence personnel were positioned at 65 sensitive places across the city, particularly in the congested walled city area leading to the shrine. The police had invoked Section 144 around the shrine and carrying of weapons was prohibited. For the first time, metal detectors were placed at the entrances to the shrine. Health teams were deployed to screen the devotees. Around 5,000 police personnel from the neighbouring districts were also deployed.Earlier, Emaan Singh Mann, member of SAD was seen arguing with the police saying they were being denied the right to pay obeisance at the shrine.He claimed that the police had already detained their members from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala to discourage them from coming to the shrine.The ‘parallel’ officiating Jathedar of Akal Takht Dhyan Singh Mand with his supporters also reached the complex. They also gained entry after heated exchanges with the police. Mand also addressed the audience from the verandah of the Akal Takht secretariat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skirmishes-blemish-the-otherwise-peaceful-bluestar-anniversary-at-golden-temple-95361
06-06-2020||Bathinda||Inquiry over gender test at Bathinda hospital||Following a complaint that gender tests were being conducted at a private hospital, a raid was conducted today. Dr Rajesh Chowdhary, deputy civil surgeon, Sirsa, said: “On a complaint of gender test, a team was constituted and a trap was laid.” Refuting the charges, the hospital owner alleged that the accused had forcibly entered the ultrasound room. He said no such illegal test had been done in the hospital. SSP Nanak Singh said: “The Haryana police is conducting a probe. We have told the Health Department to conduct probe against the hospital.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/inquiry-over-gender-test-at-bathinda-hospital-95214
06-06-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur man ends life after daughter ‘elopes’, 5 booked||After a ward attendant of the local Civil Hospital allegedly committed suicide last night, the police registered an abetment to suicide case against a Punjab State Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission member, her husband and their three sons. The deceased took the extreme step after his daughter allegedly eloped with the son of the commission member.Sanjeev Kumar allegedly consumed poison on Thursday after he failed to trace his 27-year-old daughter, who had eloped with the son of commission member Poonam Kangra on Tuesday. Kumar died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. His family members and neighbours protested at Mahavir Chowk by placing the body on the road, demanding arrest of the accused.“We have registered a case against commission member, her husband Darshan Kangra and their sons. The wife of the deceased alleged the accused had been threatening to marry her daughter forcibly to their son. After his daughter disappeared from home, the victim took the extreme step,” said Satpal Sharma, DSP (Rural).However, Darshan Kangra and his wife denied the allegations. “The boy and girl, who eloped three days ago, are adults. We are trying to trace them but our political opponents have instigated the family of the girl and got a false case registered against us,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-man-ends-life-after-daughter-elopes-5-booked-95211
06-06-2020||Sangrur||Armed men attack Sunam market committee chief||Sunam Market Committee  chairman Munish Kumar  Sony was attacked by criminals when he was going back to house after having dinner at the house his friend on Thursday night. He has suffered  head injuries and a fracture on right hand. Sunam DSP Sukhwinder Pal Singh said Sony was unfit to give a statement. “Once we get permission from doctors, we will record Sony’s statement and register an FIR. We have started investigation and are checking CCTVs of the area,” said the DSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armed-men-attack-sunam-market-committee-chief-95218
06-06-2020||---||Stone-crusher working ‘illegally’, probe ordered||Pathankot, June 5 A stone-crusher is allegedly operating without requisite permissions in the mining-rich belt of the Chak Gajju area of the Ravi. The unit is located in the “flood protection embankment” of the Ravi which in itself is a violation of norms. According to rules, no crusher can be operated in such an area as it would damage the ecological balance of its surroundings. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said he had ordered a probe. “The crusher will be ordered to shut down if it is being operated without requisite permissions,” he said. To get operationalised, crushing units need the consent of both Punjab Pollution Control Board and drainage department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stone-crusher-working-illegally-probe-ordered-95221
06-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Heroin worth Rs 23 cr seized in Ferozepur||Ferozepur/phagwara, June 5 The Punjab Police and the 136 battalion of the BSF have recovered 4.6 kg heroin worth Rs 23 crore in the international market near the border out post Ullo Ke in the sector. In addition, 50 gram opium has also been recovered.  Following inputs, a search operation was carried out following which the consignment was recovered from the fields across the barbed wire fencing. Bhupinder Singh, SSP, said the police had booked Bagicha Singh, a resident of Jhugge Mage Wale village.  Meanwhile, in Phagwara, the district police, headed by SSP Satinder Singh, attached properties worth Rs 14.24 crore of 26 drug smugglers in May.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-23-cr-seized-in-ferozepur-95223
06-06-2020||---||Samana carjacking case solved, 1 held||Patiala, June 5 The police have solved a robbery case in which the accused had fired gunshots at a car owner and fled with the vehicle in Samana.  The police said the accused, identified as Gurpreet Singh, is purportedly linked to Gurvinder Singh (Guri), who is lodged in an Ambala jail in a murder and loot case. Gurpreet was nabbed by the Samana police and CIA staff on Thursday. Mandeep Singh Sidhu, SSP, Patiala, said Gurpreet claimed he was acting on the directions of Gurvinder Singh. “He told the police that he was directed by the accused on the phone to lift the car,” Sidhu said.  The matter has already raised eyebrows as an accused lodged in the Ambala jail is allegedly linked to robberies taking place in Punjab. The SSP said along with the car, the police also recovered a country-made pistol used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samana-carjacking-case-solved-1-held-95224
06-06-2020||---||Centre failed to help amid crisis: Capt||Chandigarh, June 5Regretting that the Government of India had "failed" to provide any help to small states in fighting the impact of the Covid outbreak and the prolonged lockdown, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said it was the duty of the Centre to come forward in fighting this national battle and help the states revive their battered economies.‘Take tough stand against China’Even though Punjab has managed to control the medical aspect of the problem to a great extent, economic revival will require support from the Union Government, he said during a video press conference.He said all steps being taken to revive the economic activity in Punjab were purely the result of the state government’s own efforts.Pointing to the conditional increase in the borrowing limit of the GSDP, he alleged that by curtailing the state’s rights, the Centre had negated the benefit of even the "miniscule and delayed" financial help it had extended.On the initiatives being taken by the state to revive its economy amid the pandemic, the Chief Minister said nearly Rs 24,000 crore had been pumped into the rural economy as a result of the bumper wheat crop during the recently concluded Rabi season.Further, he said, of the total 2.56 lakh industrial units in the state, all but 20,000 had resumed operations. However, the industry in Punjab would take some time to run to its optimum level, he said, urging the Government of India to bail out small and medium industries.Asked to comment on the recent conversation on this issue between Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and industrialist Rahul Bajaj, the Chief Minister said they were both right as both the GDP and the lives of people were important. Though the lockdown was necessary to save lives, it was now vital to revive the state’s economy, for which a panel of experts led by economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia was preparing a blueprint, he added.On migrants choosing to stay back in Punjab, the CM pointed out that of the 11.50 lakh migrant workers who wanted to return home, more than 5 lakh have now decided to stay back as the industries have opened in the state. Several of those who had returned to states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh now want to come back to Punjab as work had resumed here, he said.Will appeal against HC ruling on school fee: CM‘Sidhu part of party’  Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh denied reports of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu being in talks with AAP. “Sidhu is very much part of the party. He is in touch with party’s central leadership. If Sidhu has any concern on state issues, he is always welcome to come and talk,” he said. In response to a question on roping in political strategist Prashant Kishor for shaping Congress poll campaign in 2022, he said the former had responded positively to his request. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-failed-to-help-amid-crisis-capt-95230
06-06-2020||Moga||5-yr-old TikTok star gets Rs 5L from Punjab Government||The government has given a cheque of Rs5 lakh to TikTok star Noor to empower her under Mission Fateh launched to fight Covid. The 5-year-old star has made videos, wherein she has asked people to obey the curfew rules. She has  contributed towards Mission Fateh in her own way. District Magistrate Sandeep Hans and local SDM Satwant Singh presented the cheque to Noor, her father Satnam Singh, sister Jashanpreet and one of her team members. The DM said Noor and her team members had entertained people with their witty and educative videos at a time when people were confined in their homes. Through the videos, Noor has helped propagate various government orders related to Covid, thereby helping the administration and police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-yr-old-tiktok-star-gets-rs-5l-from-punjab-government-95222
06-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Management of three Adarsh Schools sacked over ‘bungling’ of funds||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 5‘Charges baseless’Denying the allegations, Narinder Singh Randhawa, chairman of the Sukh Sagar Avenue Welfare Association, claimed he had withdrawn from the management of these schools as the state government was not contributing its share under the PPP.After a judicial inquiry into the functioning of three Government Adarsh Schools in the region found many financial and administrative irregularities, the Director General School Education (DGSE) on Friday sacked the management of these schools.Under the public-private partnership (PPP), Adarsh Schools at Middumann and Pakka Kalan villages in Faridkot and at Ransain Kalan village in Moga were being run by a Ludhiana-based Sukh Sagar Avenue Welfare Association for the past over five years.Under the PPP mode, private partners are spending 30 per cent of the total money and rest 70 per cent is contributed by the government to run these schools.Narinder Singh Randhawa, chairman of the association, faced four criminal cases in the last three years. Randhawa remained in the thick of controversy allegedly for misappropriating government funds by sending inflated purchase bills and making fake recruitment of teachers. He was accused of even admitting “ghost students” to get extra funds from the state government.After a dossier of complaints against Randhawa, the School Education Department had started an inquiry into the allegations against him and entrusted the inquiry to a retired IAS officer on May 1, 2019.The inquiry report was to be submitted within three-week time. As there was no completion of this inquiry in six months by the retired IAS officer, on February 27, the probe was handed over to BC Gupta, a retired Additional District and Sessions Judge.The decision to withdraw the control of these schools from the association has been taken as it violated the terms and conditions of the agreement under the PPP, said Mohammad Tayyab, DGSE.Denying the allegations, Randhawa claimed he had withdrawn from the management of the schools as the state government was not contributing its share under the PPP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/management-of-three-adarsh-schools-sacked-over-bungling-of-funds-95219
06-06-2020||---||46 new cases; first death in Tarn Taran||Chandigarh, June 5Two judges placed under quarantineTwo judicial officers from Kapurthala were placed under quarantine along with eight of their staff members on Friday. The officers include an Additional Sessions Judge and a Subdivisional Judge. They both were present in the court when an ASI, who tested positive on Thursday, attended the proceedings a few days ago.The first Covid death was reported from Tarn Taran district today with a 45-year-old man succumbing to the disease. A resident of Patti town, he was admitted to a hospital in Bhikhiwind on June 3, from where he was referred to a hospital in Amritsar where he tested positive.The deceased was a habitual drug user, said sources. With his death, the total Covid-related casualties in Punjab have touched 48. So far, 2,461 patients have tested positive, of which 2,069 have recovered.Other than this, 46 new cases were reported from the state today. Of this, 16 were from Ludhiana. While 12 of the cases reported today are contacts of previously reported positive cases, four new cases have also been reported in the district.Chowni Mohalla has been declared a containment zone here after six cases were reported — all contacts of a man who succumbed to the disease on May 29. In addition to this, a 52-year-old man and a 43-year-old woman from Madhapuri, Ludhiana, also tested positive. In addition to this, four contacts of a doctor couple from Khanna who contracted virus while treating a 86-year-old ex-serviceman at Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital tested positive on Friday. The ex-serviceman later lost his life.Meanwhile, a 38-year-old man, a 37-year-old woman and a four-year-old girl from Model Town and a 35-year-old man from Islamganj, Ludhiana, have also tested positive.Eight positive cases have been reported in Jalandhar — four men and four women. Two are employees of a company located on Nakodar Road, and are contacts of a positive patient.In Mohali, four new cases have been reported. While one was a 61-year-old man from Sector 70, three were from Sector 78. The three Sector 78 residents had been in contact with a person, who had travelled to Delhi.In Sangrur, four Covid positive patients have been discharged, including a 14-year-old child. As many as 99 patients in Sangrur have recovered so far, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/46-new-cases-first-death-in-tarn-taran-95220
06-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Farm reforms may hit Punjab’s tax collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5Provisions in placeA fact check of important provisions under the ordinance shows the state government has already implemented most of themAs specified in the ordinance, Punjab has already allowed creation of private market yards or mandis in August 2017Even as farmers, farm unions and political parties in Punjab have lodged their protest against the much touted ‘Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance’, the state government has already implemented most of the provisions in the ordinance brought by the Centre two days ago.In spite of an assurance given by Union Agriculture Minister Narender Singh Tomar that the minimum support price (MSP) on the two staple foodgrain grown in the state — wheat and paddy — will stay, farmers and farm unions feel the Centre is pulling away from government purchase of their produce. They have rejected these reforms, calling these pro-trader and anti-farmer. Senior functionaries of the Union Agriculture Ministry today held a videoconference with their counterparts in Punjab and reiterated that the MSP regime would continue, even as Punjab objected to a complete deregulation of private mandis.As specified in the ordinance, Punjab has already allowed creation of private market yards or mandis in August 2017. Private entities are also allowed to purchase agriculture commodities at the farm gate. The state has a mechanism in place to issue a unified licence to operate in all 130 market committees and 37 eNAM mandis already exist in the state.“Our main objection to the ordinance is that it deregulates private mandis or clearly specifies that no fee can be charged by the agriculture produce market committees in private mandis. This will hit the state’s tax collection as a number of fruit and vegetable growers and those selling maize, barley, millets and oats can move to the private mandis, where they are likely to get better prices,” said a senior government officer.This year, the state government has made a provision in the Budget of collecting Rs 1,950 crore each as market fee and rural development fee (RDF). Of this, Rs 750 crore each is collected as market fee and RDF on wheat, while Rs 1,000 crore each is to be collected as market fee and RDF on paddy.There is an apprehension that the new ordinance seeks to provide little protection to small farmers in the creation of One Nation One Market scheme. “Experience shows that once the reliance on the private sector is complete, farmers will be at the mercy of private traders,” says Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU, Dakaunda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-reforms-may-hit-punjabs-tax-collection-95212
06-06-2020||GS Paul||36 years on, Amritsar traders await relief||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 5UK MP seeks probeLondon: Ahead of the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, British Labour Party MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi has sought an independent inquiry into the then Margaret Thatcher-led British government's “involvement” in the operation in June 1984. IANSThe tenants of shops who were displaced from the vicinity of the Golden Temple complex in the aftermath of Operation Bluestar 36 years ago are still struggling to get justice.The state government had shortlisted 133 affected traders, offered them commercial booths measuring 27 sq foot under one-time settlement at Guru Teg Bahadur Avenue under the Mall Mandi Rehabilitation Scheme, but the collector rate of land, quoted at Rs 38,400 per square yard, was challenged by some of the beneficiaries.Parvinder Singh Arora, who was into cosmetics business adjacent to the Akal Takht, said after the Operation Black Thunder in 1988, the affected shop owners were allotted alternative sites at one-fourth of the collector rate, which was Rs 4,000 per square yard then.“We demanded to be treated at par with the owners. Why should we be charged exorbitantly when we also lost our livelihood? When none of the successive governments listened to our grievances, 42 among us knocked the door of the High Court and then the Supreme Court,” he said.After a decades-long legal battle, the collector rate of the site was settled at Rs 14,450 per square yard for them by the Amritsar authorities in October 2017.To reach a conclusion, they all agreed to furnish the price, yet the issue lingered on for want of government’s nod.Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi said at a House meeting held on January 31, 2020, a resolution in this regard was sent to the Local Bodies Department office, seeking an approval. “May be it got delayed due to the Covid crisis,” he said.Minister for Local Bodies Brahm Mohindra said, “Since the time I took over the department, no document pertaining the case came to my notice. As soon as I receive it, I will take action. I have to see the standing orders whether it is under my discretion or it has to be tabled in the Vidhan Sabha.”During the 1984 Army attack on the Golden Temple complex, all shops in the vicinity of the Akal Takht, Bazar Munarian, Shaheed Market and Thada Sahib were burnt to ashes.Jaswinder Singh, whose father Rajinder Singh had committed suicide by jumping into the sarovar of the Golden Temple in 1993 due to depression, said, “My father had a flourishing artificial jewellery trade running from a rental shop. When we could not get justice, he killed himself. My mother raised us with difficulties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/36-years-on-amritsar-traders-await-relief-95213
06-06-2020||Karam Prakash---||After irregularities come to fore, Labour Department halts registration in Punjab||Tribune News Service Patiala, June 5 The Labour Department has stopped the registration of construction workers at all Common Service Centres (CSC) in the state after alarm bells were sounded over “fake registrations”. The department is said to have received over 70,000 applications in a week. Officials were shocked when the department was flooded with applications for verification of the registration of construction workers.  There have also been allegations that employees of the Common Service Centres (CSC) were duping the poor. They (CSC) were registering people without verifying documents. People were comings forward in large numbers as they were being told that they would get Rs 3,000 monthly as aid by the government in the wake of coronavirus. The Punjab Government had given one-time financial help of Rs 6,000 in two instalments to the registered construction workers in the state recently. The members of the Common Service Centres went from village to village to get the forms filled and took Rs 100-300 for each online registration even as the government has fixed only Rs 10 for the same.   The matter was reported to the Labour Department after applications were uploaded on the online portal even during odd hours. Some applications were received at midnight.  In Samana block of the village, two girls — said to be CSC members — were caught red-handed by the police while they were asking for Rs 300 from labourers for filing their online forms. The Vice Chairman of the Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCW) has terminated the services provided by the CSC to the Labour Department. Jatinder Pal Singh, Deputy Secretary, BOCW, said, “We had received numerous complaints of poor being duped by employees of the Common Service Centres. Applications of poor people were filed as those of construction workers without any verified documents. We are now verifying all applications.” He added a rumour was being spread that all poor people would get Rs 3,000 per month from the government. Vijay Walia, an activist, said, “An FIR should be lodged in this scam.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-irregularities-come-to-fore-labour-department-halts-registration-in-punjab-95215
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Decide in 6 weeks on tax relief for school buses running in Punjab’||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today set a six-week deadline for the Punjab Principal Secretary to take a decision on the issue of not charging road and other taxes during the Covid-19 pandemic period on school buses and vans running in the state under the Safe School Vahan Scheme. The direction by the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Archana Puri came on a petition filed by the School Van Public Welfare Society for directing Punjab and other respondents not to charge the taxes till the pandemic was over. Elaborating, counsel DS Gandhi submitted that the directions were being sought as the vehicles were not in use since March 13 following various orders passed by the state and Centre owing to the global outbreak of Covid-19. The counsel added at the current stage he would be satisfied, if a direction was issued to the Principal Secretary to expeditiously consider and decide a representation. “The present petition is disposed of with a direction to the Principal Secretary to consider and decide the representation, after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner, in accordance with the law within six weeks from receipt of the judgment’s certified copy”, the Bench added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decide-in-6-weeks-on-tax-relief-for-school-buses-running-in-punjab-95216
06-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t claim innocence saying someone else used phone: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 5A mobile phone subscriber cannot get away with an offence by simply claiming that it was being used by someone else. The onus to explain how the number was used for the commission of the offence was on the person in whose name the number was registered, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled.“Once the phone, which has been used in the commission of the offence, is registered in the name of the petitioner and the number has been issued after the biometric verification of KYC of the petitioner, it is he who has to explain as to how the number was used for the commission of the offence,” Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi has ruled.The ruling came on a petition filed by an accused against the state of Punjab for pre-arrest bail in a case registered in September last year for cheating and other offences under Section 420 and 34 of the IPC and Section 66 of the IT Act registered at the Punjab state cyber crime police station.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, his counsel argued that the petitioner was unnecessarily roped in the FIR and the allegations against him were totally incorrect and false.Punjab Deputy Advocate-General Ajay Pal Singh Gill, on the other hand, placed before the Bench a status report on investigation done so far. Among other things, it was stated that the mobile from which the complainant received fake call was registered in the petitioner’s name and the number was issued after biometric verification of the subscriber. After hearing the arguments, Justice Sethi asserted the petitioner’s counsel had not denied during the hearing that the mobile number was being used by the petitioner. Moreover, the phone was yet to be recovered.“It is not a case where petitioner can claim he is not related to the incident. Once the recovery of the phone is to be effected, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is necessary to find out whether he is also involved in any other case of the similar nature,” Justice Sethi added, while dismissing the petition after asserting that no ground was made out to allow him the benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-claim-innocence-saying-someone-else-used-phone-high-court-95217
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Will never compromise on MSP: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Friday that his party would never compromise on the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and assured marketing for farmers’ produce, especially for paddy and wheat. He said his party had already ensured that the present assured marketing and MSP regime for farmers produce would continue. Countering the Chief Minister on the issue, Sukhbir said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today “lied on the issue of changes in the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC). He has in fact already given his assent to the main provisions of the Act on August 14, 2017.” He said there was no need for the Akali Dal to leave the NDA alliance led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the PM and the Union Agriculture Minister had already clarified that the MSP would stay. “SAD will never tolerate any deviation from the principle of assured marketing and MSP. We have already ensured that there are no compromises on these issues in the Act,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-never-compromise-on-msp-sukhbir-95208
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Agriculture reforms will trigger unrest, says Punjab Chief Minister||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today termed the Centre’s agri reforms as yet another brazen attempt to erode and destabilise the country’s federal structure. The move would trigger unrest among the farming community, he said.His comments came as President Ram Nath Kovind today promulgated two key ordinances cleared by the Union Cabinet to kick in agriculture reforms to help farmers trade freely and fetch better prices.The CM, in a videoconference, also announced the setting up of a three-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by Water Resources Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria to probe sale and smuggling of illicit liquor during the lockdown. He said strict action would be taken against all those involved in the racket, be it Excise Department officials or the kingpin. He said the Centre’s move to bring in an ordinance to amend the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act could pave the way for disbanding the MSP and foodgrain procurement regimes. He said the Centre was in the habit of forcing sudden decisions on the states, without taking into consideration their views. He said he would soon take up the issue with the Centre.The Centre’s move could have serious economic, social and law and order consequences. Instead of gaining, farmers will suffer at the hands of traders due to this legislative change, he claimed.He said individual states were best placed to handle and manage such issues. The “Farming Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020” was a highly ill-conceived move on part of the Centre, he added.The Punjab Government has already made necessary amendments to the state APMC Act to provide for setting up of regulated mandis even in the private sector for specific produces. In fact, annual sale/purchase worth around Rs 80,000 crore was made in Punjab’s Market Yards that effectively supported 65 per cent of the state’s population, he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agriculture-reforms-will-trigger-unrest-says-punjab-chief-minister-95205
