06-07-2020||---||Punjab education department to distribute ‘fattis’ with Covid messages||Chandigarh, July 6After launching an effective campaign to create awareness among people about Covid-19, the Punjab School Education Department has now launched another campaign to put 'fattis' (wooden writing tablet) in vehicles.Disclosing this here today, a spokesperson for the Education Department said under 'Mission Fateh', the department had decided to distribute splints for hanging in cars and other vehicles. These 'fattis' would be distributed free of cost. The campaign has been launched from Gurdaspur district and in a few days, it will be rolled out across the state.According to the spokesperson, teachers have already launched a pledge campaign to create awareness among people regarding Covid. Teachers and students of various schools have been also making posters and sketches to disseminate more information about the pandemic. These posters pledge to follow the instructions issued by the Punjab Government and the rules applicable while traveling by private or public transport, besides washing hands, wearing masks and maintaining social distance, to make 'Mission Fateh' a complete success.At the same time, awareness is being spread through posters to download the Cova app so that the message and method of fighting coronavirus can be better communicated to everyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-education-department-to-distribute-fattis-with-covid-messages-109385
06-07-2020||---||BSNL workers in Bathinda seek release of dues, threaten to end lives||Bathinda, July 6Four contractual BSNL employees climbed atop a telecom tower while others staged a protest outside the BSNL office in the Bharat Nagar area of Bathinda on Monday, seeking disbursal of their pending dues.The employees atop the tower threatened to end their lives if the state-owned telecom company failed to release their pending salaries. Meanwhile, scores of other contractual employees who were protesting outside the office alleged that they had not received their salaries for the past 17 months.In a video clip circulated on social media, four BSNL workers Raja Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Resham and Manjit can be seen protesting atop a tower.Later, AAP district committee members also reached the protest venue and extended support to the enraged protesters.Talking to The Tribune, Sanjay Singh, president of the BSNL Contract Workers’ Union, said, "There are only 85 workers left after many were coerced to opt for the VRS. The remaining workers have not received their salaries for the past over 17 months and many of them finding it really difficult to feed their families, especially during the ongoing pandemic.""Despite bringing the matter to the notice of the contractor and higher officials in the BSNL district office repeatedly, nothing has been done. We have only been fed with the excuse of unavailability of funds. Now that the situation has gone out of control, we were left with no other alternative but to stage a protest," he added.Meanwhile, senior police officials also reached the site and held meeting with the BSNL officials to diffuse the situation.BSNL principal general manager Rahul Ashokayan while expressing his inability to pay salaries of the workers said, "The contractor did not pay salaries to these workers after BNSL could not clear his outstanding dues. We have been writing to the head office for release funds twice every month but we have not received the money till now."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsnl-workers-in-bathinda-seek-release-of-dues-threaten-to-end-lives-109392
06-07-2020||Mohali||Interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini extended till July 8||Interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was extended till July 8 by a Mohali court on Monday under anticipation of adding murder charges in the previous FIR against him in alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani.Hearing was held in the court of Additional District and Session Judge (ADJ) Sanjay Agnihotri as the court of main Judge Rajnish Garg was not functioning today.On the consent of counsel of defence as well as the prosecution, the case hearing was deferred for two days and the interim bail of former DGP Saini would continue till July 8.It may be mentioned here that upholding the arguments given by special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula, District and Session Judge Rajinder Singh Rai on July 4 had allowed the application seeking transfer of the case from Additional District and Session Judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal’s court and assigned to the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.The decision on quashing the anticipatory bail under Section 302 of the IPC got by former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini will also come up for hearing in the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.Sartej Singh Narula, special public persecutor, had argued in the previous hearing that the ADJ’s court has ignored the facts and gravity of the offense while discussing the merits of the case and the interim bail has been granted in a blanket manner. He said the prosecution had been pressing that in the enthusiasm to grant the anticipatory bail to former DGP Saini, the court of ADJ unduly diluted the considerations that were required to imminently be considered. Narula said they will present the statement of eyewitness Gursharan Kaur Mann which she recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC corroborating illegal detention and inhuman torture of Balwant Singh Multani at the hands of Saini while seeking cancelation of interim bail granted in anticipation of involving 320 of the IPC.A four members SIT headed by Superintendent of Police Harmandep Singh Hans (SP-Invst) had been constituted by the Mohali police.Deputy Superintendent of Police Bikramjit Singh Brar (DSP-Invst) and Mataur police station SHO Inspector Rajiv Kumar were the other members of the SIT who were probing the case.An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani following the complaint of his brother Palwinder Singh Multani under Sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC on May 6, at police station Mataur after which DGP moved court seeking anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/interim-bail-of-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-extended-till-july-8-109375
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar develops ventilation support for COVID-19 patients||The researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, have developed a compact and affordable ventilation support for the less critical COVID-19 patients, a statement said on Monday.The design of a Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machine is such that it is easy to operate and can be assembled with ease in remote areas, villages or at home, it said.BiPAP is a mode of ventilation which maintains positive pressure for air intake and a low pressure for expiration, the statement said.The machine is made of readily available electronic and mechanical parts and a single unit can support multiple patients, provided the airflow is sufficient, it said.@iitrpr researchers developed a BiPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) ventilation support for the less critical cases during COVID-19, where patients do not require intubation by specialized staff,minimizing the risk of infection during the procedure. @DrRPNishank @iitcouncil pic.twitter.com/BlTXnfVN1L  It can be used for the less critical cases where patients do not require intubation by specialized staff, the statement by the institute said.Neha Sardana, from the department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering of IIT Ropar, along with Gaurav Pal Singh, a research scholar, developed the ventilation support, it said.The mass production of the machine would cost around Rs 6,500 per unit, the statement said.“The COVID-19 pandemic has presented a massive challenge to healthcare services around the globe which requires innovative and immediate solutions. This BiPAP machine in the current situation aims to deliver an economical and user-friendly respiratory support for non-critical patients and a backup resource for hospitals facing ventilation shortage,” the institute said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-develops-ventilation-support-for-covid-19-patients-109369
06-07-2020||Balwant Garg||SIT names Dera Sacha Sauda chief as accused in 'bir' theft case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 6 The police Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Monday nominated Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim as an accused in the “bir” theft case of June 2015.In this case, a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot on June 1, 2015 and on October 12, the torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered near a gurdwara at Bargari.Two days back, the SIT had arrested seven dera followers in this case of theft.The SIT on Monday produced the challan (chargesheet) in the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class). It is alleged that under a conspiracy, the national committee of the dera had directed the block committee to execute the sacrilege acts in retaliation as some dera followers at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village had removed their “sacred” threads and lockets (given to them by the dera) allegedly under persuasion of a Sikh preacher.In March 2019, the SIT had taken permission from a local court to question Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim.Probing the incidents of police firing at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura, the SIT had claimed that several witnesses had named the dera chief.So his questioning was necessary to unravel the plot behind the police firing incidents and identify the conspirators. The SIT had described the dera chief as a ‘suspect’ at that time.However, even one year after getting the permission, the SIT is yet to question the jailed dera head.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-names-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-as-accused-in-bir-theft-case-109362
06-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali Police arrest bookie who hosted fake T20 league matches||Mohali Police on Monday arrested bookie Ravinder Dandiwal on Monday for allegedly hosting fake T20 league games at a village in the district recently to induce people into placing bets.Dandiwal, who is an alleged kingpin of an international tennis match-fixing racket, has been accused of having hosted a cricket match called the UVA T20 League Games at Swara village on June 29.The racket, Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal, allegedly involved Dandiwal using small-time players mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to play at a cricket academy in Swara, a village located about 15 km from Chandigarh.The academy was allegedly booked from June 29 to July 5, 2020 for Rs 33,000. Dandiwal and his associates Rajesh Garg and Pankaj Arora---both of whom were arrested before Dandiwal---had made four teams for the so-called event, which was aired on Youtube, as well as various social media apps such as fancode APP, Diamond, Sky, Lotus, Tenbet, Spin, Punjab Exchange.The so-called league gameswas shown as being held at Sri Lanka, Chahal said.  The aim, he said, was to take bets on the games and earn money.Dandiwal has been sent to police custody for five days. Police remands of Garg and Arora meanwhile, who have been extended by two days.  Chahal said they were still investigating Chahal’s role in the event.Board of Control for Cricket in India, the country’s apex cricketing body, is expected to send its anti-corruption unit to the city to question Dandiwal.Pankaj Arora and some other people have been booked for cheating and criminal conspiracy, among other charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-police-arrest-bookie-who-hosted-fake-t20-league-matches-109359
06-07-2020||Ludhiana||3 motorcyclists ‘snatch’ Rs 11 lakh from gas agency employee in Ludhiana||Three motorcyclists allegedly snatched Rs 11.25 lakh from an employee of a local gas agency in Ludhiana on Monday, police said.They intercepted the two-wheeler of the employee on Dhaba Road and hit him with the back of a sickle, they said.They fled after snatching the bag containing the cash, the police said.Investigation is under way. The CCTV footage of the area is being scanned and the employee being questioned, they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-motorcyclists-snatch-rs-11-lakh-from-gas-agency-employee-in-ludhiana-109322
06-07-2020||---||E-registration for travellers to Punjab mandatory from Monday night; here’s how you can do it||Chandigarh, July 6After Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ruled out dilution of the 14-day home quarantine norm for domestic entrants, in the light of the high-risk posed by those coming from Delhi/NCR in particular, the process of e-registration for all travellers to the state has been made mandatory from Monday midnight.Travellers can self-register online from the comfort of their homes, as per the guidelines issued by the government, and ensure hassle-free travel for themselves.The state government has strongly advised road travellers entering or transiting through Punjab to self-register, either through Cova app or through a weblink, https://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration, before embarking on the journey.The objective of e-registration is to avoid any inconvenience to the travellers due to crowding and long queues at the border check points.The travellers are advised to follow the following registration process.1. Register yourself and your co-passengers through either of two ways:A. Through Cova Appi. Download ‘Cova App’ on your smartphone from the Apple App Store or Android Play Store.ii. Install the App.iii. From the Menu choose ‘Self -registration for travel into/ through Punjab’iv. Fill in all particulars as sought and press the ‘Submit” button.B. Through a weblinki.  Self-register at https://cova.punjab.gov.in/registrationii. Fill in all particulars as sought and press the ‘Submit button.iii. Download and Install Cova App before travelling.3. After registration, the primary traveller will receive a confirmation link through SMS.4. Click on the link for printout.5. Take a printout with QR code on A4 size sheet.6.  For 4/3-wheelers, paste the printout on the left side of your windscreen or place it on the dashboard.7.  At the border check-points, staff will scan the QR code on the printout.8. This will be followed by basic medical screening.9. After successful medical screening, the process is over. In case a passenger exhibits Covid symptoms, the health staff at the border check-point will assist and guide the passenger(s). For passengers who are entering the state and not merely transiting it, after successfully crossing the check-point, those who are asymptomatic will have to undergo self-quarantine at their homes for 14 days. During quarantine, they will be required to report their medical status daily either by calling 112 or through the Cova App. In case of symptomatic passengers, appropriate instructions will be given at the check-point, said a government spokesperson.The spokesperson said all relevant details about the visitors/residents coming into Punjab would be shared with the health authorities concerned and police stations through a real-time alert system. The police stations concerned would keep a regular check, both through physical and technical means (geo-fencing etc.), on the incoming visitors at their given addresses for their protection and the health and safety of the people of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/e-registration-for-travellers-to-punjab-mandatory-from-monday-night-heres-how-you-can-do-it-109319
06-07-2020||Chandigarh/Muktsar||208 new cases, five deaths reported in Punjab; tally rises to 6,491||Punjab on Monday reported 208 new cases of coronavirus besides five deaths, taking the state’s case tally to 6,491.The death toll now stands at 169.Jalandhar recorded maximum 84 cases, followed by Ludhiana (25).Muktsar reported the six new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 139.  Six persons of a family, including a six-month-old boy, tested COVID positive at Mann Singh Wala village. A family member, who had returned from Moga district, had tested COVID positive a few days ago. A total of seven persons of this family are COVID positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/208-new-cases-five-deaths-reported-in-punjab-tally-rises-to-6-491-109305
06-07-2020||GS Paul||No jobs given, judicial probe eyewash: Kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5The family members of victims of the train tragedy that snuffed out 60 lives during Dasehra festivities in 2018 are dissatisfied with the judicial inquiry report.The inquiry officer, a retired Additional District and Sessions Judge, has indicted four MC officials of Amritsar. They were already chargesheeted in the departmental inquiry conducted in October 2019, for being “negligent” in performing their duties.The victims’ kin termed the judicial inquiry report an eyewash and lashed out at the state government for not keeping up with the assurance of providing them government jobs.Deepak, who lost his father Girinder Kumar and uncle Pawan Kumar in the incident, said it was a politically influenced report. “The 108-page report of the magisterial probe conducted earlier should have been complied with. Holding MC employees responsible for the tragedy only appears to be an exercise to save the higher-ups,” he said.The state government had got done a magisterial probe by the Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar, B Purushartha, which held 23 persons, including organisers, policemen, Railways employees and MC officials guilty.Kamal Kumar, who lost his 18-year-old son Tarun, demanded stern action against the organisers of the Dasehra event. “Our wounds can never be healed just by indicting MC officials, who will have no choice but to bow before the political bosses,” he said.Vijay, who lost his 19-year-old son Munish in the accident, said, “My son was helping me in my small business of footwear. His death broke me completely. My second son has passed Class XII but is jobless. We were promised that he would be given a government job on compassionate grounds, but the files got entangled in official rigmarole,” he said.An official of the MC, whose name surfaced in the judicial report, said, “Permission for holding a religious programme on Dashera had never been sought before the incident. Moreover, if we were held responsible for not enforcing the law, why the then MC Commissioner and Joint Commissioners were shielded?” Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said that the process to give jobs to the deserving was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-jobs-given-judicial-probe-eyewash-kin-109039
06-07-2020||Balwant Garg||SIT recreates sequence of events in sacrilege cases||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 5A day after arresting five Dera Sacha Sauda’s followers for their alleged involvement in three sacrilege incidents of 2015, the SIT today took the accused to a Naam Charcha Ghar ( a prayer-cum- preaching hall) at Kotkapura.To recreate the sequence of events, the SIT took the accused to a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village from where a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen on June 1, 2015. The SIT also visited the house of a dera follower at Sikhan Wala village where the stolen “bir” was allegedly kept.The SIT alleged that Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in Nabha jail on June 22, 2019, was the kingpin and involved in theft of the “bir”, pasting objectionable posters on the walls at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari gurdwara on September 24 and scattering torn pages of the holy book outside the gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015.It has been alleged that the national committee of the dera had directed the block committee to execute the sacrilege acts in retaliation as some dera followers in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village had removed their “sacred” threads and lockets (given to them by the dera) under persuasion of a Sikh preacher.It was alleged that accused Sukhjinder Singh Sunny and Randeep Singh Neela had gone to Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on a motorcycle on June 1, 2015, and stole Guru Granth Sahib from the gurdwara. The duo handed over the “bir” to Shakti, Bhola, Baljit and Nishan Singh, who took it to Kotkapura in a car. In the evening, Nishan and Baljit allegedly shifted the “bir” to the house of the latter at Sikhan Wala village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-recreates-sequence-of-events-in-sacrilege-cases-109040
06-07-2020||Faridkot||Cops yet to appear before probe panel||Two police officers, the then Faridkot SSP Sukhmander Singh Mann and the then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh Sidhu, failed to appear before the SIT in the Behbal Kalan police firing case here on Sunday.The SIT had summoned the officers to confront them with the then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh, who was on police remand till Sunday evening.The SIT had also summoned the two police officers on Saturday along with the then SP Balvir Singh. The three officers didn’t turn up before the investigation team on Saturday. They were then called on Sunday but only Balvir Singh appeared before the SIT. Sources said the further course of action in this regard would be decided soon. Gurdeep Singh was sent in 14-day judicial custody today. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-yet-to-appear-before-probe-panel-109041
06-07-2020||---||Punjab Government: Promote pupils if average marks above pass percentage||Chandigarh, July 5The state government today issued directions to all Vice Chancellors, government and private universities regarding the conduct of examinations.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all universities of the state have been directed to follow the guidelines for the conduct of examinations on their campuses and affiliated colleges.As per the guidelines, all students in terminal/exit classes or semesters will be awarded degrees/diplomas provided their average grades/marks/CGPA on the basis of previous exams or semesters are over and above the minimum pass grades/marks/CGPA (as per the norms of the individual university).A government spokesperson said all students in intermediate classes would be promoted to the next class or semester or year but those having average grades/marks/CGPA less than the minimum pass marks/grades/ CGPA will have to clear exams of that semester, as and when they were held. The students of exit/intermediate classes would also be given the option to take exams as and when they were held to improve their grades, if they desired to do so.Each university shall work out the norms or policy regarding award of degree/promotion of students keeping in mind the guidelines and their own rules and regulations. The universities which are in the process of conducting online exams can continue to do so with the permission of the Higher Education Department.The guidelines have been issued with due permission of the competent authority and will not be applicable to institutions under the Department of Medical Education, Research and Health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-promote-pupils-if-average-marks-above-pass-percentage-109042
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Medical Department to go ahead with exams||The Department of Medical Education and Research will conduct exams for all its courses for the current session.An official said the Higher Education Department had clarified that its instructions for not holding exams due to the Covid-19 outbreak were not applicable to the Medical Education Department.He said the instructions came in light of the state government sanctioning more than 4,000 posts of doctors and paramedical staff, including technicians, staff nurses, etc.He said the responsibility of recruiting medical and paramedical staff had been given to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-department-to-go-ahead-with-exams-109043
06-07-2020||Muktsar||Two booked for organising event||The police have booked two persons for allegedly organising a wedding ceremony in which around 100 people participated.The accused have been identified as Baldev Singh and his son Balraj Singh, residents of Maha Badhar village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-booked-for-organising-event-109044
06-07-2020||Patiala||Former MLA’s spouse booked in murder case||The police have booked the husband of former SAD MLA Vaninder Kaur Loomba for murder after a woman died on Sunday afternoon.The accused has been identified as Karan Singh. The other accused in the case are Gurmail Kaur (mother-in-law of the deceased), Ramphel (brother-in-law of the deceased) and Lal Singh Yadav.All accused have been booked under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC.The police said a few hours before her death, the deceased had made a video alleging that she was forcibly given a poisonous substance by the accused.Notably, husband of the deceased, Gursewak Singh, who was a personal assistant to the former MLA, had committed suicide last month.In the video, the deceased makes a request to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to conduct a fair probe into the matter. She also alleged that her husband had committed suicide after he was mentally harassed by the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-mlas-spouse-booked-in-murder-case-109045
06-07-2020||Sangrur||SAD to protest against ‘Anti-people’ policies||Sarpanches resent police functioningFazilka: Around 12 sarpanches have expressed their resentment over functioning of Fazilka (Sadar) police station. Former Congress MLA Dr Mohinder Kumar Rinwa along with the sarpanches submitted a memorandum to Fazilka SSP Harjeet Singh in this regard. “We are being threatened of being implicated in false cases,” alleged the sarpanches. The SSP said SP (Headquarters), has been asked to conduct a probe. OCIHM ex-staffer booked for Rs9.7 lakh fraudBathinda: A former employee of the Institute of Hotel Management (IHM), Bathinda, has been booked for allegedly siphoning off Rs 9.78 lakh. The police registered a case against Rahul Garg of Bathinda, who worked as an assistant accountant at the IHM from 2016 to 2018. The matter came to light when an audit of 2017-18 was conducted. It was revealed that Garg allegedly took fee from 43 students but handed them fake receipts. tnsSchools to hold contests on Parkash PurbChandigarh: The School Education Department has completed all arrangements for educational competitions dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur, which will go on for five and a half months. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has already released a calendar regarding this and the competitions would be held from July 6 to December 21, 2020. Only government school students will be able to participate in the competitions. tnsMystery shrouds elderly couple's deathSangrur: Mystery shrouds the death of elderly couple whose bodies were found at their house in Mehal Mubarak colony on Saturday. Doctors did not found any injury mark in the post-mortem. The deceased, Pritam Singh (78), and his wife Surjit Kaur (77), did not open the door after their milkman knocked the door. Later, the neighbours found them dead. "There is no injury mark on the bodies of the elderly couple,” the police said. tnsUndertrial booked for shooting video in jailFerozepur: An undertrial has been booked for shooting a video of jail inmates while they were dancing in their barrack. The said video has gone viral on social media. The accused has been identified as Lokesh Kumar Godara of Haripura village in Fazilka. The video was also played on a national news channel following which the matter came to the fore. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-protest-against-anti-people-policies-109046
06-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||No staff, Sangrur hospitals ‘turn away’ patients||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 5A majority of hospitals in the district have become referral centres. Critically ill patients are being referred to other healthcare facilities for treatment. Shortage of medical equipment and lack of trained staff have further compounded the problems.A total of 16,605 suspected cases of Covid-19 have come to the fore in the district till date, of which 529 have tested positive, 15,741 have tested negative and the remaining are awaiting reports.The Health Department authorities say 373 patients have cured. A majority of them were asymptomatic. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district stands at 142. “Of the 14 deaths, a majority of them have taken place in other district hospitals. After a patient’s condition starts worsening, we refer him or her to hospitals in either Patiala or Ludhiana,” said a Health Department officer requesting anonymity. Eleven deaths were reported from Malerkotla, while the remaining were reported one each from Amargarh, Sherpur and Fatehgarh Punj Garayan.“The Health Department authorities abdicate from their responsibilities after referring the patients to other district hospitals. We had to face a lot of problems after our area was declared a containment zone,” said a family member of a deceased Covid-19 patient from Malerkotla.“There is a shortage of required health facilities, but our officers are working hard round the clock. At present, we have five ventilators, including two in Sangrur and one each in Sunam, Malerkotla and Dhuri,” said Dr Raj Kumar, district Civil Surgeon.Ramvir, DC, said many Covid patients had been cured successfully in the district. “In the last 24 hours, we have discharged 38 persons from Covid care centres, including Ghabdan and Malerkotla Civil Hospital. We are working round the clock to provide better health facilities to the residents,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-staff-sangrur-hospitals-turn-away-patients-109047
06-07-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Rains ahead, border farmers say not banking on govt help||Ferozepur, July 5Many farmers whose fields are situated along the Sutlej have been making preparations to save their crops from any rise in the water level in the river. Last year, the swollen Sutlej had played a havoc with the standing crops in this area.Not waiting for the administration to act, farmers have started working for the rainy season. Jhand Singh of Nihalewala village said he had already put tonnes of soil on his 10-acre land in Tindiwala village to prevent water from entering his fields. Last year, the Sutlej level had risen suddenly in May-end after water was released from the Bhakra. Most farmers are concerned about the condition of the Dhussi bandh. The strong river current poses a major threat to it.Kashmir Singh of Kaluwala village said the bandh needed urgent repairs, but the lackadaisical attitude of the state government had put the villagers’ lives at risk during the monsoon season. “Every year our standing crops, property and equipment are damaged due to the floods,” he said.Villages like Tindiwala, Kaluwala, Kamalewala and Khunder Gatti are situated between the Zero Line and the right flank of the Dhussi bandh face floods every year.Executive Engineer, Golewala, Sandeep Goel said a 600-ft revetment was being constructed at a cost of Rs 75 lakh and Rs 4 crore would be spent on reinforcing the bandh at Gatta Badshah and Alewala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rains-ahead-border-farmers-say-not-banking-on-govt-help-109048
06-07-2020||Muktsar||Water supply contaminated, Muktsar residents fume||The supply of contaminated water to various localities in the town has become a major problem for the locals. “Manholes are overflowing and we are getting drinking water mixed with sewage at our houses. Our street has become a mosquito breeding ground. Despite several requests, officials concerned have failed to solve this problem,” said a resident of Gandhi Nagar. PS Dhanju, XEN, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, said, “Our men are tracing water supply leakage points and trying to fix it. A water lifting pump had gone out of order due to which a few manholes had over flown, but it has been fixed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/water-supply-contaminated-muktsar-residents-fume-109049
06-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Paddy growers sweat it out in fields as labour in short supply||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 5To overcome the problem of shortage of labourers, many farmers switched to direct seeding of rice and many others persuaded the farm labourers to return from their native lands. However, two farmers of Randhawa Barota village in Hoshiarpur sowed and transplanted paddy in their fields on their own.Unable to find labour, Bahadur Singh (34) and his younger brother Naajar Singh transplanted paddy on 6 acres with the help of their family members.“We took help of our cousin Gurmeet Singh to transplant paddy in our fields. Thereafter, we carried out the same process on Gurmeet’s land, who owns approximately six acres. It was a difficult process, but we were able to transplant the crop on four acres,” Bahadur Singh shared.He said: “The remaining work is being carried out by labourers, so we are relaxed. Since direct paddy sowing is a relatively new concept, I feared the results.”Bahadur said: “We worked day in and day out to transplant the paddy. However, we never complained.” Manjit Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union, Doaba, said back in the day farmers transplanting the crop on their own was a rarity. However, given the labour crunch because of the pandemic, such incidents were being witnessed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-growers-sweat-it-out-in-fields-as-labour-in-short-supply-109050
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||BBMB exceeds power target in first quarter||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has surpassed the energy production target set by the Central Electricity Authority for the first quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal by generating 131 per cent of the stipulated target.The BBMB power houses generated 3,326 million units of energy against the target of 2,543 million units for the April 1-June 30 quarter, according to a statement issued here on Saturday.Plant availability of the BBMB power houses has been registered at 99.15 per cent, which is far above the operating availability of 91.28 per cent at the national level. The transmission availability has been registered at 99.84 per cent as compared to the normative availability of 98.5 per cent for hydro-generating stations.The scheduling of the BBMB generating stations has come under the ambit of availability based tariff from June 2016 onwards. Under this regime, the BBMB earned Rs 92.47 crore till June, 2020 through the deviation settlement mechanism.This was achieved by optimum utilisation of the available resources and close monitoring of the real time generation schedule and actual energy generated from the BBMB generating stations round the clock and operation of machines, read the statement.BBMB chairman DK Sharma applauded the employees for their untiring efforts to maintain excellence in irrigation and power sectors and for their efforts to surpass targets even during the Covid-19 lockdown period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bbmb-exceeds-power-target-in-first-quarter-109051
06-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Eviction for personal need won’t end with landlord’s death||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that eviction orders passed in favour of a landlord on the ground of personal and bona fide requirement would not come to an end if the property owner died during the pendency of an appeal or revision.The direction by Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the HC came on a bunch of petitions filed by Krishna Ornaments and other petitioners. Appearing before the Bench, counsel representing the owner contended that once an eviction order has been passed by the Rent Controller, his subsequent death would not have an adverse effect on the same. The counsel added the rights of the parties crystallised the day the eviction petition was filed before the Rent Controller.The counsel for the tenant-petitioners, on the other hand, submitted that the owner’s personal necessity came to an end with his subsequent death. As such, the revision petitions were required to be allowed.Referring to a plethora of Supreme Court judgments, Justice Kshetarpal asserted: “It is apparent that once the statute itself recognises the necessity of not only the owner, but also of the persons ordinarily residing and dependent on him or her, the death of the landowner during the pendency of the revision petition would not adversely affect the rights of his heirs.”The court was required to examine the legality and correctness of the order passed by the Rent Controller, while hearing revision petitions, which, of course, was a statutory right under the provisions of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949.The statute made it clear that the HC may call for and examine the record relating to any order passed or proceedings held under this Act for satisfying itself on the legality or propriety of such an order or proceedings and may pass an order it may deem fit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-eviction-for-personal-need-wont-end-with-landlords-death-109052
06-07-2020||Bathinda||Travel hit, visa consultancies face closure||Immigration offices, visa consultancy firms and International English Language Testing System (IELTS) coaching centres have been badly hit due to the Covid-19 crisis.Facing huge losses, the centres have started closing down as around 80 per cent of these were running from rented buildings. With no income, paying rents, bank loans and teachers’ salaries had become a Herculean task for owners. The owners had also approached the district administration seeking relief.Business had been badly affected on Ajit Road, which in the past decade had become a hub for ILETS, visa and immigration centres in the region. Several immigration and IELTS offices have sacked teachers and telecallers.Parmeet Singh Sethi, owner of Magic Lamp International Immigration, said, “The sector has been hit hard due to the lockdown. Parents are reluctant to send their children abroad for studies.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/travel-hit-visa-consultancies-face-closure-109053
06-07-2020||---||Bathinda waterlogged||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-waterlogged-109054
06-07-2020||Muktsar||Monumental neglect: Bhai Langar Singh Gate cries for repair||On ‘Mission Fateh’Abohar: After the state police painted "stay home" slogans on the state and national highways, officials and NGOs in neighboring Sriganganagar on Sunday used rangoli colours to draw awareness messages in each ward. In Hanumangarh, District Collector Zakir Hussain walked through Indira Vatika lanes to distribute pamphlets to make people aware about the pandemic. Frontline workers and teachers in Abohar are motivating panchayats, besides visiting dwellings around brick-kilns to create awareness under the "Mission Fateh".Plugging holesFatehgarh Sahib: Keeping in mind the onset of the monsoon, local MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra has directed the officials concerned to start desilting the Sirhind Choe. The town had been at the receiving end for the past many years during the rainy season. Local residents have to face hardships because of flooding of their homes and crops. Given the urgency of the situation, the MLA is supervising the operations on a day-to-day basis. The locals are thus hoping that they will be able to sail through safely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monumental-neglect-bhai-langar-singh-gate-cries-for-repair-109065
06-07-2020||---||26 Ludhiana jail inmates among 175 new cases in Punjab||Ludhiana/Chandigarh, July 5In an alarming development, at least 26 inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail tested positive for Covid-19 today. Earlier, five had tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said all prisoners were asymptomatic. “They were first tested at the Borstal Jail on June 9 and the reports of all of them came negative. Now when they were shifted to the Central Jail, the test was repeated and reports came positive. A total of 32 inmates were tested for Covid. The report of 26 came positive,” he said.Previously, five of 14 inmates of the Central Jail had tested positive on July 3 after they were shifted from the Borstal Jail.The high number of positive cases in the jail has raised concerns among the health authorities over the formation of new clusters.“The Borstal Jail is a special Covid quarantine centre, where those arrested by the police in various cases are sent for screening. They are placed under quarantine for 14 days and after that they are sent to their respective districts, if tested negative,” said Kulwant Singh, Superintendent, Borstal Jail.“The inmates tested positive in a retest and all of them have been kept in separate barracks at the Central Jail. Proper distancing is being maintained so that others do not contract the virus,” said Rajiv Arora, Superintendent, Central Jail. Special Covid jails have been set up in Ludhiana, Barnala, Bathinda and Patti.Meanwhile, with 175 fresh cases reported in last 24 hours, the state count of Covid-19 cases has reached 6,283.One death each was reported from Patiala and Tarn Taran. The number of casualties has reached 164.As per the state media bulletin, 70 cases were reported from Ludhiana, 26 from Patiala, 16 from SAS Nagar, 11 from Ferozepur, 10 from Amritsar, eight from Faridkot, seven from Jalandhar, six from Sangrur, five from Gurdaspur and four each from Pathankot, Moga and Bathinda, one each from Tarn Taran, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka and Mansa.A 66-year-old woman, a resident of Gandhi Nagar in Muktsar, died at a private hospital in Ludhiana. The victim, Paramjit Kaur, had gone to Ludhiana for a check-up regarding cardiac problem a few days ago, but tested positive for Covid. Notably, this is the first death due to Covid-19 from Muktsar district.Spike in JalandharJalandhar: Though the media bulletin reported just seven cases in the district on Sunday, the local authorities reported 71. The new cases included 10 minorsThe places where cases were reported include Ali Mohalla, Gadaipur, Kandola Kalan, Nanak Pind (Jamsher), Mohalla Charkhiri (Kartarpur), Lidhran and Lohian Khas. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/26-ludhiana-jail-inmates-among-175-new-cases-in-punjab-109066
06-07-2020||Rajmeet Singh||7 Punjab polytechnics wasted Rs 75 cr in 8 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5A whopping Rs 75.70 crore has been wasted by the Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training in Punjab for setting up unnecessary infrastructure and hiring teaching faculty for unapproved courses at seven new polytechnic colleges set up under the Central scheme “Coordinated Action for Skill Development”. Illogical spendingUnder scannerPutting the department under scanner, the office of the Punjab Accountant General in an audit of the expenditure incurred at the polytechnic colleges in Barnala, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala, Mansa, Muktsar and Nawanshahr between 2012-2013 and 2019-2020 has exposed “injudicious infrastructure procurement and appointment of teaching faculty that was never required”.Not only were the AICTE norms violated in constructing the polytechnics, unnecessary infrastructure was procured, lecturers were appointed and students were enrolled against unapproved courses. This resulted in admissions to approved courses dipping to 10 per cent of the targeted number.The audit pointed out that due to the injudicious expenditure, 1,123 students of approved courses were imparted training without the required equipment and another 129 students were imparted training without the requisite faculty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-punjab-polytechnics-wasted-rs-75-cr-in-8-years-109165
