06-10-2020||Chandigarh||38 more COVID-19 deaths, 888 fresh cases in Punjab||Thirty-eight more COVID-19 fatalities in Punjab pushed the death toll to 3,679 on Tuesday, while the infection tally rose to 1,20,016 with 888 fresh cases.Five deaths each were reported from Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, four from Ludhiana, three each from Amritsar, Pathankot and Rupnagar, two each from Barnala, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mansa, Moga, Patiala, Tarn Taran and one from Ferozepur, according to a medical bulletin.Among places which reported new cases are Bathinda (147), Jalandhar (113), Amritsar (87) and Ludhiana (80).There are 11,982 active COVID-19 cases in the state, said the bulletin.A total of 1,707 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,04,355.Thirty-eight critical patients are on ventilator support, while 274 are on oxygen support, the bulletin added.A total of 19,96,719 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
06-10-2020||Patiala||Cong tractor rally: Haryana authorities allow Rahul Gandhi, some party leaders to enter state||Amid high-drama at Haryana’s border with Punjab during Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s rally against farm laws, he was allowed to enter the state along with a few selective leaders and supporters by the authorities on Tuesday.Earlier, Youth Congress leaders and workers from Punjab Congress were stopped from entering Haryana.Barricades and nakas laid by Haryana Police were thrown by Congress workers who were ahead of the Rahul Gandhi-led tractor procession.Haryana Police made fervent appeals to Congress workers not to break law even as hundreds threw the barricades in a flowing choe near the passage.After winding up his last rally at Sanaur in Patiala, Gandhi drove a tractor to reach Haryana border on the concluding day of his “Kheti Bachao Yatra”.They have stopped us on a bridge on the Haryana border. I’m not moving and am happy to wait here. 1 hour, 5 hours, 24 hours, 100 hours, 1000 hours or 5000 hours. pic.twitter.com/b9IjBSe7BgHe was accompanied on the tractor by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and senior party leader Harish Rawat.A number of Congress workers were accompanying Gandhi from Patiala district, but the procession was stopped on the highway near Teokar village on Pehowa border for an hour.Before Gandhi arrived at the Punjab-Haryana border, senior Haryana police officials at the spot told reporters that they would not allow more than 100 people to gather at one place as per the guidelines in place due to the COVID-19 restrictions.Gandhi and a few Congress leaders were later allowed to enter Haryana where the former Congress chief has a couple of programmes scheduled.On Haryana side, state Congress chief Kumari Selja, senior leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kiran Choudhary, Ajay Singh Yadav and party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal were present.                   Ahead of Gandhi’s tractor rally in Haryana, the BJP-led government on Monday had said the Congress leader can bring a few people in the state but it will not permit a big crowd from Punjab which can “disturb” the atmosphere.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Gandhi has the right to put forth his views but “if he comes with a big procession from Punjab, we won’t allow it”.Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij had said if Gandhi comes with “a big crowd from Punjab to disturb Haryana’s atmosphere, then we will not permit it. We are not going to allow that”. With PTI
06-10-2020||---||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Sidhu tests positive for coronavirus||Patiala, October 6Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday tested positive for coronavirus.He has been isolated at home.The minister showed mild symptoms in the morning. He has fever and body ache.The minister said, "I was not feeling well since morning; therefore, I got himself tested." Meanwhile, health authorities said his close contacts would be tested soon.Sidhu had attended the Kheti Bachao rally in Sangrur on Monday, where CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were also present.Many cabinet ministers and the CM run the risk of infection as the Health Minister was reportedly stage secretary at the Sangrur rally.
06-10-2020||---||DAP fertiliser rates increased, farmers rue move would further inflate input cost||Bathinda, October 5In yet another shocker for the farming community in the state, the Central Government has increased the rates of DAP (diammonium phosphate) fertiliser by Rs 50 per sack (50 kg). With the new rates in place, one sack of 50 kg DAP fertilizer which was being sold for Rs 1,150 earlier, would be available for Rs 1,200 now.Farmers rued that the move would burden the farmers in the state.Farmers said they had been struggling to bear the already high cost of farming and the recent move by the government would further escalate the input cost for farming in the state. It is the marginal farmer with small landholdings who would be directly affected adversely with the decision.Talking to The Tribune, Chamkaur Singh, secretary of a Bathinda based co-operative society, said: “Revised rates of DAP fertilisers will be applicable on stock coming after October 1.”Another employee of Markfed said they had received the intimation regarding the increase in DAP rates.Singhara Singh Mann, president, BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said: “It is not merely an increase in the fertiliser rates but well-devised strategy to push the already struggling farming community to the margins. It is the increased input cost of farming that has put an additional financial burden on farmers pushing them to commit suicides in the state.”“Already, the government is paving way for corporates to control the farming sector by putting a leash on the helpless farming community by bringing in new laws and now it has been burdening them with such measures. On one hand, the government lured farmers by increasing the MSP of Rs 50 and Rs 53 on wheat and paddy per quintal basis, respectively, and on the other hand, it has burdened them by increasing DAP fertiliser rates by Rs 50 per sack.”Agriculture Development Officer Chanpreet Singh said: “The rates of DAP fertiliser were increased by the IFFCO twice recently. But we do not play any role in price-fixing or regulation.”Bhavneesh Monga, president, Pesticides and Fertilisers’ Association, said: “The Central Government provides a subsidy of Rs 517 for every sack of DAP fertiliser and if the government is genuinely concerned about protecting interests of the farming community, then they should have increased the subsidy and not the rates of the fertiliser to provide much-needed relief.”Monga added: “Whenever there is a price increase, the government in its bid to save skin often cite change business dynamics in the international market.”Chief Agriculture Officer Bahadar Singh said the IFFCO had increased rates of DAP fertilisers and the department had no role in it.
06-10-2020||Sameer Singh||‘Did not burn paddy stubble, awaiting compensation for over one year’, rue farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 5Harvinder Pal (50), a marginal farmer with less than two acres of agricultural land at Mehma Sarkari village in Bathinda, had got the direct sowing of wheat done by taking the Super Seeder machine on lease for Rs 2,500 per acre basis from a Talwandi Sabo-based farmer having large landholding last season.Pal did so in order to avoid getting an FIR registered against him for burning paddy stubble as was done against many farmers in his area who burnt it.Apart from bearing with increased farm input cost, he had to shell out an extra Rs 5,000 for direct sowing to manage paddy straw but more than the money he spent, his main grouse stems from state government’s apathy in disbursal of compensation for not burning paddy stubble.It has been more than one year. Like Pal, there are scores of farmers in the Malwa region who did not get compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre basis for not burning paddy stubble to date.In Khara Barnala village in Mansa district, Raghubir Singh and Labh Singh, along with another eight small and medium scale farmers, had purchased Super Seeder machine and other farm implements on subsidised rates (provided by government) to carry out direct seeding of wheat last year after state government had made announcement that farmers not burning paddy stubble will get Rs 2,500 per acre basis.Talking to The Tribune, an irate Raghubir Singh said: “We have been lured with a false promise and subsequently ended up being deluded by the state government. They even taken our information and fill out our forms for disbursal of compensation amount but that merely ended-up as paper exercise. With ever increased farm input cost, we did not have enough money to invest in expensive farm implements but we went by the government’s lure and did not mind spending extra even some of us took money on credit for the same.”Labh Singh said: “Apart from buying expensive farm machines, we also had to bear with the additional expenses of diesel to operate Super Seeder machine. Moreover, insect attack on wheat plants at an early had forced us to carry out sowing all over again. While the government did not even pay compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre, we have to bear with twice as much for carrying out wheat sowing last season.”Farmers demanded that the government must make provision to provide services of expensive agricultural machines through co-operative societies on subsidised rates to reduce financial burden on small and medium scale farmers.Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said: “On one hand, the government does not want farmers to burn paddy stubble as it causes air pollution and on the other, it did not honour its own promise of providing compensation for the same. Let it be made clear to farmers that which way they government wants to go. It does not provide viable solution especially for marginal and medium scale farmers for not burning paddy stubble and then it uses force and register FIRs against them. Even as one year has elapsed, only a handful of farmers received compensation till now.”“If the government does not have any comprehensive and viable plan, then it can simply start paying a bonus amount of Rs 200 per quintal basis to farmers for managing paddy stubble. We will manage it. Our hands are tied. Why would we want to create pollution that will harm us before anyone else,” Mann added.
06-10-2020||Patiala||Kheti Bachao Yatra: Amarinder announces special Assembly session to oppose farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government was "killing" all institutions in the country to ensure his image across the world was "strong". “BJP is killing all small businesses to ensure that his corporate friends are happy,” he said.Also read: Rahul banks on change of hearts: 'I’m patient, someday people will realise'Gandhi was adressing the media on the third day of his 'Kheti Bachao Yatra' from Circuit House in Patiala. Gandhi, along with senior state Congress leaders, is holding a series of tractor rallies across Punjab to protest the Centre's new farm laws.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced a special session of the Punjab Assembly to discuss and oppose the three laws in the state.“We will also take legal recourse and a session will soon be summoned,” the CM said in the presence of Gandhi.Answering a question as to why Punjab should trust Rahul, Gandhi said that following his grandmother Indira Gandhi's defeat in the 1977 parliamentary election, he and his mother Sonia Gandhi were protected by Sikhs.“I am indebted and thankful to them forever,” Gandhi said.Gandhi said farmers were hit the worst and had taken to the roads to protest. The senior Congress leader alleged that the BJP had "bought" all institutions that lead to poor decisions and the Chinese intrusion. Gandhi said the opposition was not only threatened but also arm-twisted to break thier unity.Before his tractor rallies, Gandhi visited the Hathras victim's family on his second attempt after being dramatically stopped outside Delhi by UP police.Gandhi said he visited the family wanted them to know that they are not alone."What happened in UP... I am ok if they hit me a little. BJP is already beating farmers and labourers. So if I get hit it doesn’t matter,” said Gandhi.Gandhi said it was UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s prerogative to see an "international conspiracy" in the Hathras incident but he personally sees in it a major tragedy.“Yogi Aditynath is entitled to his opinion, he can imagine what he wants, but what I saw was a lovely girl brutalised and killed, and her family threatened and subjugated,” said Rahul at a media conference here in response to a question.Rahul said he saw a tragedy in the incident and Yogi Adityanath should also have had the decency to do so.The Congress MP said he found it interesting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not uttered a word about the incident, in which a kid was raped and murdered and her whole family was under attack by the administration.“Imagine your son or daughter being killed like this and your family being targeted for protesting and demanding justice, that is how I felt,” he said, adding that he went there not just for the Hathras victim and her family but for the sake of lakhs of Indian women who suffer, and thousands of women who are raped in the country every day.Asked why he was not present in Parliament during voting on the Farm Bills, Rahul said he was a son too and had a son’s duty for his mother. His mother had to go for medical check-up and since his sister could not go for some family reasons, it was his responsibility to do so, he added.“My political path would have been easy had I not been opposing the government vehemently at all things I think are wrong,” he added.Gandhi said: "If farmers' ordinances are in farmers' interests then why Narendra Modi doesn’t face the media like I do”.Taking a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for criticising his tractor ride on a 'gaddi’ (cushion), Gandhi quipped that the Prime Minister’s new Air India One plane, bought for more than Rs 8,000 crore, "had not just a cushion but a whole lot of luxury beds for his comfort".“Why don’t you question them about this?” Rahul asked the media in response to a question about sitting on a 'gaddi’ on a tractor.Rahul slammed Modi for "wasting" thousands of crores of rupees on the plane just because “his friend Donald Trump has one.”It was strange, he said, that nobody was seeing or questioning the VVIP Boeing 777-300 ER,  purchased for a whopping amount, but everyone was quick to point to the 'gaddi’ which some well-wisher had put on a tractor for him, said the Congress leader.Gandhi said the Congress manifesto was clear in wanting to develop a farmer's market every four km.Partap Singh Bajwa, who has been a vocal critic of the state government led by Capt Amarinder Singh, also found a place on the stage accompanied by cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra and Vijayinder Singla.President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which were passed by the Parliament last month.
06-10-2020||---||PAU Vice-Chancellor, wife test +ve for Covid||Ludhiana, October 5The Punjab Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor, Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, has tested positive for Covid-19. His wife has also tested positive for the virus. The Vice-Chancellor (VC) office located in Thapar Hall has been sealed for a few days.Few employees and officials quarantined themselves after the VC tested positive. This is not the first time that any university official has tested positive for the virus. In July and August, too, university was shut after some employees contracted virus.Today, 160 people from the district tested positive for Covid while eight succumbed to the virus. The age group of those, who lost their lives to Covid, was between 20 to to 80 years. The youngest to lose her life today was a 20-year-old woman, who was admitted at the DMCH. A 29-year-old man from Dhandra Road, who was suffering from diabetes, also died due to the virus today.Three people, including two men and a woman, in the age group of 50 years also died due to the virus. They belonged to the Civil Lines, Goandwal village and Abdullapur Basti, respectively.Two women aged 64 and 61 lost their lives to Covid-19. They belonged to Ajit Singh Nagar and Rajguru Nagar, respectively. One was suffering from hypertension and another was a patient of diabetes and hypertension.An 84-year-old man from Kitchlu Nagar, who was a patient of hypertension and coronary artery disease, also succumbed to coronavirus.Those who tested positive, include 17 people, who were contacts of Covid patients, 83 were referred from OPDs, 38 from flu corners and 19 were still under tracing.The Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner (DC), Varinder Sharma, said, “In all, 160 patients from the Ludhiana district have tested positive during the last 24 hours.”“Till date, 2,97,860 samples have been collected, out of which report of 2,96,673 samples has arrived. As many as 2,75,648 samples are negative while report of 1,187 samples is pending. Now, the total number of Covid patients related to Ludhiana is 18,654,” the DC added. “Till now, 44,553 persons have been home quarantined in the district. Their present number is 2,800. Today, 180 persons have been home quarantined,” the DC said.
06-10-2020||Amritsar||Slow Internet at  courts complex bane of lawyers||Slow speed of Internet at the District Courts Complex has become a headache for advocates as the court proceedings were being held virtually in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Lawyers complained that even before the lockdown, they used to experience similar issue.The Bar Association had moved a reference with the judicial office demanding that private companies should be allowed to instal mobile towers at the complex. The judicial office forwarded the request to the Registrar of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Sources said a reminder was sent in June and they were still waiting for the reply.As the court hearings were being held through video-conferencing, lawyers complained that due to slow Internet, videos often freeze and they can barley understand or hear anything due to poor network. “Proper communication fails to take place due to the slow speed of Internet. While interacting with a judicial official one cannot ask him to repeat what he said,” said a lawyer.Advocate Kuljeet Singh Malawali said, “When we talk with mobile service providers, they say that it is due to the shortage of mobile towers in the area and they cannot do anything.” He said Internet has become an essential service and a solution to the problem must be found.Another advocate, Manoj Kumar said, “The court hearings are happening through video-conferencing. Without proper Internet connection, lawyers cannot present the facts before the court in a proper manner. As a result, it may affect their case and clients.” — TNS
06-10-2020||Tribune correspondent PK Jaiswar and lensman Sunil Kumar give us an insight into the statues erected in memory of great warriors in Amritsar. Standing tall||When statues narrate  tales of valour||IF Punjab is known as the land of saints and Gurus, it is also identified as the land of warriors and freedom fighters who contributed immensely to the country’s freedom movement. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre, which shook the conscience of every Indian and inspired the countrymen to choose the path of freedom struggle, is deeply etched in the memory of every Indian. Though the holy city of Amritsar holds religious and historical relevance, it is also akin to the freedom struggle, with many prominent heroes belonging to this pious land. Many statues and busts have been installed at various places in the city to honour them. Speaking volumes of the historic valour of the holy city, these statues are likely to inspire generations to come. Maharaja Ranjit SinghThe city has two statues of the legendary Sikh ruler – one at Ram Bagh, which was a summer palace and the other was built recently at the Heritage Street. The one located at Ram Bagh was unveiled in June 1985 by the then Government of Punjab. It is one of the most visited places by locals. Known as Sher-e-Punjab, Maharaja Ranjit Singh extended the frontiers of his state from Sutlej River to Ladakh, Peshawar to Sindh and consolidated Punjab into a prosperous state with highly efficient administrative system.  Shaheed Udham SinghBrought up at the Central Khalsa Orphanage Centre in Amritsar, Udham Singh was considered to be a great revolutionary belonging to the Ghadar Party. He is known for assassinating Michael O’Dwyer responsible for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar in April 1919.O’Dwyer, a former Lieutenant Governor of Punjab, was assassinated in London, following which Udham Singh was convicted and hanged in July 1940. His statue was installed outside Gandhi Gate or Hall Gate by the Municipal Corporation and the Shaheed Udham Singh Yaadgari Committee on his 50th death anniversary in December 1990.  Akali Phula SinghAkali Phula Singh Nihang was another great Sikh general of Shaheedan misl and was the head of Budha Dal. He played a vital role in uniting Sikh misls in Amritsar.He remained the Sikh Army general and led in many battles until his martyrdom in the Naushehra battle.  Jassa Singh RamgarhiaA 20 feet high bronze statue of Sikh warrior Jassa Singh Ramgarhia was installed over a pedestal at a park near East Mohan Nagar in the industrial area in 1992. Founder of Ramgarhia misl, he was born on May 5, 1723. He had fortified and constructed the fort of Ram Rauni (already lost its existence) in Amritsar. Ram Rauni Fort, along with Ahluwalia Fort and Gobindgarh Fort, was built to save the Golden Temple from foreign invasions. He occupied the area to the north of Amritsar between Ravi and Beas and added Jalandhar region and Kangra hill areas to his estate.  Subhas Chandra BoseFounder of the Indian National Army, Subhas Chandra Bose’s statue is situated at Bhandari Bridge. Only a few people know that the great freedom fighter had a brief stopover at the holy city before his ‘great escape’ to Germany via Kashmir, Kabul, Russia in the early 1940s.Mohandas K GandhiThe statue of Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, is perhaps the oldest statue in the city. Situated in the historical Ram Bagh, popularly known as Company Bagh, it was unveiled by former Vice President of India Dr S Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary on October 2, 1960. It has witnessed the transformation of the holy city over the past many decades. As per historians, Mahatma Gandhi visited Amritsar twice. Saifuddin KitchlewThe bust of renowned freedom fighter Dr Saifuddin Kitchlew was unveiled in 1980 by the then Finance Minister Balwant Singh. Kitchlew was an Amritsar-born Kashmiri. He did his schooling from Islamia High School in Amritsar and did his graduation from Cambridge University. He did his PhD from a German University. He was arrested, along with Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Satyapal, for leading protests against the implementation of the Rowlatt Act in Punjab.  Hari Singh NalwaLegendary Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa was the commander-in-chief of Sikh Khalsa Fauj under Maharaja Ranjit Singh. He was famous for his unparalleled expeditions to expand the Sikh empire territory right up to the Khyber Pass and defending North Western Frontier Province. He was known for his role in the conquest and establishment of the Sikh empire (Khalsa Raj) in Kasur, Sialkot, Attock, Multan, Kashmir, Peshawar and Jamrud. His statue was recently constructed near the Town Hall in Heritage Street leading towards the Golden Temple.  Pandit Jawaharlal NehruThe statue of India’s first PM Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was installed at Nehru Shopping Complex on Lawrence Road in December 2006 by Congress leader Raghunandan Lal Bhatia. The statue now cries for attention with bird droppings all over it. Madan Lal DhingraAnother great martyr from the holy city, Madan Lal Dhingra has two statues, one at the HIG flats near Amritsar’s interstate bus terminus and the other was recently installed at Heritage Street. Born to an educated and affluent family in 1883, he was hanged in England after he assassinated a British official, William Hutt Curzon Wyllie, for disrespecting an Indian student.  Dr BR AmbedkarA statue of Dr BR Ambedkar was installed near the Town Hall. An architect of the Indian Constitution, he was also the first Law and Justice Minister after Independence. Sham Singh AttariwalaThe statue of another Sikh General Sham Singh Attariwala was installed in January 17, 2010, and was unveiled by the then CM Parkash Singh Badal. Born in the 1790s in Attari, a few kilometres from the Indo-Pak border, he was made a jathedar of 5,000 horsemen. He participated in many Sikh military operations, including Attock battle, Multan and Peshawar battles during the Afghan-Sikh wars.
06-10-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Man held for stealing ‘golak’ money in Fatehgarh Sahib||The police claimed to have nabbed a man, who was stealing money from a ‘golak’ installed by Bhagat Puran Singh Pingla Ashram, Amritsar, outside Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib here.Rajneesh Sood, SHO at the Fatehgarh Sahib police station, said Spinder Singh, a resident of Morinda, told the police that when he stopped his truck outside the gurdwara to pay obeisance, he noticed a person stealing money from the ashram ‘golak’ and putting it in a bag.He said he was fleeing from the spot after seeing the police, but the latter managed to catch hold of him and recovered Rs34,964 from his possession. The suspect, Dilbag Singh, was presented before the court, which sent him to three-day police custody.
06-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hardeep Puri’s hooligan barb shameful, says SAD||The SAD today said it was “shameful” that Union Minister Hardeep Puri had insulted protesting farmers and “khet mazdoor” by calling them “hooligans”, asking him to apologise to them immediately. Puri later took to Twitter to insist he had called those individuals goons who had burnt a tractor in New Delhi during a farmer’s protest.Senior SAD leader and party MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder said: “It is a sad day that Puri, a Punjabi, has turned against his own solely for his lust of power. Punjabis will never forget this betrayal.”Bhunder said it was condemnable the minister was resorting to lies in his eagerness to please his political masters. “Puri has uttered a lie by saying he was present during the Cabinet meeting on June 3 when the agriculture Bills were discussed in the Cabinet and that Harsimrat Kaur Badal did not express any reservations. The truth is Puri did not attend the Cabinet meeting on June 3.”He said insulting farmers and their representatives was against the spirit of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” and advised the BJP leader to first understand their pain and then issue statements.Puri clarified: “Anybody who knows our farmers will know those who toil on their land will never burn their tractor. The tractor was not burnt by farmers, it was burnt by Congress goons.” — TNS
06-10-2020||---||Can’t borrow money, Punjab tells GST Council||Chandigarh, October 5Punjab today told the GST Council it cannot borrow money, as suggested by the Government of India, for the shortfall in GST compensation by the Centre to states.In case the Centre fails to release the compensation, the state will have to adopt “all other legal options at its disposal for dispute resolution with the Centre”.“We want our full compensation for the GST, as was promised to the state before the GST rollout,” state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal reportedly told the council.The state has not received any compensation this fiscal, though half the financial year has passed. A sum of Rs 9,000 crore is due to the state (for April- September).Talking to The Tribune after the GST Council meeting late this evening, Badal said since there was no headway in the deadlock between some states, including Punjab, and the Centre, his advice to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other Cabinet colleagues would be to explore other legal options in case Punjab did not get its full GST compensation now and its demand for setting up a GST resolution mechanism was not accepted by the Centre.“Punjab has lost 25 per cent of its revenue base because of the lockdown and subsequent economic downturn. It is unfair not to compensate the state in these hard times,” he said.“States going in for additional borrowing, as suggested by the Centre, is not viable. The Centre has a sizeable sum in the compensation kitty, and an additional sum of Rs 13,000 crore will go to this compensation fund due to revised allocation of IGST for 2017-18. All this will collectively form 45 per cent of the revenue gap. For the remaining 55 per cent, should the Centre jettison everything? It would be best if the Centre borrowed the shortfall and compensate states. More than the economics of borrowing, it sends a strong signal to all stakeholders in the Indian economy of keeping accounts transparent and upfront,” he said.During the ongoing fiscal, the total shortfall in revenue faced by Punjab till September is 18.68 per cent over the corresponding period last year. Of this, the highest shortfall has been in the GST collections (Rs 2,104.62 crore).The only area where the state has seen an increase in tax collections is in excise (up by Rs 150 crore over last year). Though the revenues have started looking up since last month, the state is feeling the pinch on account of the Covid-induced slowdown.The Finance Minister also reportedly questioned the GST Council Chairman as to how the Centre was proposing payment of compensation to states beyond the transition period.
06-10-2020||---||As cases dip, Punjab Government shuts isolation centres||Chandigarh, October 5 After a decline in the number of cases, the government today decided to shut Covid Care Centres across the state. There are 24 Covid Care Centres with a capacity of around 8,000 beds. In a communication sent to all Deputy Commissioners and Civil Surgeons, the Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said, “The bed occupancy in the Covid Care Centres has come down drastically so it has been decided to shut all  the centres.” The communication further said all patients, who were admitted to the centres, should be shifted to government hospitals. Apart from this, the services of the volunteers would be terminated as per the conditions in their engagement letter, it said. The letter said the nodal officers would ensure that the equipment, including medical, clinical, electrical, furniture, wheelchairs and laundry machines, were be handed over to the hospitals concerned. The government has made it clear that it won’t approve any expenditure on the centres after Monday.               Significantly,  last week’s average positivity rate remained below 5 per cent. The rate was over 10 per cent a fortnight ago.  On Monday, the state reported 1,062 cases and 38 deaths.  With the new cases, the state tally has reached 1,19,186, and the fatalities now stand at 3,641.  Among the  districts, Amritsar topped the list with 178 cases, followed by Ludhiana (156), Jalandhar (98), Bathinda (70), Hoshiarpur (64) and Gurdaspur (56).  Among the districts, Ludhiana reported eight deaths; Jalandhar six; Amritsar five; Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and Ropar three each; Gurdaspur and Muktsar two deaths each; and SBS Nagar, Kapurthala, Moga, SAS Nagar, Patiala and Ferozepur one each.
06-10-2020||Amritsar||Police mull forming SIT to probe fraud case against doctors||The police are likely to assign the probe into the fraud case, registered against 14 doctors and others, to a special investigation team (SIT), led by an IPS officer.Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the case was registered following a preliminary inquiry by the Station Commander, Amritsar Cantonment. Assuring a thorough probe into the matter, Gill said he was yet to go through the case file.Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has condemned the registration of the FIR against doctors and hospitals for allegedly committing fraud in the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) meant for Army veterans. The IMA observed that the FIR was registered unilaterally and statements of doctors had not been recorded till now.“We have looked into the matter and observed that the complaint is totally unilateral and biased,” said the IMA, Amritsar, in a statement today. Dr Kuldeep Singh Arora, state president, along with Dr Amrita Rana, honorary secretary, and Dr Sukhjit Singh, IMA chairman, pointed out that the doctors were not given an opportunity to present their viewpoint.Condemning the FIR, the IMA requested the authorities to conduct an impartial probe into the matter. The police had booked 24 persons, including 14 doctors and Army veterans, for misappropriation of funds released under the ECHS. — TNSFIR unilateral: IMAThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) has condemned the registration of an FIR against doctors and hospitals for allegedly committing fraud in the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme meant for Army veterans. The IMA said the FIR was registered unilaterally and statements of doctors had not been recorded till now
06-10-2020||Sangrur||RSS office defaced in Sangrur market||Tension gripped the main city market here after some members of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha and Punjab Students’ Union allegedly defaced the local office of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).Local RSS leaders alleged the office gate and walls were defaced using black paint in the presence of cops. The office is located near the city police station. Threatening to launch an agitation, the leaders demanded a high-level inquiry into the incident and action against cops for dereliction of duty. Sangrur City SHO Gurvir Singh denied the allegations and said they were looking into the complaint filed by the leaders. — TNS
06-10-2020||Patiala||Jalandhar’s Ujjwal secures 68th rank in JEE||Ujjwal Mehta, a student of Apollo Public School in Patiala, has secured 68th all-India rank (AIR) in Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2020.  The result was declared today by the IIT, Delhi. Ujjwal, who hails from Jalandhar, had been taking coaching from a private institute in Patiala since Class IX. He had secured AIR 27 in JEE Mains, 2020. — TNS
06-10-2020||---||2 linked to cross-border drug racket in police net||Chandigarh, October 5The Punjab Police have arrested two wanted men in a follow-up action on the recently busted international drug and weapon smuggling racket operated by former BSF Constable Sumit Kumar, alias Noni.A 7.65 mm pistol with Italy marking, heroin, drug proceeds, two mobile phones, two Wi-Fi dongles and a racing bike were recovered from the accused.DGP Dinkar Gupta today said the two — Simranjeet Singh, alias Simran, (26) of Dhirpur village in Jalandhar district and Balram Singh (26) of Surakhpur village in Kapurthala district — were arrested on October 4 near Kartarpur in Jalandhar when they were on a heroin delivery mission.The KTM bike they were riding had been stolen from the parking lot of a private university. A case has been registered against them at the Kartarpur police station under relevant sections of the NDPS Act, Arms Act and the IPC.Simranjeet was an absconder in the murder case of a Kapurthala sand gravel businessman 10 months ago at Dhirpur village.Jalandhar AIG (CI) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the police had earlier arrested Amanpreet Singh of Dhirpur village in connection with the murder of Hamira village businessman Jagjit Singh. He and his brothers were in touch with Shah Musa of Pakistan, a cross-border drug smuggler.During the probe, it came to light that Amanpreet had come in contact with Musa through former BSF constable Kumar, who had been lodged in the Gurdaspur jail in connection with a murder case.The conspiracy to smuggle drugs and weapons from across the border had been hatched in the jail. After getting bail, Kumar was posted at a guard tower at the International Border in the Samba sector of Jammu from where he kept in touch with smugglers who were further in contact with Musa.Khakh said Simran, who was the brother of Amanpreet, had admitted he and his brothers had shot the businessman. The DGP said three criminal cases were already registered against him while his accomplice Balram faced a case under the Arms Act registered at the Kotwali police station in Kapurthala. He had been released on bail from the Kapurthala jail due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Racing bike seized
06-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court sets aside transfer order, raps state||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 5Putting an end to the controversy over the applicability of Punjab’s transfer policy, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the state’s stand regarding it being merely directory in nature and not mandatory was totally misconceived.In legal terms, directory means a provision that is a mere direction or an instruction with no obligatory force. It does not involve invalidating consequence for its disregard as opposed to an imperative or mandatory provision.The assertion by Justice Arun Monga came in a case where the petitioner, who joined as a medical officer, was transferred from Patiala to Bathinda. The petitioner alleged he was uprooted in gross violation of transfer policies to extend undue benefit to a respondent-officer, who remained posted at Patiala for more than two decades before transfer to Bathinda. The petitioner contended he was having just about a year of service before his superannuation.Setting aside the transfer order after rapping the state for favouritism, Justice Monga asserted factually it emerged that the respondent remained posted at or within the territory of Patiala for over two decades on one post or the other. Referring to the transfer policy dated April 23, 2018, Justice Monga asserted it revealed the petitioner’s transfer, apparently, was in its gross violation.Administrative exigency warranting his transfer before completion of three years in Patiala was not evident. Special reasons were also not recorded to deny the benefit of transfer protection owing to the petitioner’s impending retirement. Justice Monga added the state’s argument that the government policy was merely directory and not mandatory, in abstract, might sound correct, but not when tested on the touchstone of equity, balance of convenience and principles of justice. A policy might not be mandatory, but it “most definitely” provided guidelines to be followed ordinarily by the administrative superiors.At times implementation in strict letter might not be possible, but the spirit of administrative transparency envisaged therein was not to be eroded altogether. Also, the policies did not prohibit, but merely stipulated recording of special reasons in certain transfer cases. Holding that the reasons were required to be recorded for non-compliance of policies, Justice Monga added: “Why waste time and energy in drafting and circulating such policies, if without any plausible reasons they are to be completely disregarded”.
06-10-2020||Amritsar||SGPC missing ‘saroop’ report out, to be posted online today||The SGPC today said it was making public the Akal Takht-appointed probe panel’s report pertaining to misappropriation of 328 Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’.  SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the entire report containing around 1,000 pages was being put in the public domain and would be made available on SGPC’s official website by tomorrow. Meanwhile, the SGPC initiated ‘pachchatap path’ (remorse prayers) over the 2016 fire incident. For the purpose, an ‘akhand path’ was started at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. — TNS
06-10-2020||Abohar||Rape accused held in Abohar||A man has been arrested for sexually exploiting a girl, who is now 21.  The girl had alleged in her complaint that the accused had managed to lure her mother on the pretext of marrying her, following which her mother moved in with him. Subsequently, the accused not only didn’t fulfil his promise, but also deserted the woman. However, he forced the girl to stay put with him and “raped” her. He has been sent to police custody for two days. — OC
06-10-2020||Aman Sood||Capt Amarinder Singh endorses Rahul as PM face||Tribune News ServiceSamana, October 5On the last leg of Day 2 of Congress’ “Kheti Bachao Yatra”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today reposed faith in Rahul Gandhi being the next Prime Minister.At a farmers’ rally in Samana, the Chief Minister said the controversial farm laws would be “scrapped by the Congress government once Rahul Gandhi becomes the Prime Minister as he understands the issues faced by farmers”. The Congress won’t let the minimum support price die down as it was essential for the sustenance of farmers, he asserted.Gandhi, in his second address of the day, said the new laws were brought in by the Modi government “believing none of these communities affected will hit the roads fearing Covid-19”. “However I assure the Modi government farmers are already on roads and agitating. The whole idea to mislead the nation on farm Acts has failed,” he said.Quoting Guru Nanak Dev, who had said ‘one cannot hide from truth’, the former Congress president said: “If we do not face the truth today, we will suffer.” He exhorted people, particularly farmers, to follow the path of truth shown by the Guru.He said people who didn’t believe in him now, would likely “repent later”. “In two to three years, they will face the reality as to how the BJP is out to finish the lower middle class and farming community,” he said. Calling Punjab farmers the backbone of the nation, he said: “Punjab took up farming to feed the nation. Neither Modi nor any party could take that away from the state that has fed the nation ever since Green Revolution,” he said.Referring to India’s standoff with China, Gandhi said: “Even China is trying to take advantage of this (pandemic) and occupying Indian land while our Prime Minister continues to lie. China had realised that Modi had weakened India, and had taken advantage of this to take control of 1,200 square km of our land.”He said the PM had broken the backbone of the country with the economic growth plummeting to -24 per cent against nine per cent under Dr Manmohan Singh.Gandhi accused the Centre of making policies that benefited only the country’s rich. “The Modi government is busy protecting the interests of a few individuals,” he said.Sidhu stays awayAccede to Amritsar MLA’s demand: SADThe SAD on Monday asked Congress former president Rahul Gandhi to commit that the Congress government would take complete responsibility of its farmers by acceding to former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s demand of procuring foodgrain at the minimum support price (MSP)‘Rahul for PM? Agriculture Acts may never be repealed’"The statement that Punjabis will now have to wait for Rahul Gandhi to become PM to repeal the Acts is unacceptable as everyone knows this might never happen."— Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD president
06-10-2020||---||Traders stock up wheat as price falls to Rs1,600 a quintal||Faridkot, October 5With a surge in wheat delivery though the public distribution system (PDS) among the smart ration card-holders during the lockdown, wheat is selling at Rs 1,600-1,650 per quintal against the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,975, fixed for the 2021-2022 season.Private traders, particularly millers and cattle feed-makers, are making a brisk purchase of wheat from the market at Rs 1,600 per quintal and keeping the stock for future needs. This might impact the demand of wheat in the next rabi season when the traders will have to pay minimum Rs 1,975 plus market committee fee, Punjab Rural Development fund and commission to arhtiyas.In April this year, wheat was trading at Rs 2,200 per quintal. The current market price of wheat is 15 per cent below the MSP of Rs 1,925 per quintal offered by procurement agencies to farmers during the 2020-2021 rabi season.Sources attributed the fall in price mainly to a large number of smart ration card-holders selling the wheat they had received under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) during the past three months.Other than providing 30-kg wheat at a discounted price of Rs 2 per kg through the PDS, under the PMGKAY, every member of a family having smart card was distributed 15 kg wheat free this time.Under the AAY, every smart card-holder family was provided 5-kg wheat per member per month at Rs 2 per kg. This stock of six month makes to 30 kg per member.With an average family of four or five members getting 200-225 kg of wheat this time, its major portion was sold in the open market at the price ranging between Rs 1,400-Rs 1,500 per quintal, said sources in the Food and Supply Department.Wheat was sold in the open market at throwaway prices by the card-holders as many of them were rendered jobless due to the lockdown, said a senior functionary in the department.
06-10-2020||---||Tractor rally leading to blockades, High Court told||Chandigarh, October 5The alleged dual policy adopted by the Punjab Government on the issue of holding rallies today came under judicial scanner, with a farmers’ body alleging that the state — on one hand — had undertaken to clear “blockages” after following the law laid down by the Supreme Court and instructions issued from time to time. On the other hand, the state government was itself “out to block the roads from October 4 to October 6 for the tractor rally”.The applicant, through counsel Baltej Singh Sidhu, added an urgent situation had arisen in Punjab, where the ruling party was holding a series of tractor roadshows under senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar, resulting in blockades on roads in the state.Sidhu said the country was already fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and the rally would lead to its spread and also affect emergency services. Sidhu added that appropriate directions were required to be issued to the authorities concerned to take immediate action for preventing illegal blockade of the national and state highways during the three-day tractor rally.Taking up the application, Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan issued a notice of motion to the state and other respondents for Tuesday. It will come up with another petition filed by advocate HC Arora, seeking a ban on political rallies involving participation of more than 100 persons, particularly by the ruling political party, in Punjab.
06-10-2020||Bathinda||Cotton growers suffering due to government apathy: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Talwandi Sabo Baljinder Kaur today met farmers at a mandi in Bathinda and discussed cotton procurement operations.During her visit, Baljinder Kaur said the farmers of Punjab were forced to sell the crop below the MSP as the Cotton Corporation of India had not yet started procurement. The MSP for cotton had been fixed at Rs 5,515 to Rs 5,725 per quintal, but it was being procured at Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,800 per quintal. At the same time, traders were paying less, citing high moisture content in the crop, she said.The AAP leader said, “Farmers say this is the reason why they are forced to give preference to traditional crops like wheat and paddy as these are sold at fixed prices due to government procurement. However, the new farm laws of the Modi government will hand over these two crops to private players.” — TNS
06-10-2020||---||Parties woo farmers with catchy slogans||Muktsar, October 5Political parties have coined creative slogans to project themselves as pro-farmers and supporters of the farming community.For instance, the SAD has given a slogan, “Ikko Naara, Kisan Pyara”. Similarly, the ruling Congress’ slogan is “Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao”. Both parties are holding protests and tractor rallies as well. During the recent ‘kisan march’, SAD workers along with their party flags were seen holding green flags, which represent farmers.Further, AAP has launched a special campaign “Gram Sabha Bulao, Pind Bachao” wherein party leaders are getting resolutions against the farm legislations passed from the gram sabha of each village.However, farmers have rejected such moves of parties, terming them political theatrics. Farm bodies have repeatedly said they wouldn’t allow any politician to join them.“Slogans are coined in every public movement, which play a crucial role in making it successful. During the anti-corruption movement led by social activist Anna Hazare, slogans like ‘Anna nahi, yeh aandhi hai, desh ka doosra Gandhi hai”, “Gali gali mein shor hai, desh ke neta chor hain” were coined. These became successful and created a political flutter. Following which, Arvind Kejriwal emerged as a national leader,” said Jagmel Singh, an elderly Muktsar resident.Striking a chord?
06-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||Abohar farmers want rickety bridge fixed||Abohar, October 5 Days after a bridge near the Malukpura minor sub-canal on the Dhinganwali-Dalmirkhera link road collapsed, another bridge on the Panjawa-Maujgarh link road is on the verge of suffering the same fate. Farmers Kulwant Singh and Gunwant Singh said the Irrigation Department and Punjab Mandi Board officials were informed about the poor condition of the bridge last month but no response had been received so far. “We have put up red flags to warn commuters but this may not be helpful after sunset,” they said.  The farmers said they were risking their lives while using the dilapidated bridge to transport cotton to the new grain market as there was no alternative route. “If it collapses in the coming days, we will be in trouble,” a farmer said.
06-10-2020||Bathinda||Workers stage protest over Montek report to tide over financial crisis||Members of various workers’ unions carried out a protest rally near Teachers’ Home in Bathinda against the recommendations of the Montek Singh Ahluwalia report  .Members of the democratic teachers’ front (DTF) and contractual workers from different departments carried out a protest march from different parts of the city before burning an effigy near Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office.Resham Singh, president of the DTF, said, “The recommendations of the Ahluwalia’s report are anti contractual workers, farmers, small traders and labourers, and favours corporate houses. The recommendations, which include change in the pay pattern of the state government employees as per the Central Government pay pattern, pay cuts, increase in the development tax, among many others, will not be tolerated at all.” — TNS
06-10-2020||Patiala||Tractor roadshow won’t enter Haryana: Sunil Jakhar||The Congress has said the state leadership has planned a tractor roadshow, involving over 5,000 tractors, till Haryana border and “there are no plans as for now to enter the neighbouring state”.The statement comes hours after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said it “has no problem if Congress leader Rahul Gandhi enters the state” for his tractor rallies tomorrow, but he wouldn’t be allowed to bring a big crowd to disturb the atmosphere.PPCC president Sunil Jakhar said: “A tractor rally of Congress workers and farmers will follow Rahul Gandhi from Dudhan Sadhan till Haryana border. We have no reason to disturb peace anywhere. The Congress leadership from Haryana will receive Rahul Gandhi and lead the rally there.”Rahul, who is holding tractor rallies in the state against the farm laws, is set to reach Pehowa town in Kurukshetra district of Haryana with his supporters tomorrow, following a public rally at Dudhan Sadhan in Sanaur. — TNSSidelightsGovt machinery busy with Rahul, crime rate up: AAPChandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state general secretary Harchand Singh Bursat on Monday alleged that the entire state government machinery, including the police force, was deployed to facilitate Rahul’s visit to Punjab, leading to a rise in loot, robbery and murder cases in the state. He termed the tractor rallies political theatrics. TNSCall special Assembly session, SAD asks CaptNew Delhi: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh not to sell the interests of Punjabis to corporate houses. He said: “It is better you (CM) call a special session of the state Assembly to repeal the amendments made by you in the APMC Act in 2017 as well as bring in new legislation to make the entire state a single ‘mandi’. TNS
06-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Rahul: Modi govt will finish farmers, labourers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 5Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today interacted with farmers and addressed rallies in Sangrur, Bhawanigarh and Samana on the second leg of the party’s Kheti Bachao Yatra. Navjot Sidhu did not attend any of these rallies.Threat to agriculture sector jobsAmbanis and Adanis will not use labour but deploy machines for farm sector operations, rendering lakhs jobless. Strengthen the mandi system, do not destroy it. Rahul GandhiTerming the Centre’s farm laws as an “attack on India’s soul”, Rahul Gandhi alleged that all of Modi government’s policies were “made for their three or four select friends” and that the PM would “finish” farmers and labourers with the new farm laws just as he had “destroyed” small shopkeepers with demonetisation and GST.“PM Modi has been trying to destroy the mandi and MSP system — the foundation of India’s agriculture sector. If the BJP-led government succeeds in breaking the backbone of the farmers, industrialists Ambani and Adani will capture the country’s farm system,” Rahul warned.“Ambanis and Adanis will not use labour but deploy machines for farm sector operations, rendering lakhs of people jobless. The need of the hour is to strengthen the mandi system, to correct the flaws rather than destroy it,” he maintained.Capt Amarinder said his government would pass a resolution/Bill in the Vidhan Sabha to nullify the new farm laws. Mukhtiar Singh, a farmer from Kanjhla village, shared his problems with him. At a rally in Samana later, the CM announced that the controversial farm laws would be scrapped “once Rahul Gandhi becomes PM.”
06-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Minor given HIV-infected blood||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 5In a serious lapse, a 7-year-old thalassaemia patient was given blood of an HIV-positive person at the Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital here. The blood bank at the hospital issued the units after taking it from a donor and not carrying out the mandatory checks. Gross negligenceWhat more, just five months back a similar case of gross negligence was reported from the same hospital and involving the same donor. On May 5, a woman patient received blood from a regular donor, who turned out to be HIV-positive. The donor donated blood through an NGO at the blood bank, which issued it without checking it.To probe the negligence of the blood bank, a three-member probe committee comprising Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Maninderpal Singh, Dr Gurmail Singh and Dr Seema Gupta has been constituted.The SMO, Dr Maninderpal Singh, said, “We will take action after getting the probe committee report in a day or so.” The Civil Surgeon, Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, meanwhile, said the minor patient was being given the required treatment.
