07-09-2020||Vishav Bharti||Now, even mildly symptomatic Covid patients in Punjab can opt for home quarantine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7In revised guidelines, the Punjab government now has allowed patients tested positive even having mild symptoms for home isolation.As per the revised guidelines issued today by Director Health Services, now any person getting tested for COVID-19 at the time of giving sample may submit a consent form for home isolation stating that she or he has facility for home isolation at her or his residence and is asymplomatic or mild symptomatic and does not have any co-morbidity or the co-morbid condition is under control.Seek medical attentionIf serious signs or symptoms develop, including difficulty in breathingDip in oxygen saturation (Sp02 <95%)Persistent pain/pressure in the chestMental confusion or inability to arouseSlurred speech/seizuresWeakness or numbness in any limb or faceDeveloping bluish discolorations of lips/faceWorsening of co-morbid conditionsHealth staff at walk-in testing corners and testing site will assist in filling these undertakings and keep the filled and signed copies safe for record.In case the person turns out to be positive for Covid-19, he or she need not come to the hospital and the district Covid Positive Tracking Teams will contact her or him over phone and check his health status. Patient would be monitored by Covid Positive Tracking teams during the period of isolation and immediately shift the patients to appropriate isolation facility if her or his condition worsens. Apart from that, Covid Positive Tracking Team shall visit the patient at least thrice during the period of isolation.Eligibility for Home lsolation: Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts.
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports new single-day high, adds over 2,000 more coronavirus cases||Punjab reported 2,110 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, the state’s COVID bulletin said on Monday---the biggest single-day spike in cases the state has seen yet.The development takes Punjab’s case tally to 65,583.Nine of Punjab’s 22 districts reported infections in triple digits on Monday, the bulletin showed.Ludhiana continues to remain one of Punjab’s major cause for worry, reporting 338 new infections on Monday---the highest of any district on the state. Jalandhar (210), Patiala (137), SAS Nagar (176), Amritsar (157), Bathinda (106), Gurdaspur (128), Ropar (115) and Muktsar (126) all reported alarming number of infections.Sangrur (45), Ferozepur (46), Moga (26), Hoshiarpur (86), Pathankot (96), Barnala (25), Fatehgarh Sahib (25), Kapurthala (74), Faridkot (59), Tarn Taran (21), Fazilka (60), SBS Nagar (23), and Mansa (31) also reported new cases.  The state also reported 61 deaths, taking the state’s death toll to 1,923. Seventeen districts reported fatalities, with SAS Nagar leading the list at 15 and Ludhiana following with 10.Amritsar (2), Barnala (1), Bathinda (1), Faridkot (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Gurdaspur (1), Hoshiarpur (4), Jalandhar (3), Kapurthala (1), Muktsar (1), SBS Nagar (3), Moga (5), Patiala (7), Ropar (3) and Tarn Taran (1) all reported deaths.Punjab been showing a significant spike in cases since last month---especially since August 6, when the state first began reporting infections in 1000s. The state added 34,136 new coronavirus cases between August 6 and 31---an alarming 61 per cent of the state’s total cases.The state has been seeing a steady rise in cases since the beginning of September as well---the state has already added 11,591 new cases and 470 deaths to its tally in less than a week since September 1. For comparison, the state had added 5,891 new cases in the first week of August, and 1,181 new cases between July 1 and July 7 .Punjab has added nearly 70 per cent of its total recorded cases since August 6.Punjab government said last month that it expected the state to breach one lakh coronavirus cases this month, with 3,000 deaths. Sixteen of Punjab's 22 districts have over 1,500 cases.Punjab’s alarming number of cases has prompted the central government to send health teams for assistance.   Five districts---Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar and SAS Nagar---account for 56 per cent of Punjab's cases and 64 per cent of its fatalities.    Ludhiana alone accounts for 18 per cent of the state's total cases.Twenty-five per cent of the state’s total cases are still active.
07-09-2020||---||Punjab govt allows opening of all non-essential shops, restaurants till 9 pm||Chandigarh, September 7Taking cognisance of the suggestions of several Congress MLAs and the advice of medical experts, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced some relaxations in lockdown in urban areas, including opening of non-essential shops on Saturdays and relaxation in their timing from Monday to Saturday till 9 pm.Night curfew will be in place in all cities and towns now from 9.30 pm to 5 am, as per the revised decision.Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open on all days, including Sundays, till 9 pm, after which home delivery of food will be allowed, as per the revised guidelines.It has also been decided to align opening of non-essential shops in Mohali with the rest of the tricity (namely Chandigarh and Panchkula), said the Chief Minister.The decisions were announced by the Chief Minister during his second round of virtual meeting with Punjab Congress MLAs to discuss the Covid situation. Amarinder told the meeting that Dr KK Talwar, who heads the state government’s expert group on Covid, had advised easing of these relaxations with due precautions.Responding to complaints of shopkeepers getting inflated bills even though their shops had remained closed for a long duration, the Chief Minister directed the electricity department not to charge bills on the average of the previous year but to send actual bills.Amarinder also announced cash compensation of Rs 1,500 for construction workers who test positive or whose immediate family has tested positive and they have to be quarantined.He asked the Congress MLAs to take the lead in distribution of free food packets to poor patients who have tested positive to enable them to have enough ration at least for 7-10 days during home isolation.During the meeting, the CM directed the MLAs and Ministers to aggressively counter the negative propaganda being spread by certain anti-social elements and AAP on Covid testing and organ harvesting.Asserting that his government will not tolerate anti-Punjab and anti-Punjabi propaganda, the Chief Minister said he had asked the police to crack down on such elements.People should be encouraged to identify the mischief makers and inform police, he said, adding that they should be told that Oximeters are no substitute for testing and delayed testing was leading to increased fatalities. The Oximeters can only help by guiding a person to seek admission in hospital when Oxygen saturation levels become low, he said, adding that his government is procuring 50,000 additional Oximeters to be given to health staff and Asha workers, as well as some of the home isolation patients.
07-09-2020||---||Mohali-based visa consultancy booked for fraud||Jammu, September 7The Jammu Crime Branch on Monday registered a criminal case against three cheats, including an owner of a Mohali-based visa consultancy firm, for defrauding two Reasi residents on the pretext of providing work visa for Canada.The accused have been identified as Mohali’s Aditya — who has claimed to be owner of a firm by the name "VFS Global Associates" — and his associates Daljeet Singh, also from Mohali, and Love Preet Singh of Jalal Patti Khudi Kalan, Barnala.(A Dubai-based company has claimed the name 'VFS Global' has been fraudulently misused. See below for that company's claim.)According to the Crime Branch, Manpreet Singh and Gagandeep Kaur, residents of Bharkh village in Pouni tehsil of Reasi district, in a written complaint alleged that they had a conversation with Aditya after getting a reference about his consultancy from a television channel. “The accused induced and lured the complainant and later also showed some kind of an offer letter from Canada and told him and his wife to deposit money in the name of health insurance, medical check-up and the processing fee,” said an official spokesperson of the Crime Branch.“He later demanded more money for finger print forms, embassy fee and the accommodation charges for their stay in Canada. After taking an overall amount of Rs 4,59,800 from the complainant, the accused did not respond nor did he pick their phone calls,” the official added.The Jammu Crime Branch initiated preliminary verification and established prima facie offence against the accused, said the official.Statement from VFS Global, which claims it is a Dubai-based global visa processing firm, and not a Mohali-based firm:“We would like to clarify that VFS Global is not an immigration or recruitment firm. It is a global visa outsourcing and technology service provider managing administrative and non-judgmental tasks for 64 governments in 144 countries. VFS Global is a portfolio company of EQT, a global private equity firm headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden.We categorically state that we are in no way associated with persons named in the case as the 'owner' or staff member employed by the company.The association made, hence, is misleading and false, and VFS Global is not involved in this case in any way. It seems to be a case of a fraudulent entity misusing our company's good name and reputation to scam unsuspecting citizens and we strongly condemn such acts.VFS Global takes a zero tolerance stand against fraud and takes all such allegations very seriously, when they are brought to our notice. We are also reaching out to the authorities to understand this case and will extend every support to them to take action against such fraudulent entities."
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||CM asks Punjab Police to crackdown on misinformation on COVID||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to crackdown on channels of misinformation about COVID-19---a development that comes as the state battles mounting cases and fatality count from the pandemic.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to monitor statements being issued by “anti-India operators working from abroad” and to register cases against such people found spreading rumours on social media and web channels, a press release from the state government said. The Chief Minister directed the DGP to initiate the process of getting these entities banned in India.The directives came even as the Punjab Police continued to register cases against rumour mongers across the state. The DGP said at a COVID-19 virtual review meeting that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh chaired that eight FIRs have been registered over the past 10 days (from August 27 to September 7) against those spreading rumours and floating/circulating false and “misleading” videos on the pandemic.The government claims such misinformation has hindered its battle with the pandemic, and that it is also leading to delay in patients’ getting timely treatment.The FIRs, including the one filed on Monday against LIP leader and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, have been registered in Patiala, Ferozepur, Mansa, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana-Rural, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Moga.The DGP said criminal cases have also been registered in Ludhiana and Phagwara (Kapurthala) against people holding parties despite the government’s prohibitory orders against all such gatherings. So far, 54 persons, including the owner of Moon Walk Resort, have been arrested for holding a Pool Party in Ludhiana and 17 persons have been arrested in Phagwara, including the owner of Basant restaurant, Phagwara, he claimed.
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces 3-month extension of under-60 retiring doctors amid COVID-19 crisis||With both cases and fatalities due to COVID-19 going up, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced three-month extension for all retiring doctors and specialists under 60, and also asked the Chief Secretary to expedite the process of recruitment of technicians and lab assistants for coping with the exponential demand.As per a Cabinet decision, these doctors were earlier given extension till September 30, which has now been extended till December 31, 2020, said the chief minister.During a virtual review of the Covid situation with top officials and medical/health experts, the chief minister pointed out that the Health Department is already supporting the GMCs with specialist manpower pending recruitment by the Medical Education Department.Special relaxation has been given by the Finance Department to enable colleges to hire other manpower, he said.The chief minister also directed formation of committees, under the respective DCs, for distribution of food packets to poor families under home isolation/quarantine, in order to encourage testing, as such families generally refrained from getting themselves tested for Covid for fear of losing their meagre earnings.A series of measures have been further announced to ease the stress of Covid patients in hospitals and at homes.It has been decided that government hospitals will now permit serious Covid patients with special dietary requirements to be provided home food if they wish.To alleviate the psychological stress of serious patients in isolation in hospitals, and of their family members, the government will provide some equipment in these wards to enable video calls between patients and their attendants.Further, the chief minister has directed all government labs to start providing the Cycle Threshhold (CT) value of an RT-PCR test as it can give useful information to the doctors treating a Covid patient.To ensure regular monitoring of the Covid patients in home isolation, especially above 40 years of age, Capt Amarinder asked the Health Department to put in place a system of ensuring their clinical progress to check sudden deterioration.Covid Patient Tracking Officers have been appointed in each district to ensure such patients receive due care, he said.Expressing concern over the delayed testing, that was leading to increase in fatalities, the chief minister urged the departments to aggressively reach out to people to go for testing at the first sign of symptoms and not indulge in false bravado.The directions came as active cases in the state stood at 16,156 as on September 6, with a cumulative fatality rate of 2.9 per cent and deaths per million at 62. The average positivity for the week from August 26 to September 3 was 9.42 per cent, Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the meeting.Tracing of contacts per infected person had been increased to 4.4 per case during the August 27 – September 3 period, he disclosed.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said both cases and fatalities had witnessed a steady increase in the past few days, with 89 per cent deaths reported from Level 3 cases. The situation was being monitored on a day-to-day basis, she said.
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police lodge FIR against Simarjit Bains over false propaganda on COVID-19||The Punjab Police on Monday registered an FIR against LIP leader and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains for allegedly spreading false propaganda to mislead the people on the COVID-19 pandemic.The FIR has been registered under Section 54 of Disaster Management Act, Epidemics Act, 2005, Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and under Section 188, 505 IPC in Ludhiana, on the basis of a complaint by Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, and the legal opinion sought on the issue by the Ludhiana police, according to a police spokesperson.In his complaint to Ludhiana police, the Civil Surgeon Ludhiana had requested legal action against Simarjit Singh Bains, MLA from Atam Nagar constituency, Ludhiana, for misguiding people through a video clip regarding COVID-19. The Civil Surgeon said that this video clip is being played on various social media platforms, thus leading to the creation of an atmosphere of confusion among the public, regarding COVID-19.Bains was also inciting people not to wear masks, said the complaint.In his legal opinion, as sought by the Ludhiana police, district attorney Ludhiana noted that Simarjit Singh Bains is giving statements with regard to severity and magnitude of COVID-19 pandemic caused by novel coronavirus.Bains is making the claim that coronavirus is a bogey created by the government to perpetuate their power by misleading people and asking them not to wear masks, the district attorney further opined.The opinion given by the DA further mentioned that even though Simarjit Singh Bains is an elected MLA, who is representing a section of citizens of Ludhiana, he is misleading people by forbidding them to wear face masks, which have been made compulsory by the Central government to protect the health and safety of the citizens of the country.Already so many lives have been lost due to the corona pandemic in the country as well as in Punjab, the DA pointed out in his report, concluding that Bains is thus willfully endangering the health and safety of the people living in the state by exhorting and provoking them to violate the directions, norms and guidelines laid down by the Central and the state governments under the Disaster Management Act, Epidemics Act etc.Even the WHO has advised wearing of face masks, he further noted.
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Preetlari’s youngest daughter dies at 84||Anusuya Singh, the youngest daughter of Punjabi writer Gurbakhsh Singh Preetlari, passed away in Merida, Venezuela this morning. She was 84.Sukirat Anand, her nephew confirmed the news of her death.Most of her life, she taught English at Merida University in Venezuela. She was from the first batch of The Peoples' Friendship University of Russia (PFU) in 1960. The PFU was established in 1960 to provide higher education to Third World students.Gurbaksh Singh Preetlari had gone to the Soviet Union in 1959 with a delegation of writers. During a discussion, the first rector of the PFU was also present."He explained how they wanted to host students from the third world,” said Sukirat. Following that, she got admitted in PFU at MA Philology.In university, she fell in love with Raul Jesus Estevez Laprea, who was studying physics. In 1965, they moved to Venezuela. Both of them taught in Merida University. She is survived by two sons and a daughter.
07-09-2020||---||35 Sikh organisations condemn SGPC chief’s U-turn||Jalandhar, September 6Condemning the backtracking by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on the issue of 328 missing Sikh ‘saroops’, 35 Sikh organisations under the Alliance of Sikh Organisations on Sunday issued a condemnation of Gobind Singh Longowal’s statement. They said his U-turn makes it clear that he wants to save the culprits.The statement comes after the SGPC chief retracted the executive committee’s earlier decision to file criminal cases against six of its employees indicted for their role in misappropriation of records of 328 ‘saroops’.The 35 Sikh organisations’ spokespersons Sukhdev Singh Phagwara and Parampal Singh, in their statement, sought from the SGPC chief the details of where the ‘saroops’ went. They also appealed to Akal Takht to seek resignation of the SGPC chief as well as SGPC spokesperson Rajinder Mehta on the issue.They said: “According to the SGPC chief’s new statement — as per recommendations by the investigating committee, no case shall be filed against those responsible for the missing ‘saroops’ of the Guru Granth Sahib. It is evident that Longowal wants to hide the real culprits responsible for the issue due to fears that the subsequent action shall expose the embezzlement committed in the committee under him. Gobind Singh Longowal wants to save himself and the interim committee. Isn’t his backtracking from his own declarations made some days ago, a violation of the rules of the Akal Takht Sahib?”They said: “The SGPC shall be met with fierce opposition if it backtracks from its previous declarations on the 328 missing ‘saroops’. The entire list of details should be made public.” They said if the SGPC chief fails to share these details, then it’s clear that the ‘saroops’ have gone missing somewhere, where they shall not be preserved as per maryada (respect accorded to sacred scriptures).”They appealed to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh that Longowal and Rajinder Mehta and all culprits in the case be summoned at the Akal Takht and their resignations be demanded, following which restrictions be placed on them, so that they do not hold a major office or contest elections in any Sikh organisation for the rest of their life.
07-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Remembering Pash — a visionary man who rejected superstitions prevalent in society||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch president and convener, cultural wing, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, Amolak Singh has remembered great poet ‘Pash’ as a simple man with a vision, the one who loved science and rejected superstitions prevalent in society.He shared his memories with revolutionary poet Avtar Singh Pash and said his poems were like iron, but his heart was soft and sensitive.Pash was born at Talwandi Salem village in Jalandhar on September 9, 1950. He will be paid tributes at his birth place in Talwandi Salem and at the place, where he was killed, on the occasion of his birth anniversary. Also, Pash memorial International Trust will hold a state-level literary event at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall in Jalandhar on September 20 in remembrance of Pash, in which several noted literary persons, including Surjit Patar would be present.Amolak Singh recalls that Pash had a very simple personality and was a humble person. “He used to wear simple ‘chappals’ and would sit in the last row whenever he would visit any samagam. Anybody who didn’t know Pash by face could never know that the simple man sitting among them could be that powerful poet whom everyone adored,” Singh said.He was a visionary and had great interest in science and had extensively studied stars and the universe and also written an article on it. “However, it has nothing to do with poetry writing or anything of that sort, but still, he would study science because he loved it,” Amolak shared.Amolak said Pash had written a 32-page booklet called ‘Ki kendi hai tuhaadi raashi’, in which he clearly rejected the idea of believing in zodiac signs and indulgence in any kind of superstition. “So, he had a universal approach towards understanding everything,” he said. A poster with an image of Pash’s handwritten poem “Sab ton khatarnak” was also unveiled at Teacher’s Home in Bathinda on September 10 in 2017, a day after the poet’s birth anniversary.For the first five years after 1988, when the poet was killed, the birth anniversary was celebrated at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall in Jalandhar. As the manch wanted people from other areas to know about Pash, it started celebrating the anniversary in other areas, each time celebrating what the poet stood for.
07-09-2020||---||SGPC’s U-turn on missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib draws criticism||Amritsar, September 6The SGPC’s U-turn on initiating criminal proceedings against erring officials engaged in misappropriation of ‘saroops’ has not gone down well with several Sikh organisations and the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO).Sarbjit Singh Verka, member of the PHRO, said the SGPC’s silence over the missing ‘saroops’ must be questioned and it must be find out at whose behest, the officials engaged in the illegal acts.“We were happy with the SGPC, in its executive meeting on September 27, announcing registration of an FIR for tampering with, fabrication, fraud and embezzlement of ‘saroops’, but the U-turn made later has annoyed us. The case involved criminal offences, so we will move the court,” he said.Echoing similar views, Akal Purakh Ki Fauj head and former SGPC member Jaswinder Singh Advocate said the SGPC was supreme but those who ran its affairs weren’t so. “The SGPC bigwigs wanted to save their political bosses that prompted them to shun the move of initiating criminal proceedings against those indicted by the Akal Takht-appointed probe panel. The truth in the case can be dug out only by the police. The SGPC had got FIRs registered in earlier embezzlement cases,” he said.The All India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF) has announced to take out protest march against the SGPC’s action on September 13 after performing ‘ardas’ at the Akal Takht.Manjit Singh Bhuma said the probe by the SGPC into the ‘fraud’ appears to be an eye-wash exercise. “We reject the SGPC’s action in the case. Like in the case of exoneration of Dera Sirsa cult, the SGPC has been pressurised by SAD (Badal) leadership to backtrack its move in this case, too. Any Sikh could get a case registered against the culprits under Section 295-A of the IPC. We will take out a protest march, while following Covid guidelines, and continue our struggle till names of those on whose instructions the ‘saroops’ were sent and the recipients are made public,” Bhuma said.
07-09-2020||Shivani Bhakoo||Ease of doing biz: Punjab has a long way to go, says industry||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 6The local industry feels Punjab cannot improve its ranking in “ease of doing business” till the time basic infrastructure is strengthened, corruption in government departments curbed, digitisation of work done in each department and good airport connectivity is established.Punjab has been placed at No. 19 in the list of states providing ease of doing business, as per a report of the Business Reform Action Plan 2019. Even the neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have secured better ranks than Punjab.Mridula Jain from Shingora Shawls here said the state’s entire focus today was on curbing the Covid spread. As far as ease of doing business is concerned, businessmen look for best infrastructure, easy air connectivity, less tedious works in government departments and a corruption-free environment.“Well-connected persons can get their work done quickly by calling up top officials but not all businessmen have access to senior officials. Maximum work is done by the officials sitting in the departments (SDOs, JEs, etc). They need to be sensitised to doing work without vested interests,” said Jain, adding that instead of coming up with new clusters, the present infrastructure should be improved.President of the All-Industries Trade Forum Badish Jindal said there was a need to bring about reforms in each department. “Genuine files need to be immediately cleared by the departments. The bureaucracy should keep a vigil on the working of staff/officials so that industry does not face any problem. Unless the government and all staff are fully committed to bringing about reforms, ease of doing business will be a distant dream,” he said.Director, Industries, Sibin C, however, said the state government was making efforts to bring about reforms to improve the ranking so that there is no problem to the industry. As far as infrastructure is concerned, about Rs 200 crore will be spent on it with the help of the Central Government, he added.
07-09-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||1.6 lakh students move from private to government schools||Tribune News serviceChandigarh, September 6With several private schools closing down during the trying times of Covid-19, approximately 1.60 lakh students have enrolled in government schools in the ongoing session.The unspecified number of private schools, in this category, included those with marginal infrastructure, average standards of teaching faculty and students from poor financial backgrounds. Owner of a school based in Mansa said: “We are heavily dependent on fees from students to pay our staff. We are unable to hold any classes under present circumstances.”Official figures released on August 23 showed that as many as 1,60,372 private school students shifted to government schools recently. Besides, there has been a significant increase in fresh admissions in pre-school classes of government schools as well. As many as 3,27,906 students have enrolled this session as against 2,25,565 last year.Kamal Sharma, a senior secondary schoolteacher in Hoshiarpur, said: “We accept that certain private schools have state-of-the-art facilities, but there has been a mentionable upgrade in the facilities available in government schools, particularly availability of computers. This has been one of the major reasons for more students shifting to government schools.”Offering a different point of view, Dr Ashwani Bhalla, president, Punjab Commerce and Management Association, said: “The picture is not as rosy as is being portrayed for government schools. Our assessment at the ground level has shown that government schools are just loading lessons on Whatsapp groups. Classes need innovation. A sizable number of students don’t have the mobile services at all.”A parent, whose son studies in a private school in Bathinda, said: “The authorities said the school will open only when the situation was back to normal. When we went to the government school in our village, we were more than satisfied.”
07-09-2020||Faridkot||Clear Rs11.93 cr pending power bills: PSPCL to Education Department||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has asked the School Education Department to clear electricity bills to the tune of Rs 11.93 crore of 433 government schools. The department has directed the schools to pay the electricity bills before September 8. In case, the schools don’t have enough budget to clear the dues, they have been asked to furnish the details to the department. On September 2, PSPCL Chairman-cum-Managing Director A Venu Prasad wrote to the Secretary, School Education Department, in this regard.  Prasad said an amount of Rs 11.93 crore against various electricity connections of the School Education Department was pending and there was an increasing trend to delay the bills. As the offices concerned were not making requisite efforts to clear the bills, levy of surcharge and interest do not bother them, wrote Prasad. He apprehended the increasing dues were result of unchecked usage of electricity, air-conditioners, heaters and incandescent bulbs in the schools. — TNS
07-09-2020||---||MLA shifts from Patiala's ‘unhygienic’ Govt Rajindra Hospital to private facility||Patiala, September 6Putting the hospital authorities and district administration in a spot, an MLA of the Punjab Assembly left Government Rajindra Hospital and shifted to a private hospital on Saturday evening. Ironically, MLA Nirmal Singh was the only Covid-positive legislator who had preferred a government hospital over a private one for his treatment.The development, once again, has raised questions over the treatment and standard of facilities at Government Rajindra Hospital. The MLA was admitted to the hospital on Friday after spending some time in home isolation. Just in a day, he decided to leave the facility.Interestingly, in a video shared by the district administration, the MLA was seen praising the facilities and doctors at the hospital. In the video, he had said, “No one should go to a private hospital and visit only government facilities.”However, hours after this video, the MLA shifted to a private hospital. It has been learnt that he left the hospital reportedly over lack of cleanliness.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the MLA himself had requested them to shift him to a private facility. Satnam Singh, MLA’s son, said, “We took him to a private hospital as the washrooms were not clean and hygienic at the Rajindra Hospital.” Meanwhile, the hospital authorities said the legislator had shifted to private hospital due to personal reasons.
07-09-2020||---||Punjab Govt mulls buying Rajpura thermal plant||Patiala, September 6The Punjab Government is contemplating buying the Rajpura-based Nabha Thermal Plant, being run by Larsen & Toubro (L&T). The company has proposed to sell the plant at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore to the state government.The government is already facing the heat over high charges which the private thermal plants charge per annum.Confirming the development, A Venu Prasad, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), said L&T had sent a letter offering to sell the project. “We are examining it,” he said.VK Gupta, spokesperson for the All-India Power Engineers Federation, said the real cost on 1,400 MW should not be more than Rs 5 crore per MW so it should be Rs 7,000 crore and from there the depreciated value of the plant could be worked out. “Before going into the outright purchase of this plant, some technical audit by a Central Government agency, like CAG or CEA, can be proposed, to arrive at a genuine price of the plant,” he said.“We need to debate the methodology of purchase. In normal course, L&T should have come out with a tender for sale of this plant, enabling all those interested to buy it, including PSPCL. Buying on the quoted price of L&T shall be against the Government of India competitive buying guidelines as it tantamounts to purchase against a single quotation,” Gupta added.
07-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Dera Baba Nanak chosen for Seechewal model||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, September 6 The state government has chosen Dera Baba Nanak to implement the Seechewal model, meant to clean ponds and subsequently irrigate agricultural fields. The project will be executed in all 254 villages and in the ongoing first phase, Rs 29.13 crore has been sanctioned for 180 hamlets.  Later, the model will be implemented in all the villages of Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts.  Already, of the 180 villages, 101 have implemented the system, which also goes by the name of Thapar model. Funds have been provided by various agencies of the state and Central governments, like the Swacch Bharat Abhiyan, Finance Commission, Smart Village Project and MGNREGA. Each village has been allocated grants between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 25 lakh. The model is a water treatment project in which sewage water is purified and later used for irrigation. The model was upgraded by Thapar University, Patiala. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Cabinet minister and Dera Baba Nanak MLA, is personally supervising the execution of the project. “It envisages the collection of sewage water into a pond where a wire meshing is used to filter objects flowing in the water. After that, the polluted water is taken into two wells where silt and other extraneous material are taken away before it flows to the third well, where it is cleaned with sun rays,” he said. “All 254 villages will have a new pond cleaning system by the year-end,” said DC Mohammad Ishfaq.
07-09-2020||---||Waterlogging worries Lambi farmers||Muktsar, September 6Standing cotton and paddy crop in nearly 12 villages in Lambi has suffered extensive damage due to incessant rain and waterlogging.“Cotton crop has damaged 100 per cent due to waterlogging. If rainwater is not drained out soon, then paddy will also suffer damage,” said Kuldeep Singh of Mohlan village.Parampal Singh, who is a sarpanch of Panniwala Fatta village, said, “School, health centre, grain market and fields in our village are still waterlogged. The tehsildar had made some arrangements to drain out the rainwater, but the steps did not prove beneficial.”Farmers from Panniwala Fatta, Mohlan, Midda, Bodiwala, Alamwala, Ratta Tibba, Karam Patti, Pakki Tibbi, Shamkhera, Raniwala and Kattianwali villages alleged that the drains were also not cleaned before the onset of monsoon.Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, who is an MLA from Lambi, said, “Farmers have told me that their fields got waterlogged and rainwater entered the residential areas. The government has yet not done anything to save farmers.”
07-09-2020||---||PWD to upgrade major roads||Chandigarh, September 6 The Public Works Department (PWD) is going to upgrade 12 major projects to improve road connectivity in the state, under the Central Road and Infrastructure Fund.  These projects would cost around Rs 211.22 crore, and would include improvement of major district roads, other district roads and construction of new bridges.
07-09-2020||---||Covid claims 54 lives in one day in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 6Fifty-four Covid deaths and 1,946 fresh cases were reported in the state over the past 24 hours. With this, the death count in the state reached 1,862, while the number of infections stood at 63,473.Of the active cases, 571 patients are on oxygen and 71 on ventilator. Jalandhar tops the list of fresh cases with 261 cases, followed by Pathankot (205), Gurdaspur (186), Bathinda (168), Ludhiana (161), SAS Nagar (154), Patiala (150), Hoshiarpur (135), Amritsar (133) and Faridkot (88).Ludhiana reported 13 deaths, followed by Patiala (eight); Kapurthala (six); Amritsar (five); Bathinda, Faridkot, Jalandhar and Moga (three each); Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Muktsar (two each); and Barnala, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran (one each).
07-09-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht pays tribute to activist Jaswant Singh Khalra||In a first, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday remembered prominent human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra on his 25th martyrdom day. The family members of Khalra and rights activists initiated a ‘sehaj paath’ at a gurdwara here.Recognising Khalra’s contribution for the Sikh community, Giani Harpreet Singh read out a ‘message’ from Takht Damdama Sahib. Khalra never cared for his life while launching a crusade against the government for Sikhs killed under conspiracy. — TNS
07-09-2020||Barnala||Contraband worth Rs 15 crore seized||Abohar7 drug peddlers nabbedThe police on Sunday claimed to have seized 70 kg of poppy husk, 42 gm of heroin, 1 kg of opium and 1,800 sedative tablets from seven peddlers. Over 60 kg of poppy husk was seized from Bhajan Lal and Baldev Singh of Diwankhera village on the Jandwala Hanwanta-Gidderanwali link road. Nirmal Singh of Rama Mandi, Bathinda, was nabbed with 10 kg of poppy husk and 1,800 tablets near Sriganganagar. OCBathindaMan commits suicideA labourer committed suicide by jumping into a tributary of Sirhind Canal near Jaito bypass on the Bathinda-Goniana road. Family members of the deceased alleged that Gulab Singh was under stress, as he was out of work. After reaching the spot, the police fished the body out of the water. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy. TNSFerozepurWoman assaulted, diesA woman, identified as Thakro Bibi, 62, was allegedly murdered at Rau ke Hithar village in the Mamdot block. Investigation Officer (IO) Ravi Kumar said accused - Raj Singh, Baj Singh, Balvir Singh, Sandip Singh, Jit Singh, Salwinder Singh, Judge Singh and Darshan Singh - had hit the woman with a wooden stick. She later succumbed to the injuries. The IO alleged that the accused had attacked the family out of revenge. OCFerozepurPhones seized from prisonerA Central Jail inmate has been booked after two mobile phones were seized from him. Also, one more person has been booked for supplying the phones to the inmate. Jarnail Singh, Assistant Superintendent, said two cellphones were recovered from Gagandeep Singh from barrack number 5. The accused was booked under the relevant section of the Prison Act. OC
07-09-2020||Ropar||CBI begins ‘goonda tax’ probe in Ropar post High Court order||The CBI has launched a search for the alleged ‘goonda tax’ mafia in Ropar district. Its officials will record the statement of complainant Bachittar Singh in this regard in the next few days.Bachittar Singh, in a petition filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, had alleged that illegal nakas had been raised by unauthorised persons to collect ‘goonda tax’ from drivers of vehicles carrying sand and gravel. The HC asked the CJM-cum-Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority, Ropar, to submit a report in this regard. The report, which claimed that “illegal and unauthorised checkpoints very much exist…”, was placed before an HC Bench.On August 11, the HC ordered a preliminary inquiry by the CBI. — TNS
07-09-2020||Bathinda||FM Manpreet Badal violates social distancing norms||Farmers take online route for queriesLudhiana: Farmers across the state are not only discussing their problems with the experts online but are also seeking solutions that they can adopt. Pest management, soil irrigation, plant diseases, there is a whole range of issues that the farmers discuss with the experts. By their own admission, the farmers kept waiting for the weekly interactive session. Recently, a senior entomologist addressed the queries of the farmers regarding insect-pest management in kharif crops. "For us, it is the best option in the times of the pandemic, when mobility is restricted because of the precautionary measures," a 55-year-old farmer said.Gang busted by chanceGurdaspur: The Gurdaspur police, while trying to solve the case of a car robbery, stumbled upon a motorcycle thief and managed to recover 22 bikes from him in just 48 hours. A few days ago, a Verna car had been stolen at gunpoint from an eatery on the Dinanagar road and subsequently the cops started to identify places where robbers might have sold parts of the vehicle. They tracked a bike thief doing business in the jurisdiction of the Ghuman Kalan police station. He and his gang used to steal bikes from crowded places in Gurdaspur and later disposed them of in surrounding satellite towns. SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said it was surprising that his men hit a jackpot while trying to solve a minor crime.Overbridge not on anyone’s concern listAbohar: When the low-height overbridge was constructed here about four years ago, to connect the old walled city to Nai Abadi and other colonies located on the other side of the railway station, political parties vied to claim credit for it. But now, nobody is paying heed to the deteriorating condition of the bridge that is used only by bikers. The riders risk their lives as its floor tiles are damaged and some pieces of the iron-railing are missing. In the past five months of suspension of trains due to Covid, none of the renovation schemes have been taken up for Abohar station.
07-09-2020||---||25-yr-old Youth Akali Dal leader shot in Bathinda||Bathinda, September 6A Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leader was shot dead by unidentified persons at Railway Colony near the Thandi Sadak area on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Sukhanpreet Singh Sandhu (25), a resident of Lal Singh Basti.Sandhu was going on a scooter to hand over money to an unidentified person after receiving a phone call.A pistol and Rs 40,000, which were in possession of Sandhu, were found missing. Police officials recovered an empty shell from the crime scene.Bathinda Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Gurjit Singh Romana said Sandhu was shot from close range. “We have marked a probe into the incident,” he said. Cops are scanning his mobile phone to check the call details.The incident has created panic in Bathinda as this is the third murder in the past three days in the district. Sandhu had opened fire on Congress workers in the Lal Singh Basti area during the 2019 General Election.
07-09-2020||Vishav Bharti||Cases go up 3 times, Punjab battles it out||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6The Covid situation in Punjab has deteriorated in just one month with the state reporting over 40,000 cases.In five months between March 8 (when the first cases emerged) and August 6, the state had reported just 20,891 Covid cases. But August proved the worst month for the state as the cases doubled in just 15 days. By August 22, the number had reached 40,643.Going by the accumulated figures of last one month, between August 6 and September 6, the state reported 42,582 fresh cases, which means that last month witnessed a two-fold increase.The number of fatalities too shot up, as the state reported more than 1,300 deaths last month. The number is more than three times the deaths reported in five months between March 8 and August 6. Till August 6, as many as 517 people had succumbed to the virus. Now, the figure stands at 1,862.The Covid outbreak has exposed the state’s crumbling healthcare system. The biggest challenge for the government and the Central teams will be to help the state tackle the lack of trust in government health facilities. Government advisers admit that lack of trust in the state’s healthcare system has led to the spread of rumours. Punjab CM has asked his ministers and MLAs to counter such rumours, allegedly being spread by his political opponents and unscrupulous elements.The Central teams sent by the Union Health Ministry will start work from Monday, said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid.
07-09-2020||---||To contain surge, Central teams in Punjab, Chandigarh||New Delhi, September 6The Health Ministry today rushed a Central team each to Punjab and Chandigarh, which have been witnessing a surge in cases.The teams will assist in improving containment, surveillance, testing and clinical management of Covid patients to reduce mortality apart from providing guidance on timely diagnosis and follow-up. The teams will remain stationed in the state and the UT for 10 days.The Punjab team consists of PGI (Chandigarh) community medicine expert JS Thakur and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Deputy Director Akshay Kumar. The Chandigarh team includes PGI doctor PVN Laxmi and the NCDC’s Sahil Goel.Of the total 63,473 Covid cases in Punjab, 15,731 are active. The state has seen 1,862 deaths and the testing per million stands at 37,546 (India’s average is 34,593.1). At 4.97 per cent, Punjab’s positivity rate hovers at the lower cumulative spectrum.Of the total 5,763 cases in Chandigarh, 2,250 are active. The testing per million and the cumulative positivity in the UT are 33,434 and 16 per cent, respectively.Relapse new worry, 2nd case surfacesCovid re-infection is emerging as a new area of concern with Bengaluru reporting relapse of the viral infection on Sunday just three days after Mumbai saw a similar case. A private hospital in Bengaluru confirmed Covid re-infection in a 27-year-old woman who had tested positive in July and had been discharged after recovery. On September 3, a Mumbai doctor tested positive for the second time in a month.Meanwhile, India on Sunday saw a record 90,632 daily infections, overtaking Brazil to become the world’s second most Covid-hit nation. TNS
