07-05-2020||Patiala||Feeling let down over no increment, health officials decide to go on strike||Officials of the district health department have announced to boycott coronavirus duty from tomorrow.The officials said they wouldn’t report for the coronavirus duty because they felt “let down” by the state government.The officials of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) — a branch of National Health Mission Punjab — said the government had announced an increment to the IDSP branch for working 24*7.They had been looking after over 12 health programmes in the state along with coronavirus.Rudely, the government had already withdrawn the decision of awarding an increment, therefore, the IDSP branch decided not to do their duty from tomorrow, officials said.Dr Yuvraj Narang, the nodal officer, said, “We are working on the frontline 24x7 to stem the spread of coronavirus. We collect samples of suspected coronavirus patients and data in the containment areas, thereby, risking our lives. However, authority is so insensitive that they have stopped our increment.”Dr Swati, a microbiologist, said they had already informed the state government and NRHM director to give them revised salary with the new increment or else they would go on strike.“Despite working so hard and risking our lives, they are not giving an increment for our extra efforts in this fight against coronavirus,” she said. Meanwhile, the managing director of Punjab National Health Mission could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
07-05-2020||London||5 more flights for Britons stranded in Amritsar, Ahmedabad||The UK government on Thursday announced five further flights to bring home British travellers stranded in India due to the coronavirus lockdown, with four flights scheduled between Amritsar and London and one from Ahmedabad to London next week.The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) said once these flights are completed, over 16,500 travellers will have been brought back from India on 64 special flights chartered as part of the government’s 75-million pound repatriation programme during the coronavirus pandemic lockdown.“Our special charter flight programme has been a concerted effort, with daily flight departures to the UK from across India since 8 April – alongside ongoing support to those who remain,” said Lord Tariq Ahmad, Minister of State in the FCO for South Asia and the Commonwealth.“These further flights bring the number of planes chartered by the government to bring British travellers home from India to 64,” he said.As with the last round of flights, seats on the planes will be allocated to those who have already registered on the British government’s online booking portal, Corporate Travel Management (CTM).The British High Commission in India said its staff will continue to provide assistance to those waiting to return to the UK.Jan Thompson, Acting High Commissioner to India, said: “We have helped over 14,000 travellers return to the UK so far on charter flights, and I am pleased to announce a further round to bring back those still waiting to get home.“I strongly encourage anyone who wants to leave to accept seats offered to them. We continue to support all British nationals who require assistance.”          The FCO said its flights are aimed at British nationals and depart from regions of India with the highest demand. The focus is also on helping vulnerable non-British UK residents with Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) or permanent residency where possible. Other visa categories may also be accommodated where possible, the FCO said.Seats on the charter flights are allocated to those already registered, with confirmations of the flight sent directly alongside information on how to get to airports once the seat is confirmed.The latest tranche of UK flights comes as the Indian government also began the repatriation process for its nationals stranded abroad, with specially commissioned Air India flights set to fly between London Heathrow Airport and Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru from this weekend. PTI
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police nab 2 accomplices of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naikoo’s associate||The Punjab Police have traced inter-state links of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riaz Ahmed Naikoo with the arrest of two accomplices of his close associate, Hilal Ahmed Wagay, from Amritsar on Wednesday.Given the gravity of the offences and the cross-border ramifications of the case beyond Punjab, the Centre has directed NIA to take over further investigations into the case to unravel the entire conspiracy, which has footprints leading across the border via J&K.Naikoo, commander of banned terrorist organisation Hizbul Muzahideen (HM), was gunned down by security forces in south Kashmir yesterday.Wagay was arrested earlier on April 25 by Punjab Police, who had subsequently shared details of his disclosures with the Centre as well as the Jammu & Kashmir Government.Giving details of yesterday’s arrests, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the duo were traced through investigations into the trail of Hizbul terrorist Hilal Ahmed Wagay, who was nabbed from Amritsar, where he had come to collect money from Amritsar on the instructions of Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, Hizbul commander in Kashmir Valley.The arrested duo has been identified as Bikram Singh alias Vicky, and Maninder Singh alias Mani, both residents of Amritsar.Police seized 1 kg heroin along with Rs 32 lakh in Indian currency from their possession, to unveil Pakistan-sponsored conspiracy to smuggle narcotics and weapons into the state, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.While Rs 20 lakh cash was recovered from them at the time of their arrest, the remaining were seized from their homes later, following the grant of police remand by the court.The DGP said Bikram Singh had come on a scooty to deliver Rs 29 lakh cash to Hilal Ahmed on the instructions of Ranjit Singh alias Cheetah, Iqbal Singh alias Shera and Sarwan Singh.Hilal was nabbed by an alert team of Amritsar police, which was on patrol duty on a motor bike late evening on April 25, near Metro Mart in Amritsar city.An FIR under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act 1967 and the NDPS Act was registered at police station Sadar, Amritsar.The interrogation of the two accused further revealed that both Bikram and Maninder, along with their cousins Ranjit Singh, Iqbal Singh and Sarwan Singh, deal in drugs and weapons smuggled from across the border.
07-05-2020||---||No question of political interference in case against ex-DGP Saini: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, May 7Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Thursday, rejected former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s allegation of political motivation in the registration of an FIR against him in a kidnapping case of 1991.There was no question of political interference, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, asserting that the law would take its own course in the matter.A police spokesperson said the case against Saini, in the matter of disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, was filed purely on the basis of a fresh application by the victim’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, a resident of Jalandhar.Also read: Former Punjab DGP Saini booked in kidnapping case; denied entry at Himachal borderBased on Multani’s complaint, the case was registered under Sections 364 (Kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (Wrongful confinement), 330 (Voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (Criminal conspiracy), in Mohali on Wednesday. The fresh complaint was received by the police on Tuesday.The spokesperson disclosed that the complainant had cited Para 80 of the Supreme Court order of December 7, 2011, that it was “open to the applicants who had filed the petitions under Section 482 of the CRPC to take recourse to fresh proceedings, if permissible in law”.The complainant, in his complaint, said the illegal acts of the accused persons “clearly disclose the commission of cognisable offences, as has also been established by the CBI during the preliminary enquiry and therefore it is the solemn duty of the police to lodge an FIR for the ghastly acts of the accused in terms of the specific directions of the Supreme Court in the case of ‘Lalitha Kumari v/s State of UP and others’.”In his complaint, Palwinder said Balwant was picked up from his then residence in Mohali on December 11, 1991, and was taken to the police station in Sector 17, Chandigarh, under the orders of the then SSP Chandigarh, Sumedh Singh Saini, son of Romesh Chander Saini.Despite all efforts to secure his release, the family failed to get him back, due to the “terror and influence of Sumedh Singh Saini,” said the complainant, adding that it was after Saini’s retirement that they gathered the courage to resume their efforts to fight for justice.Finally, due to sustained efforts, a preliminary enquiry was conducted under the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which led to the registration of an FIR on July 2, 2008, under Sections 120(B), 364, 343, 330, 167 & 193 of the IPC by the CBI at Chandigarh.However, the High Court’s order was challenged in the Supreme Court, which set aside the former’s orders on the ground that the bench of the high court, passing the order lacked jurisdiction to deal with the case, and as a consequence thereof, the FIR registered by the CBI was quashed only on technical grounds, the complainant pointed out.However, he noted that the Supreme Court had given the family the liberty to take recourse to fresh proceedings, and also did not discuss and comment on the merits of the case.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder asks Modi for exit strategy from lockdown 3.0||Reiterating his demand for revenue grants to the states for three months to meet the shortfall in revenues, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clearly define the way forward for the country’s economic revival and an exit strategy from lockdown 3.0.In a letter to the prime minister, the chief minister said, “The exit strategy may not only lay down the parameters to contain the COVID-19 within safe limits but should also define the path of economic revival. It should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the states.”Besides raising the demand for revenue grants, the chief minister also called for a directive from the Centre to the 15th Finance Commission to review its report for the current year, as the situation had completely changed due to COVID-19.He also said the 15th Finance Commission should recommend devolution of funds for 5 years, beginning 1.4.2021 (instead of 2020), after factoring in the impact of COVID-19.Capt Amarinder urged the prime minister to issue necessary directions to various ministries in this regard, in order to enable states to formulate clear strategies and path, post lockdown 3.0 on May 17.The chief minister pointed out this was necessary as COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdowns had led to unprecedented losses of jobs, businesses, and economic opportunities, and its true impact was yet to be known.Pointing out that it was very well known that the economy had slowed down and the GDP will not rise, the chief minister said Punjab’s revenues had declined by 88 per cent in April 2020.“The poor have been the worst affected with damage to all aspects of their socio-economic living. The threat of poverty, hunger and health deprivation are far more imminent now. If socio-economic living of the common man is not restored immediately, there could be serious psychological dismemberment of our society. The loss of jobs and livelihood has in fact also severely impaired equity and civil liberties in our society,” he said, adding that these were the stark realities of today.The chief minister, meanwhile, assured the prime minister that the Punjab Government would do everything possible to contain this deadly virus to save the lives of its people.
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports one death, 118 cases in 24 hrs; state tally 1,644||Punjab on Thursday reported a coronavirus death and 118 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the state's death toll to 28 and case tally to 1,644. The death was reported from Hoshiarpur district. The new cases were reported from Amritsar (46), Sangrur (1), Bathinda (2), Ludhiana (1), Gurdaspur (6), Jalandhar (12), Tarn Taran (43) and Fatehgarh Sahib (1) districts. Bathinda reported two new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 39.  Among those who tested positive is a policeman, who had gone to Kota in Rajasthan, to bring back students stranded there amid the lockdown. Besides, Faridkot also reported a new case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 46. The patient is under treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. Three patients have already been cured and discharged from the hospital in the district. The district health department had received the reports of 347 suspected patients and only one turned out to be coronavirus-positive.
07-05-2020||---||Exodus of migrant workers to impact industry, farm sector in Punjab||Ludhiana, May 7The exodus of migrant labourers from Punjab to their native states will adversely impact the state's industrial and farm sectors, fear industry representatives and farmers.Their apprehensions emerged after more than 8 lakh migrant workers got themselves registered for going back to their home states.The Centre is running ‘Shramik’ trains to ferry stranded migrants to their respective home states.Onkar Singh Pahwa, president of the All India Cycle Manufacturers Association, on Thursday said the availability of minimum workforce was a prerequisite for the purpose of resumption of industry.He said the Centre had allowed only stranded migrants to be sent back home. But now even those labourers who are not stranded are getting tempted for registration to return to their home states because of the availability of free rail travel.It is inexplicable that the governments did not foresee the current exodus, triggered by the desperation of the workforce, which is not stranded, said Pahwa."If bulk migration of workers is not stopped then Punjab will be ruined economically," said Rahul Ahuja, chairman of the Punjab unit of industry body CII.Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations, said the migration of workers would prove to be a death knell for industrial activities in the state."There was not even a single death in the state due to hunger. Thus, the propaganda of non-supply of the ration is false and motivated," said Kular.DS Chawla, president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said the bulk migration of workers would turn out to be counterproductive for the industry as it would not allow industrial activities to restart.Representatives of All India Cycle Manufacturers Association, Chamber of Industrial & Commercial Undertakings, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and FICO on Thursday appealed to the Centre and state governments to stop the exodus of workers.They also said the state government should reach out to migrant workers to provide whatever assistance they require.A majority of migrant labourers who work in Punjab are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand.Meanwhile, farmers are equally worried over the fate of paddy sowing which will start next month.Paddy growers said it was going to be a difficult task of paddy transplantation in the wake of labour shortage. Sowing paddy seedlings will be costlier, they added.Sukhdev Singh Khokri Kalan, general secretary, Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), said at least 50 per cent labour which works in paddy sowing season in Punjab was from other states. "Labour is going to be scarce and costly. Farmers will bear the burden. We appeal to government to allow paddy transplanting now from June 1 so that farmers get time to complete sowing in time and yield is not affected,” said Sukhdev Singh.Paddy transplanting machines are rarely used because most farmers do not have them, and moreover, it will be expensive to use them on rent.Sukhdev Singh said the government must make these machines available to small and marginal farmers through cooperative societies.Paddy is sown over 30 lakh hectares area in Punjab. PTI
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Reopening of liquor shops will lead to rise in domestic violence cases: Akal Takht Jathedar||The head priest of the Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of Sikhs, on Thursday slammed the Punjab government's decision to reopen liquor shops in the state, saying it will lead to rise in cases of domestic violence.The Punjab government has allowed liquor vends in the state to open during curfew relaxation timings from 7 am to 3 pm with effect from Thursday.“Liquor shops should not be allowed to open. Already shopping malls and markets are shut and in such a situation, we are giving preference to liquor. Domestic violence cases will certainly increase because of liquor,” Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh told reporters in Amritsar.The excise and taxation department has also allowed home delivery of liquor.  However, the timing of delivery of liquor will be decided by the respective assistant excise and taxation commissioners in consultation with deputy commissioners, as per an order of the department. PTI
07-05-2020||Sangrur||Covid positive doctor alleges poor facilities in Sangrur||
07-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||1.5 lakh Punjab students send coronavirus videos to govt, break world record||The competition 'Ambassadors of Hope' which is organised by the Punjab Government has broken the world record for the maximum number of entries received as 1,05,898 students sent in their names within the first week.In a bid to encourage students, the Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla launched this campaign on April 29. He encouraged students to come up with positive ideas to overcome the negativity of lockdown. "Punjab Education Minister @VijayIndrSingla's #AmbassadorsOfHope, an online video competition campaign receives 1.05 Lakh entries. Creates #WorldRecord, earlier Phillipines held record of highest participation as they had got 43,157 participants in 8 day long online competition," his tweet read. Punjab Education Minister @VijayIndrSingla's #AmbassadorsOfHope, an online video competition campaign receives 1.05 Lakh entries. Creates #WorldRecord, earlier Phillipines held record of highest participation as they had got 43,157 participants in 8 day long online competition. pic.twitter.com/f6h5VjxyMvEarlier, Singla had said three winners will be selected from each district of the state. Attractive prizes like Apple iPads, laptops and Android tablets will be given to them, he said. The minister said that the primary objective of the campaign was to engage students in a constructive activity. He claimed that the competition has impressed the Union government, which has appreciated it."It is heartening to see the response we have got from the children. For me every child is a winner. Most of the entries are deep rooted in Punjabi ethos and culture. I am grateful to all students who shared innovative ideas through videos on just one call," Singla said. — With PTI Anushka class 11th Arya sen. Sec. School Mansa#AmbassadorsOfHope #VijayInderSingla pic.twitter.com/bM1JkBzT9aWhat a brilliant concept the #AmbassadorsOfHope contest is! The reception it has got from kids across Punjab speaks volumes. @VijayIndrSingla pic.twitter.com/7tFKG5OtFs#AmbassadorsOfHope please watch this full video and like comment and share pic.twitter.com/ZPEGuG5CVRHope#AmbassadorsOfHope#VijayInderSingla pic.twitter.com/q268poisga#AmbassadorsOfHope Thanks a lot @VijayIndrSingla Sir. pic.twitter.com/jT4JAL2kOE
07-05-2020||---||25 pc migrants cancelled travel plan indicating Punjab heading towards normalcy: Mohali DC||Mohali, May 7Even as 1,288 people left for their home town Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh around 25 per cent people who had earlier registered themselves with on the online portal of the Punjab government later changed their mind and are staying back.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 35 per cent less than those who had registered themselves on the government portal turned up for departure.He said 1,188 people were contacted a day before for confirmation of departure plan but 25 per cent  declined to go while another 10 per cent did not turn up at the railway station even after confirmation. Therefore, the administration mobilised the ones in reserved/waiting list and facilitated their departure, he added.Dayalan said, “It is a good omen as refusal of people to go back is an indication that we are limping towards normalcy; permission to resume labour-intensive construction work and industrial operations has reduced the threat of losing an earning opportunity and will check mass exodus.”Dayalan appealed to the migrant workers that since normalcy is being restored gradually, any migrant except those in acute distress, who don't want to go back, are welcome to stay back in the district. He said the registration on the portal doesn’t imply that they have to compulsorily leave and added that they can always choose to stay back and work.Meanwhile, 1,288 workers who had come from Hardoi district of UP, for working in Mohali district, headed for their native district in the non-stop train with no intermittent stoppage before Hardoi.Dayalan, ADC Ashika Jain, SDMs and other officers gave a send-off to the labourers.The DC said the 24-coach train left Mohali Railway Station at 10 am running right on schedule and the staff deployed at the railway station ensured that workers adhered to social distancing while boarding the train. The administration ensured drinking water and food for all on board.He said the workers were screened thoroughly at the designated collection centres before they boarded the train. They were ferried via buses from the eight collection centres to the railway station, he added.
07-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Harvesting 1 acre land in 12 hrs alone no mean feat, but he does it with élan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 6A farm labourer from Ghoga village broke his own record when he harvested wheat crop on an acre land in 12 hours. Decades ago, such challenges were popular among rural folk, but have become a rarity now.Pargat Singh (61) hasn’t found anyone in nearby village, who could accept his challenge to harvest crop in an acre land in 12 hours. About Pargat Singh“I don’t have any competitor in the area, so it’s like a ‘Showmatch’. I used to take this challenge in every harvesting season and harvest an acre land from dawn to dusk. This time, I started around 6 am on Sunday and completed it at 6:30 pm. I took food and tea breaks. It is quite tough, but I love doing this. It’s my hobby,” said Pargat Singh.A video of Pargat Singh, recorded by the granthi of the village’s gurdwara had gone viral, in which he was about to complete his job in the evening. A number of villagers were present to motivate Pargat Singh.“People appreciated the hard work and also gave me some money when I completed my task. It is a sort of entertainment for them. Otherwise done by four to five persons in a day the younger generation can’t even imagine doing this alone,” he said.When young, Pargat Singh used to accept this challenge almost every year. “I started it at a young age. I had not taken this challenge in the past seven years. No one asked me to show strength all these years. This time, some of my fellow labourers from the village started saying that I won’t be able to do this due to age factor. I laughed and took the challenge again. I consumed 5-kg desi ghee in the past few months and with the grace of Guru Ramdas, I did it in a record time,” he said.
07-05-2020||---||Online platform brings writers, poets from both Punjabs together||Amritsar, May 6A new initiative to talk about the shared culture, history, language, music, poetry and food in two Punjabs across the borders, the Majha House organised the first digital interaction under its new series, ‘Sanjha Punjab’, on Wednesday.Writers, artistes, poets and musicians will come on the online platform to share thoughts from across the borders. The first interaction invited four noted journalists and writers, along with poet Arvinder Chamak from the city, for a dialogue.The icebreaker session from across the border had Afzal Sahir, Madiha Haneef, Sughra Sadaf and Raza Ahmad Rumi. Besides Arvinder Chamak, Prof Sarbjot Behl and Preeti Gill joined them. Madeeha Arsalan also participated in the event.Chamak, who played an instrumental role in getting this concept of peace and harmony on board, said, “Madeeha Arsalan is a renowned teacher, writer and poet, who has taught both in the US and in Pakistan while Raza Ahmad Rumi is a writer, policy analyst and journalist who teaches at the Ithaca College and Cornell Institute for Public Affairs.”Around 100 members from both sides of the border participated in this event. Most of them were eager to listen to the opinion of the eminent panel on the exchange of ideas and culture between the two countries despite political hostilities.Afzal Sahir, a poet and journalist, said, “We are all joined by our common histories and culture. No one can take that away from us.” Seconding this thought, Madeeha said, “As people, we have experienced only warmth and love between us. We should all beware of divisive policies which are solely aimed at sowing seeds of dissent among the innocent citizens, who share much more than just a border.”Raza Ahmad said, “I have been teaching history and evolution of language for many years now, and the two Punjabs are one as far as both history and language are concerned. We will always remain conjoined due to these shared aspects of our rich cultures.”
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cop provides fodder for cows||Some Sewa Kendras to openChandigarh: The Punjab Government has issued an advisory on maintaining hygiene and sanitisation at Sewa Kendras to ensure the safety of staff and citizens. The state government has planned a phased approach to resume the citizen-centric services provided by the kendras. However, only Sewa Kendras permitted by the government to resume services shall start operations as per the plan fixed by the authorities. TNSLeader offers buses to ferry migrantsMuktsar: Shiromani Akali Dal's Gidderbaha constituency in-charge Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon on Wednesday offered the local administration buses to his transport company to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their native places. “In a debate on a web channel on Tuesday, Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had expressed the state government's inability to arrange buses for stranded people. So, I offer my buses to the district administration for free,” he said. TNS
07-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘Will try find work back home’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6“We are a faceless workforce. Moved from one construction site to another within weeks, owners don’t recognise us. So, there is none who cares about us”, says Sunil Kumar wryly as he and his room mate Santosh await a message from the authorities confirming their departure via Shramik Express that has ferried thousands of migrants in the past two days.“Abandoned by our employers here, if we find work back home, we will not return,” adds Santosh. Having run out of money and ration, Sunil, Santosh, Shambhu and 27 of their co-workers have applied online for a ticket to their home district Siddharth Nagar in Uttar Pradesh.Jobs gone, thousands of workers who moved to Punjab from UP, Jharkhand and Bihar in search of livelihood 10 to 15 years ago are now desperate to return. Santosh, who first arrived in Jalandhar 10 years ago, earned Rs 350-Rs 450 per day. He was able to save enough money to send home. But the Covid-induced lockdown changed all that.“I walked to the nearest police station, 4 km from where I live, four times to complain that we had not received food packets. Each time I was sent back with two rotis and cooked vegetables and was promised another meal in the evening. At one time I went to sleep hungry. Back in our village, at least we will not starve,” he says.Most of his campanions agree with him. “Construction and factory workers have been hit hard. Neither the government nor any NGO came to us with ration. We have been left with no choice but to return home,” his friend Shambhu adds.
07-05-2020||Patiala||Nabha women protest move to open liquor vends||Women in villages of Nabha are up in arms against the state’s decision to open liquor vends. Wearing white ribbons on their forehead and holding placards, women held protests in many villages, including Kaidupur, Kansua, Lubana, Thuhi, Rohti Khas, on Wednesday.Fearing a rise in the domestic violence cases, the protesters raised slogans against the state government, demanding immediate revocation of the decision.The women were supported by activists of the Istri Jagriti Manch, who opined that opening of liquor vends would lead to a surge in domestic violence cases.Amandeep Kaur, an activist of the Istri Jagriti Manch, said, “Why does the government wants to open liquor vends when it should be opening shops of essential commodities 24x7? It shows the priority is to generate revenue and not help the needy. The opening of liquor shops will result in spike in domestic violence cases at the hands of inebriated men.” — TNS
07-05-2020||---||Education Dept drive receives over  1 lakh entries||Chandigarh, May 6Creating a world record, the ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ campaign launched by Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has received 1.05 lakh entries from school students in just eight days.“By uploading 1,05,898 videos in the eight-day first-of-its-kind online competition, inviting students from all schools to share positive ideas in the time of Covid-19, the feat has attracted attention of Guinness World Records. We have been approached by them to provide our credentials,” Singla said.Currently, Cebu City Commission of the Phillipines holds the record of the highest participation as they had got 43,157 participants in the competition.Under the campaign, three winners from every district will be shortlisted who will get an Apple iPad, laptop and Android tablets as first, second and third prizes, respectively.Apart from entries, this campaign also engaged around 2.5 crore people on social media platforms in eight days. The campaign got the highest 8.5 million hits on Facebook followed by 7 million on YouTube, 4.5 million on Tik Tok, 2.5 million on Instagram and around 1 million each on Twitter and Snapchat.
07-05-2020|| ---||Liquor vends to open today; contractors firm on fee cut||Chandigarh, May 6 Even as liquor contractors are up in arms over the home delivery of liquor, the Excise and Taxation Department today issued orders, stating that home delivery would begin from Thursday and this facility would be available only during the lockdown period. The orders, which now give May 7 as the new date for opening of all liquor vends in non-containment areas, say a maximum of 2 litres of alcohol can be delivered at home, but Punjab-made liquor (PML) has been exempted. Liquor contractors, however, are firm on not opening the vends till the issue of reduction in licence fee is resolved. Deep Malhotra, a prominent liquor contractor, said they wanted the government to extend their contract till May next year and charge licence fee on actual sale of liquor. Earlier, the government had proposed that the home delivery of liquor would be done till 6 pm (vends will be open only from 9 am to 1 pm). The new orders say that the time for home delivery of liquor will be decided by the respective deputy commissioners.  It say that each licencing unit (called group) can designate only two persons for delivery of liquor, who will be issued a card by the excise officials concerned. Even the vehicle to be used will have to be notified and to allay fears of contractors that the facility could encourage liquor smuggling, the government has made it mandatory for delivery boys to carry cash memo of the liquor to be delivered. Directions have been issued for maintaining social distancing among employees and customers queuing up outside the vends. All liquor contractors who have deposited 50 per cent of licence fee have been allowed to start operations, while others have been told to deposit the fee before they can start operations.
07-05-2020||Harshraj Singh||Mass exodus set to cripple industry||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 6Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, employment in the state’s industrial sector is going to take a hit. At present, only 1.5 per cent of industrial units are operational.The plunge in the industrial production resulted in massive job losses, which further triggered mass exodus of migrant labourers. The state authorities are struggling to send over 10 lakh migrants to their native places.Gurmit Kular, president, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations, said more than 8 lakh workers were likely to lose their job due to lockdown in Ludhiana alone.“On one side, the state government has relaxed norms for opening of factories and, on the other, the labourers are being sent back home. It’s a Catch-22 situation,” he said.Industry experts feel that till the government does not ensure full industrial production, job generation would remain low and industrial workers would keep on leaving the state.DS Chawla, president, United Cycle and Parts Manufactures Association, claimed that around 60 per cent of labourers were going back to their native places. “We are operating at less than 50 per cent of our capacity because of social distancing norms. Considering the situation, forget about new queries, I don’t think I would be able to meet my existing orders,” said Amit Goswami, a Jalandhar-based hand tool exporter.Lakhwinder of Karkhana Mazdoor Union said, “Thousands of workers are going home as they are feeling insecure here. They don’t have money to survive here and are worried about their families. Many factory owners are not releasing their salaries. They don’t have faith in claims made by the government.”Rajwinder, president, Textile Hosiery Kamgaar Union, said, “Many workers who are going back are unhappy with the arrangements made by the Punjab Government. Many of the workers have not got the salary for April. Many have complained that they received salary for only 21 days of March. The factory owners are not releasing the full salaries, fearing that the workers will go back to their home states. There is no help from the Labour Department.”Amit Goswami, director, Euorforge, said, “The industries across all categories are facing challenging times. The workers are going back via trains started on the initiative of the Punjab Government. This way, no industry will be able to run and the very purpose of restarting the industries will be defeated.”3 trains chug off from Jalandhar
07-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Livelihood gone, but happy to return home’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6With folded hands, 28-year-old Sunita Devi waits for her turn to get registered at a transit point here before she would be transported to the railway station. The restlessness to return home in Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh, and see her two sons is palpable in her moist eyes.“It became difficult to manage two square meals a day after the curfew was imposed. There was no work. It pained me to see my child sleep on an empty stomach. Now, it seems the situation is getting back to normal. At least, I will be able to eat a healthy food and be among my loved ones on returning home,” she says with her voice trembling.Her husband, Ram Tilak, chimes in. “We faced several hardships during the lockdown. With no income, I had to sell my mobile phone to buy ration. The phone was dear to my children as they demanded a phone with an inbuilt camera. I somehow managed to make ends meet with the money received after selling the phone.”The couple has been staying in Jalandhar for eight months. The last month and a half were the toughest. But they are happy to return home. Others as well feel relieved at the thought of finally meeting members of their families.About 1.13 lakh migrants from Jalandar have applied for the online registration.But there are some, who are staying back, hoping to find work soon. A group of youths, who worked as loaders before the lockdown, said they would resume working in the fields in two to three days.
07-05-2020||---||Revenue Dept to resume work||Chandigarh, May 6 The state Revenue Department today ordered the resumption of all revenue-related work in the non-containment zones across the state. In directions issued today, the department made it clear that all work will be done online, without people having to come to the tehsil offices. In areas that fall under green and orange zones, only 50 per cent of the documents that were registered earlier, before the lockdown, will be registered. In the red zones, only 30 per cent of the documents registered in pre-COVID days will be registered. The department has also given exemption for seeking biometrics of people registering the documents for the time being. While the government has allowed the registration of wills, the transfer of property within blood relatives has been put on hold. Fard kendras have been allowed to be opened and all stamp vendors and typists have been allowed to work, while maintains social distancing, an official said.
07-05-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda gets another OOAT centre||The state government started an OOAT (Out-Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment) clinic at Virk Kalan village in the district on Wednesday to meet the increased inflow of drug addicts at the existing centres.Following restrictions on the movement of people and intensive vigil, the drug supply chain has been choked, resulting in increased registrations of addicts at OOAT clinics in the state.In Bathinda alone, 1,693 new addicts got themselves registered at the six OOAT clinics, besides thousands visited the OPDs at government-run de-addiction centres.The OOAT clinic at PHC, Virk Kalan, is the seventh such facility in the district. — TNS
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||ADGP among 7 cops home-quarantined||A Chandigarh-based ADGP, an Inspector General and five other policemen have been placed in home quarantine as they had come in contact with Covid-positive gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. An investigation has begun on how the gangster got infected.Police sources said the ADGP had questioned the gangster in relation to a murder case apart from some allegations of drug smuggling, ransom calls and his connection with political leaders. He was taken on remand from the Patiala Central Jail to the Batala police on April 30. He tested positive on May 3. It is a mystery on how he caught the virus. So far, police and health officials have not found a lead in contact tracing.Though Jaggu was taken on remand for questioning regarding the murder of an Akali sarpanch, police sources said he was questioned on the suspicion of involvement in other cases as well. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the ADGP and other officers were in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. He said senior officers had questioned him regarding a case while some other ranks had brought the gangster on remand from Patiala. — TNS
07-05-2020||Faridkot||Online test for class IX, X  pupils  on May 9||After online classes and assignments, the school Education Department has now scheduled an online test on May 9 for class IX and X students to evaluate their performance and understanding of the basic concepts. In the test, there would be 10 questions each for English and social science. The students will have 24 hours to submit their answers.  About 22.53 lakh students are enrolled in government schools in the state, out of which 3.04 lakh are in government high schools and 7.29 lakh government senior secondary schools. The department authorities said it was not a standardised test and the objective was to keep the students up to speed with their studies during lockdown. However, a large number of students were facing disruptions owing to lack of access to mobile phones, internet and laptops, unlike many pupils from private schools. For the past about one month, the department has been giving online assignments to the students in high and senior secondary schools.  A large number of students find it virtually impossible to study mathematics and other subjects via WhatsApp. — TNS
07-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Unaware of source of infection, say Nanded returnees||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 6The pilgrims, who have returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded and tested positive for Covid-19, are unaware of the source of infection.A majority of them, however, admit that there was no mandatory social distancing during the 48-hour-long journey back home, not even during their halt for meals.Most of the patients have not developed any health complications till date even seven days after their arrival. None of them is taking any medicine.Swaran Singh (50), who is admitted to an isolation ward in the district, along with his wife, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren, all positive, said, “We reached Sangrur on April 29. There was no social distancing in the bus. We took food during the journey at various places on roadsides, but most meals came from gurdwaras. We had langar sitting in a row without any social distancing. We, however, did not stop at any dhaba or eatery.”Another positive pilgrim Jaspal Singh (24), who came on a different bus, said, “We had food inside the bus. Only once we had food outside a dhaba near an unknown city, but the food had come from a gurdwara. We are unaware of the source of infection.”While talking The Tribune, pilgrims said they were healthy and taking proper meals. “We do not have cough, cold, temperature or any breathing problem. We are not taking any medicine, yet we are Covid patients. We have doubts over the test reports,” alleged Gurbhajan Singh (62) from Bhawanigarh.There are many like the parents of Fatehdeep Singh (17), another positive patient, who strongly believe that there is some problem in testing.“My son is completely healthy. How can he be infected? There seems to be some problem in testing,” said his mother Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident of Dirba.
07-05-2020||Fazilka||After protest, 3 docs posted at Jalalabad hospital||A day after employees of the Jalalabad civil hospital protested the shortage of manpower, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Wednesday deployed three specialist doctors and other staff at the medical facility to tend to Covid-19 patients. All 38 patients of the district have been admitted in the 100-bed isolation centre of the hospital. The hospital operates under the under the aegis of BFUHS. Dr Anand Gopal Singh Bawa, administrator, BFUHS, said three specialist doctors, including two anaesthetists, had been deployed. Besides, 10 nurses have also been deployed.  Bawa said 29 more nurses would be sent on Thursday to ease the workload. The hospital’s paramedical protested on Tuesday, claiming that untrained employees deployed at the isolation centre lacked the competence to tend to 38 Covid-19 patients. Civil Surgeon Dr Harchand Singh said the Health Department had been facing shortage of doctors. He feigned ignorance of the number of doctors posted in the Jalalabad hospital. — OC
07-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Centre releases Rs 309 crore dues to unaided colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6To support unaided colleges facing the threat of closure amid the Covid-19 lockdown, the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has released Rs309 crore dues to the state under the scholarship scheme for 2015-16 and 2016-17.More than 3 lakh students each were enrolled during these two financial years. The amount includes the maintenance allowance paid to students and the fee paid to colleges. Sources say that of the Rs309 crore, Rs160 crore was under the head “maintenance allowance” and the remaining would go colleges. The amount, released in three instalments, would be disbursed soon, said officials in the Social Welfare Department.As per the guidelines of the scheme, Rs1,200 to Rs5,400 is paid as maintenance allowance per annum to each student and fee varying between Rs5,000 and Rs50,000 is paid per annum per student to the college. The maintenance allowance and fee depends on the course opted by students.Largely dependent on the enrolment of Scheduled Caste (SC) students under the SC post-matric scholarship scheme, the unaided colleges have not paid salaries to more than one lakh teaching and non-teaching staff for seven months. The college managements recently expressed their inability to pay salaries during the lockdown as well.They attribute their poor financial condition due to the non-receipt of Rs1,850 crore dues under the scheme for the past four years from the Centre and the state government.FEDERATION SEEKS FUNDS TO PAY SALARIESThe Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions (FSFTI) expressed its concern on the circular issued recently by the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi, directing all technical institutions in the country to pay salaries to the staff and not to charge fee from students during the lockdown. Dr Anshu Kataria, president, FSFTI, urged the AICTE to immediately release endowment funds, FDRs and security deposits to the colleges.
07-05-2020||Archit Watts||Lambi village turns hotspot as 5 test +ve||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 6Channu village in the Lambi assembly segment has become a hotspot of the Covid-19 cases. As many as five people, including two brothers and a husband-wife, have so far been tested positive in this village. One labourer, who recently returned from Rajasthan, was found infected today.As a preventive measure, the village has been sealed by the administration.Bikar Singh, a village resident, said, “We are living in fear. Many people who were in touch with infected persons have been quarantined. Further, some labourers who had returned from Rajasthan are quarantined at the village school. Their test reports are awaited.”Meanwhile, the police arrested a man for allegedly provoking people to run away from a quarantine centre at Doda village. Besides, a resident of Muktsar town too has been arrested for asking people to come on roads.The district’s count has reached 66. One patient has been cured and discharged from the hospital.The health officials today sent the samples of police personnel of Malout (City) police station after two ASIs tested positive yesterday. Besides, the samples of possible contacts of a constable of 13th battalion of PAP, who was also tested positive, were sent for testing.The samples of two employees of a private hospital were also taken as a Covid patient had  visited the hospital a few days ago.Covid patient flees home, bookedMuktsar: The police caught hold of a 19-year-old boy who ran away from his house hours after he had tested positive for virus. He was admitted to a Covid hospital here. A case under Sections 269, 270, 188 of the IPC, 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and 54 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against him. Sources said the boy had gone to his relatives’ house in Tarn Taran district. TNS
07-05-2020||---||Sarpanch killed over old rivalry in Patiala||Patiala, May 6In a shocking incident, a sarpanch in Patiala was brutally murdered late on Tuesday night. The 32-year-old was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by assailants, the police said. The deceased has been identified as Bhupinder Singh, sarpanch of Passiana village. He is said to have been associated and backed by the Congress.The police said the sarpanch was allegedly attacked in the village around 9 pm on Tuesday night. His two brothers, who were with him at the time of the attack, have also been injured.They were rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital. After getting first aid, the sarpanch was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead.Sources said some jail inmates, who were out on bail, were involved in the attack and are reportedly from the same village. After a preliminary inquiry, the police claimed old rivalry was the reason behind the attack. Family members of the deceased alleged he had been attacked earlier as well.Jaswant Singh Mangat, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Samana, said they had registered a case. He said 14 persons by name and 12 others had been booked under Sections 302, 307 and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code. “No arrests have been made so far. Raids are being conducted to nab the accused,” he said.
07-05-2020||Muktsar||Judge duped of Rs 10K||The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Kawaljit Singh, was allegedly duped of Rs10,000 in an online fraud two days ago.  The FIR said  money was withdrawn from the victim’s bank account. A case has been registered. — TNS
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Post murder, cops  to oversee distribution||Punjab Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has directed the police administration to ensure tight security arrangements during wheat distribution. The directions were issued by the minister in the wake of an untoward incident in Kapurthala, wherein a depot holder’s brother, Anil Mahajan, was beaten to death for not giving free ration to a policeman’s family members. While people all over the world had locked themselves up inside their homes to safeguard themselves from the virus, this tragic incident of killing someone who was distributing wheat among people was appalling, the minister said. The minister also directed the Health Department officials to ensure adherence of the social distancing norms at the time of wheat distribution. — TNS
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Beneficiaries yet to get aid: Harsimrat||Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today said central food relief material for April had not been distributed to the people in Punjab and asked the state government not to deny the poor their due. Harsimrat said: “Negligible amount of ration has been distributed. This despite the fact that 1 lakh tonnes of wheat and 6,000 tonnes of pulses have been received from the Centre by the state for 1.4 crore people, which is half the population of Punjab.” — TNS
07-05-2020||Bathinda||Despite ban, fruit from other states make way||Despite a ban, arhtiyas in the district are transporting fruit and vegetable from other states or districts, thus violating the curfew norms.In view of the Haryana episode, where a surge in Covid cases was witnessed after the arhtiyas had procured vegetables from Azadpur Mandi in Delhi, the police here have started registering cases against the defaulting commission agents as a precautionary measure.On May 5, the Civil Lines police seized a truck carrying bananas from other state at Model Town phase-3 here and registered a case against seven persons. Even the arhtiyas were found at fault in this connection.On May 1, the police seized three vehicles for bringing in cucumber from other state. A case was registered against eight persons at the Kotwali police station.DSP City 1 Gurjit Singh Romana said: “The entry of vehicles carrying fruit and vegetable from any other state or district has been banned during curfew as a precautionary measure and the police have been keeping a tight vigil. Many cases have been registered against people found flouting the norms.”The decision has been taken in view of the fact that onion comes from Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid cases, and tomato and other fruit and vegetable from Gujarat, Delhi and other states, again with high number of Covid cases.Bathinda has reported 37 cases, all Nanded returnees, so far in the district.At present, residents are getting locally grown vegetable and fruit in the district. Reportedly, there is no shortage of vegetable and fruit in the city, yet some commission agents are transporting it from other states. — OC
07-05-2020||Aman Sood---||84 incidents, wheat growers continue to burn stubble||Tribune News Service Patiala, May 6 Farmers have started to put their wheat stubble on fire. After the harvest season, 84 incidents of stubble-burning were recorded by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana.  Last year, the state recorded over 8,500 incidents wherein wheat straw was burnt in fields. According to experts, the number of such incidents is expected to rise by May-end. Farm outfits and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had appealed to farmers to avoid stubble-burning amid the Covid crisis this year, but it seems this had little impact on ground.  Maximum 15 cases of stubble-burning were recorded in Bathinda district, followed by 10 in Sangrur and nine in Mansa. Every year after harvesting, farmers utilise the leftover crop in fields for fodder and later set the stubble on fire. However, the comparative analysis for 2018, 2019 and 2020 shows that till May 2, the farm fires were down considerably from 806, 162 and 77, respectively. Data compiled by The Tribune reveals that Punjab saw 80,879 cases of stubble-burning in 2016 while the number dropped to 43,814 in 2017 only to rise again to 50,479 in 2018. Maximum challans were issued in 2018 and a fine of Rs 1.37 crore was levied on defaulters. However, only Rs 19 lakh could be collected. “Erring farmers, backed by politically inclined farm unions, refused to deposit the fine and even took officials hostage when they were approached,” said an official. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) is between the ‘satisfactory to moderate’ category in Punjab, following a decrease in industrial emissions and vehicular traffic.
07-05-2020||Faridkot||PSEB mulls holding Class XII exams||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has started preparations to conduct the remaining exams of Class XII. The exams had to be postponed on March 20. In view of the fact that the exams are crucial for admission to higher education institutions, the Controller (examinations), PSEB, in a letter to all district education officers, asked them to submit a list of Class XII exam centres, which are either situated in red zones or being used as quarantine centres in the state, and submit a list of alternative exam centres in place of the identified centres. — OC
07-05-2020||---||Two more deaths in Punjab, cases rise to 1,526||Chandigarh, May 6With 75 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 1,526. With two deaths — one each in Jalandhar and Patiala — confirmed today by the government, the toll has reached 27. Story HighlightsAs per the media bulletin released, Moga topped the chart with 28 cases today followed by Tarn Taran with 16 cases, Amritsar 13, Fatehgarh Sahib 3, two in Patiala, Mansa, Sangrur and one each Barnala, Muktsar, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar.The total number of cases in Moga has reached 56. Most of the patients are pilgrims and their family members who had returned from Nanded in Maharashtra. District health authorities today collected samples of at least 58 people and sent them to the laboratory of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot for testing. More than 200 pilgrims who returned from Nanded are presently under observation in various isolation wards here.In Jalandhar a 30-year-old resident of Qazi Mohalla has become the fifth Covid-19 casualty in the district. The 137th person to test positive is a supervisor of Guru Nanak Mission Hospital in Jalandhar. Notably, the man who tested positive today was sampled as one of the contacts of the Qazi Mohalla man who died at PGI today. At least 90 staff members of the private hospital have been placed under quarantine after their samples were collected by the health authorities. In Patiala, mystery shrouds the death of a 39-year-old Covid-positive resident, who died on Tuesday afternoon. He was declared brought dead at Mata Kaushalya Hospital. After the family members suspected Covid, the Health department collected his samples. The result of the test came out on Wednesday. The department has failed to identify the source of infection of the man. The department said samples of family members had already been taken while contact tracing was underway.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 32,060 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 24,303 samples were found negative and reports of 6,231 were still awaited.
