07-07-2020||---||Six more succumb to Covid in Punjab; case tally 6,749||Chandigarh, July 5With 258 fresh cases, including six deaths, being reported in the last 24 hours in Punjab, the state count of confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 6,749.One death each was reported from Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Sangrur, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Shaib.With these deaths the number of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 175. Besides that 38 patients are on oxygen support and six on ventilator.A 70-year-old Covid-19 patient from Amargarh block of Sangrur district, who was suffering from problems like fever, breathlessness, died last night.  She was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, three days back. The death toll has increased to 16 in district, out of which 12 are from Malerkotla and remaining one each from Sherpur, and Fatehgarh Panjgarayan blocks while two are from Amargarh block.As per the state media bulletin, among districts which were badly affected by the virus ion last 24 hours include Ludhiana with 78 cases, followed by Sangrur and Patiala with 43 cases each, 26 cases from SBS Nagar, 16 from Jalandhar, 14 from Moga.
07-07-2020||Mohali||70-year-old dies of COVID-19 taking the death toll to 6 in Mohali||A 70-year-old man from Kharar, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at the GMCH Hospital in Patiala taking the death toll in Mohali district to six on Tuesday.The deceased was earlier admitted in a private hospital in Sector 68 with chronic disease and was to undergo surgery but was later shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala, where he died on Tuesday.  Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the body has been kept in the mortuary at the Patiala hospital and cremation will take place in Mohali on Wednesday as per protocol under the observation of health officials.He said they would collect the samples of his family members and will also trace contacts of the deceased.Meanwhile, five more cases were reported in Mohali district taking the total count to 323.The persons infected with the virus include a 40-year-old male from Zirakpur, 48-year-old male from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, 38-year-old male from Nayagaon, 50-year-old male from Baltana and a 28-year-old female from Mundi Kharar.Dr Manjit Singh said, all the patients were suffering from ILI and have been admitted in Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said the patient from Mundi Kharar was in contact with a positive case. He said health teams have been directed to take the samples of their family members on Wednesday.Dr Singh said that eight patients have recovered from the disease and discharged from the hospital.He said as of now there were 323 positive cases and out of these 237 have recovered while there were 80 active cases and six deaths in the district.
07-07-2020||Patiala||29-year-old Army man from Samana dies during crossfire with militants in J&K||The news of the death of Naik Rajwinder Singh (29) of Dodra village of Samana came home to grieving parents and family on Tuesday.The Army jawan was killed during crossfire with militants in Pulwama of Jammu and Kashmir is now the topic of talk in the town for his bravery.The 29-year-old’s father said he was proud that his son laid down his life for the country.Rajwinder Singh had enrolled in the Indian Army in 2011. Survived by his father Avtar Singh, mother Mahinder Kaur and wife Gurpreet Kaur, he had not visited home in the last six months.He was supposed to visit home in March but could not come due to the imposition of lockdown.Inconsolable, the mother said she could not believe her son had died during the crossfire.Avtar Singh, his father said, “My son has attained martyrdom. This has brightened the name of our village and the state.”The family had had a word with him on Monday evening after which they said the cross firing took place.Government officials said Rajwinder had earlier served in Nagaland and had remained in the Ghatak Platoon as well.He later volunteered to be posted for counter-terrorist operations in 53 Rashtriya Rifles and got posted in Jammu and Kashmir.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh later announced ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh and job for a member of his family.Member Parliament Preneet Kaur, Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and officials of the district administration also consoled the family.
07-07-2020||Ludhiana||Dissident Akali leaders ‘elect’ Sukhdev Dhindsa as SAD chief; party says move ‘illegal, fraud’||A faction of dissident Akali leaders on Tuesday “elected” Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa as the SAD president at a gurdwara here, a move dubbed as “illegal and fraud” by the party.Currently, Sukhbir Singh Badal is the party president.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, along with his son and former state finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, was expelled from the SAD in February this year allegedly for “anti-party” activities.Dhindsa later joined hands with the party’s splinter groups, including the SAD (Taksali). Proposing the name of Dhindsa for the post of the president, two-time Lok Sabha member Parminder Kaur Gulshan said the Sangrur convention held recently under the chairmanship of the leader had “removed” Sukhbir Singh Badal from the post of the party president.She said Dhindsa, a “newly elected president” of the SAD, will function from the party office in Amritsar.Jagdish Singh Garcha and Harjit Kaur Talwandi, daughter of former party president the late Jagdev Singh Talwandi, seconded the proposal.Dhindsa was “declared the president” of the SAD amidst slogans of “jo bole so nihal”.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal’s senior leader Daljeet Singh Cheema described this move as “illegal and fraud” and accused the expelled leader of acting at the behest of the Congress.Cheema said the SAD is a 100-year-old party which is registered with the Election Commission of India.“What they have done is 100 per cent fraud. It is illegal and amounts to forgery. They are doing it at the behest of the Congress,” alleged Cheema.The SAD had earlier alleged that the Rajya Sabha MP and his son Parminder Dhindsa were being used as “pawns” by the Congress in a bid to weaken the “panthic” party.However, Dhindsa on the occasion said the party will strive hard to establish the eroded principles of the Sikh politics and liberate Sikh institutions from the “clutches” of Badals.He asserted that they will fight to solve major issues of Punjab and to strengthen the federal system in the country.Dhindsa said the party will pay a special attention to the farming community and work for improving the condition of the Dalits and minorities.The party will work for the eradication of mafias involved in “looting” sand, transport, liquor and other natural resources of the state, said Dhindsa.Appreciating the contribution of NRIs to the state economy and development, Dhindsa said the party will accord priority to get their problems resolved.He added that women had always made exemplary contributions to all Sikh movements and their services will be honoured by giving them due representation in party.Former Union minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia; Manjit Singh GK, former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC); former state deputy speaker Bir Davinder Singh; SAD (Taksali) leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan; ex-Punjab minister Jagdish Singh Garcha and his brother Maan Singh Charcha; and Parminder Singh Dhindsa were present on the occasion. — PTI
07-07-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Mohali, Machhiwara youths killed in road accident in Canada’s Vancouver||Two Punjab youths died in a road accident in Vancouver in Canada, according to a Punjabi Tribune report from Machhiwara in Ludhiana district.They have been identified as Gian Singh, 21, of Machhiwara and his friend from Mohali district.Gian Singh, son of Garden Valley International School, Machhiwara, trustee Gurbhagat Singh Namdhari, was studying mechanical engineering in Vancouver.Also read: ਕੈਨੇਡਾ ’ਚ ਸੜਕ ਹਾਦਸਾ: ਮਾਛੀਵਾੜਾ ਤੇ ਮੁਹਾਲੀ ਦੇ ਨੌਜਵਾਨਾਂ ਦੀ ਮੌਤHe went with his friend on an outing on Monday. When they were returning home their car collided with a truck resulting in their deaths.Police identified them from their ID cards and sounded their local guardians.
07-07-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana ADC Amarjit Bains tests COVID-19 positive; DC, CS, Dist Epidemiologist quarantined||Now, Covid-19 has cast its shadow on the district administration with Ludhiana Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) General, Amarjit Bains testing positive for the deadly disease on Tuesday.    Following this, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma, Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, District Epidemiologist Dr Ramesh have self-quarantined.  They have sent in their samples for testing. DC Varinder Sharma said that the ADC has been unwell since Monday, and was suffering from fever—following this, he volunteered himself to get tested for coronavirus.  "As I was in touch with him, I have quarantined myself. I was also present in the meeting that was held yesterday. I am hale and hearty, but will be working from home till my reports come in," said the DC. A review meeting was held on Monday, which was attended by the Deputy Commissioner and other health officials, that included the ADC. Whoever was present at the meeting has been asked to quarantine themselves. Covid-19 Nodal officer Sanyam Aggarwal, SDMs Amrinder Singh Malhi and Baljinder Singh Dhillon had attended the meeting. Despite them, the Health Department officials, including Civil Surgeon and District Epidemiologist were present as well.Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Police Ashwani Kapoor had tested coronavirus positive, and Ludhiana police had lost Assistant Commissioner of Police Anil Kohli to COVID.
07-07-2020||Mohali||Except for tricity residents, no entry to Mohali without e-pass||As coronavirus cases surged in Mohali, the district administration on Tuesday disallowed entry into the area without an e-pass except for tricity residents. “No unauthorized entry would be allowed and a strict vigil would be maintained at all the five Border Check Posts in the district to ensure that everybody entering the district goes through proper procedures as laid out in the advisory regarding Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs),” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.However, this would not be applicable in the Tricity area as a significant number of people staying in Chandigarh and Panchkula, work in government offices or IT companies in Mohali and vice versa. The people would only have to show an ID card issued from their offices or residence proof to the police. Dayalan said that given the rising cases of coronavirus, the district administration would double up its efforts, which would include deploying police and health departments teams, to make sure that everybody coming to the district is made to go through proper medical screening. Three screening centres each will be set up at Siswan, Jharmari, Zirakpur, Bohra Khera Morh, and Nagal Morh border check posts. Only e-passes generated through Cova app would be accepted, he added.Dayalan said data entry operators would be deployed at every border check post for maintaining complete information about every person entering the district. Experts at each border post who would assist the people in downloading the Cova app. Besides, an ambulance service would also be kept on call to ensure its availability at short notice, he added. “Any person coming to Punjab via any mode—i.e. Road, rail or air— shall henceforth, and till further orders, would be medically screened when he/she enters Punjab and will be required to e-register himself/herself through any of the following means before starting his/her journey to Punjab. By uploading the Cova app on his/her mobile phone and then registering himself/herself and each member of his/her family travelling with him/her,” he added.The DC the e-registration slip would be pasted on the windscreen of vehicles. If travelling in public transport, the slip should be downloaded on the phone. Travellers could also login on to portalhttps://cova.punjab.gov.in/registration and then e-register all members of their family travelling with them to Punjab.He said in case any inbound traveller does not undertake the steps detailed above, then they would be asked at the border or rail, airport check post to cooperate with the team of the Punjab Government, who would undertake the data capturing process there at the spot itself. He further said that except for frequent travellers, all inbound persons will have to undertake a self-quarantine of 14 days in Punjab. They will have to update their health status daily on COVA app or would have to call 112 daily during this period. He further said that for international travellers, the quarantine would be institutional for the first seven days and home for the next seven days. Any violation of these instructions will make violators liable for penal action, he added.
07-07-2020||Phagwara||NRI killed, Rs 8 lakh robbed by unidentified assailants in Phagwara||An elderly NRI was looted of Rs 8 lakh and killed by some unidentified men at Ranjit Nagar locality here, police said on Tuesday.      Hans Raj Basra (65) was killed on Monday midnight, they said.Phagwara Superintendent of Police Manwinder Singh said Basra was settled in the UK and had come here sometime back.The SP said that the Non-Resident Indian (NRI) had sold off a plot in Jalandhar and bought another one. The Rs eight lakh from the transactions were kept in his almirah, he said.He said that assailants attacked the man with some sharp-edged weapon.            A case has been registered, the police said, adding that investigations were underway. PTI
07-07-2020||Zirakpur||Sukhbir Badal holds protest against Punjab govt to cut VAT on petrol, diesel; no social distancing maintained||SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal led party’s statewide agitation against Captain Amarinder Singh government demanding a cut in Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to bring down the sky-rocketing prices.Addressing his party workers here, Badal launched the attack by targeting the Congress government for failing to distribute the ration provided by the Centre government to the needy people during this crisis.“The Congress leaders in the district and village sarpanches sold the ration meant for the poor people in shops. How is it that poor people got the ration in Haryana, HP and Delhi,” he asked.The former deputy chief minister criticised the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government for claiming that the government coffers are empty.“The Congress government is mired in a scam of Rs 5,600 crore by pocketing Centre government’s money for the relief work. Their leaders have overnight opened liquor distilleries and are selling spurious liquor. The sand mafia is the one emptying the government coffers. On the other hand, the common man has been burdened by hikes in power rates,” he said.Badal asked the Centre and the state government to reduce Rs 10 each on VAT so that the prices of petrol and diesel are normalised. Ironically, the Centre government increased the price of diesel by 25 paise per litre after seven days on Tuesday. The price of petrol, however, remained unchanged.Badal reminded the Captain government that the price of petrol and diesel is the highest in Punjab among all the neighbouring spot.“I have written a letter to the Prime Minister to bring down the prices of petrol and diesel. Let the state government do it first, then we can demand it from the Centre government,” Badal said.Taking a dig at the Chief Minister, Badal said Captain Amarinder Singh is in a self-imposed lockdown, "he is not even meeting his own MLAs,” he said.On the private schools asking for a fee from the parents in the state, Badal said: “They should not take fee from the people as they are already going through a financial crisis."No social distancing:During the protest, the party workers and other people forgot to maintain social distancing, but the SAD leader said: “I had specifically asked the party workers to maintain social distancing. That is why I sat at a distance from the workers during the protest.”
07-07-2020||Patiala||Patiala Police book Youth Akali Dal leaders for violating social-distancing norms||Patiala Police on Tuesday registered an FIR against Youth Akali Dal leaders, including its president, for breaking social-distancing norms during a dharna.YAD president Parambans Singh Romana was booked along with MLA Harinderpal Chandumajra and district Akali President Harpal Juneja for violating the norms.Police have registered a case under sections 188, 283, 269 of the IPC and the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act against YAD Chief and other leaders.On Monday, the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) held a massive dharna, along with parents of children who go to a private school, to demand the school management return the excess fee charged from students.They served a three-day ultimatum to the district management to resolve the issue to the satisfaction of the parents or be ready for a sustained agitation.YAD workers led by its President Parambans Singh Romana were stopped just short of the new Moti Bagh Palace of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.
07-07-2020||---||Punjabi diaspora welcomes flight connecting Toronto with Amritsar||Amritsar, July 6The Qatar Airways rolling out a new flight connecting Toronto and Amritsar was on Monday welcomed with open arms by the punjabi diaspora. The airlines had commenced its operation on July 4.Running thrice a week to Toronto from the hub of the Qatar Airways at the Hamad International Airport in Doha, it will have a stopover at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport. The direct flight will provide seamless one-stop connectivity between Amritsar-Toronto via Doha.The airline has already been operating daily direct flights between Doha and Amritsar providing one-stop short transit connections via Doha to about nine North American destinations including four weekly flights to Montreal, Canada as well.Anantdeep Singh Dhillon, FlyAmritsar North America convenor, informed that amid the lockdown and suspension of international flights by India, there is some good news for the punjabi diaspora in Canada. He said: “A large concentration of punjabis in and around Toronto and Vancouver in Canada were forced to travel through Delhi because of the non-availability of direct flights to these cities from Amritsar. With the introduction of this new route by Qatar Airways, Amritsar will now have seven weekly flights to Canada via Doha.”The timings of this newly introduced flight between Doha-Toronto also enables short transit time of about three hours and 45 minutes through Doha, he pointed out.Sameep Singh Gumtala, a resident of the USA and the global convener of FlyAmritsar initiative, said, “Qatar Airways recently worked closely with the government of Canada to repatriate around 8,000 Canadian citizens from Amritsar Airport alone during the recent crisis. The airline operated about 20 chartered evacuation flights from Amritsar to Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal.”
07-07-2020||Minna Zutshi||Most people hardly follow norms despite surge in cases||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 6Even as Covid cases continue to rise in the city, many people in residential areas are throwing caution to the wind. Physical distancing is not observed. Face masks are not worn. Spitting on the roads is quite common.“People don’t seem to care about guidelines and precautions issued by the government and the administration. They are casual about the preventive measures,” says Nidhi, a homemaker.Precautions such as frequent handwashing, maintaining social distancing were ignored, she said.I fail to understand what kind of logic it is. When they walk on the road they don’t wear the mask. But when they drive, they put the face mask on. Do they think that they can contract the disease only if they ride a scooter or drive a car? Basically, there is a lack of awareness. Though apparently people seem to be aware of the pandemic at some abstract level, they seem to think that they would not contract the disease even if they give a go-by to all precautions. This is sad as well as scary! —A Senior CitizenIn many localities, children from the lower socio-economic strata can be seen busy chatting in close proximity with one another. Sans any face masks, they seem to be oblivious of the pandemic as a resident of the Barewal Road area observed.To make the matters worse, they even spit on road. In fact, spitting is a major problem in many localities.“You have all chances of being exposed to bad respiratory hygiene of others who do not cover their mouth and nose with a flexed elbow while coughing or sneezing,” said Gurpreet Singh, a teacher.Even those from higher socio-economic strata are reluctant to wear face masks. This is particularly the case during morning hours when they go for a morning walk in groups. A senior citizen, not wishing to be identified, says: “I fail to understand what kind of logic it is. When they walk on the road they don’t wear the mask. But when they drive, they put the face mask on. Do they think that they can contract the disease only if they ride a scooter or drive a car?”“Basically, there is a lack of awareness. Though apparently people seem to be aware of the pandemic at some abstract level, they seem to think that they would not contract the disease even if they give a go-by to all precautions. This is sad as well as scary!” adds the senior citizen.
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t lunch in canteens, Chandigarh Administrator tells staff||As part of steps to check the spread of Covid-19, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today ordered that the practice of employees having lunch together in canteens or in office rooms should be discontinued in view of the social distancing norms.The order was issued after a sudden outbreak of Covid cases in the UT Education Department.At a review meeting, Badnore also ordered that teaching and non-teaching staff should not be asked to come to colleges and offices unless there was emergent work. He also ordered that employees should wear a mask and maintain social distance during the tea break to check the spread of the virus. With the rise in Covid-19 cases due to people visiting the city, the Administrator stressed on more vigorous contact tracing and screening of outsiders. The Administrator said in government and private offices, only minimum staff should be called and others should be encouraged to work from home.During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, expressed concern over medical cases, which can be treated at the district level, being sent to the PGI, thereby crowding the infrastructure.On this, the Administrator directed that the matter be taken up with the neighbouring states so that such patients could get proper treatment at local hospitals.
07-07-2020||---||Ludhiana MLA Balwinder Singh Bains files plaint over missing ‘saroops’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6Ludhiana MLA Balwinder Singh Bains, who is also an SGPC member, today lodged a complaint with the Amritsar police, seeking a probe into the missing 267 “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib.The issue came to the light after SGPC’s former assistant supervisor (publication) Kanwaljit Singh was denied retirement benefits over the matter. He claimed that at least 80 “birs” were damaged in a fire incident of May 19, 2016, at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.On the other hand, the SGPC claimed that only 14 “saroops” were damaged and the remaining were misappropriated.Bains said: “The damaged ‘saroops’ were taken to Goindwal Sahib and no ‘pashchatap’ (remorse prayers) were held. Kanwaljit Singh has claimed that he had beenpressured to issue ‘saroops’ without making an entry in the records. We demand a thorough inquiry into the matter and punishment to the erring SGPC officials.”
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||71% of fresh cases from 3 district in Punjab||As many as 208 positive cases were reported across the state today, besides five deaths (three in Ludhiana alone) during the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases has risen to 6,491.Ludhiana Worst-HitOf the seven containment zones earmarked on Monday, three are in LudhianaWith large outbreak areas in Jalandhar, Malerkotla (Sangrur district) and Ludhiana, the government has set up containment zones here, besides Gurdaspur and Mohali. Of the seven zones earmarked today, three are in Ludhiana. Of the total 6,491 positive cases reported till date, 1,828 are active cases.In Ludhiana, all three Covid fatalities were reported in patients having co-morbid conditions. A total of 25 persons tested positive today.In Sangrur, 28 of total 40 new cases in the district have come from Malerkotla. A 65-year-old man from Malerkotla, having co-morbid conditions, died today. Eight positive cases were reported from Sunam, four each from Moonak and Longowal, three from Sangrur and two from Dhuri.Jalandhar saw the maximum number of positive cases at 84. In Amritsar, a 42-year-old man died today. Eleven positive cases were reported in the district today. — TNS
07-07-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Records of SC scholarship fund disbursal go missing, probe on||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Smelling a rat in the disbursal of funds under the Scheduled Caste (SC) post-matric scholarship scheme to private education institutions, the Social Welfare Department has begun a probe into the matter.Utilisation Certificate DelayedThe records pertaining to disbursal of nearly Rs 55.97 crore are reported to be missing.A senior government functionary said against the administrative approval for disbursal of Rs 248.11 crore, the records pertaining to disbursal of Rs 192.14 crore have been matched, leaving a gap of Rs 55.97 crore. Instead of disbursing the money by the direct benefit transfer mode to the intended beneficiaries, the funds were mostly transferred through a bank in violation of the Finance Department guidelines.Sources said against the approval for 1,219 colleges, the records showed that the funds were transferred to only 1,022 colleges. “There is a mismatch in the figures provided by the treasury and banks. This means some of the colleges have been disbursed funds more than what they are entitled to, leaving others out, but it is subject to the outcome of the inquiry”, said an official.Under the scheme, the Centre had released Rs 303.92 crore in February and March last year. While Rs 55.81 crore has been properly disbursed, the record pertaining to disbursal of Rs 248.11 crore is not matching. The officials concerned have been asked to provide the official records so that the matter can be probed.
07-07-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Study flags excess pesticide use by rice, cotton growers in Punjab, Kashmir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6A joint study, commissioned by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research, has raised concern about the high use of pesticides by rice and cotton growers in Punjab. The study said the use of pesticides was maximum in the Kashmir valley while Punjab ranked second in north India.High Use Of ChemicalsRice and cotton growers of Punjab, vegetable cultivators of Jammu and apple growers of Kashmir were found to be exposed to health risks arising from the application of high quantities of pesticides, said the study conducted by scientists from Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana; Amity University, UP; and Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Jammu. The study, published in ‘Environmental Management’, also revealed that the official figures of pesticide use were largely under-reported.The study took into account the use of pesticides and fungicides by rice farmers in Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Moga and Muktsar. These areas were selected as these account for 20 per cent of area under paddy cultivation in the state. They found that paddy cultivators applied 20 types of insecticides, five insecticide cocktails and nine herbicides. Some of these have been categorised as hazardous by the World Health Organisation.Cultivation of BT cotton in early 2000s had led to introduction of pesticides that are to be given in low dosage. “Even low dose of pesticides is extremely potent as their toxicity is greater than that of organochlorimates and carbonates used earlier,” it pointed out.For cotton, Fazilka, Bathinda and Mansa districts were selected. In all these places, integrated pest management programmes have been run for many years now, but farmers continue to use 26 insecticides, three readymade cocktail insecticides, nine fungicides, besides three fungicide cocktails, five herbicides and two bio-pesticides. Pesticide use by weight in cotton crop was found to be 2.660 kg per hectare. Pesticides belonging to WHO Hazard Category II were being used here.In Kashmir, the gross misuse of pesticide was attributed to the lack of integrated pest management. Though extremely hazardous and highly hazardous pesticides were not used for apple, the probable and possible carcinogenic pesticide use was 9.039 kg per hectare.Principal investigator of the study Rajinder Peshin told The Tribune that pesticide use in farming had been declining in late 1990s and early 2000. “Since 2007, it gained an upward trend. The study points out that apple is a pesticide guzzler with 25.2 kg of active ingredient per hectare being used. This is followed by cotton and rice areas of Punjab and vegetable cultivation in Jammu,” he said.
07-07-2020||Archit Watts---||‘Flouting norms’, SAD Muktsar legislator holds gatherings||Tribune News Service Muktsar, July 6 Though the state government has banned political gatherings due to Covid scare, Muktsar MLA-cum-SAD district president Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi is allegedly defying the order. The MLA on Sunday held a meeting of party workers at his residence to mobilise them for a protest to be held on Tuesday. The meeting was attended by nearly 100 people and a majority of them were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distancing. On Saturday, the MLA visited ward No. 8 in Muktsar town where some families joined the SAD in a political programme. He even shared photographs of these events on his social media accounts. However, the police are yet to act in this regard. Harwinder Singh Cheema, DSP, Muktsar, said, “I am not aware of such programmes. I will ask the SHOs concerned.” A Congress councillor said, “The police have so far acted against poor people. However, they are refraining to act against Akalis. Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana recently visited the district twice and violated District Magistrate’s order both times, but FIRs were registered against unidentified persons.”
07-07-2020||---||Bathinda AIIMS to get Covid testing centre||Bathinda, July 6A Covid-19 testing centre would be established at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, to combat the pandemic.Dr Dinesh Kumar Singh, who assumed charge as director, said, “The setting up of a Covid testing centre at AIIMS, Bathinda, will be instrumental.”Virtual OPDPeople are not willing to visit hospitals for minor problems. We plan to launch ‘e-Sanjeevani’, which will be a virtual OPD. —Dr Dinesh Kumar Singh, Director, AIIMSHe said, “Establishing a high dependency unit with 10-12 beds, which will function as an adhoc ICU for intermediary period before patients are transferred to a regular hospital for the treatment is on the cards. Shifting MBBS college to Bathinda from Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, is a main priority. The CT scan and MRI facilities are likely to commence within a month. A state-of-the-art sports complex, mess, reading room and library and operationalising the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ scheme will be among our top priorities.”He said construction activity had come to a halt due to shortage of labourers, but things were getting back to normal.Dr Dinesh said schemes aimed for patients of haemophilia, thalassemia and the Janani Suraksha Yojana (safe motherhood programme), among others, would be introduced at the AIIMS, Bathinda.
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Political outfits hail action against Sikhs for Justice||Political parties in the state have hailed stern action of the Union Home Ministry against Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).Sunil Jakhar, president, PPCC, said, “Intelligence reports had indicated that the SFJ was backed by Pakistan-based ISI. He said terrorism has to be fought jointly.”SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said, “Referendum 2020 was just a drama by those who hate India.” Ashwani Kumar, president of the BJP’s state unit, said, “Pannu is irrelevant not only in Punjab, but also in Canada”. Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema said, “The state government failed to curb the SFJ’s activity. The government should have approached the TRAI and got the calls blocked that urged people to respond.” — TNS
07-07-2020||Muktsar||Harsimrat: Free ration did not reach needy||Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal today alleged that free ration meant for the needy did not reached them and the state government has circumvented more than half of the ration.“The state government has stooped to a new low. Five kg of wheat or rice was meant for an individual and not for the entire family. This sheer loot by the government has saddened me,” she said.During a meeting with newly elected 21-member advisory committee of the Istri Akali Dal at her residence, she informed the members about various schemes of her ministry and other departments from where loans can be taken to encourage participation of women in business sphere. — TNS
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab School Education Department to launch Covid awareness drive||After launching an effective campaign to create awareness among people about Covid-19, the Punjab School Education Department has now launched another campaign to put ‘fattis’ (wooden writing tablet) on vehicles.Disclosing this here today, a spokesperson for the Education Department said under ‘Mission Fateh’, the department had decided to distribute splints for hanging them in cars and other vehicles. These ‘fattis’ would be distributed free of cost. The campaign has been launched from Gurdaspur district and in a few days, it will be rolled out across the state.According to the spokesperson, teachers have already launched a pledge campaign to create awareness among people regarding Covid. Teachers and students of various schools have been also making posters and sketches to disseminate more information about the pandemic. — TNS
07-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Youths with NZ work visa fear losing jobs, want to fly back||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 6Prabhjot Singh (26), who landed here in the first week of March from New Zealand to get married, is sitting idle these days. Unable to get any job here for the past two months, Prabhjot, who holds permanent work visa in New Zeland, wants to move back to the country. “Nobody is giving me work here and soon, my savings will be over,” he rued.Like him, there are many who had arrived here from various countries before the lockdown, and are now finding it difficult to make ends meet. While some are fearing losing their jobs there, some say their yearly work visas are expiring in a month or two. Prabhjot recently formed a group of such people, who are stuck here since the imposition of Covid lockdown. He said, “Even as special flights were arranged for PR holders and tourists from New Zealand, no such arrangement was made for people like me who have been working there from the past more than five years. There are over 1,000 Punjabis in the region who hold work visas of foreign nations but are stranded here. ”Grim scenarioI had gone to New Zealand in 2014 on a study visa and after five years I got a work visa. I have been working there as a chef for the last two years. Now I fear losing job. The long uncertainty has become stressful. —Amrit, chamkaur sahib villageMost of the stranded people are under 30 years of age and arrived at their hometowns either for marriage or to visit their ailing parents.Amrit (26), who resides here in a village near Chamkaur Sahib, said: “I had gone there in 2014 on a study visa and after struggling for five years, I managed to get a work visa. I have been working there as a chef for the past two years and now I fear losing my job. The long period of uncertainty has become very stressful.”Similarly, Pawanpreet Singh, a resident of Jalandhar, who was working at a travel company in New Zealand, said: “Though we are jobless for the past four months, we are still paying for our expenses, including rent, insurances and loans there. The online immigration portal is declining our applications even as we are ready to pay our quarantine and flight tickets expenses. My work visa is expiring and I have no idea how I will renew it. Nobody is giving us work here”.
07-07-2020||---||4 months on, ED awaits details on misuse of buprenorphine||Jalandhar, July 6More than four months have passed since the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had sought details from the state government regarding the misuse of 5 crore tablets of buprenorphine drug by private de-addiction centres, officials of the investigation agency are still awaiting information.The tablets that had gone missing between January 2019 and November 2019 are estimated to be worth Rs 200 crore.In mid-February, the officials had asked the government to send details about the 67 centres, which were issued show-cause notices by the Health Department. They had sought copies of notices sent to the centres under the NDPS Act.A senior official confirmed that no information had come from the health authorities in the last four months despite reminders. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said: “Two inquiries are being conducted into the matter, including one by the Special Task Force (STF) of the police. It will take some more time.”Similarly, in the case of illegal liquor trade, the state functionaries had not allowed the Central agency to probe the matter.
07-07-2020||Balwant Garg||SIT names dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim as accused in ‘bir’ theft case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 6The Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Monday nominated Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim as an accused in the “bir” theft case of June 2015.A “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in the district on June 1, 2015. Later on October 12, torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered near a gurdwara at Bargari village.Two days ago, the SIT had arrested seven dera followers in the case. It produced a challan (chargesheet) against them in the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) here today.Ranbir Singh Khattra, DIG and SIT head, said the investigation so far and confessional statements of the accused revealed that three sacrilege incidents at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages of Faridkot in 2015 were executed in consultation with the dera chief.It is alleged that under a conspiracy, the national committee of the dera had directed the block committee to execute the sacrilege acts after some dera followers at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village had removed their “sacred” threads and lockets (given to them by the dera) allegedly on the persuasion of a Sikh preacher.A total of 11 persons have been nominated as accused in the case. While seven of them were arrested two days ago, one Mohinder Pal Bittu was killed in Nabha jail last year. The dera chief is presently lodged in the Rohtak district prison in Sunaria after his conviction in a rape case and the SIT is yet to arrest the remaining three accused.On Monday, the SIT moved an application in a local court to procure the arrest warrant of Harsh Dhuri, Pardeep Kaler and Sandeep Bareta, all executive members of the national committee of the dera.Meanwhile, the SIT is yet to take a decision on questioning the dera chie, even as it has already taken the permission from a local court to question him.Probing the incidents of police firing at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura, the SIT had claimed that several witnesses had named the dera chief. So his questioning was necessary to unravel the plot behind the police firing incidents and identify the conspirators, the SIT had maintained, describing the dera chief as a “suspect” at that time. However, even one year after getting the permission, the SIT is yet to question Gurmeet Ram Rahim.Probe, statements indict Ram RahimRanbir Singh Khattra, DIG and SIT head, said the investigation so far and confessional statements of the accused revealed that three sacrilege incidents at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages of Faridkot in 2015 were executed in consultation with the dera chief.
07-07-2020||Faridkot||Cut-off lowered to fill vacant MDS seats||Facing shortage of eligible candidates to fill all 139 MDS seats in 12 dental colleges in the state, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Dental Council of India (DCI) have lowered the minimum qualifying marks and percentile for the admission.As 83 of the total 139 MDS state quota seats remained vacant after the first round of counselling conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) last month, the qualifying percentile for the MDS has been lowered from 50 to 31.065 for the general category. For the SC/BC and handicapped candidates, the qualifying percentile has been reduced from 40 to 21.065 and 45 to 26.065, respectively.The cut-off score for the general category candidates has been reduced from 286 to 220 marks. For the SC/ST and handicapped candidates, the revised cut-off score is 188 and 204 marks, respectively.The BFUHS on Monday also invited candidates for the second counselling.Though the result of NEET-MDS was declared on January 15, the admission process is yet to be completed due to the lockdown. —TNS
07-07-2020||GS Paul||Income hit, ‘pathis’ claim SGPC offering little help||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6As a precautionary measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the SGPC had to temporarily suspend the roster of “akhand path” at the Golden Temple complex and other Sikh shrines under its control. The move drastically dented the income of “pathis” (priests), which is calculated on the basis of shifts.Around 8,000 “pathis” are associated with the SGPC on provisional basis at its gurdwaras across the state, including 900 at the Golden Temple, 500 each at Gurdwara Shahidan Sahib and Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib and 150 each at Gurdwara Budha Sahib and Gurdwara Baba Bakala.Income hit, ‘pathis’ claim SGPC offering little helpAkhand paths are being resumed in the shrines in a phased manner. I will direct the gurdwara managements to distribute essential items among the ‘pathis’ on priority. —Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC PresidentThe SGPC charges Rs 8,500 from a devotee for an “akhand path”, generally performed by six “pathis” who take turns reading the sacred text. Upon completion, each “pathi” is paid Rs 900 per session.Tarsem Singh Wadali, a “pathi”, said they were being subjected to step-motherly treatment. “What is the point of spending crores on others when the SGPC’s staffers and their children are living in penury? All our pleas to president Gobind Singh Longowal and Akal Takht Jathedar for monetary aid fell on deaf ears,” he said.Mahail Singh, a “pathi” at Thatha village gurdwara, said: “I have taken Rs 22,000 from a moneylender on high interest to meet my daily expenses. We feel completely neglected.”Another “pathi” Mohan Singh said: “We have asked the SGPC to distribute among us the interest it earned on the security amount collected from us at the time of appointment, but in vain.”
07-07-2020||---||Mother and Child Healthcare  hospitals named after ‘Mai Daultan’||Chandigarh, July 6The Punjab Government has decided to name the 37 Mother and Child Healthcare (MCH) Hospitals being set up in the state after ‘Mai Daultan’, who took care of Guru Nanak Dev at the time of his birth.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the unique initiative of the Health Department would be a true and befitting tribute to Mai Daultan on the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh directed the department to periodically review the construction and operational efficiency of these hospitals so that the set targets can be achieved.
07-07-2020||Our Correspondent||8.5 kg heroin seized, three arrested||Ferozepur/sangrur, July 6At least 8.54 kg of heroin was seized by security agencies in two separate incidents.In a joint search operation, sleuths of the CIA and 29th battalion of BSF recovered 7.14 kg heroin worth Rs 35 crore near BOP Dona Telu Mall in this sector.The accused has been identified as Bittu, a resident of Palla Begha village. A pistol, two magazines, 10 live rounds and two Pakistani SIM cards were also seized from the fields of accused Bittu, who allegedly has links with the Pakistan-based smugglers.A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at Mamdot police station. However, he is yet to be arrested.In the second incident, the district anti-narcotic cell has arrested three persons, and seized 1.4 kg of heroin from them at Joliyan village.“Our team has arrested Amrik Singh, his wife Harpal Kaur, and Sarbjit Singh from Joliyan village and confiscated 1.4 kg heroin from their possession. The market value of the seized contraband is in crores. Further investigations are underway,” said SSP Sandeep Garg.
07-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court denies bail in spurious liquor case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 6Some of the premium liquor that flowed into the glasses may not have been worth raising a toast to. For, the Punjab Police have told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that cheap liquor, filled in empty Scotch bottles, was being sold after fixing fake holograms to make these appear genuine.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Amit Singh Parmar filed a petition for anticipatory bail in the case registered on February 13 at the Jodhan police station in Ludhiana district for cheating, forgery and other offences under Sections 308, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC, besides the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act and Essential Commodities Act.Appearing before Justice Deepak Sibal’s Bench, his counsel submitted a false case had been registered at the behest of his business rivals. He was not arrested from the spot when the police conducted a raid and recovered spurious liquor bottles. Besides, there was nothing to connect the petitioner with the alleged crime. The recovery, if any, was made from the house of one Harpreet Singh, with whom the petitioner had no relationship.Justice Sibal was told that the state constituted a special investigation team in view of crime’s seriousness to conduct further investigation into the matter. The probe revealed that the petitioner was involved in the filling up of cheap liquor in empty Scotch whiskey bottles and selling it after fixing fake holograms to make it appear authentic. For the purpose, the petitioner was using Harpreet Singh’s premises from where his motorcycle was recovered. He had also employed other persons.“The petitioner is alleged to have defrauded the public at large and played with their health/life, which are extremely serious allegations. Whether there are other places being used by the petitioner for the crime he is alleged to have committed; the scale of the petitioner’s alleged illegal business activities; involvement of other persons in the alleged crime; for how long the petitioner had allegedly been indulging in these activities; and what exactly is the petitioner’s modus operandi to execute the crime he is alleged to have committed are only some of the issues on which light can be thrown only through the petitioner’s custodial interrogation,” Justice Sibal asserted.Dismissing the petition, Justice Sibal said the petition was not found worthy of acceptance.Cheap whiskey sold as ScotchThe probe revealed that the petitioner was involved in the filling up of cheap liquor in empty Scotch whiskey bottles and selling it after fixing fake holograms to make it appear authentic.
07-07-2020||---||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini’s bail extended||Mohali, July 6Interim bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was extended till July 8 by a Mohali court on Monday in the case of alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani.The hearing was held in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge (ADJ) Sanjay Agnihotri as the court of main Judge Rajnish Garg was not functioning today. On the consent of counsel of defence as well as the prosecution, the case hearing was deferred for two days and the interim bail of the former DGP would continue till July 8.Upholding arguments given by special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula, District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai on July 4 had allowed application seeking transfer of the case from ADJ Monika Goyal’s court and assigned to the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.The decision on quashing the anticipatory bail under Section 302 of the IPC got by the former DGP will also come up for hearing in the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.
07-07-2020||Aman Sood||Power utility improves ranking in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 6Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has improved its last year’s ratings and is now covered under A-plus grade in the 2018-19 annual ranking for high operational and financial performance capabilities.Subsidy To Farmers A DragPunjab is now placed sixth across the country and has improved a little in terms of past two years’ performance. Gujarat discoms retained their top position. The report, released by the Union Minister of State for Power at the power ministers’ conference, assessed 41 power utilities. Last year, Punjab was placed at the ninth position.Since 2012, the utilities are evaluated on operational, financial, regulatory, and reform parameters; and the ratings highlight where the electricity distribution sector needs to improve. From being ranked at the top in 2015, the PSPCL has been slipping down the ranking system following many key factors.The key concerns of the PSPCL are its absolute dependence on the state government for subsidy being given in lieu of free power to agricultural sector and the delay in the reception of subsidy, besides high salary bill. The ministry gives scores for financial performance, audited accounts, cross subsidy, reforms, regulatory environment, and forward-looking parameters. The PSPCL was placed 5th in 2016 but its grade dropped to 11th in 2018 and 13th in 2017 in the nationwide integrated rating for state power distribution.In its report, the ministry has red-flagged several issues, including high employee cost, higher fuel and power purchase costs. “Absolute subsidy dependence for the state as a whole remains high, given the subsidised nature of tariff, particularly towards agriculture consumers,” the report says. Despite the “power-surplus” tag, the state is paying about Rs 3,000 crore per annum as fixed charges to private thermal plants and supplying power at high rates to its own consumers.The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has been informing the state government from 2013 onwards that the PSPCL is inflating the figures of electricity supplied to agricultural consumers (tubewells) by 5-10 per cent.
07-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Building plan not approved, widows allege harassment||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 6Despite applying online as well as offline and replying to all notices of Sangrur Nagar Council (NC), two widowed sisters have been shuttling between various offices for approval of the building plan of their shop. Meanwhile, 12 influential people have allegedly constructed the buildings without getting the plans approved.The sisters have now decided to start an indefinite hunger strike. They have written to the Chief Minister and have also issued a legal notice to the NC.Charge baselessAll allegations are baseless. Some have constructed buildings without approval of plans despite status quo and we are taking action against all. We are acting as per directions of our seniors. —Ramesh Kumar, Executive Officer, Sangrur NC“On July 30, 2019, the Local Government Department inspected the under-construction commercial buildings. Since 14 buildings, including ours, were found to being constructed in violation of norms, authorities ordered status quo. After that, we deposited the mandatory fee and applied online and offline for the approval, but the authorities are neither accepting nor rejecting our plan,” alleged Saroj Rani.On November 19 last year, Ramesh Kumar, Executive Officer (EO) of the Sangrur NC, had written to various banks and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited not to issue power connections to these illegal buildings.“The NC authorities are stopping only us while 12 other owners have completed their buildings. We have decided to start an indefinite hunger strike now,” she said.When contacted, Ramesh Kumar said status quo still existed on 14 local buildings and authorities had not withdrawn it as yet.“All the allegations are baseless. Some have constructed buildings without approval of plans despite status quo and we are taking action against all. We are acting as per the directions of our seniors and cannot withdraw status quo on our own. We have also filed cases against all in court for further action,” he added.
07-07-2020||Anandpur Sahib||Release of Bhakra water leads to soil erosion, farmers fume||Farmers from Nikuwal, Lodipur, Ballowal, Hariwal and Mehndali Kalan villages staged a protest alleging that excessive release of water from the Bhakra Dam into the Sutlej led to erosion of their fields.They said the flow of water in the river had increased in the last few weeks and the state as well as the district administration failed in repairing a bund near Lodipur due to which water had started eroding their lands.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders, who came in support of the agitating farmers, said despite repeated promises made by leaders of all political parties in the past, nothing had been done to protect the villages from floods. AAP general secretary Dinesh Chadha alleged that despite a loss of over Rs 100 crore due to the floods in the district last year, no steps had been taken.Kanu Garg, SDM, said due to the repair work at Nakkian Power House, the BBMB had to stop water supply to Anandpur Sahib hydel channel. Following this, 10,000 cusecs of additional water was being released in the river for the last one week due to which the administration had to halt the ongoing flood protection work and many farmers had to suffer losses.The SDM said she had asked the BBMB to decrease the discharge into the river, adding that the situation would improve by the evening. — OC
07-07-2020||---||Palledar unions up in arms against new tender policy||Bathinda, July 6Members of the palledar unions staged a protest against the new tender policy of the state government which pertains to their wages.They took out a protest march from Children’s Park, and on reaching the Deputy Commissioner’s office, they handed over a memorandum addressed to the state government to the tehsildar, demanding continuation of the old tender policy.Kuldeep Singh, Baldev Singh, Gurdeep Singh and Kaka Singh of the FCI Palledar Union said the new policy of loading, unloading and transportation formulated by the Punjab Government for 2020-21 was “wrong”. In the old policy, the increase in the wage rate of palledars would go above 120 per cent, but in the new policy the increase in the wage rate had been capped at a maximum of 75 per cent.They said under the policy, the salaried workers would have to work hard for meagre wages. Warning against the implementation of new policy, the protesters said they would intensify the protest against the state government if their demand was not met.
07-07-2020||---||Unpaid for months,  BSNL staff protest||Bathinda, July 6 Four BSNL employees climbed atop a mobile tower while other staff protested outside their office at Bharat Nagar area today. Protesting employees alleged that they have not received salary for the past 17 months. Sanjay Singh, president, BSNL Contract Workers’ Union, said, “Only 85 workers are left as numerous employees were coerced to opt for the voluntary retirement scheme. Now, workers have not received salary for the past 17 months and are finding it hard to make both the ends meet.” He said, “Despite bringing the matter to the notice of a contractor and higher officials in the BSNL, nothing concrete has happened on the ground.”  Rahul Ashokayan, principal general manager, said, “The contractor did not gave salary as the BNSL failed to clear his outstanding dues. We have been writing to the head office to release funds, but to no avail.”
07-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Yuvraj, Maneka Gandhi visit Dera Ganduan||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh on Monday visited Dera Ganduan at Dufera Sahib village. Later, former Union minister Maneka Gandhi also paid obeisance at the dera. Yuvraj is a regular visitor to the dera of Baba Ganduan Wala. Maneka had also been visiting dera on regular intervals. Fatehgarh Sahib DSP Manjit Singh and SHO GS Sikand were also present. — OC
07-07-2020||---||NIT develops currency, credit card sanitiser||Jalandhar, July 6Scientists at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) have come up with a multipurpose article sanitiser, which uses UV radiations to kill microbial pathogens from any surface. This is the fourth innovation by the institute since the spread of Covid.Dr LK Awasthi, Director of the institute, and Dr Kuldeep Singh Nagla, Associate Professor, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering, said the sanitiser is in the form of a cabin with UV lights fitted on the top as well as the bottom. The device can be used for sanitising paper, files, masks, gloves, keys, currency notes and credit cards.“While there are other UV-gadgets available in the market, our product has some additional features. There are perforated, acrylic sheets fitted inside with lights in such angles that the device will sanitise the surfaces of the items kept inside it from all 360 degrees. It is completely safe for humans and even children can use it because there will be no exposure for the user. This is because when the drawer is opened, the UV light gets automatically shut. Our device also has a timer fitted on the top and it will stop when the pre-set time gets over, which can be 30 seconds, 40 seconds or so on, depending on the item and its size kept inside. We have also fitted a fan inside to regulate the temperature for safety of currency and cards,” said Dr Nagla.
07-07-2020||Abohar||Three drown in Abohar||Three persons drowned in two separate incidents. Complainant Pawanjit Singh, a resident of Wahabwala village, alleged Ankit Sharma of Nai Abadi did not come to the rescue of Karanbir Singh of Kandhwala Amarkot village when the latter was taking bath in a canal.In another incident, Arun Khanna (18) and his cousin Ravinder Khanna (19) drowned in a water reservoir in Kheruwala village near the Abohar-Sadulshehar road on Sunday evening. — OC
07-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Set up defence corridor: MP Dr Amar Singh||Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh today said he had met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and urged him to set up a defence corridor in the district. He said he informed the Defence Minister that the district has ideal conditions for setting up of the defence corridor as Mandi Gobindgarh was a hub of steel industry while Sahnewal houses numerous micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). He said the corridor would generate employment for thousands of youngsters. — OC
07-07-2020||Shivani Bhakoo & Mahesh Sharma||Surge in marriages during lockdown, claim agencies||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 6It might sound strange, more weddings were performed last month during the lockdown than the normal times, claimed marriage bureaus. Reason: Saving of money as lockdown restrictions helped people avoid expenditure on lavish functions.Arvind Garg from Lagan Matrimonial, Chandigarh, said a majority of people felt that it was better to give money to the bride and groom instead of spending huge amount on parties and distribution of sweets.“There are many youngsters who still want their weddings to be a lavish affair and have kept everything on hold hoping pandemic situation will improve by 2021. But most of the people opted for simple weddings so that money could be properly utilised by their children,” said Garg.Tarsem Garg, a marriage facilitator of Green Avenue near Mandi Ahmedgarh, said he along with his associates had facilitated more marriages last month than the normal times. “Though initially people hesitated in finalising it during the lockdown period, later they insisted on solemnising weddings quickly to avoid wastage of money on lavish ceremonies,” said Garg, adding that the money saved in a majority of cases was earmarked for supporting the newlyweds.Bhoj Raj Sharma, a member of another marriage bureau in the Gandhi Chowk area, acknowledged that more people had been coming to get their wards married during the lockdown. Sharma said unlike the earlier trend when four or five big functions were held, now both parties were opting for a simple ceremony attended by not more than 50 persons.“In one of the cases, the groom’s family insisted on the wedding before June-end lest the administration raise the permissible number of invitees in next phase of the lockdown,” said Sharma.
07-07-2020||AAP youth wing activists||AAP activists burn minister’s effigy||The protesters said since the schools had remained closed during this period, parents shouldn't be burdened with the school fee. TNS
07-07-2020||Aman Sood||Dhindsa to float party today to take on Badals||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 6Punjab is likely to witness a multi-cornered contest in the next Assembly elections withrebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today announcing a new party that would “mainly oppose” the SAD and the Badal family.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Rebel AkaliWill free SGPCWe want to free the SGPC from the clutches of the Badals... Our party will be true representative of the people of Punjab.Dhindsa will hold a meeting of his supporters in Ludhiana tomorrow and then make a formal announcement. “Our doors are open to alllike-minded leaders who want to free the SGPC from the clutches of the Badals,” said Dhindsa.He was here to induct Akali-turned-Congress leader Tejinderpal Singh Sandhu into his party. Rebel Akalis led by RS Brahmpura had formed the SAD (Taksali) last year ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. Dhindsa shared stage with them but did not jointhe outfit. Dhindsa quit the SAD as its Raja Sabha leader in October 2019. The same year he was awarded the Padma Bhushan.“Dhindsa first objected to Sukhbir Badal’s leadership and then refused to take orders from SAD-Taksali chief Brahmpura,” remarked SAD spokesperson DS Cheema.
07-07-2020||Chandigarh||e-registration must for travel in Punjab||Punjab has made e-registration mandatory for travellers entering or passing through the state, beginning Monday midnight. They need to register themselves either through COVA app or on official website cova.punjab.gov.in/registration.The staff at the border checkpoints will scan the QR code on the printout. All travellers will be screened for Covid. Those asymptomatic will have to undergo self-quarantine for 14 days. They would have to report their health status daily either on 112 or via Cova. “For symptomatic passengers, appropriate instructions will be given at the checkpoint,” said a government spokesperson.He said details about those entering Punjab would be shared with the health authorities and the police stations concerned through a real-time alert system. The police stations would keep a check on the incoming visitors at their given addresses. — TNS
