07-12-2020||New Delhi||Two youth from Punjab cycle 300 km to join farmers’ protest at Delhi border||Jovan Preet Singh and Gurinder Jeet each put two pyjamas, a mobile phone charger and a water bottle in their small backpacks before hitting the road to Delhi on their bicycles to join the protesting farmers at the national capital’s borders.“The police won’t allow tractors to go past the barricades. But cycles can go through,” Jovan Preet said.The duo, aged 24 and 26, set out on their cycles from Barnala in Punjab two days ago, thinking it was a better option to overcome police blockades and traffic jams around the protest sites.“There was no need to carry food or anything else. We have just two pyjamas, a mobile phone charger and a water bottle each in our backpacks. We travelled around 300 kilometres and spent two nights in tractor trolleys queuing up along the roads. They gave us food... there is no dearth of it,” Gurinder Jeet said.He said they plan to visit all the borders points, including Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur, where the farmers have been protesting.“Farmers don’t want the three new laws. The government should reduce power tariff and waive our loans instead,” the placards dangling from the handle of their cycles read.Gurinder Jeet said many more people have set out on cycles after meeting them on the road.Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre’s new farm laws stayed put at the borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, blocking key routes leading to the national capital that led to long traffic jams.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.After more than four hours of discussions with three union ministers and senior officials, farmer leaders said the government sought more time for internal consultations to present a final proposal in the next meeting to resolve the issue.The agitating farmers had on Friday announced a ‘Bharat bandh’ on December 8 and threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government did not accept their demands.As farmers remained unyielding on their demand for scrapping the new farm laws, the police kept the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli closed for traffic movement. It said the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Chilla and Ghazipur were also shut. — PTI
07-12-2020||---||Farmers' protest: Parkash Singh Badal writes to PM, seeks his ‘personal intervention’ in reaching a solution||Chandigarh, December 7With the standoff between the protesting farmers and Centre over the farm laws failing to end, former Punjab Chief Minister and veteran SAD leader Parkash Singh Badal on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his “personal intervention” to reach a solution.  The following is the complete text of the letter:I write this at a time when the problems facing the country are fast assuming the proportions of a grave crisis and our approach towards these needs an immediate course correction.I am deeply worried about the ongoing farmers’ crisis. It seems to me that the issue could have been dealt with better if the government had paid  greater attention  to the honest feedback on what the brave and selfless ‘annadata’ of the nation really thought of the government’s initiatives.In addition, the government needed to take the stake-holders of the issue on board. I found it hard to believe that any government, especially one with such a massive mandate as yours, would allow a failure of this kind to affect its decision making.The government would have done well to enact a legislation affecting the destiny of millions and millions of farmers only after taking their representatives and the farmer-friendly political parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal in confidence.The deepening crisis of the beleaguered peasantry required and requires that they be heard before any decision concerning them is taken. In fact, this practice must be followed in every important decision. The result of the failure to do this so far has resulted in the present confrontation that was so easily avoidable.Another aspect of the crisis concerns our approach to politics in general. The pain and the deep anxiety writ large on the faces of the farmers these days painfully emphasizes how politics of confrontation has fractured our social fabric.Consultation, conciliation and consensus are the foundation of any democracy. Consultative processes alone lead to consensus, and consensus alone is the recipe for avoiding confrontations like the one we see now between the government and the farmers.Once it became clear that the three Ordinances were not finding acceptance even among the Government’s own Alliance partners like the Shiromani Akali Dal, the obvious course open to the Government was to convene an All Party Meeting. There is a democratic convention in our country to follow this course whenever there is a national stalemate.The government would not have been bound to accept the Opposition’s views but it would have gained from their wisdom. I was surprised that this option was not taken.Further, the farmers’ issue concerned every state government. Agriculture in fact is a state subject and the state governments are in the best position to understand and address the issues of their respective farmers.The failure to consult states on an issue that concerns nearly 70% of the country’s total population shows the government’s indifference to or rejection of the federal principle. This was unbelievable because you have yourself been among the biggest champions of federal structure.As Chief Minister of Gujarat, you had always advocated more powers and a greater role to the states in running the country as a genuinely federal nation. On its part, the Shiromani Akali Dal has   been in the forefront of the battle for federalism and it will continue to work with other like-minded parties in the country for making India truly federal.I say this because I sincerely believe that the roots of the ongoing crisis lie in the abdication of our commitment to the federal approach.The farmers’ crisis is not the only instance where this inclusive approach to nation building has been ignored or abandoned. The county and its government need to follow an approach based on widespread consultation and consensus. The scars left by our failure to do so in the recent divisive and destabilizing moments will take a long time to heal.Keeping all this in view, I take the liberty of sharing with you the fruit of my long experience in public life. The farmers struggle has an important lesson for the country. The country’s bread winner has demonstrated its commitment to secular and peaceful democratic ideals.The farmers assembled for a common cause represent the rich diversity of the nation. One of the most precious lessons I learnt as a servant of the people is to understand, appreciate and celebrate this secular respect for the diversity of our great nation which comprises people of diverse faiths, languages, cultures and even ethnic backgrounds.The Great Guru Sahiban and other holy men and women, Sufi saints and yogis have lit the path of peaceful and mutually respectful co-existence.The   Guru Sahiban gave us the concept of Sarbat the Bhala (Universal Welfare).  Great rulers in this country have always used the unifying wisdom contained in this vision of Sarbat da Bhala and served the nation and its people through consensus.The other message from the current crisis is about the need to avoid confrontation as a way to address social and political issues.During my long tenure in public life, I have often confronted situations involving people with conflicting   backgrounds and persuasions making diverse and conflicting demands. I have battled against dictatorship during the Emergency days. My experience tells me that    respect for peaceful democratic values offers us the best solutions to even the most complex and intractable problems.The country has seen how statesmen like Shri Atal Behari Vajpayee understood and respected the beauty of the diversity of our nation and turned it into an asset.I have been greatly pained to see   peacefully and democratically protesting farmers, even women and children, subjected to tear gas shells, water cannons and lathicharge by the government of Haryana.I also find it intriguing that the government is trying to impose on a section of the people gifts which they are neither willing to accept nor deem beneficial for them. Why must the government thrust a “benefit” on the people if they do not see it as beneficial?The ongoing farmers’ crisis needs your immediate and undivided attention. In the circumstances, I strongly urge you to show magnanimity in approach and to personally intervene to get the stalemate broken.As a first step, the three Acts in question that have pushed the country into deep turmoil must be withdrawn without making the farmers and their families endure any more suffering in this biting cold. The issue does not concern farmers alone but affects the entire economic fabric of the country, as traders, businessmen, shopkeepers, arhtiyas and labour are also directly affected by it.In addition, the Government must categorically make 100% procurement of farmers’ produce at Minimum Support Price (fixed as per Swaminathan Formula, C2+50) a statutory legal right of the farmer.In the end, I wish to re-emphasize the need for a liberal, secular democratic approach to solve all the problems facing the country today, including this one.I request your immediate personal intervention in this regard.
07-12-2020||Sonepat (Singhu border)||As they owe gratitude to gurdwaras for feeding them, TN farmers join protest at Singhu border||Tamil Nadu farmers who led months long protest at Jantar Mantar (Delhi) in 2017 and then again in 2018 have joined their Punjab and Haryana counterparts at the Singhu border.They say they have come here as they owe gratitude to gurdwaras which had fed and gave shelter to them during their protests.  “When thousands of farmers from Tamil Nadu had protested at Jantar Mantar, only gurdwaras provided us with food, shelter, medical help and everything. That is the reason, the Punjab farmers are our brothers and sisters. Not only that, if there is no Punjab, there is no India. This state is providing food to the whole country,” said R Sellaperumal, State Propaganda Secretary of National South Indian River Inter-Linking Farmers’ Association. The association had come to national prominence in 2017 when they led scores of Tamil Nadu farmers in using unique methods to highlight their protest including rolling naked on road, holding dead snakes in their mouths, eating mice and holding human skulls which they claim were of those farmers who committed suicide in distress.They were seeking drought relief package, loan waiver and Cauvery Management Board from the Centre. For Singhu border, a message in Tamil from a protesting farmer on the Sun TV channel acted as catalyst. Rajwinder Singh, who has been protesting at Singhu border from the day one and is associated with farmers’ leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, had issued an appeal. “I know the Tamil language. I appealed to the Tamil Nadu farmers to join us against the farm laws. The message went viral. After that a number of farmers’ groups contacted us. Four to five groups have already reached here including one representing actor Kamal Hassan,” said Singh. “Our president P Ayyakannu was to come here too but the state government has not been allowing him. Fifty people could come here by train, but 100 more are coming. The state government has been stopping our farmers to come here,” said Sellaperumal.“These agrarian laws would turn farmers into beggars. Until these laws are cancelled, we will not move from this place to Chennai,” he said.      “We want to make this government (Central government) listen to us. Out state government has also not been doing anything for the farmers,” said Andabar, Association’s Ariyalur (Tamil Nadu) president.  “All protesting Tamil Nadu farmers would have died had gurdwaras not helped us in 2017 and 2018. We want to help our Punjab farmers,” said Jothimurugan, Association’s Chennai president. A delegation from ‘Naam Tamilar Party’ also addressed farmers at the Singhu border. One of the speakers attempted to speak in Punjabi and said, “Tussi Aise Hi Datte Raho (You should continue to deploy like this).”
07-12-2020||---||Punjabi poet Surjit Patar to return Padma Shri in solidarity with farmers||Chandigarh, December 7Showing solidarity with ongoing farmers' protest, eminent Punjabi poet Surjit Patar has decided to return his Padma Shri to the Union Government in protest over farm Bills.In a statement, Patar said he was pained at the “insensitive” attitude of the central government towards the demands of farmers who have been protesting peacefully.The 75-year-old said he has decided to return his Padma Shri award with a heavy heart. Patar had received the Padma Shri in 2012.Earlier, Akali Dal stalwart and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had announced he would return his Padma Vibhushan award in protest  against "the betrayal of the farmers by the Government of India."In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Badal said he was returning the award due to "the shocking indifference and contempt with which the government was treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation of the farmers against the three farm Acts".Incidentally, SAD (Democratic) chief and rebel Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has also announced that he would be returning his Padma Bhushan award.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate firms.Several international sports persons from Punjab had also announced to return their sports awards and extended support to the farmers’ agitation. — with PTI
07-12-2020||Vibha Sharma||BJP slams Opposition for jumping on to farmers' Bharat Bandh for political survival||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 7Ahead of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, the BJP on Monday took on Opposition parties, slamming them for their “doubles standards” over reforms in the farming sector even as they themselves advocated these during their regimes.Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, dispelling farmers’ fears over their land and MSP, said though farmers themselves told politicians to stay away from their agitation, political parties were “desperately trying to jump on to the bandwagon for political existence”.“What the Narendra Modi government is doing the UPA governments have been doing in the states for long. For their political survival, they are joining any agitation. Even though farmers have said political parties are not welcome, they have jumped on and are opposing the Narendra Modi government for the sake of opposition, forgetting their own works in the past,” he said.Ahead of the Bharat Bandh, several Opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party, TMC, NCP, RJD and the AAP, are mounting attack, leading to a massive political breakout on the issue. Sources say top central ministers are in a huddle on the ongoing agitation and politics. Prasad, however, refused to comment on farmers' dialogue with ministers and the ongoing deliberations on the issue within the government. “These are matters of discussion. I am here only to expose the double standards, duplicacy and hypocrisy of Opposition who should understand the mood of the nation. From the national level to civic elections,” he said.Incidentally, some farmers' leaders said there is nothing wrong in politicians lending support.“It is not politics whenever something wrong happens it is the job of the Opposition to lend support,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said.Meanwhile, quoting documents and statements from the past, Prasad said Congress' 2019 manifesto promised to “repeal the APMC Act and make the trade in agriculture free from all the restrictions”.Prasad also claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi told party CMs in 2013 (when the UPA was in power in the Centre) that farmers should be able to sell directly to private players.“NCP leader Sharad Pawar, who is also opposing the three Acts, as the Agriculture Minister in 2010 wrote to CMs advocating requirement of huge investment in market infrastructure etc. Pawar said in an interview in 2005 that the APMC Act is being abolished and in his assessment it will take just another six months maximum. He said that till there is APMC Act there will be no support from the Centre. If this is not selfish politics and duplicity to save political existence, what is it,” Prasad questionedPrasad also slammed Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav reminding him his father Mulayam Singh’s statement as a member of Standing Committee. “He said it is important that farmers are saved from mandi ‘changul’ (stranglehold). The Akali Dal said the same. During the Congress regime, contract farming was implemented in several Congress-ruled states, including Haryana, Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh."He also slammed Yogendra Yadav, reminding him of his tweet in 2017 that Modi government has washed its hands off ‘mandi’ reforms. Delhi CM Arvind Kejrwial is implementing the three Central Acts, he added.Asserting that “farmers land will not be allowed to be leased, sold or mortgaged,” Prasad said it is also the question of small and medium farmers whose participation is incresing on more than 1,000 NAMs in the country. As many as 1.68 crore farmers are registered on them, he said, adding that 64 per cent of paddy MSP this season was drawn by Punjab.Reminding Punjab CM Amarinder Singh of the Pepsico plant he inaugurated in March 2019, he accused him of adopting “shameful double standards to confuse farmers on wrong facts” on corporates.
07-12-2020||---||Govt employees, professors to go on mass leave to support ‘Bharat Bandh’ call||Chandigarh, December 7Employees of Punjab government in various districts across the state have decided to proceed on one-day mass leave in support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the farmers’ unions for December 8.The information was shared by Om Parkash, state president, Punjab DC offices employees’ union.Meanwhile, Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has announced support to farmers against the three farm laws.Professors and the non-teaching staff of Punjabi University, Patiala, have also joined the cause and will go on a mass leave in support of the compete bandh call.The teachers’ union has decided to shut the university gates early morning on December 8 and hold a protest.In a separate call, students associated with four student political parties — PSU (Lalkar), AISF, PSU and SFI — have also decided to shut the university gates and hold a protest.
07-12-2020||GS Paul||BJP leaders confront farmers on new office foundation day event in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 7Senior BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, former cabinet minister Anil Joshi and party’s local unit president Suresh Mahajan, faced embarrassment when they had to confront the agitating farmers during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the BJP’s new office in New Amritsar on Monday.Ironically, amid slogans raised from both the sides in the presence of heavy deployment of police, the BJP leaders continued to perform the ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony. Post the ceremony, the BJP leaders skipped the venue in haste.Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), were conducting a motorcycle rally around the city when they came to know about the BJP’s function.The farmers were taking out a rally to sensitise every section of society and seeking their cooperation for the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 against the anti-farm laws.The infuriated farmers reached the venue and condemned the BJP leaders in a peaceful manner for holding an occasion at a time when their farming brethren have been protesting in biting cold.The farmers argued that instead of blindly following the dictates of their party high command, the workers and leaders of the BJP Punjab unit should have supported the farmers of Punjab.“How could they be so unconcerned when they get ministry seats on the basis of votes polled by Punjabis? But their actions implied that they were blindfolded under the political influence”, they said.The KMSC’s state general secretary, Sarwan Singh Pandher, wondered that the BJP Punjab leaders showed little concern about the agrarian crisis of Punjab.Activists of various farm unions have been staging sit-in outside the residence of Malik consistently since July.“When the whole nation and Punjabis from abroad, including in the UK, the US and Canada, have been lodging protests against the Centre-enacted farm laws, it was an opportunity for the Punjab BJP leaders to show nerve to clear their stance by showing solidarity with the Punjab farmers”, he said.He alleged that the BJP leaders had deliberately scheduled this programme a day prior to the farmers’ ‘Bharat Bandh’ call with an ulterior motive.“Their aim was to scuttle the ‘bandh’ call under a deep-rooted conspiracy. The pro-BJP slogans they raised was to incite us losing our cool so that we could be entangled under the law-and-order situation. But farmers refrained from indulging in their tactics and peacefully contested the BJP leaders,” he said.He said the current situation needed apolitical approach with a sole motive of standing with the farming community in their fight against the repressive farm laws.
07-12-2020||Aditi Tandon||Congress MPs from Punjab, Haryana stage dharna at Jantar Mantar; want Parliament session to be convened||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 7Ahead of the Bharat bandh called by farmers’ union demanding the repeal of three agriculture reform laws, the Congress on Monday upped the ante against the Centre staging a protest at Jantar Mantar to seek convening of a Parliament session to discuss issues and said the government had lost all credibility.Congress MPs from Punjab and Haryana Ravneet Bittu, Preneet Kaur, Gurjeet Aujla, Amar Singh, Manish Tewari, Mohammad Sadique and Deepender Hooda are currently sitting in dharna on Jantar Mantar urging the Centre to rescind the contentious laws and take further discussions to Parliament.Also read: Reforms needed for development, says Modi as farmers protest on Delhi bordersKejriwal visits Singhu border, reviews arrangements for protesting farmersProtesting farmers call on people to back Bharat bandhPunjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, meanwhile, addressed the media saying the responsibility for any inconvenience people would face during Bharat bandh lay with the Centre that did not consult farmers before passing the laws.“The responsibility has to be fixed and it lies squarely at the doors of the government which failed to engage the farmers before passing the laws and also rode roughshod on the opposition when it tried to question the laws in the last session of Parliament. The solution now is to repeal the laws, call a session of Parliament and discuss issues afresh,” Jakhar said.He said the “rigid” Centre was responsible for the agitation and for farmers sitting out in bitter cold.Jakhar also warned that the agitation was impacting food security. “Food security is an integral part of national security. Neither can be outsourced,” he said adding that the intention of the bills was suspect and farmers would not allow corporatisation of agriculture.“Farmers cannot be run through contractors. Also rather than spending money on a new parliament building, the Centre should realise that Parliament doesn’t run on buildings. It runs on emotions,” Jakhar said accusing the government of hurting the sentiments of farmers and not taking cognisance of their feelings.“The discussions taking place on borders today should have taken place in Parliament. Also the government should stop following the US model of lobbying. We will not let farming be outsourced. And we will not let national security outsourced,” he said.Jakhar also warned against certain sections instigating farmers of Haryana to raise the SYL issue in the ongoing protests. “Don’t let anyone divide Haryana and Punjab farmers. Some people are asking for SYL to be included but farmers cannot be divided,” he said terming the ongoing agitation a revolution.The Congress also appealed to commuters to “keep their inconveniences due to the bandh aside and lend support to Bharat bandh”.
07-12-2020||New Delhi||2 men from Punjab, 3 from J-K arrested in Delhi after encounter; police probing terror links||Five suspected terrorists, two of whom were allegedly involved in the murder of Shaurya Chakra winner Balwinder Singh in Punjab, were arrested on Monday in east Delhi’s Shakarpur area after an encounter and have revealed Pakistan spy agency ISI’s attempt to link up terror outfits in Kashmir with Khalistan operatives, officials said.According to police, three of the five arrested are from Kashmir, while the rest are from Punjab.Two of the Punjab-based men were involved in the killing of Balwinder Singh in Punjab, they said.Singh, who received the Shaurya Chakra for fighting militancy, was shot dead in October.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said: “On Monday morning, our team received specific information that two Punjab based criminals were supposed to receive some money from three Kashmiris. On this specific information, five people were arrested after a brief exchange of fire from the Laxmi Nagar area in Delhi.”Three pistols, two kilograms of heroin and Rs 1 lakh cash were recovered from them along with the two cars in which they were travelling, he said.“During preliminary investigation, it has emerged that there was an attempt to link up terror outfits active in Kashmir with Khalistan operatives by Pakistan’s ISI,” he said.The three Kashmir-based men were supplying money to the other two to carry out targeted killings. The money was from the sale of drugs.“They were selling drugs and the proceeds were used for financing terror in Punjab,” the officer said.Further investigation is on. PTI
07-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers’ protest: Now, help starts pouring in from UK as well||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 6While farmers’ protest against the contentious agricultural laws continues to intensify at the Delhi-Haryana borders, good Samaritans from across the globe have started coming forward by lending support to farmers sitting at the protest sites. Ensuring that there won’t be any shortage of basic essentials, ‘Midland Langar Seva Society’, a UK-based charitable organisation, has deployed its local members at Delhi border to deliver supplies to farmers.“Even as farmers agitating at the Singhu border claimed that they were carrying ration, which can last them up to six months, we are taking care of hygiene kits and medical supplies needed at the protest site,” a member of the society said.“From carrying soaps and detergents to brush and toothpastes, we are distributing all basic daily need items among farmers. Though farmers have already stored ration, we are also providing them with snacks, biscuits, fruits and milk packets. Apart from that, in case of any injuries or any other medical assistance, our teams are stationed to provide medical support to protesters. Initially, when we enquired about the items required at the borders, we were told that farmers were short of basic essentials. Subsequently, we have brought the same in abundance,” said Anhad Prabhakar, a member of the society.Daily visits are being paid by the youth of the society to review the situation at the protest site. A mini-van has also been parked by the NGO to store items to be distributed. Other members, including Tejinder Singh, Harwinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh, maintaining the supplies said their group leaves for the protest site early in the morning and makes arrangements for tea langar.“We make visits to each and every group and ask if they need anything. Medical assistance is provided through doctors associated with the society from Chandigarh. The funding for all items is being provided by Randhir Singh Heer, who had founded the society in the UK,” Anhad said.
07-12-2020||---||Truckers to block J&K border from today||Jalandhar, December 6Showing solidarity with the protesting farmers, members of the All-Punjab Truck Operators’ Union announced that they would hold a protest at Madhopur and indefinitely jam Jammu and Kashmir border from December 7.President Happy Sandhu said, “Being closely associated with the farming community, we can realise the pressure that the farmers are bearing while holding the protest at Delhi border. Many among us too are farmers. While they are holding protest at Delhi border, we intend to jam the J&K border to further weaken the government over its adamant stand of not withdrawing the three Farm Laws”.On December 7, all of us will park our trucks and form long queues to block the J&K highway at Madhopu, he said. “Our protest will continue till the demands of the farmers are not accepted by the government”, said Jagjit Kamboj of the All India Motor Transport Congress, Jalandhar.Activists stand with farmersKartarpur: Members of the Kul Hind Kisan Sangharsh Sabha and Pendu Mazdoor Union on Saturday burnt effigies of the Central government and corporate houses against the farm laws. The farm union also appealed to make the December 8 Bharat Bandh a success. Activists said the protests should go on until the government decides to withdraw the farm laws, Electricity Act-2020, heavy fines on farmers for burning stubble, among other issues. They said all of them stood in solidarity with the farmers. TNS
07-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Slogans, ‘ragni’ keep spirits high at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 6Farmers from Haryana have become the centre of attraction at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border, for their style of protest ensures that there is never a dull moment at the dharna spot.Impressed, farmers from Punjab take selfies with them and post pictures on social media, popularising the “Haryanvi swag”.Every morning and evening, some farmers from Rohtak donning white “pagdis” take out a march atop a Tata Safari from the Jakhoda bypass to the Tikri border, 10 kms apart. And there are some who sing “ragni” to boost the morale of their brethren from Punjab. The style of smoking a “hookah” is also attracting eyeballs.Virender Hooda, a resident of Rohtak’s Sanghi village, said: “Haryanvis are popular for their accent. We are entertaining our big brothers (from Punjab) with the Haryanvi flavour. We take out a 10-km march every morning and evening atop a Safari and raise slogans ‘Punjab-Haryana bhaichara zindabad’ and ‘Modi sarkar murdabad’.”He further said, “We have a small-size hookah, which we smoke in a manner that impresses Punjab farmers.”Every day, a group of 10 farmers visit the Tikri border and sing “ragnis” based on peasants’ plight and patriotism. “Punjab farmers hardly understand the lyrics, they enjoy the music and the style of singing,” Jitender from Jhajjar said, adding many a times, Punjab farmers entertained them by singing Punjabi songs.Harsharandeep Singh, a farmer from Moga (Punjab), said they were motivated by seeing the different colours of Haryana. “We are posting their pictures on WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter,” he added.
07-12-2020||---||In a first, e-lok adalat to be held in Punjab on Dec 12||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6In view of the Covid pandemic, the Punjab State Legal Services Authority has decided to hold National Lok Adalat in e-lok adalat format for the first time in the entire state on December 12.Disclosing this here today, Justice Arun Gupta, District and Sessions Judge and Member Secretary of Punjab State Legal Services Authority, said the e-Lok Adalat would be held under the guidance of Justice S Muralidhar, Executive Chairman and Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Gupta said the decision to conduct e-Lok Adalat has been taken to maintain social distancing protocol amid the pandemic. He said adequate arrangements are being made to hold e-lok adalat as well as physical lok adalat.He said the general public may contact the front offices or secretary, District Legal Services Authority, of their respective districts to take part in the National Lok Adalat. For any legal assistance, people can contact the Punjab State Legal Services Authority at 1968 helpline.Gupta said one can contact for cases pending in the courts such as criminal compoundable offences, NI Act cases under Section 138, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, Labour disputes cases, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable), matrimonial disputes, service matters relating to pay and allowances and retirement benefits, etc.
07-12-2020||---||Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS staff back farmers||Ludhiana, December 5In support of farmers protesting against the farm Acts, members of Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS Employees Joint Action Committee burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and corporate houses at the bus stand here on Saturday.They said the new agriculture laws enacted by the Modi-led Centre, new Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and the new labour laws would have a devastating effect on the working class, farmers and labourers across the country.
07-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Given second chance by SAD, tough road ahead for Gurbachan Singh Babbehali||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, December 6Former Gurdaspur MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali has been reappointed as Gurdaspur district SAD president for the second successive term. He will be facing a dual challenge as he not only has to ensure that the otherwise disjointed party cadre is kept together but also has to keep the Congress at bay.Ever since former ministers Sewa Singh Sekhwan and Sucha Singh Langah were relegated to political sidelines and with former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon plagued with multiple health problems, the SAD is not the force to reckon with it once was. In the 2017 polls, the Congress won six of the seven seats, thus virtually decimating the Akalis in this district, once considered to be their stronghold.To complicate matters, the party decided to break its alliance with the BJP, thus plunging itself into more trouble.Babbehali, notwithstanding his astuteness as a politician, will have to defy the odds in the seats of Dera Baba Nanak and Qadian, where the Akalis find themselves on a weak wicket. In Dera Baba Nanak, Langah was once the party’s supreme leader, till a sleaze video was released by his detractors ahead of the 2017 Gurdaspur parliamentary bypoll. In Qadian, Sekhwan was the party’s face till he was forced to quit following his differences with Sukhbir Singh Badal.The BJP has a strong presence in the Gurdaspur and Batala seats, and with party deciding to go it alone in the next polls, the Akalis are bound to have a harrowing time.In Sri Hargobindpur (reserved) seat, the party is faced with the prospect of its rapidly dwindling cadre. In the 2017 elections, the SAD had to bring an outsider — Manjit Singh Manna — to contest after failing to arrive at a consensus on a local candidate. Ever since then, the situation has not changed much. Babbehali also faces a tough assignment in Dinanagar, where the BJP holds a substantial vote bank. When the seat sharing agreement was in place, this seat was always given to the BJP to contest because of the strong presence of the RSS cadre.Babbehali has gone on record as saying that “he will do his best to wipe out the Congress”. This task is easier said than done because post the farm Acts, the Congress has evoked much sympathy among the voters.It is only in Fatehgarh Churian that the Akalis find themselves on a firm footing, with youth leader Ravi Karan Kahlon leading the charge from the front.Related: Former Akali MLA, son booked for ‘land fraud’
07-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||BJP Yuva Morcha Fatehgarh Sahib dist president joins SAD||The ongoing farmer’s struggle against the contentious farm laws have started casting its shadow over the BJP in the state as the party got a big jolt in the district as BJP Yuva Morcha district president Ajay Kumar today resigned from the BJP and joined SAD (B) in the presence of senior SAD(B) leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia. A leading industrialist-cum-Congress leader of Mandi Gobindgarh, Pardeep Kumar Mitoo, also joined SAD (B) by resigning from the Congress.Bikram Singh Majithia welcomed these leaders in the party fold by presenting siropas and assured that they would be given due respect in the party. He said the Modi-led BJP government was behaving like a dictator and they had enacted draconian farm laws, which would ruin not only the farming community, but affect every section of society. He said the farmers were sitting on roads for the past 11 days, but the government was playing with their sentiments and committing atrocities by not conceding to their demands. He said every section of society should stand with the farmers.Ajay Kumar said he had resigned from the BJP as per the voice of his conscience; he said the Union Government had enacted the farm laws, which were totally against the farmers. He said he had decided to back and join the farmer’s stir and would sit with them in Delhi. — OC
07-12-2020||Bathinda||Drug body seeks academic details of lab officials||The drug control authority has sought the records of the academic qualification, eligibility for posts, experience and training of the dismissed and currently posted contractual lab technicians at the blood bank unit of the Civil Hospital, Bathinda. Notably, HIV-positive blood was transfused to five persons over the past two months at the blood bank unit of the hospital.Dr Ramadeep Gupta, drug inspector, District Drug Control Authority, said, “We have also found anomalies so a notice has been served to the SMO seeking response.” — TNS
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Polytechnic colleges see low enrolment||Of the 30,000 seats in private polytechnic colleges, only 3,000 have been filled so far. Flagging the issue, the Punjab Unaided Colleges’ Association today said due to the Covid pandemic and the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the admission process in polytechnic colleges had been affected badly. Dr Anshu Kataria, president, PUCA, said the youth, along with farmers from the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, were on protest for two months in their respective states and now protesting at the Delhi border.  Meanwhile, the Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institution of India and PUCA have urged the government to implement AICTE’s recent notification. As per the notification issued on December 3, 2020, the last date of admission to engineering courses (diploma and diploma lateral entry) has been extended up to December 31, 2020, in some states where admission and counselling has not been started due to Covid. — TNS
07-12-2020||---||Dismissed cop kills wife, son in Muktsar||Muktsar, December 6A dismissed police constable today allegedly shot dead at his wife and younger son at his house at Sarawan Bodla village in the Lambi Assembly segment here.The accused, who has been identified as Satnam Singh, had reportedly killed his first wife, too, in 1988. He was, thereafter, dismissed from the job.Village residents said he was a drunkard and used to quarrel at home regularly. They alleged that around 10 days ago, he had opened fire at the entry gate of his house, they alleged.The Kabarwala police have started an investigation to register a case of double murder on the statement being given by a family member.Sources said Satnam was mentally upset after he was first dismissed from job. His father also did not give the rights of property ownership to him.They said the accused, who was under the influence of liquor, quarelled with his younger son Amar Jang Singh (24) and then hit a bullet into his head from a .12 bore rifle.When Satnam’s wife Rupinder Kaur (50) raised an alarm, he fired a bullet near her abdomen and took her life too.Later, Satnam escaped from the house. The deceased’s elder son Fateh Jang had gone to meet some relative at the time of the incident.Had killed first wife too in 1988
07-12-2020||---||SAD delegation meets Shiv Sena chief to forge national front||Chandigarh, December 6Continuing with its efforts to carve a new national political front against the Narendra Modi-led NDA government, a delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal today held parleys with Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai today.Former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, who led the SAD delegation, said apart from reaching an understanding to forge a national alliance, Thackeray has in principle agreed to restore the old management system of Takht Hazoor Sahib, Nanded. Chandumajra said the Chief Minister had agreed that the management should have representatives of Sikhs from all over the country.Presently, only Sikhs from Maharashtra are part of the management after the previous Shiv Sena-BJP combine government had recast the membership. “Thackeray has agreed that two representatives of the SGPC should be part of the management. This was an important demand of the Sikh community in India and abroad. The CM has ordered holding of meetings next week to formalise this arrangement,” he said.Chandumajra said the Shiv Sena chief was pained at the attack on federalism by the BJP government and it’s attempts to weaken regional parties and dethrone the regional governments.Chandumajra had yesterday met All India Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata. He said Thackeray and Mamata Banerjee were looking forward to the new political front.He said the SAD delegation would meet former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav in the coming week. It has already met Biju Janta Dal president and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.“The regional parties have to come together to save the federal system in the country and to end the dictatorial government of Narendra Modi,” said Chandumajra. The SAD and Shiv Sena were among the oldest allies of the BJP. While the SAD broke ties with the BJP over the farm laws, the Shiv Sena had parted ways earlier over differences in Maharashtra polls.‘Efforts on to keep federalism alive’
07-12-2020||Aman Sood||App launched to curb man-animal conflict||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 6Following reports in these columns about the damage caused to famers’ crops by wild animals, the Department of Wildlife and Forest has started holding camps to make people aware of the various schemes of the government concerning the human-wildlife conflict. A mobile app has also been made to resolve such issues.“With the onset of winter, wild animals come to habitation areas and agricultural fields. The Chief Minister has reviewed various activities taken up by the Department of Forests and Wildlife to resolve human-wildlife conflict and other issues related to wildlife,” an official from the department said, reacting to The Tribune report on losses faced by farmers due to wild animals.During winter, deer, wild boars and blue bulls wander into habitation areas, where they are chased by dogs as well as humans. “The Chief Minister has given instructions to form rescue teams and coordinate with other departments and the district administration,” said Chief Conservator of Forests Basanta Rajkumar.To curb incidents of crop damage by wild boar and blue bull, a two-pronged strategy is being adopted. “A scientific study of these animals in relation to their population is being carried out by with the help of the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. The state has authorised the local SDMs and DFOs to issue hunting permits to the affected farmers. After getting feedback from farmers and other stakeholders, the process for issuing permits has been simplified,” said Rajkumar.The department stated that with the help of mobile apps, people need not visit the government offices physically to get the permits. “Most human-animal conflicts are reported from the Kandi belt of Punjab and the government is giving subsidy to farmers, who want to fence their fields,” an official said.
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||802 Covid cases, 10 deaths||The state reported 802 cases and 10 deaths in the past 24 hours. As per the media bulletin released on Sunday, the total number of cases has reached 1,56,226 and the number of deaths reached 4,915.At present, 166 patients are on oxygen support and 12 are critical on ventilator support. As far as deaths are concerned, the state reported 10 deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise breakup, Jalandhar topped the chart with three deaths followed by Hoshiarpur with two deaths, Patiala, Ropar, Sangrur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar reported one death each. — TNSGive vaccine to state on priority: CM to PM
07-12-2020||---||Cong MPs to protest at Jantar Mantar today||Chandigarh, December 6 A day ahead of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmer unions against the contentious Central agriculture laws, Congress MPs from Punjab have announced a dharna tomorrow at Jantar Mantar to press for holding the winter session of Parliament. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu has written to the Delhi Police seeking permission to protest at Jantar Mantar. He said in the wake of the ongoing dharna at the Delhi borders by farm unions, it was important for the BJP-led NDA government to take action in the matter. It had become a mass movement and the Centre had to address it urgently. “If the session is held, MPs from different states will come and the pressing matter of the farm laws can be discussed to make necessary changes. A session is the only way to end the national-level agitation,” Bittu said. Amritsar MP Gurjeet Aujla said the farmer unions had been pressing upon the BJP government to call the session to repeal the farm laws. The session was must to save the situation from getting worse, he added.
07-12-2020||Anandpur Sahib||Akalis put off centenary celebrations||Keeping in view the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the Shiromani Akali Dal has postponed the three-day centenary celebrations for an indefinite period.The programme was scheduled to be held from December 12 to 14 at Anandpur Sahib, the birthplace of Khalsa. Former Cabinet minister and party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema, at the party’s core committee meeting today, said it had been decided that the centenary celebrations of SAD should be postponed as farmers of the state demanding their rights had been sitting on dharna in the national capital.The SAD had started preparations for the celebrations. All senior leaders, including former CM Parkash Singh Badal, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur were supposed to be present in the town during the three-day celebrations. — TNS
07-12-2020||Moga||MP Hansraj Hans heckled in Moga||BJP Lok Sabha member from Delhi and noted Punjabi singer Hansraj Hans faced the ire of farmers in Moga on Monday. He came here to preside over a function to pay tributes to Bhim Rao Ambedkar at a function organised at Shaheedi Park.When BKU (Ekta) activists came to know about his visit, they started gathering outside the Shaheedi Park and raised slogans against him. They demanded that he should resign from the Lok Sabha.After the function, when Hans came out, a group of farmers surrounded him. They asked him to support the farmers’ agitation. However, the BJP leader maintained that the farmers were being misled by the opposition parties on farm laws.Keeping in view of the sensitivity of the situation, a heavy police force was rushed to the spot. Police personnel, after a brief argument with farmers, managed to provide a safe passage to leave for Hans.Interestingly, when local BJP leaders came to know that farmers had started gathering outside the park, they slipped away from the venue one by one, leaving Hans alone on the spot.The farmers raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in front of Hans and warned him that the agitations would be intensified.A group of farmers have been protesting outside the residence of BJP district president Vinay Sharma for over six weeks. — TNS
07-12-2020||Bathinda||Bharat bandh: Fuel stations to remain shut tomorrow in Punjab||The Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association has announced petrol pumps’ closure from 8 am to 6 pm on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh call.Haryana: All fuel stations to be shut tomorrowPunjab Petroleum Dealers Association vice-president Vinod Bansal said, “We are closing petrol pumps in support of farmers in the state. Fuel will only be given to ambulance or emergency vehicles.” — TNS
07-12-2020||Sameer Singh||Panchayats to return awards conferred by Union Govt||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 6Gram panchayat authorities of Tamkot village in Mansa district have decided to return the Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar presented to the village by the Ministry of Rural Development for welfare projects.A former Sarpanch of Badrukhan village in Sangrur district also decided to return the Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar given to the village in 2016.Tamkot village won the Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar in 2016 and 2017, Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar in 2014 and MGNREGA Puraskar in 2015. Ranjit Singh Tamkot, former Sarpanch of the village, said, “We felt proud that our work was acknowledged and appreciated by the Ministry of Rural Development. We had the honour of receiving the award from the Prime Minister, but now, residents are miffed with the Centre for implementing the farm laws. The farming community cannot be taken for granted and we will stand firm on our stance. To protest against the farm laws, we have decided to return all awards conferred upon us by the Centre.”These awards are given to villages for implementing various welfare schemes, providing wages to workers under MGNREGA, carrying out developmental works, taking steps to reduce illiteracy, preventing and treating diseases such as AIDS and cancer, ensuring participation of women in different spheres and carrying out vaccination programmes effectively to uplift the standard of living of residents.Harbans Kaur, former Sarpanch, Badrukhan village, said, “The honour conferred upon us for work done in the village does not hold much importance for us now.”Former inspector to return medals
07-12-2020||Amritsar||‘Harassed’, Amritsar ASI ends life||An ASI posted at Dhakka colony today committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. ASI Gurnam Singh’s family alleged he ended life after being allegedly harassed by his seniors.Gurnam had reportedly caught an in charge of a police chowki with a woman in an objectionable position following a complaint.Gurnam’s family members alleged his seniors did not take any action. Felt insulted, he allgedly took the extreme step. He was found unconscious near Khandwala chowk. He was admitted to a hospital where he succumbed. DCP Jagmohan Singh said the matter is being probed by ADCP Sandeep Malik and action would be taken. — TNS
07-12-2020||---||Specially abled Sangrur farmer sends family to Delhi protest||Sangrur, December 6Raghuvir Singh, a 68-year-old specially abled farmer, has been unable to walk without wheelchair for past three years after he met with an accident. However, from the start of the agitation against the farm laws, all his family members have been a part of the protests. Presently, his wife, son and daughter-in-law have been protesting at the Delhi border while his neighbours are taking care of him as well his buffalo.“When the Centre is being insensitive to our rights, how can I allow my family to sit at home? My wife Gurcharn Kaur, son Gurdhian Singh and daughter-in-law will continue protesting at the Delhi border till our victory,” said Raghuvir. Before the accident, he was an active member of the BKU (Ugrahan), but after suffering serious injuries on both legs, he has not been able to attend any protest.“Our neighbours and the entire state is there to take care of my husband. His problems are not as big as the problems faced by farmers due to the farm laws. We will return after getting these laws scrapped,” said Gurcharn Kaur from the Delhi border. BKU (Ugrahan, Bhawanigarh) president Harjinder Singh said they had been taking care of Raghuvir. “We are supplying him essential items on time,” he said.
07-12-2020||---||Deceased farmer’s kin get relief||Mansa, December 6Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla today paid tributes to Dhanna Singh, the farmer who died while participating in the ongoing protests. The minister handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the victim’s family, which was received by the deceased farmer’s wife Manjit Kaur and other members.Singla said the Punjab Government supported the farmers and their families. Earlier, residents of Kheyali Chalan Wali village had “attained martyrdom”, and now, the Dhanna Singh gave his life for the rights of the farmers.He promised that the state was committed to providing education to the children of the deceased farmer and treatment to the injured farmers, namely Baljinder Singh and Jagtar Singh.
07-12-2020||Amritsar||SGPC offices to remain shut tomorrow to support farmers||In support of the farmers’ Bharat Bandh call, the SGPC has declared to keep its offices and institutions closed on December 8.Showing solidarity with the farmers’ protest, the SGPC has already directed all its gurdwaras to hold mass "ardas" on December 7 between 8 am and 9 am.SGPC honorary secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said the SGPC was committed to the farmers’ cause. “We have been providing medical aid and langar to farmers at the site of their protest. Similarly, monetary compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to the kin of seven farmers who lost life during the protest has been announced. Besides, for the convenience of the women who joined the protest, moveable washrooms have also been provided,” he said. — TNS
07-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Peasants use weddings to mobilise support||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 6Many farmers have deferred the marriage of their children till the rollback of the Central farm laws while others, who had fixed the weddings earlier, have been giving a well-orchestrated platform to all attendees to vent their anger at the Centre.Night ‘jago’, departure of marriage party and even stage performances at marriage palaces have undergone a major change these days as all are mainly focused on targeting the Centre and mobilising support for the Delhi protest.“Centre de kanuna di, lag gai navi bimari, aape hatjugi, khichlo Delhi jann di tyari,” says a bhangra artiste on stage at the marriage of Baljinder Singh from Bhalwan. He has done engineering and presently, he is looking for a job. He also helps his father Gurjant Singh in farming.“After staying at the protest site for two days, I came back as my marriage had been fixed for December 6. As I wanted to show my protest during my wedding also, I, along with my family, decided to use anti-laws Punjabi ‘boliyan’ during my ‘jago’ and departure of marriage party,” said Baljinder Singh.Some farmer leaders told The Tribune that at most marriages of farmers, a major portion of the time went in flaying the Centre for the three farm laws.“As the future of farmers depends on the outcome of the Delhi protest against the Central laws, there are many farmer families who have postponed their marriages. Others, who had fixed the date of the marriage before the launch of the protest, are using the occasion to mobilise support,” said Satnam Singh, Sunam block cashier of the BKU (Dakanuda).
07-12-2020||Manav Mander---||Lassi, kheer bring smile on farmers’ faces||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, December 6 Nothing tastes as refreshing as ‘lassi’ and as sweet as ‘kheer’ for the farmers protesting at the Delhi border.  Both these delicacies are an integral part of the meals in rural Punjab and their mere sight brings a smile on the faces of farmers who have been protesting in Delhi for many weeks now. A few Ludhiana residents today took an initiative and distributed ‘lassi’ and ‘kheer’ to the agitating farmers. As the farmers are also finding that the taste of the water is not as sweet as it is in Punjab, they are preferring ‘lassi’ over water. ‘Kheer’ is welcomed by them at any time of the day. The momentum has now started building in the urban areas too and city people are not only supporting the protesting farmers but also helping them in every possible way. A group of four city residents who are from different fields started their journey at 4 am with their vehicle full of ‘lassi’ and ‘kheer’.  “Some people from our village are also sitting in the protest and through them, I came to know that they are facing difficulty in arranging water. Moreover, they are not finding the taste of the water as sweet as in Punjab. That is when I decided to do my bit for those who provide us our daily meals,” said Eman Singh Tiwana.  He and his friends arranged 3,000 packets of ‘lassi’ and ‘kheer’ and distributed those among the protesting farmers. “Our parents moved out of the villages and settled down in cities but villages are where we belong. Our forefathers were into agriculture. Farmers are our ‘annadata’ so how can we leave them alone while they are protesting?” said Jagbir Singh, who is into business and also does agriculture on a small basis. Barinder Singh Bhangu, another city resident who went to the Delhi border, said that sight at the border was all together different. “Farmers were really excited at the sight of ‘lassi’ and ‘kheer’. It gave me immense satisfaction that I was able to do my bit,” he said. Another sight at the border that was appreciated by the Ludhiana group was that the farmers were not throwing waste here and there but  collecting and disposing it of properly.
07-12-2020||Ludhiana||Trains short-terminated, cancelled till tomorrow||To keep the movement of passenger trains to ‘bare minimum’ in the state amid the ongoing farmers’ protests, the Northern Railway authorities extended cancellation and short-termination of many trains till December 8. Accordingly, the pair of 05531/32 Saharsa-Amritsar-Saharsa Covid Special Express train will remain cancelled on December 6 and 7.  Similarly, 04651/52 Jaynagar-Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express special will short-terminate and short-originate from Amabala Cantt. It will remain partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt and Amritsar till December 8. The 02715/16 Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express will be short-terminate at and short-originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar till December 8. The 02925/26 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Pashchim Express will short-terminate at and short-originate from Chandigarh and remain partially cancelled till December 8. — OC
07-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Drone sorties from across border, search ops on||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Search operations continued in the border belt following drone sorties made from across the border in the recent past.Intelligence and security agencies suspect that anti-national forces in the neighbouring country might have dropped weapons or contraband for fuelling terror in the country especially in Jammu and Kashmir.Today, search operations were carried out in the riverine belt of Ramdass and Gaggomahal area. The operation started in the border belt on December 1 when the first drone sorties were reported in Kot Razada area at the international border. However, nothing has been recovered during these search operations till now.At least five drone sorties suspected to be carrying arms or contraband were made at the start of this month from Pakistan reportedly by anti-national forces supported by its Inter Service Intelligence to India in Kot Razada border village in Ajnala sector here.Similar drone sorties were made in September to pump in around 80 kg of weapons. This had come to light during the interrogation of alleged terror module busted by the Punjab Police following seizure of weapons in Tarn Taran area.The investigations had revealed that around eight drone sorties were made to smuggle weapons in Amritsar and Tarn Taran by using Khalistan Zindabad Force network and support of Pakistan’s spy agency.BSF officials, wishing not to be named, had revealed that drone sorties had been regular at the border and alert BSF jawans were taking appropriate measures to scuttle their movements. During fog in the winter when visibility almost becomes zero, this would only scale up.They said they were also working in close coordination with the Punjab Police for strengthening the second line of defence.A Punjab Police intelligence official said that search operations commenced on December 1 and would continue in the Ajnala and Ramdass sector tomorrow also.Riverine belt scouted
07-12-2020||---||Now, politicians make beeline for Delhi||Muktsar, December 6Not just singers and actors, politicians from Punjab have also made a beeline for the farmers’ ongoing protest at the Delhi border.For instance, AAP’s state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, Congress MP from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, AAP MLA from Jagraon Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Congress MLA from Dhuri Dalvir Singh Khangura’s wife Simrat Khangura, SAD’s former Malout MLA Harpreet Singh Kotbhai, SAD’s Gidderbaha constituency in charge Hardeep Singh Dimpy Dhillon and many others have so far visited Delhi to make their presence felt among the farmers.Many youth and student leaders like Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana, former presidents of the Panjab University Campus Student Council Malwinder Singh Kang and Kanu Priya are also lodging protest at the Delhi border.Meanwhile, politicians from Delhi like AAP MLAs Jarnail Singh and Raghav Chadha and SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa have also visited the protesting farmers. Notably, the farm leaders have already stopped the politicians from addressing any gatherings from their stage and are preferring to stay put in their tractor-trailers. They are also helping others in preparing food and distributing free grocery.Student leaders reach stir venues
07-12-2020||Fazilka||BSF stands up for cleanliness too||Politicians pull up socksGurdaspur: Politicians have started nurturing their respective Assembly seats even as the state polls are more than a year away. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa can now be seen more in Dera Baba Nanak than in the corridors of power in Chandigarh. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, unsure of his political hold in Fatehgarh Churian, where he is the sitting MLA, is eying the adjoining seat of Batala. His father Gurbachan Singh Bajwa was the first MLA of Batala. In Dinanagar, Aruna Chaudhury has been touring with her husband. In Qadian, MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and his son Arjun Partap Bajwa, member, Gurdaspur zila parishad, regularly preside over workers’ meetings. In Gurdaspur, the Pahra family has become active. In Pathankot, MLA Amit Vij is now a regular feature on the social circuit. Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi has been meeting sarpanches. In Pathankot, state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma has been meeting party workers ahead of the Municipal Corporation polls.Elderly man pedals to DelhiMuktsar: The video of a daily wager from Mandi Killianwali, who is in his mid-sixties, leaving on his cycle to join the farmers’ protest at Delhi border has gone viral on social media. The gesture of the cyclist, Ved Parkash Sharma, was acknowledged by two youngsters in Sirsa district who offered him sweets and shot his video. Ved Parkash said he did not own even a small piece of land but was going to join the protest at the Tikri border.Keeping farmers’ feet warmMuktsar: Ricky Brar, who belongs to Khunde Halal village here and runs a restaurant in Muktsar town, has earned accolades with his initiative of distributing free shoes and socks to a number of marginal farmers protesting at the Kundli border near Delhi. Ricky said, “With the help of my friends who are settled abroad, I bought nearly 250 pairs of shoes and 500 pairs of socks and distributed these among the old and needy farmers on Saturday. Now, I am planning to buy at least 2,000 pairs of shoes as a large number of farmers, need footwear at the protest site due to the prevailing cold weather.”
07-12-2020||GS Paul||Punjab to compile ‘authentic’ list of Jallianwala martyrs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Over a century after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, the Punjab Government has taken the initiative to compile a list of martyrs. The Departments of Tourism and Cultural Affairs and Public Relations, along with the Amritsar administration, have been assigned the task of authenticating the martyrs’ credentials and preparing a list in collaboration with Guru Nanak Dev University and the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.After being verified by the Amritsar DC and the Trust, the list would be sent to the Chief Minister for approval. Former Rajya Sabha MP Tarlochan Singh, a member of the Trust, who had raised the matter with the state government, observed: “It’s pity that 101 years after the massacre, there is no official list of the martyrs.” At present, restoration work at the Jallianwala Bagh is being carried out by the Ministry of Culture under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of india (ASI).The list of the dead and injured prepared by the British then for the purpose of awarding compensation has several discrepancies. Lying at the DC’s office, it has 501 on the list with many marked as “unidentified”. A recent study by the Partition Museum Trust puts the number at 547 with the names of 45 not known. A board standing in the precincts of the Jallianwala Bagh earlier put the death toll at 379.
