08-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||17-year-old Mansa girl commits suicide after being denied a smartphone||Tribune News ServiceMansa, June 8 A 17-year-old girl from Kotdharmu village in Mansa has reportedly committed suicide as she didn’t have the facility to attend online classes.As per information, the Class XI student was demanding smartphone for her online studies, but due to poor financial condition of the family, her parents could not fulfill her wish. Irked by the denial, she hung herself at her home on Friday. The girl’s father is a farm labourer.It is learnt that the girl was a bright student.Girl’s father Jagseer Singh said, “She was asking for smartphone as she wanted to study, but I was unable to get her the phone as I did not have money.”A senior police official though denied that the girl committed suicide over the smartphone.“In the initial probe it has come to the fore that the mother of the deceased girl had an affair with a person and she had gone out with him. In the meanwhile her father returned home, the girl wanted to call her mother but her phone did not have sufficient balance. Nervous, the girl committed suicide,” said the official.“To cover up, the mother came up with the smartphone story. Probe is on and entire case will be clear within a day,” the official added.
08-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Alleging harassment, five Barnala school teachers climb water tank||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, June 8Alleging harassment by the school principal and management, five teachers of Baba Gandha Singh Public School at Barnala have climbed a water tank near their school.Other teachers also reached near the water tank in support of protesters and raised slogans against police authorities also for allegedly not taking action despite their repeated complaints.School principal has denied all the allegations and alleged that since he tried to conduct online class during lockdown and bring improvement in the education system of school, teachers were levelling baseless allegations.“We have been meeting all civil and police officers for the last many months and demanding action against school principal and management for harassing us. But none is listening to us,” alleged a teacher who has climbed the water tank.Another teacher, Guramrit Kaur, said their school was started for the promotion of Sikhism, but their principal has been allegedly harassing them without any valid reasons.“School principal has been raising questions about our religion. We have been demanding the registration of FIR against principle for harassing us. But Barnala police officers are also harassing us and delaying action,” she alleged. Mahinder Pal Singh Daangarh, president of Insaaf Di Awaz Party, has also extended his support to agitating teachers.“Police must register FIR against all those, who are harassing the teachers. We would support the agitation of teachers to ensure justice to them,” said Dangar.School principal Col Srinivasulu (eetd) said he has CCTV footage to prove that teachers were levelling baseless allegations.“I have taken steps to improve the education system of school and to promote online classes during lockdown. Out of more than 100 teachers, only few teachers are levelling baseless allegations. Today I have written to Barnala SSP for action against teachers,” he said. Barnala DSP Baljit Brar denied the allegations and said police had been conducting detailed investigations.“The matter is sub judice and we are also conducting investigations. There is no delay on our part,” said DSP.School management committee member Narpinder Singh Dhillon said he was not aware about any such issue as he did not go to school regularly.
08-06-2020||Amritsar||Infant among Amritsar’s three coronavirus deaths||An eight-month-old baby was among Amritsar’s three coronavirus deaths on Monday, officials said---a development that comes as the district’s COVID-19 tally inches closer to 500.The baby was from Amritsar’s Gopalpura Manjwind village and was admitted to Government Medical College in critical condition. The child’s initial symptoms were fever, cough, diarrhoea and lack of appetite, doctors said. He was moved to the hospital’s ICU as soon as tests came back positive.The infant is the district’s youngest casualty to COVID-19.The other fatalities were both elderly, ages 60 and 78.District health authorities said both patients suffered from existing health conditions such as diabetes and heart problems.The state’s health bulletin however registered only one of the three deaths.When the other two are recorded, the district’s death toll will rise to 11, surpassing Ludhiana’s fatalities.Amritsar also reported 18 new coronavirus cases, although the official state tally shows only 12 cases on Monday.It is not unusual to see such discrepancies between district and the state’s official tally, especially given that many cases are confirmed after the state tally is already compiled.Meanwhile, Amritsar administration sealed off six localities in the walled city area on Sunday.Bambay wala Khoo, Gali Kandhari, Katra Moti Ram, Ram Bagh wali gali, Katra Nain Sukh wali gali and Ganj di Mori was declared a containment zones on Sunday.Government rules say that any area with 15 or more cases is declared containment zone. The cluster has reported 19 cases over the last week.Amritsar has been reporting a spike in COVID-19 cases this past week. The district currently has 128 active coronavirus cases, of which 75 have been reported in the last three days alone.Amritsar also has the most COVID-19 cases of Punjab’s 22 districts---the number of infections now stands at 481.
08-06-2020||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Eastern Command remembers its chief Lt Gen JS Aurora||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, June 8Indian Army’s Kolkata-headquartered Eastern Command on Monday paid glowing tributes to its former chief Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Aurora’s taking over the responsibility of the Command as its GOC-in-C.“The #WarriorsoftheEast shall always remain indebted for the revered contributions by #Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora, PVSM and value his contributions to be ever etched down the memory lane,” the Eastern Command said in a message posted on multiple social media platforms.Lieutenant General Aurora took over the reins of the Eastern Command on June 8, 1969 and remained in the post till February 10, 1973. During his tenure, he was instrumental in creating Bangladesh and secured surrender by a Pakistani General with over 90,000 troops.The black and white photograph of Lt Gen AAK Niazi of Pakistan army signing the Instrument of Surrender under the gaze of Aurora on December 16, 1971 at Ramna Race Course in Dhaka encapsulates the most momentous occasion in the history of Indian Army.#ThisDayinHistoryofEC#OurCommandersatHelmThe #WarriorsoftheEast shall always remain indebted for the revered contributions by #Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora, PVSM and value his contributions to be ever etched down the memory lane. pic.twitter.com/kVou0Tohly  In his book “The Lightning Campaign: The Indo-Pakistan War, 1971” Maj Gen DK Palit (retd) wrote that while drawing up his strategy, the Pakistani commander (Niazi) reckoned “without Eastern Army’s GOC-in-C Lt Gen J S Aurora”.“No commander before him (Aurora) had ever attempted a war of movement such as this in a land where rivers run to five miles in width, where the going is all infantry – with no scope for fast movingarmoured thrusts, where the enemy was a formidably organised foe…,” wrote General Palit.During the peak of the 1971 war Aurora commanded nearly half a million men, including the Mukti Bahini and the Army’s northern divisions facing Tibet.“No Lieutenant General in military history has commanded so large an army and so heavy a strategic responsibility,” Palit added.In an obituary published in British newspaper The Independent, Aurora was lauded for following “the novel strategy of ‘leaving the highways for the byways’, thereby obviating traditional battle engagements”.“He formed small, highly mobile units that surrounded the Pakistanis, cutting them off from one another and from their extended supply lines,” wrote the London newspaper.The ace Sikh soldier was born on February 13, 1916 in Kalle Gujjran in Jhelum district, now in Pakistan. He was commissioned into the 1st battalion of the 2nd Punjab Regiment in 1939, and served in all three Indo-Pak Wars fought till date.Aurora had criticised the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi for the Operation Blue Star. He also had a stint in the Rajya Sabha as an Akali Dal representative.Aurora died on May 3, 2005 at the age of 89.
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 55 new coronavirus cases, records 2 more deaths||Punjab reported 55 new coronavirus cases and reported two deaths on Monday---developments that take the state’s death toll to 53 from 2,663 COVID-19 infections.The state revised its death tally to 53, taking into account two more deaths---one each from Amritsar and Patiala.  Amritsar reported three deaths on Monday, but Monday's official state tally only recorded one. An eight-month-old baby was among Amritsar’s three coronavirus deaths on Monday, officials said---a development that comes as the district’s COVID-19 tally inches closer to 500.The baby was from Amritsar’s Gopalpura Manjwind village and was admitted to Government Medical College in critical condition. The baby is the district’s youngest casualty to COVID-19.The other fatalities were both elderly, ages 60 and 78.  District health authorities said both patients suffered from existing health conditions such as diabetes and heart problems.When the other two deaths are recorded, Amritsar's death toll will stand at 11, surpassing Ludhiana's numbers.In Patiala, a 46-year-old man from Nabha died at Government Rajindra Hospital on Sunday afternoon from coronavirus. His test results came back positive after his death, officials said.  An employee of Hindustan Unilever Limited, he was admitted to the hospital on Saturday.Jalandhar (14), Amritsar (12), Ludhiana (9), Patiala (5), Pathankot (3),  SBS Nagar (3), Faridkot (2), SAS Nagar (2), Sangrur (2), Fazilka (1), Gurdaspur (1), and Moga (1) accounted for Punjab’s 55 new cases on Monday, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.Six of Jalandhar’s 14 new cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases. The bulletin classified the others as new cases.The new development takes Jalandhar’s COVID-19 numbers past 300.In Amritsar, seven were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), four were contacts of positive cases and the last was a person who had just returned from abroad.  All five of Patiala’s cases had recent domestic travel record.Two of Pathankot’s three were classified as ILI and the third was a self-reported case. In SBS Nagar, two were new cases and one had recently returned from abroad.Faridkot, Sangrur, and SAS Nagar had contacts of already diagnosed patients testing positive.A Border Security Force personnel tested positive in Fazilka.  Moga’s lone case was a person who recently returned from abroad.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (481), Jalandhar (307), Ludhiana (251), Tarn Taran (159), Gurdaspur (152), Hoshiarpur (135), Patiala (138), SAS Nagar (128), SBS Nagar (109), Sangrur (111), Pathankot (91), Ropar (71), Muktsar (70), Faridkot (74), Fatehgarh Sahib (70), Moga (67), Bathinda (55), Fazilka (48), Ferozepur (46),  Kapurthala (40), Mansa (34), and Barnala (26).  The state's death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (10), Amritsar (9), Jalandhar (8), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Amritsar still has the highest number of coronavirus cases in Punjab. Amritsar and Jalandhar together account for over 29 per cent of the state’s cases.Two people are on ventilator support in Amritsar.Punjab has 482 active cases currently, the bulletin shows. Some 22 people recovered on Monday.
08-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur ZPSC members protest cancellation of blue cards in villages||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 8The residents of various villages of Sangrur district, on Monday, protested under the banner of the Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee (ZPSC) near the local residence of Punjab Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla for their long-pending demands.The committee postponed their agitation after an assurance by the Minister on the condition that they would protest again if the officers failed to fulfil their demands.The main demands of the committee include inquiry into the cancellation of blue cards in villages, restarting of all cancelled cards, action against officers who cancelled the cards without any valid reasons,  action against micro-finance companies pressurising the poor to pay instalments of small loans despite directions of government for the relaxation due to the pandemic and auction of the reserved village common lands on merit.“Despite our repeated requests, the administration has not been paying any heed towards our genuine demands. We would launch indefinite protest in the coming days if the authorities failed to fulfil our demands,” said Bikkar Singh, finance secretary, ZPSC.The protestors first converged on the Sangrur-Patiala bypass to stage the protest. Later, they marched towards the residence of the Cabinet Minister, but after the intervention of senior officers, the ZPSC members decided to postpone their protest.“The Sangrur administration has called us for a meeting on Tuesday to fulfil our demands. We have the evidence to prove that some officers are creating problems in the auction of the reserved land from the common village land. We will share all details with officers,” said Parmjit Kaur, secretary, ZPSC.
08-06-2020||Mohali||Punjab Health Minister orders enquiry into Mohali chlorine gas leak||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday ordered an enquiry into the chlorine gas leak in Mohali which caused breathlessness and subsequent hospitalization of nearly four dozen people on Sunday night.The affected were admitted to the civil hospital in Phase VI here.Sidhu visited the colony near the waterworks in Balongi village, where the leak had occurred, and enquired about the health of the people in the locality. He said an enquiry would be held to fix responsibility.All the patients, barring one, has been discharged from the hospital.Panic had spread in the area after the gas leak on Sunday night as all the residents living around the waterworks complained of breathlessness and vomiting. Even two fire brigade employees, who reached the spot, were rushed to Civil Hospital. Later, the fire department officials dug the ground and buried the cylinder, but the gas continued to leak.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that those admitted to the hospital were mostly women, children and elderly persons. He said around 45 people had come to the hospital and they were discharged this morning as they were stable. Singh said only one person was admitted to the hospital at present as he was under observation even though his this condition was also stable.According to Water supply and sanitation officials, the waterworks is under the control of the village panchayat and the chlorine cylinder at the waterworks was outdated. The bottom of the cylinder had become worn out and was leaking.
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Golden Temple opens for devotees after March, in pics||The holiest of Sikh shrines, Harmandir Sahib, popularly known as Golden Temple, in Amritsar city in Punjab was reopened on Monday for devotees as the Union Ministry of Home Affairs allowed the opening of places of worship with precautionary measures amid COVID-19 outbreak.Likewise, the popular Hindu shrine Durgiana temple in Amritsar was reopened for the devotees.Most of the shrines in the state have been closed since mid of March as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus.The community kitchen also restarted with the authorities ensuring complete hygiene in the Golden Temple's langar hall."We have specially come all the way from Shahabad (in Haryana) to offer prayers on the first of reopening of the Golden Temple after two months of closure due to lockdown," a devotee told the media in Amritsar, some 250 km from the state capital Chandigarh.At Durgiana Mandir, the bells have been properly sanitised and wrapped in a cloth.Arun Khanna, general secretary of Durgiana committee, said the devotees have been advised not to offer 'prasad' or touch statues, idols or holy books in the temple.Elsewhere in Punjab, people have started thronging various shrines in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and other towns since early morning.Devotees could also be seen in Chandigarh. IANS
08-06-2020||---||Punjab shrines prepare for visitors||Amritsar, June 7The managing committees of the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir are all set to abide by the government’s Covid prevention guidelines for religious places. The two major shrines of the holy city will be reopened for devotees from Monday.While the SGPC has initiated steps to adhere to all safety precautions, it is not happy with the restriction over distribution of prasad and langar. SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said no clear-cut directions regarding “karah parshad” and langar were received, yet every effort was being made to ensure complete hygiene at the Golden Temple’s langar hall.Meanwhile, volunteers were seen sanitising both the shrines today. The managements have also put in place arrangements for checking temperature of all visitors and ensuring social distancing norms. The police have removed the barriers that were earlier set up on the entrances to the Golden Temple.At Durgiana Mandir, the bells have been covered with cloth. Arun Khanna, general secretary of Durgiana committee, said a mechanism had been adopted to ensure minimal touching of common surfaces.Will shut quarantine facility: Hoteliers Bathinda: Facing losses, hoteliers are planning to discontinue the provision of quarantine being offered by them. Punjab Hotel Association president Satish Arora said both Centre and the state government had failed to provide any relief to the hospitality sector, which was reeling under huge losses due to Covid-19. Arora said hoteliers had arranged around 3,750 rooms for the quarantine facility across the state by spending extra on staff and maintenance equipment, but they were hardly getting any quarantine customers. He said a decision in this regard would be taken at a meeting tomorrow. TNS
08-06-2020||---||Punjab Government promotes direct seeding of rice||Chandigarh, June 74,000 Machines SanctionedTo cope up with the labour scarcity amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has stepped up its efforts to encourage farmers to switch over to direct seeding of rice (DSR) instead of the traditional transplantation of paddy this year.This year, nearly 25 per cent of the total area under paddy sowing is expected to come under this technology which will help to slash cultivation cost in terms of both labour and water.To promote the technology and motivate farmers to adopt it, the State Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department sanctioned 4,000 DSR machines and 800 paddy transplanting machines to farmers on subsidy ranging from 40 to 50 per cent.Secretary, Agriculture, KS Pannu said Punjab had earlier fixed the target to bring around 5 lakh hectares under the DSR technique but given the labour shortage and keen interest shown by farmers to adopt the advance technology, 6-7 lakh hectares of area is expected to come under this technology, which roughly accounts for 25 per cent of the paddy grown in Punjab.He further stated that the DSR technique would be instrumental in saving about 30 per cent of water besides cutting the cost of paddy cultivation by nearly Rs 6,000 per acre. He said as per reports and research of Punjab Agriculture University, the yield of paddy from the DSR is on a par with paddy crop grown by conventional technique of transplanting.He also appealed to farmers that most critical element in new technology is the control of weeds and as such, farmers must be careful that prior to undertaking DSR, they must procure weedicide and spray the same within 24 hours of sowing the crop.Farmers from across the state would cultivate paddy on 27 lakh hectares, which include 7 lakh hectares under high quality basmati rice.
08-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab panchayats cap labour costs, but farmers willing to pay more||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7Though panchayats across the state have passed resolutions, capping the labour costs that are to be paid for paddy transplantation at around Rs 3,000 per acre, farmers have maintained that they would not follow these resolutions as their livelihood depends on proper and timely transplantation.Baldev Singh, a farmer in Bhairupa near Bathinda, says that though his village panchayat, too, has passed a resolution, but farmers are desperate and are willing to pay anything between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000, on the condition that the rate they pay should not be disclosed by the labourers.In Sangatpura village of Sangrur, where 2,000 acre of land is under paddy cultivation, at least eight new direct seeding of rice (DSR) machines have been bought by farmers in the wake of shortage of labour. Shagandeep Singh, a farmer in the village, says that this is an additional cost to the farmer this year, as the 40 per cent subsidy announced by the government has so far not been released to anyone. “Other than this, the cost of most herbicides, pesticides and insecticides, besides zinc and sulphur, have gone up. We will not even break even with the minimal MSP hike, considering that the input costs are so high this year,” he laments.Kulwant Singh of Kishangarh Sedha Singh village in Budhlada (Mansa), who is also the secretary of the Kisangarh Sedha Singh Village Cooperative Society, says while prices of sulphur and zinc have increased by 30-35 per cent, the prices of many pesticides have doubled in the past two years.“Butachlor, a commonly used herbicide in paddy, is available to farmers at Rs 590 per litre, against its price of Rs 530 per litre last year; price of pesticide choloropyrifos has increased from Rs 295-Rs 300 last year to Rs 350 this year; Cartap (pesticide) prices have hiked from Rs 50-55 in 2018 to Rs 120 now. Even the price of Ferterra insecticide has gone up from Rs 575 for a 7-kg packet in 2018 to Rs 675 this year. With a 15 per cent rise in these prices, how do you expect the farmer to prosper when the price he gets is just 2.9 per cent higher over the last year?” he questions.
08-06-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Paddy growers in Punjab offer freebies to woo back migrant workers||Ferozepur, June 7From free mobile recharge to free liquor, landlords and farmers in the district are making all-out efforts to lure migrant labourers back for paddy transplantation. They are also sending buses to various destinations in UP and Bihar.Nishan Singh, sarpanch of Basti Ram Lal village, said villagers had arranged a minibus to bring back labourers from Bihar. “They are expected to arrive here day after tomorrow,” he said.Minibus Arranged For TransportVillagers have arranged a minibus to bring back labourers from Bihar. They are expected to arrive here on Tuesday.Nishan Singh, Sarpanch, Basti Ram Lal villageRajbir Singh of Basti Wakeelan Wali village said he had managed to call 27 labourers from Bihar after completing all formalities. “Labourers have arrived. Their arrival has come as a huge relief to me,” he said.Dharmendra Kumar of Pilibhit district in UP said, “We were not looked after properly by the government at our native places, so we decided to return to Punjab.” Gandhar, Netrapal, Tej Bahadur and Dharampal, all of whom have come back from Bareilly, said they were sitting idle at home, so they decided to return to Punjab and earn money.I have managed to call back 27 labourers after completing all formalities. Their arrival has come as a huge relief to me.Rajbir, Resident, Basti Wakeelan Wali VillageDavinder Singh Sekhon, a farmer in Hakumat Singh Wala village, said he had promised a smartphone to each labourer, along with 4G Internet connection and free accommodation.Sources said farmers were even offering free liquor, along with other freebies, to woo migrant labourers.Harjinder Singh of Khai Pheme Ke village said even though labourers were demanding a high price for paddy transplantation, and that too in advance, farmers had no option but to cough up the amount. “The state government failed to prevent the migration of the labourers,” he said.Reason For ReturnWe were not looked after properly by the authorities at our native places, so we decided to return to Punjab.Dharmendra Kumar, Labourer from UPLabourers were asking for almost Rs 5,000 per acre for paddy transplantation. Earlier, it used to be between Rs 2,200 and Rs 2,700, said another farmer.
08-06-2020||---||Spurt in covid-19 cases in Punjab, Amritsar tops list||Chandigarh, June 7With one more death reported from Ludhiana, the total number of casualties in the state has reached 51.Besides, with 93 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 2,608.Among districts, 35 cases were reported from Amritsar, 23 from Jalandhar, 10 from Ludhiana, seven from Patiala, five from Sangrur, three each from Gurdaspur and Faridkot, two cases from Pathankot and one case each was reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, SAS Nagar and Barnala.With 35 new cases reported in Amritsar today, the total count of Covid-19 patients in this district has reached 469.Of the new patients, 10 are ILI (influenza like illness) cases reported from 10 different localities; eight from city and two from rural areas. At least 31 localities in city have reported positive cases during the recent wave of Covid-19 spread.The new cases also include 19 contacts; seven from Housing Board Colony, three from Katra Sher Singh, one contact each from Faijpur, Kesar dhaba and Ranjit Avenue, two contacts each from RB estate, Rose avenue and Katra Moti Ram.With 10 more persons testing positive in Jalandhar, the district tally reached 293 cases today. Like yesterday, the positive cases today also included two children, aged 6 years, among eight adults. The cases reported today include one new case and the rest are contacts of previously tested positive patients from Rose Garden, Bhargo Camp, Lamma Pind and Tagore Nagar. After a two-month lull – the Virl village, which reported the first positive cases in the district (contacts of Nawanshahr patient Baldev Singh) has also reported a case today.There are four new cases from Rose Garden, including the two six-year-old children, a 54-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man. The other eight cases reported in the district include a 48-year-old man from Virk Village, 49-year-old woman from Preet Nagar, 22-year-old woman, 22-year-old man and 56-year-old man from Lamma Pind and a 55-year-old woman from Bhargo Camp. Barring the Virk village man, all are contacts of previous cases.Meanwhile, with four more people testing positive in Kapurthala, the district tally rose to 44 today. The active cases in Kapurthala are now eight. The four people who tested positive today include a 20-year-old man, 40-year-old man, 33-year-old woman and a 15-year-old boy. They are all residents of Mayo Patti in Phagwara. Having travelled to Kapurthala from Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh, they are all migrant labourers who came to the district during the paddy season. Meanwhile, the two judiciary members and their staff as well as an SHO who were tested for Covid-19 have all tested negative. They had come in contact with the ASI who had tested positive a few days ago from the district.Two more cops have tested positive from Barnala.4,600 challaned for not wearing maskAs many as 4,600 challans for failure to wear mask in public, 160 for spitting and 24 for not adhering to social distancing norms were issued on Friday alone. Rapping violators, CM Capt Amarinder Singh said such irresponsible behaviour could not be allowed. Responding to questions during the latest FB Live edition of #AskCaptain, the CM said Covid situation had so far been manageable due to strict lockdown imposed in the state and the cooperation of people. TNS
08-06-2020||Muktsar||Farmer ends life, 2 booked||A farmer of Adhnian village here on Saturday night allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself with a ceiling fan at his house.Gurpreet Singh’s son told the police that his father was upset as they had sold their wheat crop in 2017 through a commission agent firm of Malout town, but the owners were not paying them money. Meanwhile, the police have booked the owners of the commission agent firm namely Dharamvir Batra and Boha Singh. A case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC has been registered. — TNS
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||7 Punjab cops shifted over failure to rein in interstate smugglers||Fazilka, June 732 CASES OF ILLICIT LIQUOR SEIZEDSeven policemen have been transferred to Ferozepur over their alleged failure to check interstate liquor smuggling. These policemen are ASIs Bhupinder Singh, Nirmal Singh, Balkar Singh, Som Parkash and Davinder Singh and head constables Mandeep Singh and Sarwan Singh. They were posted at the police stations of Bahawala and Khuiansarvar near the interstate Punjab-Rajasthan border and in the narcotics cell.Harjeet Singh, Fazilka SSP, said the investigation was over how many former police personnel posted in these police stations were hand in glove with liquor smugglers. The district police claimed to have destroyed inter-state liquor smuggling network with the arrest of its alleged kingpin, Karamvir Singh, alias Gaggi. He was arrested with 311 litres of liquor meant for sale in Rajasthan three days ago near the Punjab-Rajasthan border.The SSP said residents on the other side of the inter-state border had dug trenches in agriculture fields to conceal “lahan” which was pushed to Punjab through remote routes.He said about 63,000 litres of “lahan” had been destroyed in different villages. He said illegal distillation of liquor at Mahalam, Chanankhera and Dhunkian villages had been going on for the past few years, adding that a large numbers of bootleggers had been taken to task by the police.The police also arrested 81 persons involved in 108 cases of smuggling of illicit liquor and hooch preparation in the district during the last two weeks.Meanwhile, Khuia Sarvar SHO and his counterpart from Hindumal Kot in Rajasthan conducted a joint raid at Khat Lubana village in Rajasthan and destroyed 30,000 litres of “lahan” recently.
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Sect in property row, 100 booked||Tarn Taran, June 7OWNS ACRES OF LANDAs many as 100 followers of Avtar Singh, head of Gurdwara Baba Bidhi Chand Sect, Sursing, 25 km from here, have been booked in two criminal cases.The property dispute between two brothers of the sect is said to be reason behind the FIRs. Avtar Singh was nominated head of the sect after the death of Baba Daya Singh on January 20, 2014. Gurbachan Singh, younger brother of Avtar Singh, has been at loggerheads with his brother over the sect property.Many gurdwaras and educational institutions are being run by the sect, which has more than 700 acres of agriculture land.Armed followers of the warring sides came face-to-face with each other over the possession of land at Sursing village today. The Bhikhiwind police booked 50 supporters of Baba Avtar Singh.Meanwhile, the Chabal police booked the same number of supporters for creating disturbance at a meeting organised by the police and the administration to sort out the dispute at Chabal village. DSP Sucha Singh Bal said investigations were on in the matter.
08-06-2020||Ludhiana||Industry sore over high power rates in Punjab||Industrialists in the state have alleged that they are suffering due to the government apathy. They say as per the 2020-21 tariff order, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) gave no relief to the industry despite fall in the prices of coal and petroleum products.Badish Jindal, president of the All Industries and Trade Forum, said in April 2019, the coal prices were $89.70 per tonne (Rs 6,144). It came down to $65 (Rs 4,875) this April. Similarly, the crude oil prices reduced from $65 per barrel to $25 during the same period, said Jindal.The All Industries and Trade Forum, having 113 associations as its members, has 12 offices across the country. Raj Kumar Singla, its general secretary, said the industries were running under capacity, resulting in high power prices due to the two-part tariff system.“The rate rises when consumption falls. Now, the power is costing us Rs 12-20 per unit due to low consumption. This has resulted in an increase in production cost. The PSERC has given us no relief on account of fall in the prices of coal and petroleum products,” said Singla. — TNS
08-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Mobile rehab clinics shot in the arm for drug addicts in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 7Men, both young and old, gather eagerly around a vehicle which arrives in their area early every morning. And no, it doesn’t distribute langar, it offers treatment to drug addicts.In April, 1,293 people registered for treatment with OOAT (Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment) clinics in Kapurthala. This is the largest single-month spike in de-addiction cases in the district since 2007.With such rise in cases reported during lockdown, the OOAT van started in April has proved to be a lifeline for addicts. The lack of availability of drugs during lockdown, no jobs and lack of mobility among drug dependents have resulted in this record spike. During the lockdown period (March to May), a whopping 2,160 people registered for OOAT.From February to May 2019, as many as 893 new patients got registered at the de-addiction centre in Kapurthala. The same period in 2020 saw 2,160 patients. In April this year, 1,293 new persons were registered (more than the 2019 record of March, April and May months put together). From 6,059 cases in February 2020, the cases have risen to 8,375 till May 30.With patients making a beeline to the de-addiction centre after the curfew, the Kapurthala district administration started mobile OOAT clinics to grapple with the huge inflow and make de-addiction medicine accessible. Villages like Lattianwal, Boot, Toti, Saincham Sandhu Chattha witnessed the largest hike.The mobile clinics traverse 24 villages in the district. Two vans operate across the district which were flagged off by MLAs of Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi, Phagwara constituencies.Dr Sandeep Bhola said, “There have been periods of spike in the past but this year’s figures have surpassed all previous records. We have never had 1,293 new patients reporting in a single month. The most common cause is the snapping of supply chain and loss of jobs and mobility during lockdown.”Deepti Uppal, Kapurthala DC, said, “The mobile OOAT clinic was started to facilitate both patients and ensure social distancing. The results have been great. We want to retain these persons for treatment so that Kapurthala remains drug-free.”A resident of Sandhu Chattha, who had been using poppy husk for many years, said, “I came back from Muscat and broke my leg. I was unable to move and wasn’t able to get the medicine. This mobile van has been a blessing for me. Now, I just have to walk down the road to get the treatment.”
08-06-2020||---||For ride back home, kiln workers flock to Amritsar||Amritsar, June 7Despite directions to brick-kiln owners that no worker could be laid off or abandoned without intimating the administration, around 500 migrant workers engaged in brick-kilns in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Dina Nagar (Gurdaspur) gathered at the Amritsar Railway Station today.Claiming to become jobless amid Covid-19 lockdown, they wanted to go back to their home in Chhattisgarh, yet felt helpless in the absence of any mode of transport. There was a buzz among migrants that Amritsar could be the destination from where they could get free ride to their native place. On June 3, 1,556 migrants from Chhattisgarh were sent through special train.Amritsar DC Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon said 4,500 Chhattisgarh migrants who worked with brick-kilns of the region were repatriated through special trains arranged through the Railway authorities.Sushila and Sonia, who worked in Dinanagar brick-kiln, said, “Someone told us that train runs from Amritsar, so we came here.” Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq said he would get it checked.
08-06-2020||---||Land dispute: Dalit man’s house demolished||Muktsar, June 7A Dalit man’s house was demolished allegedly by some people belonging to an upper caste at Dhulkot village in the Gidderbaha subdivision here yesterday.The video of the incident, in which a man can be seen driving a tractor and demolishing the house, has gone viral on social media.Raj Singh, whose house was damaged, said, “Kulveer Singh, along with some other people from our village, demolished my house yesterday. He hurled abuses at us, made casteist remarks and threatened to kill us. He also tried to mow us down us. My family members, including women and children, were present at the time of the incident.”He said, “I worked as a labourer at Kulveer’s farm and bought this land for Rs 20,000 about two decades ago. Back then, Kulveer had said the ownership of the land will be transferred to me. We will lodge a complaint with the Punjab State SC Commission.”The police have registered a case against Kulveer Singh, Labh Singh, Khush Singh and others. They are yet to be arrested.ASI Manjinder Singh, investigating officer, said, “The tractor has been impounded. The accused had earlier lodged a complaint against the victim, but the matter was solved with a mutual compromise.”
08-06-2020||Manav Mander||Punjab rural medical officers allege bias in assigning Covid duties||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 7Rural medical officers (RMOs) have accused the Health Department of discriminating with them in the allocation of Covid duties in isolation wards and flu corners. They allege dispensaries in rural areas were lying shut since the Covid outbreak, causing inconvenience to people.They said the department was favouring their medical officers while assigning duties. Rural medical offices work under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat.RMO'S DEPUTED IN URBAN CENTRESThere is a resentment among the RMOs due to the biased attitude of the local health authorities. Rural dispensaries are lying non-functional for the last three months as RMOs and rural pharmacists have been deputed in urban centres on Covid duty. Dr JP Narula, State president, Rural Medical Services Association In Ludhiana district, there are 62 RMOs posted against 109 posts and since the Covid outbreak, all rural dispensaries have been lying shut. There are 1,186 dispensaries in the state that cater to a population of 10,000.“The health authorities have been partial in assigning duties to the RMOs. In the duty roaster issued by the Ludhiana Civil Surgeon on June 4, three out of the four teams at the Civil Hospital are of RMOs and all 12 teams at the MCH, Vardhman, have RMOs in them. Not even one medical officer from the Health Department has been assigned for isolation wards,” said Dr JP Narula, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association, Punjab. The association has demanded rationalisation of duties.Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, said nobody had been put on duty on a regular basis. “RMOs are also being put on duty after a proper gap of seven days,” he said.
08-06-2020||Lucknow||Arms supplier arrested in UP||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on Sunday arrested an alleged arms supplier to Khalistani terrorists.Additional DGP, ATS, Dhruva Kant Thakur, said: “The ATS has arrested Javed, an arms supplier to Khalistani terrorists, from Hapur. Javed is a resident of the Kithore area of Meerut. His interrogation is on and the Punjab Police have been informed about the arrest.”He said Javed was arrested following inputs from the state special cell, Amritsar. The accused had supplied illegal arms to criminals in Amritsar. ATS officials said the Punjab Police were looking for Javed. Earlier in May, in a joint operation of the UP ATS and the Special Operation Group of the Punjab Police, Tirath Singh, a suspected terrorist owing allegiance to the Khalistan movement, was arrested from Meerut. — PTI
08-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Phulkaris to PPE kits||In debt cycleAbohar: The previous SAD-BJP government had distributed bicycles among girl students of government schools under the Mai Bhago scheme. The students belonging to BPL families were eligible for the benefit. Ironically, many of these cycles, which carried the slogan “Raj Nahin Sewa” and picture of party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, are ending up with junk dealers. Amid lockdown, poor families are finding it difficult to get the cycles repaired. An Abohar resident said the cycle was no more required as her daughter had completed her education, while another said he had no work so he sold several household items to make ends meet.Cool comfortFazilka: The PHD Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Punjab chapter, and PHD Rural Development Foundation have offered four truckloads of apple juices for distribution among the needy in view of the hot weather and ongoing crisis. At least 1.25 lakh juice bottles were received by representatives of different NGOs in the town on Saturday. The juice bottles would also be kept at Saadi Rasoi where it would be offered free of cost along with subsidised meal. Besides, juices would be distributed among poor patients at the district hospital, elders at old-age homes and schoolchildren.
08-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Probe ordered into fake registration of construction workers in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 7The Labour Department has initiated an inquiry after fake registration of construction workers surfaced in Punjab. Suspicion grew when several workers were found registered on a single mobile number.Middlemen benefitIn a case, 217 workers were registered on a single contact, allegedly in connivance with labour inspectors. It came to light when the Labour Department ordered tele-verification of financial help of Rs 3,000 given by the Punjab Government.Thousands of workers have been registered on a similar pattern. When The Tribune fact-checked by dialing a contact number on which 141 workers were registered, it was found that the mobile number belonged to a person who was not even a construction worker.Labour inspectors have been asked to check the irregularities. The department is also planning to map Aadhaar with bank accounts. Sources say fake registration is done by middlemen to usurp benefits. Jatinder Pal Singh, Deputy Secretary, Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, said, “We are verifying the numbers so that benefits reach labourers only.”
