08-04-2020||---||Patiala cops arrest youth for posting derogatory messages on social media||Patiala, April 8In a major crackdown against the persons who are posting derogatory and objectionable messages on various social platforms, the Patiala Police have registered a criminal case against one Akashdeep for posting such messages against a community to create communal disharmony amongst members of different communities.DGP Dinkar Gupta said immediately after this incident was brought into his notice by the members of the community based in Ludhiana, the SSP Patiala swung into action. The accused will be produced in court tomorrow and his mobile phone used for uploading this objectionable content has also been taken into possession, while investigations are in progress, added DGP.Meanwhile, the DGP warned that swift, sure and strict legal action would be taken against the persons violating curfew, which has been clamped to protect public health and prevent the spread of coronavirus.
08-04-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee talks about arranging gunny bags for Punjab||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday spoke about arranging gunny bags for Punjab required urgently by the state for storing of wheat for the procurement season beginning from April 15.Talking to reporters here, Banerjee said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh phoned her today and talked about the supply of gunny bags to Punjab.“The chief minister of Punjab called me today. They want gunny bags for storing wheat. The necessary arrangement must be made,” Mamata Banerjee said at a press conference here.While gearing up for the procurement season, Punjab Government is keen to ensure availability of adequate number of gunny bags for the storing of the crop.However, jute mills of West Bengal, which supply gunny bags to Punjab, Haryana and other places of the county during procurement of crops by official agencies, are closed due to the ongoing lockdown.Punjab, it is learnt, needs over five lakh bales (one bale comprises 500 bags) for the current harvest.Banerjee said she received requests for gunny bags from Telengana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao also who spoke to her on Monday.The chief secretary of Bihar also recently spoke to his West Bengal counterpart and requested him to ensure supply of gunny bags to Bihar, Mamata said.
08-04-2020||---||Mohali reports 4 new coronavirus cases, district count 30||Mohali, April 8Mohali district reported four more positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total tally in the district to 30.All four new cases have been reported from Jawaharpur village, Dera Bassi, which has emerged as Covid ‘hotspot’ in the district.Of the total 30 cases in the district, half have been reported from Jawaharpur itself, Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said.
08-04-2020||---||Taskforce to be set up for Punjab to gradually get out of lockdown: Amarinder||Chandigarh, April 8Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced that a taskforce would soon be set up to find ways for the state to gradually get out of the unprecedented lockdown.Addressing a video conference of the state’s leading industrialists, the Chief Minister assured the industry of all support by the government to address critical issues and challenges in this difficult time.While seeking the industry’s suggestions on the way forward, invited them to be part of the government’s decision-making process in the extraordinary situation that is prevailing currently.Among the various issues raised by the industry leaders was the demand for declaring tractors & ancillary industries as essential and allowing them to reopen to meet the urgent needs of farmers in the Rabi harvesting and marketing season.The demand for declaring cycles as an essential commodity was also raised. Another suggestion that came up was to allow the packaging industry to resume operations, given its importance in ensuring streamlined operations of essential commodities.Other suggestions from the industry related to the revival of air cargo services to Chandigarh, as well as incentives to health and medical start-ups in the state. A suggestion for relief to the tourism industry, that had been badly hit by the lockdown, was also discussed.A major issue discussed at the meeting related to the problems faced by pharmaceutical companies, which were playing a pivotal role in tackling the COVID-19 crisis.Among these problems was the closure of interstate transport in Jammu and Kashmir, as well as certain restrictions to the movement of goods and labour from Haryana. Cash flow problems were also highlighted by the industry, who wanted clarity on the payments to be made to the workers during this critical period.The Chief Minister asked the Industry Department to take urgent notice of these issues and resolve them at the earliest, given the guidelines in place for certain industries to operate amid the national lockdown. If anyone wants to operate, they should approach the state government and all efforts would be made to address their requests within the framework of the guidelines, he added.Even as he thanked the industry for their unstinted support to the state government in this hour of crisis, the Chief Minister said the battle ahead was a prolonged one, with far-reaching global implications for the economy and the industry.Everyone is suffering because of the closures, which India clamped early to check the spread of the pandemic, he said, adding that perhaps the early steps taken had helped. At the moment, things were in control in Punjab, he added.Pointing out that his request to the industry for holding back and taking care of the migrant labour was not an order but a suggestion, the Chief Minister said since it was still not clear how the long the closure/lockdown would need to continue, it was important to keep them back.Had the migrant labour left they would not have easily come back, which would have caused immense difficulty for the state, which is heading into the harvesting and procurement season, he added.Concerns were expressed at the meeting over the economic slowdown resulting from the lockdown and the CII representative suggested that taxation officers could work from hone to process GST and VAT refunds. The CII is also donating 20 ventilators to help out the health department to tackle the medical emergency facing the state.It was felt by some industrialists that the post-Corona shift from China to other countries would offer an opportunity for India, which Punjab should actively explore.The industry earlier thanked the Chief Minister for the reduction in power tariff for the next two months, which would be of particular benefit to small industries. They also expressed appreciation for the state government’s early decision to go for lockdown/curfew.Industry Minister Sunder Shyam Arora appreciated the role played by the industry, which had risen to the occasion in this major battle.Transport Secretary K Siva Prasad said all efforts were being made to ensure smooth transportation, with control rooms to coordinate and manage the movement between states and districts.
08-04-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana police launch ‘Covid Commandos’ to deal with coronavirus threat||In the wake of COVID-19 threat, the Ludhiana police have made a team of twenty constables as an emergency response team called “Covid Commandos”.These commandos have been selected based on their physical fitness and self motivation from the district police.They’ve been given training by the DMC doctors. They will ensure that proper protocols are followed while dealing with corona positive patients.Read: Mohali police launch ‘Covid Commandos’This will reduce the chances of infection catching up with police personnel in dealing with corona positive suspects.Ludhiana police formed four teams of five members each. Each team also has a woman member.Earlier, Mohali police also launched a similar initiative with the help of 19 constables.
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports seven more coronavirus cases, tally now 106||Punjab reported seven new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the state's tally to 106.The Punjab Government's health bulletin on Wednesday said four cases were reported from Mohali (SAS Nagar), two cases were reported from Jalandhar and one from Faridkot.Punjab has sent 2,937 samples for testing so far, of which 2,614 came back negative. The state has 84 active cases, and was awaiting results for 214 cases. Two patients are in critical condition and on life support, the bulletin said.All those diagnosed on Wednesday were contacts of those already diagnosed with infections.The state has so far reported eight deaths. Meanwhile, reports said a 55-year-old patient from Ropar's Chatamli village who was diagnosed with coronavirus died on Wednesday. However, this has yet to be confirmed.Jalandhar man tests postiveAmong the seven cases was a 45-year-old Jalandhar man who contracted the disease from his mother, who is under treatment at CMC Ludhiana.He and his family had earlier tested negative for the contagion. After he felt unwell, he went to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital for a retest two days ago. The man's family and immediate contacts are likely to be tested again.Three persons in Virk village of Phillaur in Jalandhar, who were contacts of Baldev Singh's family, have recovered from coronavirus.Meanwhile, another person from Jalandhar rested positive for the virus on Wednesday evening, officials said.He was admitted to civil hospital's emergency ward three days ago.Not much else is know about how he contracted the infection, sources said. So far he is known to be unconnected with Nijatam Nagar or Virk village cases.This new case is yet to be added to the state's official tally.Woman dies in Ludhiana, suffered from breathing problems, feverA 52-year-old Barnala woman admitted to Fortis hospital in Ludhiana, with the chief complaint of high-grade fever and difficulty in breathing, died on Wednesday.Ludhiana DC has advised that the body be kept in the mortuary till her sample reports arrive in  the evening.Meanwhile, nursing staff in Jalandhar on Wednesday protested against the lack of PPE equipment at the civil hospital in the city.
08-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Residents report seeing leopard in Hoshiarpur||Residents of Akash Colony in Ravidass Nagar area of Hoshiarpur on Wednesday reported seeing a leopard.A local gurdwara made an announcement urging people to stay indoors as the leopard was seen roaming around in the area.Wildlife Ranger Ramdass told The Tribune that they had received a report about the leopard from the sarpanch of Chaagran village. The leopard was seen in the village on Tuesday night.A wildlife team has been dispatched for the village.This is a developing story and will be updated later.
08-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Virus victims’ kin shun last rites||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7The family of a retired superintending engineer of Amritsar Municipal Corporation who died of Covid-19 yesterday refused to cremate his body. The administration had to step in today to perform 65-year-old Jaswinder Singh’s last rites and cremation.The Fear FactorNo risk, says GovtThe transmission of Covid-19 is mainly through droplets. There is unlikely to be an increased risk of Covid infection from a dead body to health workers or family members who follow standard precautions. Only the lungs of dead Covid patients, if handled during an autopsy, can be infectious.This is the second incident in the last two days in the state where families have refused to cremate Covid victims out of fear of contracting the infection. In Ludhiana yesterday, the district administration had to come forward to cremate a 69-year-old woman after her family refused to do so.The retired MC official had tested positive two days ago and died yesterday. District officials said even the victim’s daughter who is studying medicine did not respond to the administration’s request to attend the cremation.SDM Vikas Heera said the district administration appealed to the family after the hospital authorities failed to convince the family to cremate the victim. The family was asked to at least visit the cremation site to witness the ceremony but none of them turned up.Finally, patwaris of the revenue department and municipal corporation workers carried the former MC official’s body and lit the pyre. Among those who paid the last respects to the deceased were Vikas Heera, ACP Jaspreet Singh, tehsildar Archana and SHO Gurinder Singh.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said cremation poses no risk to the family as proper protocol is followed. He said as per the Indian Council of Medical Research directions the victim’s body is sealed in a body bag. “People should respect their loved ones who die of the disease,” said Dhillon.Some villagers of Verka in Amritsar had objected to the cremation of former Hazoori ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of Covid on April 2, claiming that it would spread the virus in the area.
08-04-2020||Sangrur||FCI employees seek Rs 50 lakh cover||2 held for protesting amid curfewNakodar: The police on Monday arrested two men, including a Leftwing leader, and booked five women on the charge of violating curfew restrictions. The arrested accused have been identified as Left leader Sandip Arora and Harjindar Singh, both residents of Jalandhar’s Aadramann village. Amid the curfew restrictions, the accused protested in front of the office of the Block Development and Panchayat Officer in Mehatpur. A purported video of the protest has been circulating on social media. OCSangrur hospital gets first ventilatorSangrur: After waiting for several decades, the civil hospital here finally received its first ventilator, thanks to Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa who gave Rs30 lakh from his MPLAD funds. The civil hospital in Barnala, too, will get a ventilator in a day or two. Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Tuesday said, “My father has always worked hard to help residents of Sangrur district. I request the state government to equip every hospital with ventilators.” TNSSukhbir flags off ambulanceMuktsar: Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday flagged off an ambulance equipped with a ventilator for the Jalalabad Assembly segment, which is part of his constituency. Sources say Sukhbir spent nearly Rs17 lakh from his MPLAD funds on the ambulance, which was flagged off in a simple ceremony organised outside his residence in Badal village. TNSMuktsar admn biased: SAD leaderMuktsar: Akali Dal’s SC wing district president Parminder Singh ‘Pasha’ sat on a fast here on Tuesday in protest against the district administration's ‘biased approach’ in distributing free ration among the poor. He said he had repeatedly raised the matter with officials, but to no avail. “In my ward, just 100 out of total 600 poor families have received ration,” he said. MK Aravind Kumar, DC refuted the allegation. He said, “The administration distributed food in the entire area. Some people are playing politics.” TNSBBMB staff contribute Rs 2.7 crChandigarh: Employees of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) have contributed two days’ salary amounting to Rs2.7 crore towards the PM-CARE Fund, which has been set up to deal with any kind of emergency posed by Covid. DK Sharma, BBMB chairman, thanked the employees for their gesture. TNS
08-04-2020||GS Paul||Hospitality industry in Punjab on verge of collapse, demands relief||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7Amid the 21-day lockdown, the hospitality and tourism industry is facing a severe crisis like other sectors.Experts believe that the distressed hospitality sector would have adverse implications, leading to loss in national exchequer, large-scale bankruptcy and unemployment.Punjab Hotel and Resort Association president Satish Arora said though the hotel industry stood by the country under the prevailing circumstances, it was also a fact that around 5,000 small, medium and large hotels and restaurants, including national and international chains, had suffered a monthly loss of Rs 960 crore in the state.“No basic economy can survive if the influx of foreign currency is hampered. The hospitality and tourism sectors not only attract foreign currency, but also generate employment opportunities. In Punjab, the livelihood of at least 3 lakh families is dependent on the hotel industry only,” he said.Arora said the state government must waive the minimum power tariff and bar licence fee, which is otherwise paid in advance. “The salary bill of hotel and restaurant employees comes to around Rs 250 crore per month. Without any business, we have been directed to pay it,” he said.APS Chatha, president of Amritsar Hotels and Restaurants Association, said except giving one-month grace period to pay the power bills, the government had not provided any other relief to them.“The notice for furnishing the excise licence fee for 2020-2021 has already been received. It should rather be deferred for six months and the validity of the licence period be adjusted and carried forward till September 30, 2021. Similarly, the property tax and water charges from April 1 onwards should be waived for three years,” he said.The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India has also approached the CM to provide a financial package to the hospitality industry.
08-04-2020||---||HC dismisses appeal of murder accused||Chandigarh, April 7 Nearly 19 years after a man was accused of setting his wife on fire, the Punjab and Haryana HC has directed the police to take him in custody for undergoing the remaining part of his term. The order came almost 15 years after appellant-husband Ravinderjit Singh was sentenced to life imprisonment. “There is no merit in the appeal and the same is dismissed. The appellant is on bail. His bail and surety bonds are cancelled. The police is directed to take him into custody to undergo the remaining sentence imposed by the trial court,” the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu ordered. Ravinderjit Singh had moved the HC against the judgment and order passed on March 10, 2005, by the Gurdaspur Additional Sessions Judge, whereby he was convicted and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment for murder under IPC. The victim’s mother had told the court that she received a telephone call from her daughter, requesting her to come as she was being harassed by the accused. She and her other daughter immediately went to the victim’s house. The accused, who was drunk, started beating up the victim. When she intervened, the accused pushed her and brought a can of kerosene. He set her ablaze after pouring it on the victim. The Bench asserted that the statements of the witnesses showed that the accused was married to victim Satwinder Kaur about three-and-a-half years back before the incident took place on September 20, 2001. Two of the prosecution witnesses, the victim’s mother Kashmir Kaur and her sister Rajwinder Kaur, had seen the accused setting Satwinder Kaur afire. A doctor appearing before the court had deposed that the victim was admitted to a hospital on September 22, 2001, with 90 per cent burns. The victim’s statement was also recorded by an ASI in the presence of a doctor. In case the accused had received burn injuries while putting off the fire, he should have taken treatment immediately and not after almost 16 days. “Thus, the plea taken by the appellant that he also tried to put off the fire is not believable. The prosecution has proved the case against the appellant beyond a doubt,” the Bench said.
08-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Six nabbed for bid to grab government land in Abohar||Abohar, April 7The city-1 police prevented over 24 armed persons from forcibly possessing a piece of land owned by the state government here on Monday. Six persons were held on the spot, while the remaining managed to flee.The arrested have been identified as Jinder Singh, Bhola Singh, Kala Singh, Luxman Singh, Suraj Singh and Kala, whereas suspect Rachhpal Singh, his son Ravinder and others reportedly managed to flee. The accused were produced in a court today which sent them to jail.Sources said Sunder Singh of state government seed farm area said Rachhpal Singh and his son Ravinder Singh, along with over 22 “hired” miscreants, were trying to take over the provincial government property that was tilled by a tenant, Sadda Singh.The land hadn’t been transferred in anyone else’s name post Sadda Singh’s demise.
08-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Health Department destroys 160 kg rotten veggies, fruit||Fazilka, April 7 A team of Health Department visited a local vegetable market on Tuesday and inspected the vegetables and fruit being sold there.  The team, led by Assistant Commissioner (Food) Kamalpreet Singh and Food Safety Officer Gagangdeep Kaur, noticed that vendors had been selling nearly 160 kg of substandard vegetables and fruit of different varieties. Subsequently, the team members destroyed the rotten vegetables. Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh said teams had been constituted to examine the eatables regularly.  Dr Surinder warned those  selling inferior quality and said if found guilty, they  would be penalised in the coming days.
08-04-2020||---||Relief for power consumers, Punjab govt slashes fixed charges||Chandigarh, April 7To further mitigate the hardships faced by the people amid the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced reduction in fixed charges for electricity consumers, along with deferment of deadline for payment of bills, while instructing the PSPCL to provide uninterrupted supply to all healthcare institutions.The PSPCL will have to bear additional burden of Rs 350 crore due to various reliefs announced for the consumers, an official spokesperson said, adding that the Chief Minister also lauded the employees of the PSPCL and the PSTCL for their untiring efforts in maintaining continuous supply of power in this time of crisis.No new disconnection shall be carried out against non-payment till restrictions are withdrawn, the CM ordered.As per the Chief Minister’s directives, due date of electricity bills of all the domestic and commercial consumers, having current monthly/bimonthly bills up to Rs 10,000 payable on or after March 20 has been extended up to April 20 without the levy of late payment surcharge. Further, 1 per cent rebate will be given to the consumers (exclusive of any previous arrears), who will pay electricity bills online through digital modes by original due date.The same applies to all electricity bills payable on or after March 20 of all the Industrial consumers, medium supply (MS) and large supply (LS) industrial consumers.
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Forest Department to produce 1 lakh masks||In order to meet the growing demand of face masks, the state Forest Department is producing 1 lakh masks through women self help groups (SHGs) and village forest committees (VFCs) of the Forest Dependent Communities in Punjab’s Kandi area. All district administrations have agreed to procure these masks from these groups at a nominal cost of Rs15 to 20. The total investment on cloth and other necessary equipment is being done by advancing loans to SHGs from the revolving fund of VFCs.  During a teleconferencing review, Chief Conservator of Forests Hills, Saurabh Gupta, IFS, directed DFOs of hill zone namely Pathankot, Dasuya, Hoshiarpur, Garhshankar, Ropar and SAS Nagar to scale up the production of face masks. Jitendra Sharma, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, briefed that the Forest Department was doing all to help the state authorities fight Covid pandemic in the state. — TNS
08-04-2020||---||Lockdown has helped Punjab: Health experts||Chandigarh, April 7 With an aim to further fortify state’s overall strategy to deal with the rising Covid-19 threat more effectively, medical specialists from across the state deliberated with AIIMS  experts on wide-ranging issues, including treatment, supportive management and testing of the cases. As many as 92 heads of district hospitals, isolation facilities and Government Medical Colleges on Tuesday took part in a webinar in the presence of experts, including former PGI director Dr KK Talwar besides doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi, and DMC Hospital, said Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan. More such meetings would be held with the aim to ensure best possible treatment and practices for the patients. Early lockdown and strict adherence to curfew restrictions have helped Punjab in containing the spread of virus, said the expert panel, adding that there was no time yet to lower guard.
08-04-2020||---||Pensioners seek doorstep service in urban areas too||Chandigarh, April 7CM’s directiveThe CM on Tuesday directed DCs to ensure that social security pension and old-age pension should be disbursed through bank business correspondents instead of direct bank transfer in rural areas.After the state government decided to disburse social security pension to beneficiaries living in rural areas on their doorstep, their counterparts in urban areas have demanded a similar service.They have said the task should be assigned to business correspondents of banks.More than 24 lakh beneficiaries of the social security pension scheme reside in urban areas of the state.The department of Social Security, Women and Child Development has reportedly forwarded the request by urban pensioners to the state government. Pensioners living in urban areas have been thronging the banks, defeating the very purpose of social distancing.The state government on Tuesday released around Rs183 crore to banks under the head of social security pension for March. The banks have been asked to deploy their business correspondents to disburse pension in rural areas.In view of the inability of beneficiaries to visit banks, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed DCs to ensure that social security pension, old-age pension and benefits of other schemes was disbursed through bank business correspondents instead of direct bank transfer in rural areas. It has been learnt that banks face shortage of business correspondents.The government has approached the Department of Posts, which provides the facility of disbursement of social security benefits through India Post Payments Bank.
08-04-2020||---||Report in 24 hrs or face FIR, Punjab government warns Tablighis||Chandigarh, April 7With 22 attendees at Tablighi Jamaat belonging to Punjab still remaining untraced, the Health Department on Wednesday gave a 24-hour deadline to all the participants of Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz event to report to the nearest police station or face criminal prosecution.A spokesperson said all those who had attended the TJ event and were currently in Punjab should report and appear for Covid-19 screening within the next 24 hours.“Of the 467 Tablighi Jamaat workers, who had reportedly come to Punjab from Nizamuddin, the police have so far traced 445, with 22 yet to be tracked. Samples had been collected and tested for 350 of those traced. Nearly 12 had been found positive and 111 negative. The report of the remaining was awaited,” said the spokesperson.While taking care of the sensitivity of the issue, the remaining participants have been asked to come out for testing and join hands with the government to eliminate this disease from the country. The spokesperson cited reports that the Markaz had emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 positive patients, with subsequent confirmation of many positive cases among TJ workers.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has already issued an advisory on March 28 and, in its continuation, reiterated its directions to all the chief secretaries/advisers to administrators of all states/UTs and DGPs in this regard on April 4.
08-04-2020||---||SGPC protests FIR against Delhi gurdwara committee||Amritsar, April 7The SGPC has demanded quashing of an FIR against its Delhi counterpart which was filed by Kejriwal-led Delhi government against the DSGMC for allegedly providing shelter and food to stranded devotees, who had sought refuge in Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla in the wake of Covid-induced lockdown.Flays govt approachOverlooking the social and charitable works being undertaken by various Sikh institutions, the FIR against the DSGMC by the Kejriwal government testified its narrow approach. — Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC chiefTerming it as an anti-Sikh move, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “The Delhi and Punjab governments should have supported the DSGMC and the SGPC in making arrangements to help the stranded devotees in reaching their homes,” he said.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said people had come on their own to seek shelters in gurdwara on seeing Nisan Sahib, a symbol outside gurdwara. “We had intimated the authorities well in time before accommodating them. We have been serving them with langar bearing the principle of social distancing in mind. However, the Delhi government’s file an FIR with a malafide intention to tarnish the image of Sikhs,” he said.
08-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur---||On road to recovery, priest’s kin say it’s rebirth for them||Tribune News Service Nawanshahr, April 7 Even as eight members of his family tested negative for Covid-19 today, Fateh Singh (35) is waiting for the reports of the seven other family members. The elder son of deceased Baldev Singh from Pathlawa village, Fateh Singh and his 14 family members are admitted to Nawanshahr Civil Hospital since March 21 after they had tested positive for coronavirus. With hymns playing in the backdrop in the quarantine ward, Fateh Singh said over the phone, “It is not easy to bear the loss of both parents in such a quick succession. While everyone knows how my father Baldev Singh left us, my mother’s demise was even more tragic.” He shared, “It was February 7, the wedding day of my younger sister. The ceremony had just got over and we were all happy that everything had gone well. My mother went to the washroom. She suffered a stroke and died on the spot. The celebrations turned into gloom in a matter of seconds.” Fateh Singh said, “My father’s sugar levels began to fluctuate more after the incident. Then came his 10-day foreign trip and we thought it would bring some change in his life. When he came back, he was fine and we felt that he was back to his routine of kirtan and religious programmes. A few days later, he began complaining of a minor illness. Then he too left us, leaving us baffled.” He said, “We were to collect his ashes from the cremation ground, but we all fell sick. Our house is lying locked for the past over 17 days. My family members were here. Though eight of us have now tested negative, seven more from our family are yet to get their reports. It is rebirth for us. After getting discharged, we will take the ashes of our father and then perform the bhog too.” Meanwhile, village sarpanch Harpal Singh, who too has tested negative, said, “I will wait for my mother to test negative and then we will go home.”
08-04-2020||---||20 coronavirus cases reported in a day, highest so far in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 7In a sharp jump, 20 new confirmed cases were reported in the past 24 hours in the state. The total number of confirmed cases has reached 99 in Punjab.After the first case was reported on March 8 in the state, this was the largest single-day rise in the tally.As per the state’s media bulletin, seven cases have been reported from SAS Nagar, six from Pathankot, four from Moga, two from Mansa and one from Amritsar.The seven cases reported at Jawaharpur village of Mohali district were contacts of a patient admitted to GMCH, Sector 32, here. The DC said 118 samples of the further contacts of those found positive had been taken. As part of the immediate starting of the containment protocol, residents of 522 houses were checked for symptoms.The village has already been sealed as a precautionary measure. With the new cases, now Mohali is the worst-affected district in the state with 26 cases.Panic gripped Pathankot city as six persons tested positive, following which the administration has decided to initiate strict measures, including asking the police to clamp down on people not following the social distancing norms. The persons who tested positive include husband of Raj Rani, who died two days ago at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar.As per the local health authorities, the cases might pertain to ‘community spread’ wherein a patient neither has any travel history nor has been in touch with anybody who has come from abroad recently. Raj Rani did come in contact with a Canadian citizen, but that was about two months ago.In Mansa, two more persons tested positive for Covid, taking the total cases to five in the district. The two new cases are also linked to the three positive cases reported earlier in the district as they all were staying at a mosque in Budhladha subdivision after attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month.According to the bulletin, four new cases were reported in Moga. Among the four persons was a 22-year-old man from Mumbai who was staying in a mosque at Cheeda village in Baghapurana subdivision of the district. They all were staying in the mosque along with nine others for past many days.
08-04-2020||---||DGP Dinkar Gupta goes live to clear queries on lockdown||Chandigarh, April 7DGP Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday went online for an hour to assure state residents safety of shops and businesses in the lockdown and offered solution to issues like medical help and curfew passes.He engaged with people eliciting their suggestions and answering their queries during an hour-long feedback session online, with over 1,500 live viewers attending from across the state.The DGP answered over 50 questions during the session, viewed by over 88,500 viewers from most districts of Punjab on various issues, including online e-pass system, functioning of 112 helpline, migrant labour issue, besides surveillance of curfew enforcement through drones and supply of food, medicines and essential goods during curfew.
08-04-2020||---||UK, US arrange special flights for NRIs||AMRITSAR, APRIL 8The US and the UK Governments have arranged two special flights to facilitate the return of NRIs.Amritsar DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the embassies of the two countries arranged a flight each to evacuate 300 Britons and Americans.They boarded a Delhi-bound flight from Amritsar on Tuesday; from there, they will board flights to their home countries.
08-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers pen songs to lift spirits||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 7Some farmers have turned to writing songs and poems amid curfew restrictions, expressing their concern on the Covid pandemic and motivating people to remain in high spirits in tough times.Take the case of Jagtar Singh Sahota, a farmer from Faridkot district. In his song, he appeals to people to take precautions.The first stanza goes like this: “China vich dekh lo, te Italy vich vekh lo, ihne agg laayi, kite tusi vi na sek lo, iss to bachan layi khich lo tayariyaan, bhul jao rishte naate, bhul jao yaariyan.”“After the lockdown was announced, I wrote a song and shared it with my friends to make them aware,” Sahota says. He has made a video with his sons singing the song.Sahota, who gives training to farmers on organic farming, says he will be happy if his song helps anyone sail though the tough times.“Hath na milao bai, japhiyaan na paao bai, door door reh ke isnu maar mukaao bai, chhuhn naal faildiya eh mahamariya, aa gaya Corona bai, laa lo buhe bariyaan.”Gurtej Singh, a farmer from Mehatpur in Jalandhar, has expressed his gratitude to the nature in a poem. He writes, “Mainu Jalandhar toh Dalhousie dikh gayi si, rabba mainu maaf kari, main taan kudrat bhula ditti si.”He believes that everyone must be hopeful as this time too shall pass. “Baazi palt deyaan, bahuti der na lagdi, din oh na rahe te eh vi nai rehene, rakhi hausla tu, jit tere dar te ve.”“I am not a writer, but I try to write some lines which can motivate people to stay positive in tough times. Last year too, I had written a poem when deluge had washed away crops,” Gurtej Singh says.
08-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Patwaris perform last rites of coronavirus victims as kin stay away||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7Patwaris have been at the forefront in not only gathering information on NRIs who arrived in the state this year, but also arranging for the last rites of the Covid-19 victims. In 50 per cent of the fatalities reported to date, cremation has been done by junior revenue officers.Talking to The Tribune, Katar Singh Lehari, a patwari posted at Sultanwind Sub Urban Mahal, who cremated the body of a Covid victim today, says it is shocking that family members are refusing to cremate their loved ones.‘They’ll get incentive’Appreciation letters are being given to officials performing the last rites. The government is mulling giving incentive to ‘Covid warriors’. — KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secy, RevenueHe says he was pained at the incident in Verka last week when the villagers refused to allow the cremation of former Hazoori Raagi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of Covid-19.“When the villagers surrounded the crematorium and refused to allow the body to be cremated, I had to intervene and literally threaten them of strict action. It was after a lot of resentment that we could perform his last rites at a secluded place in the village,” he says, almost teary voiced.In Moranwali village of Hoshiarpur, Jagir Singh recalls the difficulties he encountered in arranging for the funeral of a victim, who was a granthi. “The village had been sealed. No one was even ready to give us the wood for the pyre. The victim’s son, who was also tested positive, was made to wear protective gear before lighting the pyre,” he recalls.KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, Revenue, says an appreciation letter is being given to each of these officials and the government is considering some incentive to be given to these ‘Covid warriors’.
08-04-2020||---||Punjab CM: No need for all-party meeting||Chandigarh, April 7Responding to the calls for an all-party meeting to discuss the current lockdown situation in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said there was neither any time nor the necessity to hold an all-party meeting.The CM said the state government was already taking all possible steps effectively on the issues raised by SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in his letter dated April 5.‘Tough situation’The state is passing through a difficult phase as the pandemic has shattered public life. The battle against Covid, which has posed a challenge for all, is at its peak. — Capt Amarinder Singh, CMThanking the SAD president for demanding the convening of all-party meet, the Chief Minister said the state was passing through a difficult phase as the pandemic had shattered the public life. The battle against Covid-19, which had posed a colossal challenge for all, was at its peak, he pointed out.“The government is already making necessary arrangements on a war footing to ensure seamless harvesting of wheat crop and its procurement, which is also a big challenge,” the Chief Minister said.He said he would always welcome any suggestion to overcome the prevailing crisis and challenges ahead, and assured Sukhbir that he would give due consideration to all such suggestions with sincerity. He also hoped that the SAD would continue to extend its support and cooperation to the government to combat the contagion.
08-04-2020||---||SAD: Cut salary of Punjab ministers, MLAs by 30%||Chandigarh, April 7Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to cut salaries of all ministers, legislators, chairmen and vice-chairmen of corporations and boards as well as advisers and OSDs by 30 per cent for the financial year 2020-21 to spare more funds to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement here, the SAD president said salaries of all political appointees as well as technical experts hired by the state government should be cut by 30 per cent on the pattern of the Union Government.Sukhbir also asked Capt Amarinder to issue instructions putting a ban on all foreign travel by government functionaries for the current financial year, which should also include the Chief Minister. He also requested the CM to issue directions to ensure the discretionary fund at the disposal of the ministers was also dedicated exclusively for Covid relief works for the 2020-21.
08-04-2020||---||Punjab gears up for wheat procurement||Chandigarh, April 7Screening in mandisWheat growers will be checked for influenza-like symptoms; they will have to wear masks when they bring crop to mandisMultiple hand-washing arrangements will be made in grain marketsAll trucks or harvesters ferried from one village to another will be cleanedGuidelines are being drafted to ensure that the mandis are immune to the spread of CovidThe state government today set up a 30-member control room at the mandi board for coordination and providing logistic support during the wheat harvesting and marketing season, set to begin on April 15 amid unprecedented security and safety measures to ensure smooth operations in view of the Covid-19 clampdown.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday reviewed arrangements for the rabi operations via videoconferencing with the officials concerned.Capt Amarinder also wrote to his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, seeking her intervention to revive manufacturing at the jute mills in her state against the pending indents for gunny bales placed by Punjab.The CM said indents had been placed for 3.4 lakh jute bales from December 2019 to March 2020, and approximately Rs1,000 crore had been transferred in advance in the escrow account of the Jute Commissioner of India, Kolkata. As per the information, of 3.4 lakh bales, 2.46 lakh had been cleared in inspection, and 2.30 lakh bales had been dispatched to date. Another 10,000 bales were ready with the mills for inspections, but the nationwide lockdown disrupted the entire supply chain, he observed.He ordered the food and agriculture departments to come out with standard operating procedures for mandis and purchase centres. He directed the departments to scale up the number of purchase centres to 4,000 from 3,761.No shortage of labourThe CM was informed that there was no shortage of labour, with 14.2 lakh workers available to join the operations. Further, retired employees of the mandi board and state procurement agencies were being recalled for smooth operations.Health Secretary Anurag Aggarwal said guidelines were being prepared to ensure that the mandis were protected from Covid-19. Farmers and labourers will be checked for influenza-like symptoms, masks would be made compulsory and multiple hand-washing arrangements shall be set up in each mandi.
08-04-2020||---||MLA Rana Gurjit to Modi: Insure farmers||Chandigarh, April 7Kapurthala legislator Rana Gurjit Singh has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide insurance cover to farmers, mandi labourers and other staff, who would be working day and night for the procurement of wheat in the coming days.He has requested the Chief Minister to take up the issue with the Centre. To provide Covid-free environment at mandis, he has suggested polythene tunnels at entry point of mandis with automatic spraying system to ensure that every person or vehicle entering the mandis was sanitised.The MLA has suggested equipping fire brigades with spraying system so that santisation can be carried out in larger areas in a short time.
08-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||‘Aware of risk involved, but someone has to remove garbage from roads’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 7Angrej Singh, a sanitation worker of the Municipal Corporation (MC) from Chheharta, removes garbage piled up in streets and roads with the help of his tractor trolley. He, along with three other persons, is responsible for the cleanliness of roads and streets in Zone 6 of the area.Angrej Singh, MC sanitation workerMy family is worried about my health. I deal with garbage daily. Even authorities have imposed a curfew outside. My son told me that if you get infected, then the entire family will be infected. I am aware about the risk involved but someone has to remove garbage from roads, so I am here. We are doing our best and have trust in god that everything will get normal soon.Angrej starts off his work at 8:30 am by visiting all streets and roads in his area. The pandemic made his work more hectic, as everyone is now concerned about hygiene. "Generally, we make one round of dumping ground at Bhagtanwala to dump the trolley of garbage collected from roads. But after the pandemic, officials have told that cleanliness is the only prevention of stopping its spread. So, we have decided to contribute more hours to clean the city. Now, we are working for seven to eight hours and make three rounds to the dumping ground," he said.Despite all odds, Angrej is working amid Covid-19 threat without fail despite opposition by his family members. "My family members are worried about my health. I deal with garbage daily. Even the authorities have imposed a curfew outside. My son told me that if you get infected, then the entire family will be infected. I am aware about the risk involved but someone has to remove the garbage from roads, so I am here. We are doing our best and have trust in god that everything would get normal soon," said Angrej Singh."We have all safety equipment which is required to deal with garbage. Residents, NGOs and the government are supporting and have provided us with the masks, gloves and sanitisers. People are recognising our services in this situation. The government should provide insurance cover to all sanitation worker," he said.
08-04-2020||---||Junior doctors, nurses in Amritsar confront Cabinet Minister OP Soni||Amritsar, April 7Junior doctors and other employees confronted Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni, after he paid a visit to the Government Medical College on Tuesday.Om Parkash Soni, Medical Education and Research MinisterWhy are we holding these long meetings if we are not serious? We are very much serious and making all efforts to streamline things. The employees’ union should stand with the hospital in fighting the problem at this time.Earlier, he held a meeting with Principal Secretary DK Tiwari, Lok Sabha member Gurjit Aujla and other senior functionaries of the Health Department. When Soni visited the college after the meeting, the representatives of various cadres were ready with their demands.As Soni equated junior residents to soldiers fighting the enemy, a junior resident quipped by saying that at least soldiers have equipment while they were fighting this battle bare-handed. The doctors also accused the senior doctors of staying away from seeing patients saying only junior doctors were exposed to the threat.Nurses also said arrangements for their stay should be made near the hospital, as when they visit their homes, they expose their children and elderly parents to the threat. They said if they do not have to go home during the emergency at least their families would stay safe.The representatives of Class IV workers and other sections also demanded safety equipment. Soni said all efforts were being made to ensure the safety of the employees and proper treatment for patients. He said safety kits were being provided to all.Taking to the employee union leaders, Soni said he, too, was a politician but this was not the time for politics. “Why are we holding these long meetings if we are not serious? We are very much serious and making all efforts to streamline things. The employees’ union at this time should stand with hospital in fighting the problem,” he said.
08-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Losses inevitable, but better than losing life, says Gippy Grewal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7“Assi pashu te panchhi bol rahe, bhala sukh tan hai. Kyon lok kunde ni khol rahe, bhala sukh tan hai…” For starters, Gippy Grewal brought out this poignant song in the first week of the lockdown. One afternoon, when he was sitting in his garden with his folks, he noticed birds and he felt like they were asking him if everything was fine. From there came the soul-stirring poetry.“Although we haven’t been fair to mother earth, its resources and all other living beings, even then they are all reaching out to us to know if we are doing fine. I feel the sky, the earth, the trees, the flowers, every insect is praying for our well-being. Thus, these feelings became an inspiration for the song.”And to our surprise, the song was written, composed, sung and shot all in one day, that too on iPhone. As far as the “house arrest” is concerned, the singer-actor-filmmaker is looking at it as a holiday.“During our busy days, we keep waiting for the weekend and when Sunday comes and goes, none of us gets to know. This is an opportunity for all those of us who wanted to spend doing things they are passionate about.” Now that includes playing ludo, cricket and carrom with his sons, exercising in the open or at the gym at home, enjoying family time, lapping up web content, watching his sons attend school online and simply being grateful.“My sons had come for a break from Canada, but couldn’t go back due to the lockdown, but their schools have started, so they stay up till 3 in the morning to study. I tell them it’s an adventure they are living and this experience will help them in the long run.”He feels it’s important to highlight the brighter side of things to kids. It’s all about being grateful for Gippy. “I fail to understand those who think this lockdown is like a jail. Their focus is on the negative. We should be positive and thank our government for doing everything to save us. In this critical time, all we’ve been asked to do is stay at home. What if it was about being at borders?”Gippy thinks the pandemic is more like a war and if we don’t learn from our mistakes, we will not survive. “People aren’t taking the situation seriously. I understand the plight of daily wagers, they are hand to mouth. But for all others who are restless to go out and claim it’s for a living, I want to ask them what have they been doing all their life if they couldn’t save enough to stay home for three weeks.”He doesn’t disagree that the economy will witness a dip and many will bear losses. He is one of those at the receiving end. “We had films on the floor, the release for some was scheduled during this time. So, losses are inevitable but it’s better that losing your life. I had nothing when I started and if this crisis will take me back a few years, I am game for it. At least I’ll have life on my side to make up for this time.”Gippy has a very relevant analogy to view this confinement. He says you are living the Bigg Boss show. “How different is the current scenario from the reality show? Even when those participants are locked in a house, they have tasks to keep them going. If that is entertaining, then each one of us can form a routine within our houses to keep it active and busy.”The singer, through his live sessions on social media and otherwise says if we do not have a solution, let’s at least abide by those who are working to find one.
08-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Don’t have PPE? Wear raincoat, Chandigarh cops told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7In an order issued by the UT SSP, the police personnel have been told to ensure that people at Faidan village follow the curfew orders. However, the cops have been asked to wear raincoats if they fail to get personal protective equipment (PPE). The orders were issued on April 6.Five PPE kits for nearly 20 cops at FaidanOn Tuesday evening, police personnel were provided with five kits, each having a head cover, gloves, shoe cover and a gown, to perform duty at Faidan village. Usually, 20-25 cops are deployed at Faidan village.In the order, SSP Nilambari Jagadale stated, “It has been observed that the curfew orders are not followed at Faidan and people shared posts on social media regarding violations by residents.”The SSP directed the ASP (South) to deploy a PPE-equipped police team at the village, and if PPEs were not available, then use raincoats and book the violators. She also mentioned that it was contagion zone and should not become a hotspot of Covid-19.The police personnel were on duty at Faidan without PPE on Monday. A cop said the PPE should be must at places where possibility of getting infected with the deadly virus was more.When contacted, the SSP said they had arranged PPEs and hence, raincoats were not required anymore.
08-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration makes mask must for residents at public places||Chandigarh, April 7To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration has made it mandatory for residents to use a mask or cover the face or mouth with a piece of cloth when at a public place.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore took the decision during a daily review meeting held in the war room at the Secretariat today. The meeting was attended by Adviser Manoj Parida, Principal Secretary, Home, Arun Gupta, Finance Secretary AK Sinha, DGP Sanjay Baniwal, MC Commissioner KK Yadav and DC Mandip Singh Brar. The Administrator also interacted with the DCs of Mohali and Panchkula, the Director, PGIMER, the Director, Health Services, and the Director-Principal, GMCH, through video-conferencing.It has also been decided to defer the payment of water and electricity charges and rent of dwelling units in rehabilitation colonies.During the meeting, Parida informed the Administrator that the number of active Covid cases in the city had come down to 11, which indicated the success of curfew measures and observation of social distancing by residents.The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to prepare a Covid management plan for the city on the basis of the guidelines issued by the Government of India.Yadav said a special cleanliness drive had been launched at Faidan today.The DC said 55,150 food packets had been distributed among destitute in various parts of the city. He stated that necessary arrangements had been made for the use of Red Cross ambulance to transport bodies to the cremation ground. He said families at Faidan were given ration packets, so that they do not have to come out of the village.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education, stated that online classes were being held for students of classes IX and XI through Google classes. The Administrator directed the DHE to explore the possibility of providing the facility to the students of classes I to VIII.The DGP said the Muslim community in Chandigarh had agreed to observe Shab-e-Barat at their homes only and would not go out.
