08-08-2020||Chandigarh||More women cricketers to get annual contract in Punjab||The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) will increase the number of female cricketers in its annual contract system, a decision taken by its Apex Council today.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of PCA president Rajinder Gupta and was attended by a majority of the members. The meeting lasted five hours and as many as 24 points on the agenda were discussed.According to Puneet Bali, PCA secretary, the house approved the inclusion of 10 female players along with 30 male players under the annual contract system.However, the names suggested will be securitised again before making a final list.“The contract system has been more or less approved by the council. However senior selectors of both male and female teams have decided to scrutinise the players on the basis of their performance before announcing the final list,” said Bali.He further added, “The number of female players has been increased to 10.”The council has also decided to release a grant of Rs 7 lakh for senior selectors and Rs 5 lakh for junior selectors.“In principle, it has been decided to increase the grant for senior selectors to Rs 7 lakh, and for junior selectors to Rs 5 lakh. The allocation of funds to the districts has been increased to Rs 8 lakh for minors and Rs 12.5 lakh for majors.”It has also been decided that district secretaries and presidents will submit their requirements and an inspection team will allocate the budget to develop infrastructure. “The district secretaries and presidents will submit their requirements in order to improve infrastructure at their respective stadiums. After receiving the requests, a PCA inspection team will be formed. It will make sure about allocation of budget and its implementation for developing the required infrastructure,” added Bali.The council also approved a bonus of Rs 40,000 for the PCA ground staff and office workers, who are performing duties despite the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Upgrading stadiumThe council also decided to upgrade the IS Bindra Stadium within a period of six to nine months. “Since an international cricket academy is to be developed here, we have to upgrade the facilities, including upgrading the grounds, gyms, swimming pools, rooms, apart from other infrastructure,” said Bali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-women-cricketers-to-get-annual-contract-in-punjab-123936
08-08-2020||Ludhiana||Lok Insaaf Party claims they were ‘attacked’ outside Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu’s residence||Lok Insaaf Party leader Gagandeep Singh alias Sunny Kainth claimed some Congress workers attacked him and his party workers near Ludhiana Member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu’s residence on Saturday.Kainth claimed he and his party workers went to Bittu’s house with some money that people at Bharat Nagar Chowk had donated to help purchase a ventilator at Ludhiana Civil Hospital when Congress workers came out from Ravneet Bittu’s house to attack them in the presence of some policemen.  He claimed that his “attackers” threw down his turban. “When we went to meet MP Bittu, we were attacked. An SHO had earlier said only five people should go to Bittu’s residence, but when we went there, hundreds of Congressmen had already gathered. We want an FIR to be registered against the attackers and demand that SHO be suspended,” he said.Kainth and his party colleagues then went to office of the police commissioner to complain. LIP MLA Balwinder Singh Bains, who joined them at the commissioner’s office, said: “Our partymen wanted to ask Ravneet Bittu to purchase a ventilator for the civil hospital from the money collected given that Ludhiana has been seeing a rapid rise in coronavirus cases. But the team was attacked by Congressmen. They tossed down turbans and tore clothes of Sunny Kainth and other workers. This is a murder of democracy. Action should be taken against the attackers and the SHO who supported the attackers must be suspended.”On his part, Bittu said that he was not in Ludhiana a cited a knee injury.“I had no information that LIP party men wanted to meet me today. I learned that all what happened today is due to personal old rivalry between Sunny Kainth and some youth congress workers. Kainth was previously associated with youth congress. A video has also gone viral in which a LIP worker is also seen attacking Congressmen. Nobody has right to attack on anyone. Whenever I return to city, I will visit Sunny Kainth’s home and meet him and also listen to their suggestions,” he said.Gernail Singh, SHO at Division number 8 police station, said the two parties have filed cross complaints.“We are going to lodge FIR against both parties for clash and violating rules about COVID-19 pandemic," he said.On being asked about LIP’s allegations, he said: “Cops had asked the LIP workers to handover memorandum to them as MP Ravneet Singh Bittu was not available today. Meanwhile, LIP and Congressmen started arguing each other and they clashed”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lok-insaaf-party-claims-they-were-attacked-outside-ludhiana-mp-ravneet-bittus-residence-123933
08-08-2020||---||Punjab Police bust another spurious liquor module, nab 2 from Majithia||Chandigarh, August 8Intensifying its crackdown on the illicit liquor trade in the state, the Punjab Police on Saturday busted another major spurious liquor module with the arrest of two persons from Majithia.The duo, identified as Gurwinder Singh and Lovepreet Singh, was following a Pandori Gola kind of modus operandi, stated a Punjab Government release.  In Pandori Gola, a father and his two sons were involved in the supply of illicit liquor in Tarn Taran, from where the largest number of hooch tragedy deaths were reported.Raju, the man from whom Gurwinder and Lovepreet had purchased the spurious liquor, is absconding, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.He hails from Sultanwind in Amritsar and his arrest could lead to the unravelling of the whole chain of the business in this case, the DGP added.The police are also in search of one Bikka, who had allegedly purchased liquor from the duo in this instance, and are also tracking nine others identified as the duo’s regular buyers.They will all be arrested soon, said Gupta.Nine persons had been identified by Lovepreet as those who were regularly purchasing liquor from him.A total of 160 litres of spurious alcohol, in four cans of capacity of 40 litres each, along with two empty drums of capacity of 200 litres each, two empty cans of capacity of 40 litres, and seven small pouches of 2-3 litres each, were seized from the house of Gurwinder, from where the two accused were apprehended.The arrests took place during an early morning raid following a tip-off received by the Majithia SHO.A Majithia police party led by ASI Mukhtiar Singh and ASI Nirmal Singh conducted the raid, the DGP informed.Chemical examination of the seized liquor has revealed that it was totally spurious and completely unfit for human consumption. Its key chemicals were 1-propanal, iso butanol, acetal, ethyl lactate and ethyl hexanoate, said the top cop.An FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and the Excise Act has been registered against Lovepreet Singh, Gurinder Singh and Raju at Majitha police station.Meanwhile, the state-wide raids continued as part of the crackdown order against liquor mafia by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, leading to 100 more arrests in 146 cases registered in 24 hours.The DGP said he had also directed the district cops to collate a database of all individuals (transporters, drivers, workers, etc.) working at distilleries in their respective districts, in order to ensure stricter vigilance.He also said that young direct PPS officers had been posted in Taran Taran and Amritsar Rural on Friday for a more focused drive against illicit liquor and drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-bust-another-spurious-liquor-module-nab-2-from-majithia-123925
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||993 new infections take Punjab’s coronavirus tally to just under 23,000||Punjab reported 993 new coronavirus and 23 new deaths in a span of 24 hours, Saturday’s COVID tally issued by the state’s health department showed---developments that took the state’s tally to 22,928 with 562 deaths.Ludhiana (168), Jalandhar (120), and Amritsar (102) recorded infections in triple digits on Saturday---accounting for more than a quarter of the state’s total cases on Saturday.Ludhiana continued to report the highest fatalities in the state, recording 12 cases on Saturday. Patiala (3), Amritsar (2), Barnala (1), Jalandhar (1), SAS Nagar (1), Ropar (1), and Sangrur (1) all reported deaths.Punjab’s coronavirus cases have risen alarmingly in August---the state has reported almost 6000 cases since August 1.  For comparison, the state had recorded 1,339 new cases in the first week of July.Of Punjab’s 22 districts, Ludhiana appears to a particular cause for worry. The district, already among the worst-hit in Punjab, has reported an exponential rise in cases since July 25, when it started reporting infections in triple digits. Ludhiana’s numbers now stand at 4,888, more than twice the number of infections reported on July 25 (2,327 cases).More than a quarter of Punjab’s cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/993-new-infections-take-punjabs-coronavirus-tally-to-just-under-23-000-123913
08-08-2020||Sameer Singh||‘No food to eat’: Patients climb Covid centre's terrace in Bathinda, raise slogans against government||Tribune News Service Bathinda, August 8Enraged over allegedly not being provided food on time, patients at a Covid centre in Bathinda climbed atop the building and raised slogans against the state government on Saturday.A video clip on social media has been doing rounds where around a dozen patients at Meritorious School Covid centre in Bathinda are raising slogans and demanding food from the authorities.The patients in the video alleged that they had not been provided food by the administration.A few patients are even seen standing on the pavement of the terrace threatening to jump if they are not provided food even as some others claimed that they were not infected with the virus and were kept in the centre for no reason.Notably, a few city-based NGOs have been providing food to Covid patients.When contacted Dr Amrik Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said: "As number of patients at the centre is more, there are delays in providing food. The district administration can better comment on the matter as they are directly dealing with the food delivery at Covid centres."Last month, The Tribune in one of its news reports had highlighted how patients were suffering due to poor hygiene and sanitation standards at the Meritorious School Covid centre.SDM Amarinder Singh Tiwana said: "We make sure that food is being sent to the Covid patients on time. Yesterday, more than 60 patients were admitted at the centre as a result it took time to prepare food and send it to the centre."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-food-to-eat-patients-climb-covid-centres-terrace-in-bathinda-raise-slogans-against-government-123912
08-08-2020||---||Punjab hooch tragedy: Sukhbir to hold dharna outside Sonia’s Delhi residence||New Delhi, August 8SAD president Sukhbir Badal will sit on dharna at Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence here on August 11 to protesting against Punjab liquor tragedy.The SAD will also demand resignation of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The party alleged involvement of party leaders of the state.More than 110 persons across three districts have been killed after consumption of spurious liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-hooch-tragedy-sukhbir-to-hold-dharna-outside-sonias-delhi-residence-123911
08-08-2020||---||AAP dissolves its organisation structure in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 8The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab has dissolved its core organisational structure, including the core committee, all wings (units) and district units, with a view to strengthen its organisational base in Punjab under the tagline ‘Mission-2022’.In a statement issued on Saturday, state president and Member of Parliament (MP) Bhagwant Mann and in-charge of Punjab affairs Jarnail Singh made the formal announcement to the media.Bhagwant Mann and Jarnail Singh said the decision was taken against the backdrop of a series of meetings held at the district, constituency, wing and state-level office-bearers.Mann said with a view to strengthen and streamline the organisational structure of the party from the booth to the state level, the decision was taken.The party’s key organisational structure, including the state core committee, all wings, constituency and district level units and all allied units, had been dissolved.Jarnail Singh said the post of party state president, held by Bhagwant Mann, would remain intact till the time the new structure was announced.Mann announced that based on the feedback garnered from all over the state, responsibilities of competent, loyal and hardworking volunteers and leaders would be enhanced and swapped so that AAP emerges as a strong and organised team to fight the big battle in 2022, and to free Punjab and Punjabis from the ‘jungle rule’ and ‘mafia rule’ perpetuated by the traditional political parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-dissolves-its-organisation-structure-in-punjab-123909
08-08-2020||---||Punjab govt decides to withdraw Cong MP Bajwa’s state police security||Chandigarh, August 8The Punjab government has decided to withdraw the state police security from Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception and was, in any case, now getting the central security directly accorded to him by the Union Home Ministry.Disclosing this, an official spokesperson said the state police security provided to Bajwa had become redundant since he had procured personal security directly from Home Minister Amit Shah. A mixed security component was, in any case, not considered good, particularly when the Rajya Sabha MP had, by opting for central security, showed that he had no faith in the state police.According to the spokesperson, contrary to claims made by Bajwa, the central security he had got was not at the behest of the Congress leadership. In fact, the Union Home Ministry had not even consulted the state government to gauge the threat perception, which is usually done before providing central security to any person.Was given Z Category security cover by MHA on March 19 and as of date has 25 CISF personnel for personal security, house protection and escort, besides 2 escort driversBajwa, as Rajya Sabha MP, may have simply approached the party’s leader in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to seek central security, and as is the norm, the latter could have simply sent his request to the Union Home Ministry. However, for some reason, the Home Ministry chose not to discuss the matter of Bajwa’s threat perception with the state government in this case, which was a clear deviation from the norm followed in such cases, the spokesperson said.The spokesperson further said Bajwa has actually been getting enhanced security from Punjab Police all this time, way beyond what he was entitled to as Rajya Sabha MP. This was because the state government decided not to withdraw the greater security he had at his disposal as president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). Ideally, the enhanced security should have been pulled out as soon as he became MP, with virtually zero threat perception.Bajwa was given Z Category security cover by the MHA on March 19 and as of date has 25 CISF personnel for personal security, house protection and escort, besides 2 escort drivers. Till March 23, he also had 14 Punjab Police personnel deployed with him but a few for withdrawn for Covid duties. He currently has 6 PP personnel and an escort with driver, which are now being withdrawn, said the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-decides-to-withdraw-cong-mp-bajwas-state-police-security-123881
08-08-2020||Amritsar||Explosion in firecracker unit in Amritsar||An explosion took place in a cracker unit at Iban-Kala village on the outskirts of the city here on Saturday, police said.There was no loss of life in the incident, they said, but the building housing the cracker unit was completely damaged and the entire stock of crackers was gutted in a fire.Four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames, they said, adding that a short circuit was believed to be the reason behind the incident.Nobody was present at the cracker unit at the time of the explosion, the police added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explosion-in-firecracker-unit-in-amritsar-123878
08-08-2020||---||Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral tests positive for Covid-19||New Delhi, August 8Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, a day after he attended a parliamentary standing committee meeting along with several other MPs.Gujral had given sample for testing on Thursday after one of his staff at home tested positive for the virus.Following the test report, he has been advised home isolation.Gujral had taken Covid test about 10 days ago, as there was a plan to travel and the report had then come negative.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader said he was asymptomatic and fine and that he had informed the Rajya Sabha Secretariat about his infection.The meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on personnel, public grievances, law and justice was held following social distancing norms and members wore face masks during it, he said.After reports came in that Gujral tested positive for COVID-19, TMC Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien again raised the demand for holding meeting of  parliamentary standing committees virtually, asserting that there was enough scope to tweak rules.“An MP who attended a parliamentary standing committee meeting on Thursday, tested positive today. We wish him a speedy recovery. Trinamool MPs are not attending. For 4 months we have been urging that these meetings happen virtually. Enough scope to tweak rules. Anyone listening!” O’Brien tweeted. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajya-sabha-mp-naresh-gujral-tests-positive-for-covid-19-123833
08-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Waris Brothers’ new song ‘Punjab di kisani’ hits out at NDA’s agriculture policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8“Chone te kanak nahi leni kehnde tod ti kharid... maru faisle ne hadhan di meharabani dob ti... Ache dinan ne Punjab di kisani dob ti... thus go the lyrics of the new music track released by Waris brothers on various digital platforms this morning.Moved by the plight of the debt-ridden farmers of Punjab, the famous Waris Brothers song “Punjab di kisani” depicting their economic condition and the hardships they face, has indirectly hit out at the “ache din” — a promise by the BJP led NDA government for the present status of farmers. At a time, when farmer agitation in Punjab is gaining momentum, this is the first voice from civil society in favour of farmers protesting against the NDA’s agriculture policy decisions.The release of the song was announced on Thursday by Manmohan Waris and Kamal Heer, saying they had been deeply moved by the plight of Punjab’s farmers because of poor realisation for the farm produce leading to their getting caught in a perpetual debt trap. “In our track, we are reflecting on the hard life that farmers lead. Being sons of a farmer, we understand their plight and have reflected it in our track,” Manmohan Waris said in a video message from Vancouver, Canada. Within just two hours of its release today, the song had received over 15000 views.“Now, farm ordinances are being brought by the Centre and imposed on the gullible farmers at this time, when COVID-19 pandemic has created so much ruckus. These ordinances are going to spell a death knell for farmers. The poor and marginal farmers are going to be wiped out by the corporates, who are being given access to mandis through private market yards. Being artistes, we cannot protest by other aggressive means. It is only through our kala that we can express our resentment,” said Manmohan in his message.“Assin mangde nyay sannu agge pan dhakke... spray pe pe ke tahniyon marde aan akalle... goes the song, highlighting the issue of farmer suicides. The track also speaks about the drug menace in the state as the duo hum “... utton chitte ne Punjab di jawani dob ti... ache dinan ne punjab di kisani dob ti”.Young farmer activist Randeep Sangatpura said: “The Waris brothers have sung many songs that reflect the dilemma faced by different sections of society. Just as their song ‘Asin Jitange Zaroor, Jang Jaari Rakhiyo’ is often performed on stages set by marginalised sections, struggling to have their voices of dissent heard, this new song on farmers will become our anthem, as farmers across Punjab gear up to launch an agitation against the three controversial farm ordinances, from August 15 onwards. It is heartening to know that more voices from the civil society are being raised in favour of farmers, even as the political representatives have chosen not to make a big issue out of farmers’ pitiable condition.”The song had been written by Gill Raunta, a young man from Jagraon. According to Deepak Bali, managing director of Plasma, the music label that has released the music track (also owned by the Waris brothers), said that every Punjabi, irrespective of their religion is directly or indirectly a part of the state’s agrarian economy, and would find resonance in its lyrics. “The track is all about the problems a farmer faces- from growing his crops, to taking them to mandis and waiting endlessly to get money for his produce; sleepless nights a farmer endures in case of bad weather just before harvesting and hope for a better economic future for his family in case he sells his entire produce,” said Bali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waris-brothers-new-song-punjab-di-kisani-hits-out-at-ndas-agriculture-policy-123832
08-08-2020||Tribune Web Desk||MP cops drag Sikh man by hair, push another; Sukhbir Badal tweets shocking video||Chandigarh, August 8 The ‘shocking’ incident of two Sikhs being assaulted by policemen in Madhya Pradesh has been widely flayed by the community.The incident took place in Rajpur tehsil of Barwani district over an alleged argument between the family of Giani Prem Singh Granthi - who was among those assaulted - and the police over setting up a stall in the area.A viral video of the incident shows Prem Singh being dragged by policemen in full public view and a policeman pulling him by his hair. It also shows another policeman push a turbaned man, who comes to save Singh.The turbaned man can be seen requesting the police with folded hands to not beat up Prem Singh.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal took to Twitter to condemn the incident."Too shocking for words! The barbaric & humiliating attack on Giani Prem Singh Granthi & other Sikhs in Madhya Pradesh is utterly inhuman & unacceptable. I urge CM @ChouhanShivraj to set an example of punitive action against those who treat the sword of the nation with such contempt," Badal tweeted.Too shocking for words! The barbaric & humiliating attack on Giani Prem Singh Granthi & other Sikhs in MadhyaPradesh is utterly inhuman & unacceptable.I urge CM @ChouhanShivraj to set an example of punitive action against those who treat the sword of the nation with such contempt pic.twitter.com/oNzkgmdh2I  "Beastly attack on Giani Prem Singh Granthi & other Sikhs in MP is an outrage against humanity. Utterly reprehensible & unacceptable! #Sikhs all over the world are deeply shocked. I urge CM @ChouhanShivraj to take imm & examplary action against all those guilty of this brutality," Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted.State Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja tweeted the video and criticised the police."The granthi has long been running a lock-keys shop near the Pulsood police outpost. He was beaten, his turban desecrated and then he was pulled through hair on the road in full public view by cops. This amounts to insulting religious sentiments of the Sikh community," Saluja tweeted.Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath tweeted, "This atrocity and anti-social act is disrespect to the holy Sikh religion. Such incidents cannot be tolerated. I demand from the government to immediately take strong action against those responsible for it and justice for the victims."Meanwhile, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has suspended an assistant sub-inspector and a head constable.Chouhan said in a tweet that assistant sub-inspector Sitaram Yadav and head constable Mohan Jamre have been suspended with immediate effect.Chouhan said, "Such barbarism and erratic behaviour won't be tolerated at any cost. The guilty will be punished for the misdeeds." Chouhan has also ordered a probe into the matter.Prem Singh said he runs a small shop close to the police 'chowki' and deals in old locks and keys. But police claimed Prem Singh was inebriated and created ruckus when he was asked to show his driving licence during a checking drive. With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-cops-drag-sikh-man-by-hair-push-another-sukhbir-badal-tweets-shocking-video-123809
08-08-2020||Minna Zutshi||For slum kids, Ludhiana lawyer dons teacher’s mantle||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 7At a time when schools are closed and studies disrupted, slum children in Ludhiana are learning in the open. Tweaking their usual routine keeping in view the Covid precautions, the concepts of self-study and weekly evaluation have been introduced to the children staying in slums at Hambran Road here.Around 25 children aged between four and 16 are being taught general science, political science and even mathematics, says Hariom Jindal, who conducts free classes for children of ragpickers staying in the colony. “These kids cannot be left on their own at this juncture. It will derail all our earlier efforts and they may lose their direction,” says Jindal, an advocate by profession. “Weaning the children away from ragpicking has been an enormous task. Their families will not be happy to see them back to ragpicking. So, keeping them engaged during the pandemic is essential,” he says.To keep the children’s interest intact in education, Jindal has distributed new books among them. These books were written keeping in view the special needs and requirements of children from deprived sections. The children were told to ‘prepare’ chapters from the books. The brief was clear: Try reading and grasping the meaning, and then share with your friends what you learn.Teachers associated with Jindal visit the slum daily. But instead of teaching the pupils the usual subjects, they teach them the method of studying. They guide them by resolving their queries and clearing their doubts.Jindal, during his weekly visits to the slum, helps the children contextualise their lessons and motivates them to build curiosity. “There is no point in rote learning chapters, like the one on taxes. Such chapters have to be understood in the context of our rights. I encourage the children to think for themselves. My effort is to not merely educate the children, but to empower them by encouraging them to ask questions, look for interconnectedness and relate what they learn in their life,” he says. For slum residents, it has become a kind of ‘habit’ to get their children trained under Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-slum-kids-ludhiana-lawyer-dons-teachers-mantle-123761
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Government transfers  18 police personnel||Harcharan Bains appointed principal adviser to SAD chiefChandigarh: Author and political ideologue, Harcharan Bains, has been appointed principal adviser to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Bains has also been made a permanent invitee to all the top decision making bodies of the party, including the core committee, said Sukhbir on Friday.Bains said his first task would be “to expose a deep-rooted conspiracy by anti-Sikh forces to sow seeds of suspicion in the minds of Sikhs”. TNSFormer Congress MLA’s 2 sons, grandson bookedMuktsar: The police have booked two sons and a grandson of former Congress MLA Raghubir Pardhan for allegedly thrashing a resident of Sammewali village on Thursday. The complainant, Harjeet Singh, alleged that he along with his family had come to his in-laws’ house at Sheikh village on Thursday on the occasion of Rakhi. He said while crossing Gidderbaha, both sons of the former MLA, Dinesh Garg, Deepak Garg and Dinesh’s son, thrashed him over traffic jam. A case under Sections 355, 341, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-transfers-18-police-personnel-123712
08-08-2020||Tarn Taran||SAD workers stopped by cops||Valtoha said they wanted to meet the CM to seek action against a Congress MLA and his PA who were named by the affected families in their complaints. “We were canecharged by the police, which left four of our workers injured,” Valtoha alleged. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-workers-stopped-by-cops-123711
08-08-2020||Archit Watts||Women drug peddlers on rise in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 7The involvement of women in the supply of illicit liquor and psychotropic drugs seems to be increasing in Muktsar district. Eight women were booked for such activities in the district last month. Some of them have been booked on similar charges in the past as well.Series of incidentsAccording to records, the Malout City police on August 4 booked a woman of Chhapianwali village for allegedly possessing nine bottles of illicit liquor. Similarly, the Muktsar City police on August 2 booked a woman of Bura Gujjar Road here for allegedly possessing 20 bottles of illicit liquor. The Malout Sadar police on July 31 booked a woman of Jhorar village for allegedly possessing 30 bottles of illicit liquor. Earlier, the Malout City police booked a woman of Jandwala Charhat Singh village for allegedly possessing 5-kg poppy husk. The Kabarwala police on July 10 booked a woman of Kattianwali village for allegedly possessing 200-litre illicit liquor. The Kabarwala police on July 8 booked a woman of Kattianwali village for allegedly possessing 40-litre hooch. The Muktsar City police on July 2 booked a woman of Bura Gujjar Road for allegedly possessing 43-kg marijuana. On this trend, Ranjit Singh, a member of the anti-drug committee, said, “Women are considered safe conduits, thus their activity has increased in the recent past. They are very much active in the illegal liquor trade. Besides, they keep the stock available in their homes. We had informed the police about the involvement of some women in the illegal act, but hardly any action was taken.” He claimed some minor boys were also being pushed into the illegal trade by their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-drug-peddlers-on-rise-in-muktsar-123709
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Held in smuggling case, BSF constable sacked||A Border Security Force (BSF) constable, who was arrested by the Punjab Police in a cross-border drug and weapon smuggling case, has been dismissed from service, an official statement of the BSF said on Thursday.BSF constable Rajendra Prasad was held along with two others on July 28 from his native place at Sriganganagar in Rajasthan. “As per the investigation report, Constable Rajendra Prasad of 71 Bn, BSF, was found guilty on the charge of colluding with smugglers.“Subsequently, on August 4, under the zero-tolerance policy, constable Rajendra Prasad was dismissed from the service under provisions of the BSF Act with effect from August 4,” an official release issued by the BSF (Punjab Frontier) stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/held-in-smuggling-case-bsf-constable-sacked-123698
08-08-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Court rejects plea to make co-accused approvers in Balwant Singh Multani case||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 7A local court rejected the applications of former Chandigarh Police inspectors to become approvers and be pardoned in the Balwant Singh Multani case here today.The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Deepika Singh, while pronouncing the judgment, said the investigating agency i.e. the special investigation team (SIT) could make a request to the court for pardon to the accused.Former police officials Jagir Singh, Harsahai Sharma and Kuldeep Singh, co-accused with former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the disappearance of former CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, had filed an application in the court seeking permission to turn approvers and be pardoned in the ongoing probe against them. Former DGP Saini is the main accused in the case.The court, in its order, said, “In the present scenario, it would be proper if the investigating agency independently applies its mind and moves an application for grant of pardon that no direct evidence is available with it. The investigating agency should consider if it can collect the evidence so as to put all the accused to trial or if it feels necessary, make some of the accused as approvers. If it does so, it should make it clear as to how many and who needs to be made an approver keeping in view their role in the commission of offence, After carrying out this exercise, the investigating agency can make a request to the court for tendering of pardon to those particular accused.”Sources said on behalf of the three accused, the SIT will file an application to make them approvers in the case.All three co-accused had recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure before the judicial magistrates on different dates in Mohali recently. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are also the co-accused in another FIR registered at the Mataur police station against former DGP Saini in the alleged disappearance case of Balwant Singh Multani. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are on bail in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-rejects-plea-to-make-co-accused-approvers-in-balwant-singh-multani-case-123614
08-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Bizmen to move High Court against powercom on fixed charges||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 7Furnace owners of Mandi Gobindgarh and Ludhiana today decided to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the state government for forcibly charging fixed electricity charges for the lockdown period (two months).Bharat Bhushan Tonny, chief, Steel City Furnace Association, said, “Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced that fixed charges for the lockdown period will be completely waived. The PSPCL had issued a circular in this regard and Industry Minister had also announced to waive fixed charges. However, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has issued a circular directing the PSPCL to recover fixed charges by September end in installments.”Mahesh Gupta, president of the Furnace Alliance Ludhiana, said, “As per the directive of the PSERC, they will be charged from Rs 25 lakh to Rs1 crore as an arrears for the lockdown period.”He said industrialists had incurred heavy losses and were not in a position to pay fixed charges. He said the government should take a decision to protect the interests of industrialists in the state the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bizmen-to-move-high-court-against-powercom-on-fixed-charges-123615
08-08-2020||---||SAD-BJP workers protest over choked sewerage||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bjp-workers-protest-over-choked-sewerage-123616
08-08-2020||---||Bikram Majithia among 37 Akalis booked||Chandigarh, August 7As many as 37 persons, including senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, were booked by the UT police under Section 188 of the IPC for staging a protest near Punjab Raj Bhawan on Friday.The protesters were detained from Sector 7/26 dividing road while they were marching towards Raj Bhawan, demanding dismissal of the Punjab Government over the spurious liquor tragedy.They were taken to the Sector 3 police station from where they were released. The case was registered at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-among-37-akalis-booked-123602
08-08-2020||Patiala||SAD protests inaction in missing ‘saroop’ case||Almost a fortnight after a 100-year-old ‘saroop’ of Guru Granth Sahib went missing from Ardaspur Gurdwara, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today led a protest against the police department. Many senior party leaders joined him at a ‘dharna’ in front of the office of the Patiala SSP.‘No moral right to hold dharna’Chandigarh: Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Friday slammed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for holding a protest in Patiala. “These are the same people who, while in government, had withdrawn the blasphemy case filed against the dera chief. They have no moral right to protest,” he alleged. TNSThe SAD president attacked those who “played politics on the sacrilege issue”, asking why these ‘jathebandis’ were silent now. “We have come here only because the district police failed in its duty. I have come to demand justice,” said Sukhbir, who refused to speak on any other issue. “The party will hold a ‘dharna’ in front of the SSP office till August 18 to demand recovery of the ‘saroop’ and arrest the culprits. If the police fail to solve the case by then, the SAD will announce its next course of action,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-protests-inaction-in-missing-saroop-case-123603
08-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||Punjab Congress battle of one-upmanship flares up||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 7The Congress has been hit by another crisis, this time in Punjab, where rival groups are demanding each other’s removal with the state unit petitioning party chief Sonia Gandhi for the expulsion of two Rajya Sabha MPs.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said he had written to Sonia Gandhi, seeking the expulsion of Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo for “anti-party activities”. The two MPs have been attacking Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his government over the liquor tragedy.On the other hand, Bajwa demanded the removal of both Capt Amarinder Singh and Jakhar, saying it was against Congress’ interests to continue with the two leaders. “We only asked for an investigation against the liquor mafia in Punjab, not against the CM. There have been huge losses due to thriving illegal distilleries in the state. We demand that Capt Amarinder and Jakhar be removed or else the party will lose its relevance in Punjab,” Bajwa said, adding that he would keep raising issues in the interest of the state.AICC incharge for Punjab Asha Kumari said the central disciplinary committee, led by AK Antony, was the competent authority to consider the matter and the state unit could not directly expel MPs. She said: “Leaders should refrain from sparring in public and must talk on party fora.”Jakhar said: “The Congress should introspect how people with such low self-esteem could rise to high positions in the party and get rewarded with Rajya Sabha berths even as they betrayed their own party for some gunmen.” He wondered how Bajwa’s security was upgraded recently when the security of all other Opposition leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi, was withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-battle-of-one-upmanship-flares-up-123604
08-08-2020||New Delhi||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh stalling GI tag for basmati: Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister to Sonia||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, complaining about Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s “attempts to stall geographical indication (GI) tag for MP’s basmati rice”. “It is with immense sadness that I wish to inform you that the Chief Minister of the Congress-ruled state has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to ensure that the basmati rice of MP is not given a GI tag in the interests of Punjab and other states,” Chouhan said in his two-page letter to Sonia. He also accused the previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh of “playing with the sentiments of farmers of the state and not fulfilling the poll promise of a loan waiver by senior leader Rahul Gandhi”. “Why is your party so hostile towards Madhya Pradesh farmers?” Chouhan questioned a day after he “condemned” Capt Amarinder for writing to the Prime Minister regarding his efforts to get the GI tag for basmati rice from Madhya Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-capt-amarinder-singh-stalling-gi-tag-for-basmati-madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-to-sonia-123605
08-08-2020||---||2 more held, Section 302 added to FIRs||Chandigarh, August 7The Punjab Police today arrested two key accused in the spurious liquor tragedy case, besides adding murder charges to the FIRs against all kingpins in the case.On the directives of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Section 302 of the IPC has been added to the FIRs against the kingpins directly responsible for the death of 113 persons across three districts, DGP Dinkar Gupta said .With the arrest of father-son duo Harjit Singh and Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, of Pandori Gola, the total number of arrests in the case had gone up to 54 — 37 in Tarn Taran, nine in Amritsar (Rural) and eight in Batala. Harjit Singh and Shamsher had also been booked on murder charges, apart from Kashmir Singh and Satnam Singh, alias Satta, the DGP added.Besides, two FIRs have been registered under Section 216 of the IPC for harbouring the criminals involved in the case and 21 more persons had been arrested in this connection. More than 887 raids have been conducted since July 31, when the first few deaths in the case were reported in the three affected districts — Tarn Taran, Amritsar (Rural) and Batala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-more-held-section-302-added-to-firs-123606
08-08-2020||---||Fresh curbs in three cities as cases spike in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 7Concerned over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered extended night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala from Saturday.He also directed big cities/towns to prepare integrated management plan for the treatment of patients at both government and private facilities.Can’t be complacentGiven the recent increase in cases in districts like Bathinda, Barnala and Ferozepur, we can’t afford to be complacent. Capt Amarinder Singh, CMThe CM announced a weeklong trial of enforcement of the mask wearing rule by making the offenders stand at the spot for an hour with a mask on. He said making the offenders sweat it out might help check the violations.Answering questions in his weekly #AskCaptain live session on Facebook, Capt Amarinder appealed to the people to get themselves tested early and start treatment preferably in a government hospital, urging them not to rush to private tertiary care facility directly as “good treatment is available in government hospitals”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-curbs-in-three-cities-as-cases-spike-in-punjab-123607
08-08-2020||---||Ludhiana MLA Sanjay Talwar positive, count nears 22K||Chandigarh, August 7A high number of Covid-19 cases were reported from Ludhiana, Patiala and Mohali as the total cases in the state reached 21,930, with the highest single-day spike of 1,063 cases. Ludhiana reported the maximum number of 10 deaths, followed by Amritsar and Jalandhar (3 each). As many as 23 persons in the state died of Covid today.In Ludhiana, MLA (East) Sanjay Talwar, his wife, two sons and brother tested positive. He got his test done after one of his relatives tested positive earlier. Of the 10 deaths reported in the city, nine had co-morbid conditions. A 48-year-old victim, who died, had no co-morbidity. Among those who tested positive, 34 were detected for the virus at a flu corner and were contacts of already tested positive patients. Five heathcare workers, three cops, two undertrials and domestic travellers were among those who tested positive.In Amritsar, the health authorities reported two deaths and 59 new cases on Friday. The death toll in the district has reached 90, second only to Ludhiana. A 25-year-old resident of Judge Nagar became the youngest victim in the district. Admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), he was suffering from acute respiratory infection.Another deceased was Charan Kaur, 80, of Kallu Wala Khuh in the Verka area. Dinesh Bassi, chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust, was among those who tested positive.Patiala once again reported an alarmingly high number of cases, taking the total positive cases to 2,435. Of the cases reported today, 32 are contacts of already tested positive patients and 83 had flu-like symptoms. Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said they had declared three containment zones in Rajpura and Patiala city, two in Samana and one each in Nabha and Patran. A resident of Sunam, admitted to Rajindra Hospital here, died late in the evening.A DSP, an Inspector of the CIA staff and Congress leader Jasleen Sethi are among the 104 new patients in Jalandhar. The district tally has risen to 2,907. With two more deaths, the toll has reached 75. A steno of Civil Surgeon also tested positive. As many as 21 tested positive in Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-mla-sanjay-talwar-positive-count-nears-22k-123608
08-08-2020||Sangrur||Issue white paper on aid spend: AAP||Leader of Opposition (LoP) and AAP Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema today expressed dissatisfaction over arrangements of the state government to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. He alleged misappropriation of funds under the garb of various initiatives and demanded the government to release a white paper on expenditure incurred to combat the virus. “Capt Amarinder Singh claims to have spent Rs 300 crore on tackling the pandemic in the state. Residents doubt the claims as patients are not getting proper treatment and required steps are not being taken to prevent further spread of the virus. The Chief Minister must share the details related to money collected as donations and spent through a ‘white paper’,” said Cheema. “The body of a Covid patient remained unattended at a Patiala hospital for 11 hours. Another patient from Ludhiana died while waiting for a bed at the hospital. The poor condition of Covid care centres in Bathinda, Barnala and in other parts of the state is enough to prove failure of the state government,” he said. The LoP said, “The Punjab Government should follow the Delhi model to effectively tackle the pandemic.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/issue-white-paper-on-aid-spend-aap-123609
08-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court for speedy conclusion of probe into ‘wrong’ +ve reports||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed expeditious conclusion of inquiry into “wrong” Covid positive reports, while directing that coercive action would not be initiated against Tuli Diagnostic Centre and other petitioners till the findings were received.The direction by Justice Jitendra Chauhan came on three petitions filed by Tuli Diagnostic Centre and other petitioners through senior advocates Chetan Mittal and Vikram Chaudhri along with counsel Vivek K Thakur, Divanshu Jain, Rahil Mahajan and Palak Dev.The Bench was told that the kits used by the petitioner were approved/ certified by the ICMR. The petitioner-centre conducted 1,723 tests. Out of the total, 110 samples tested positive and remedial steps were suggested. It was further submitted that an error of 10 to 12 per cent was seen world over regarding such diagnostic tests.The state counsel, on the other hand, submitted that a committee has been constituted to look into the matter in pursuance to a complaint received by Amritsar Civil Surgeon. An FIR also stood registered and the investigation had been handed over to the local police. “A special investigation team has also been constituted in the matter,” he added.Justice Chauhan asserted it emerged from the facts that the FIR was registered on the basis of the complaint, whereupon the inquiry was initiated. The committee of experts appointed by Amritsar Civil Surgeon was seized of the matter. But the complaint which formed the basis of the FIR was not on record.“The respondents are directed to ensure that the committee concludes its inquiry expeditiously and the report be placed on record before the next date of hearing. A copy of the complaint which formed the basis of the FIR be also made available to the court.... Meanwhile, till the findings of the inquiry are received, no coercive steps be taken against the petitioners,” Justice Chauhan concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-for-speedy-conclusion-of-probe-into-wrong-ve-reports-123610
08-08-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht seeks reopening of Kartarpur corridor||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh urged the Centre to initiate steps to open Kartarpur corridor.  The Union Government had suspended the pilgrimage and registration for the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan on March 16 as a temporary measure in view of the Covid outbreak. Though Pakistan opened the shrine on July 29, the Indian Government is yet to respond. Giani Harpreet Singh said the pilgrimage to Kartarpur could be allowed while observing precautionary measures. “The foundation of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is a welcome step. For Sikhs, the Centre must take steps to open the corridor. The suspension of the pilgrimage was a temporary measure. Pilgrims in batches of 50 could be allowed amid strict adherence to the guidelines,” he said. He urged the Centre to intervene in the matter of Gurdwara Gian Godri at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar and Gurdwara Dangmaar Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-seeks-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-123611
08-08-2020||Ropar||Ropar ADC infected||A day after 31 Covid-19 cases were detected in the district, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Amardeep Gujral was found Covid-positive along with 15 others on Friday.  Earlier, the deputy commissioner and two SDMs of Ropar and Chamkaur Sahib had contracted the virus. All of them have recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-adc-infected-123612
08-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court  to cops:  Probe organ transplant racket in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Taking a note of “widespread” reports in the print and electronic media on the racket involving transplant of organs, including those of Covid-19 fatalities, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Amritsar Commissioner of Police to conduct a detailed inquiry into the matter.The officer was asked to look into the alleged transplant of organs of Covid-19 patients to non-Covid patients. The inquiry into the bodies swapping case was also transferred to the officer from the SDM concerned. For the purpose of concluding the inquiry, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill set a month’s deadline.Justice Gill asserted the court in normal circumstances would have waited for the SDM, Amritsar-II, to conclude the inquiry into the body swapping case before submitting his report. But the High Court was also conscious of the extensive coverage in the media regarding the racket.Describing it as “a serious cause of concern”, Justice Gill asserted the matter was required to be properly addressed and the gang, if any, involved in “such inhumane and barbaric act” was liable to be brought to book. “The system is required to be cleaned and brushed up, restoring the faith of the common man in the system,” Justice Gill added.The order came just over a fortnight after two brothers alleged that the body handed over to them after their father’s purported Covid death was actually that of a woman. Following the allegations, an SDM was asked to hold an inquiry into the swapping of bodies. Justice Gill added the court was not commenting on the dedication, devotion and faithfulness towards the duty and integrity of the hospital staff. But the fact remained that some negligence apparently took place at some level and was required to be fixed.He said the limitations of the health authorities, keeping in view the facilities available, could be understood and there could not be any compelling directions on performance of duties beyond the resources and facilities available.Justice Gill added that the spread of Covid was at its peak. The death toll was rising day by day and the cause of its spread was scientifically unascertained. “Seemingly regarding its vaccine, there is no light at the end of the tunnel and the world is lost in a locked cage, the key of which are thrown away.”Justice Gill said the pandemic had taught that doctors, medics, paramedical staff and other health workers were the real heroes and that was why call Covid warriors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-cops-probe-organ-transplant-racket-in-punjab-123613
08-08-2020||GS Paul||Capt Amarinder Singh visits kin of victims, hikes aid to Rs 5 lakh each||Tribune News ServiceTarn Taran, August 7Terming the spurious liquor tragedy nothing short of “mass murders”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today promised the victim families that severest punishment would be given to the perpetrators of the heinous crime, who “knowingly took so many lives to make a quick buck”.‘Will ensure fast-track hearing’ The perpetrators of this heinous crime deserve no leniency. We will depute special prosecutors to ensure fast-track hearing and exemplary punishment to the accused. Capt Amarinder Singh, CMDuring his visit to Guru Arjan Dev Stadium in Tarn Taran where he met the bereaved families, the Chief Minister announced hiked compensation from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh each. He handed over a cheque amounting to Rs 2.92 crore to the Deputy Commissioner.He said those who survived but lost their eyesight would also be given the financial aid of Rs 5 lakh each.The Chief Minister was accompanied by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar and DGP Dinkar Gupta, besides Khadoor Sahib MP JS Dimpa and MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki.‘Need to go after big fish’Those who shelter the big fish in the illegal trade must be taken to task and those who are negligent in performing their duties must also be dealt with sternly. Sunil Jakhar, PPCC ChiefWhen questioned about the complaint against a Congress MLA and his PA for their alleged involvement in the illicit liquor trade, the CM said: “How can we come to a conclusion even before the investigation? The perpetrators of the heinous crime deserve no leniency. We will depute special prosecutors to ensure fast-track hearing in the case and exemplary punishment to the accused, whosoever they may be.”Besides the two SITs, a magisterial probe had been ordered to bring out the truth, he added.He, however, said such a ghastly incident was unheard of in Punjab, which happened due to “the incompetency and lapses” in monitoring by police and excise officials, who were directly related with the issue.Jakhar claimed that those nabbed so far were just small-time criminals whereas the big fish was still enjoying immunity. “Those who shelter them must be taken to task and those who are negligent in performing their duties must also be dealt with sternly,” he said.The CM also promised jobs for the next of kin as per their age and qualification, pucca houses for those living in temporary ones, besides enrolling them under the government’s health and pension schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-visits-kin-of-victims-hikes-aid-to-rs-5-lakh-each-123601
