08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 500 fresh coronavirus cases, 30 deaths||Thirty more deaths due to COVID-19 in Punjab pushed the death toll to 4,964 while 500 new cases took the infection count to 1,57,331 on Tuesday.Four deaths each were reported from Patiala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana; three from Jalandhar; two each from Barnala, Fazilka and Pathankot; and one each from Amritsar, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur and Rupnagar, according to a medical bulletin.There are 7,274 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now.Ludhiana reported 80 new cases, followed by 70 in Mohali and 66 in Amritsar.A total of 792 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,45,093, according to as per bulletin.Fourteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 163 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 33,95,729 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-500-fresh-coronavirus-cases-30-deaths-181575
08-12-2020||---||Bharat Bandh underscored need for repeal of farm Acts: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, December 8Reiterating that farm laws are anti-farmer and were introduced without any discussion with the stakeholders, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the unity showcased by farmers through the Bharat Bandh had underscored the need for repeal of the laws, followed by a detailed discussion on agricultural reforms, a press release by the state government read.The Chief Minister asked why the Centre could not heed to the demands of farmers, agitating across the country, to scrap these laws and hold fresh talks with all stakeholders.“Had I been in their place I would not have taken a minute to accept my mistake and revoke the laws,” he said.Asserting that the whole country stood with farmers in their fight for survival, Captain Amarinder said the Centre should allow the existing system to continue instead of scrapping the Arhtiya and the Mandi system, as the Farm Laws were designed to do, the press release further read.“Why are they doing away with it? They should let the farmers decide what they want,” he said, adding that nobody was stopping private players from purchasing but it could not be allowed at the cost of the well-established system which had stood the farmers in good stead all these decades.The Chief Minister further demanded to know why the Government of India was not willing to give legitimacy to MSP, if their assertion of not abolishing it was sincere.“MSP is our right,” he said, adding: “If MSP is not guaranteed and another political party, apart from the Congress and the BJP, which is promising to conform with the support price, comes to power at the Centre, then who will take the responsibility of the farmers getting their minimum due?”He pointed out that the foodgrain bought at MSP were pushed into the PDS to feed the country’s poor and all that would end if MSP was done away with.There was no reason why the Centre could not listen to farmers, said the Chief Minister.“This was what I had told Union Home Minister Amit Shah too,” he said, adding that he urged Shah to do everything possible to resolve the concerns of the farmers in their interest, and also in the interest of India’s security.The Chief Minister appealed to the Centre not to write off Punjab’s agricultural prowess.He reiterated that Punjab was not consulted on the issue. The first meeting of the reforms committee was held before the state was incorporated as a member, the second meeting discussed only financial issues and was attended by Manpreet Badal, and at the third meeting, the secretaries were informed that decisions had been taken.Agriculture being a state subject, the Modi government should have held discussions with all stakeholders before bringing in these laws and not bulldozed them through Parliament, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-underscored-need-for-repeal-of-farm-acts-capt-amarinder-181555
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Dharmendra turns 85: ‘Apne’ maker shares stills from Punjab shoot||Filmmaker Anil Sharma has shared throwback photos from the sets of his 2007 release Apne on Tuesday, on the occasion of the 85th birthday of the film’s hero, veteran Bollywood star Dharmendra.Sharing the photographs, which were taken during the film's Punjab schedule, Sharma tweeted in Hindi: "I have had a long journey in films and a long list of people who are my own. The name topping that list is Dharmendra, sharing my heartfelt respect for him on his birthday. May God bless him with good health. Enjoy these moments from Apne. I am sure Apne 2 will be even more fun."The filmmaker is gearing up to start the shoot of his forthcoming film ‘Apne 2’, starring the three generations of the Deol family - Dharmendra, his sons Sunny and Bobby Deol, and grandson Karan Deol.Talking about his association with the Deols, Sharma shared: "This association has always been really positive. I am fortunate to be the only the director who has worked with all the three generations of Deols. Dharamji is a fantastic human being and the farmer who came to Bollywood still resides in him. He is a very grounded man who is not only a great actor but one of the best human beings in the industry. It is Dharam ji's 85th birthday, so I wish him all the best and hope he retains his infectious energy forever."The Deols announced their new film Apne 2 a few days ago on the occasion of Guru Nanak Jayanti. The film is expected to go on floors around March 2021. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-turns-85-apne-maker-shares-stills-from-punjab-shoot-181529
08-12-2020||---||Bharat Bandh: No traffic movement in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, December 8Roads in Zirakpur wore a deserted look as very few people came out of their homes due to ‘Bharat Bandh’ call.There was minimal traffic on the main Chandigarh-Ambala highway and the Zirakpur-Patiala road too wore a deserted look. However, there were no reports of any untoward incident till 1 pm.A group of farmers gathered near a gurdwara on the Patiala road and took out tractor-trolley march in support of their demands. A few policemen on motorbikes followed them.No barricades were put up by the police in Zirakpur and nearby areas. There was no police presence on the roads but a tow-away vehicle was stationed at Patiala chowk.However in Pabhat, roads were blocked by parking tractor trolleys midway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-no-traffic-movement-in-zirakpur-181519
08-12-2020||Muktsar||Despite ties between SAD-BJP broken, PM Modi wishes Parkash Singh Badal on his 93rd birthday||Despite the fact that the SAD has left the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal also resigned from Union Cabinet, SAD patriarch-cum-former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal too returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the contentious farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the elderly Badal over phone on his 93rd birthday on Tuesday.Notably, all members of the Badal family are present at their Badal village residence here, who decided to keep the birthday celebrations a low-key affair this time.The Badal family just performed ‘ardas’ at their residence.Speaking over the phone, Jangveer, media adviser to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished Badal sahib over the phone today. Due to the ongoing farmers’ protest and Bharat Bandh today, the Badal family had already decided not to hold any kind of celebrations today. They had already told the party workers not to bring cakes, bouquets. They just performed ardas at their residence.”Meanwhile, sources informed that the talk between the two leaders – Modi and Badal – was very short and nothing political was discussed.Notably, the SAD is presently holding discussions with regional political parties in the country to form a national front against the BJP.Further, Badal had on Monday written to the prime minister to scrap the three farm laws, sought his “personal intervention” to reach a solution.The Badals had last year invited the party leaders at their residence, when Parkash Singh Badal cut his birthday cake along with his younger brother Gurdas Singh Badal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-ties-between-sad-bjp-broken-pm-modi-wishes-parkash-singh-badal-on-his-93rd-birthday-181518
08-12-2020||---||Bharat Bandh: Shops, commercial establishments closed in Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh, December 8Shops and commercial establishments remained shut at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday morning in view of a 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions to protest the Centre's three farm laws.Petroleum dealers in Punjab closed filling stations to back the call for the nationwide strike. There are over 3,400 fuel pumps in Punjab.In neighbouring BJP-JJP ruled Haryana, opposition parties Congress and Indian National Lok Dal have extended their support to the 'Bharat Bandh'.Also read: Nation witnesses initial mixed response to 'Bharat Bandh' callFarmers started assembling on highways and other key roads in both states from the morning."We will hold a protest peacefully," a farmer said in Mohali as the airport road near the JLPL was blocked.In Ludhiana, a group of protesters squatted on a road to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Some protesters were seen performing kirtan near the Jagraon bridge.Members of Muslim community also carried out a march in support of farmers in Ludhiana.Also read: Congress MPs from Punjab continue sit-in at Delhi's Jantar MantarIn Patiala, milk and vegetable supply was hit as agitating farmers stopped vendors from entering the city.Members of Punjabi University teaching faculty and students closed campus gates and held protest in solidarity with protesting farmers.Lawyers staged a dharna in support of the farmers in Ropar.Farmer leaders have said they would block key roads and occupy toll plazas during their 'chakka jam' protest from 11 am to 3 pm.Police personnel have been deployed in adequate strength in both the states to maintain law and order, officials said.The Haryana Police had issued a travel advisory stating that people might face traffic blockades on various roads and highways of the state.Also read: Several US lawmakers voice support for agitating farmersIn Punjab, farmer leaders appealed to shopkeepers and traders to keep their shutters down."We are appealing to people to support farmers' cause, and we are sure of getting support from all sections of society," a leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said in Amritsar.Several unions representing government employees, arthiyas (commission agents) and transporters have extended their support to the farmers' protest.Besides, all major political parties in Punjab — the ruling Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal have also extended their support.Over 50,000 government employees in Punjab have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, an apex gurdwara body, has also announced to keep its offices and institutions shut to express solidarity with the farmers.Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has appealed to all sections of society to observe complete shutdown to support the farmers."Everyone should hold a peaceful protest," he said in a video message.In Bhiwani, farmers sat in the middle of the road in Jui village and blocked the vehicular movement. Protesters in Dhanana village staged a sit-in and blocked the main road.Farmers in Karnal took out a march and requested shopkeepers to close their establishments till 3 pm in support of their demands.They also blocked roads at two places in Jundla and Thari village.In Hisar, the protesting farmers blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Sarsod village in support of the Bharat Bandh call.Farmers along with social activists and members of opposition parties AAP and Congress staged a protest against the farm laws in Gurugram.Meanwhile, the Haryana Police traffic advisory issued on Monday had said "the main national highways, Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48), may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm".Bathinda and Mansa districts in Punjab also witnessed a complete shutdown.Farmers staged protests at various points in the Bathinda district and blocked the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway at Kanhiya Chowk, and near toll plaza in Jeeda village.The Bathinda-Chandigarh highway was blocked at Lehra Bega toll plaza.Farmers also blocked railway tracks on the Bathinda-Ambala and Bathinda-Jind railway lines.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Meanwhile, tension prevailed during the farmers’ protest at Kahniya Chowk in Bathinda when young protesters damaged the windscreen of a car belonging to an Army personal. The Army man was on his way to Bikaner but protesting farmers did not allow the vehicle to move ahead, which led to heated arguments between the two groups. However, some senior members among the protesters, sensing the situation might escalate, later allowed the car to go ahead. Shops and commercial establishments also remained closed in Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Faridkot, Barnala, and Muktsar districts.Public transport remained off the road, train services were suspended and no movement of private vehicles was witnesses on the national and state highways, which were blocked at about 100 locations in these districts.In Moga, the farm unions staged protests at 13 locations while the Congress and Akali workers also protested against the farm laws at two locations.The continuous protest outside the Silo owned by Adani group of industries at Dagru village also continued on the 62nd day, on Tuesday.At many places, local police set-up barricades to stop the movement of vehicles on the roads which were blocked by the farmers.Police officials claimed that it was done to prevent any clash between the protesters and the commuters. However, the ambulances were allowed to move on the roads.The Punjab Police had earlier issued a travel advisory stating that people might face traffic blockades on various roads and highways of the state.Meanwhile, there were reports that the industries were not shut down by the managements. The multinational giant Nestle India Limited also continued to operate its production units despite the fact that its labour union had supported the farmers’ agitation.Congress MLA Raja Warring along with his supporters staged a protest outside BKP leader and former minister Surjit Kumar Jyani’s house in Fazilka amid reports of protests outside the residences of BJP leaders in other cities and towns of the state.Hundreds of farmers including women also protested at Mehraj, the ancestral village of Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh in Bathinda district. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-shops-commercial-establishments-closed-in-punjab-haryana-181510
08-12-2020||Karam Prakash||Not attending meeting costs MBBS students at Patiala college dearly; over 200 suspended||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 8The Principal of Government Medical College (GMC) Patiala has suspended over 200 MBBS students for not attending a meeting on “Covid-19 precautions”.The meeting of final Prof. (part -II) students was called by Principal Rajan Singla at 4 pm on Monday. However, only 17 out of a total of 225 students attended the meeting at the college auditorium.   Talking to The Tribune Dr Rajan Singla said, “Yes, I have suspended them until further orders as they didn't attend the meeting. It was an important meeting because I had to give them directions about the COVID precautions – to curb the spread.”Dr Singla said he didn’t want, in his college, a situation like other medical colleges wherein a significant number of students had tested positive for the virus.“This comes under indiscipline, when you as students don't follow the order of the authority. I was making efforts for my students only, and they didn't take it seriously.”When asked about calling over 200 students in a closed environment amid coronavirus, Dr Singla said: “The sitting capacity of the meeting place, the auditorium, is around 600. Therefore, social distancing would have been maintained easily.”Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the Principal had also called a meeting of final prof (part - I) students after the meeting of final prof (part - II), wherein, all the students didn't turn up.Absentees of the second meeting will be suspended on Tuesday, informed the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-attending-meeting-costs-mbbs-students-at-patiala-college-dearly-over-200-suspended-181506
08-12-2020||New Delhi||Congress MPs from Punjab continue sit-in at Delhi's Jantar Mantar||Several Congress MPs from Punjab continued to sit at the Jantar Mantar here for the second day on Tuesday to support farmers agitating to demand a repeal of the three farm laws.These MPs have been sitting on the dharna since Monday morning in support of farmers protesting on the Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-UP borders since November 26.Ravneet Singh Bittu, Kulbir Singh Zira, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurjeet Singh Aujla were present at the protest spot in central Delhi on Tuesday.Aujla said: "We have been sitting here since Monday morning. It is our responsibility to support the farmers. We have followed all instructions of the Prime Minister during the nationwide lockdown. But the farmers have been sitting on the streets; so please support the farmers for a day on their call for 'Bharat Bandh'.""Joined by Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu. Had the morning tea over press talk at Jantar Mantar," he also tweeted.The MPs are also demanding a 'Winter Session' of Parliament which, they claimed, the government was deliberately trying to delay.Aujla said that when farmers arrived in Delhi, they were stopped on the Delhi-Haryana border. "They asked for permission to go to the Ramlila Maidan or the Jantar Mantar, but their demands were not met and thus they have to continue their protest on the Delhi borders," the Congress Lok Sabha MP from Amritsar said.Several leaders of various political parties from Punjab have travelled to Delhi to make their presence felt in the ongoing farmers' agitation.The farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh have given a call for 'Bharat Bandh' or nationwide strike on Tuesday over the three new central farm laws.A number of political parties have extended support to the farmers' cause. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-from-punjab-continue-sit-in-at-delhis-jantar-mantar-181504
08-12-2020||---||Unions to stage dharnas at 60 sites today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Various unions of government employees, lawyers, commission agents, transporters, besides others, have announced their support to farmers and decided to participate in the Bharat Bandh tomorrow.Docs to hold ralliesTo express solidarity with farmers, the PCMS Doctors’ Association announced holding gate rallies on Tuesday. In a press release, the association said the struggle had become a pan-India movement as every section of society would be affected if the agriculture sector suffered‘Stir must be peaceful’The Dal Khalsa has appealed to the people of Punjab to observe a peaceful shutdown on Tuesday in view of the Bharat Bandh call given by farm organisations to protest against the government’s refusal to withdraw the three contentious farm lawsLakhs of state government employees have decided to go on mass casual leave while the SGPC has announced that all its institutions will remain closed for the day. The farm unions themselves are going to organise dharnas at around 60 places in the state, besides blocking all rail traffic from noon to 4 pm tomorrow.Karanjit Singh of Habibke village in Ferozepur said everyone knew it was a do-or-die situation for farmers. “It is important to have huge numbers at protest sites. So everyone is a part of the struggle, contributing in their own way.”In Bathinda, people from various walks of life have extended support to farmers, who are on a warpath against the three farm laws and are staging protests in Delhi.Organisations such as the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Punjab Petroleum Dealers’ Association, Malwa Zone Private Bus Operators, Punjab Nambardar Union, Punjab Swarankar Sangh, Sarafa Association, Bathinda, Guest Faculty Association, various teachers’ unions, Fruit and Vegetable Vendors’ Association and many others have announced support to farmers for their bandh call.A meeting of the state executive committee of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal was held in which it asked the Union Government to resolve the farmers’ issue at the earliest. It urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the laws. It said on the one hand, the government talked about calling the farmers to the next meeting and on the other, it was deploying more policemen at the borders of Delhi, which was creating tension.The Sarafa Association, Bathinda, also supported the bandh call given by farmers.Darevjeet Thakur, president, Sarafa Association, Bathinda, said, “Farmers are staging protests in Delhi demanding rollback of the laws, so we decided to stand by them.” In Fazilka, traders have pledged support the farmers’ agitation. A meeting of the Beopar Mandal, Fazilka, was held here today under the chairmanship of its president Ashok Gulbadhar. The traders unanimously decided to observe a complete strike on Tuesday to express solidarity with the agitating farmers.Gulbadhar said the farmers had been passing through the worst-ever crisis and it was the duty of the traders to stand by them. He said the chemists, however, would be allowed to open their shops after 1 pm on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the Punjab State Districts Offices Employees’ Union, comprising employees working in offices of DCs, SDMs, tehsils and sub-tehsils, will take one-day mass leave in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers. Om Parkash, chairman of the union, in a letter to the Prime Minister, sought repealing of the three Central laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unions-to-stage-dharnas-at-60-sites-today-181408
08-12-2020||---||BJP, Congress workers should quit posts: AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann has appealed to the leaders and workers of the BJP’s Punjab unit to quit their party and come in support of the farmers. Accusing the Congress and SAD of sabotaging the farmers’ movement, Mann said honest Akali and Congress workers should leave their parties and come out in support of farmers.Don’t derail stirThe Congress and SAD have been working on an agenda to derail the farmers’ movement from the very beginning to facilitate the corporate houses to have their way.  - Bhagwant Mann, AAP MPMann said the Congress and SAD along with the ruling BJP had been working on an agenda to derail the farmers’ movement from the very beginning in order to facilitate the corporate houses to have their way.He said the BJP, SAD and Capt Amarinder were spreading false propaganda against the Aam Aadmi Party, which was nothing but a vilification campaign by them.Mann said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today visited the protesting farmers at the Singhu border to share their plight. He alleged the BJP was indulging in tactics to stop AAP from supporting the farmers’ cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-congress-workers-should-quit-posts-aap-181409
08-12-2020||---||Theatrics won’t help AAP woo farmers: Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Mocking him for calling himself a “sevadar” of the farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today asked his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal if he even knew the difference between wheat and paddy.The Chief Minister said for the man (Kejriwal) who had wasted no time in notifying one of the three Central farm laws and publicly expressed his helplessness in the matter, the claim of being a sevadar of the farmers was simply ludicrous.He challenged Kejriwal to cite once instance of anything his government had done for farmers in Delhi. “You did not even bother to convene a session of the Delhi Vidhan Sabha on the issue,” said Capt Amarinder.Capt Amarinder alleged the whole drama of supporting the Bharat Bandh and standing with the farmers was being enacted by the party with an eye on the Assembly elections due in early 2022. “You and your party members in Punjab had exposed your deceit and double standards back in 2017, and your wishy-washy stand on the farmers’ issue now has again nailed your lies,” he said to Kejriwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/theatrics-wont-help-aap-woo-farmers-capt-amarinder-singh-181410
08-12-2020||---||Congress MPs seek House session to repeal farm laws||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 7Congress MPs from Punjab and Haryana today held a pro-farmer protest at Jantar Mantar ahead of the Bharat Bandh tomorrow and demanded immediate convening of the winter session of Parliament to repeal the contentious agricultural laws.The sit-in was attended among others by Congress MPs from Punjab Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Bittu, Gurjeet Aujla, Amar Singh and Rajya Sabha MPs Deepender Hooda and KTS Tulsi.Former Union Minister and Anandpur Saheb MP Manish Tewari said the protest’s objective was to urge the government to call the winter session and discuss critical issues of national importance, including the repeal of farm laws, the Covid vaccine administration plan, the continued Chinese aggression along LAC and the plummeting economy with India now intechnical recession.“This is the first time since 1952 that the winter session of Parliament is not being held. The farmer agitation continues with the government refusing to heed the demand of protesters who want the farm laws repealed. The session must be convened immediately and the laws repealed,” said Tewari.Asking the Centre to give farmers the ‘New Year gift’ by rescinding the farm laws, Bittu said: “What kind of a king is Prime Minister Modi? A good king won’t sleep if even one person in his kingdom is anxious and here we have lakhs of farmers braving the chill on the streets seeking their rights.” Aujla said if the Centre could call a Parliament session to pass farm laws, it surely could call one to repeal them.Speaking to reporters, Deepender Hooda said the farmers’ agitation was beyond caste and class and was pan-India. “I have visited the Singhu and Tikri borders. People in Haryana have opened their hearts and homes for farmers. This has become a national agitation,” said Hooda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-mps-seek-house-session-to-repeal-farm-laws-181411
08-12-2020||Abohar||Warm welcome for Rajasthan farmers in Punjab||Several groups of farmers from Abohar and Sriganganagar jointly moved from Sadhuwali, located on the Punjab-Rajasthan border, in support of farmers protesting in Delhi against the three farm laws.Farmers have modified their vehicles to facilitate comfortable travel and stay at night. Most of them were found glued to their phones for updates on the agitation.Galaxy Brar, a farmer and senior activist of the Gramin Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, who was also driving a tractor, provided 100-litre diesel to each vehicle. The association of carrot growers donated a canter of vegetables for the ‘langar’ being distributed on the Delhi border.Before leaving for Delhi, the farmers burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several corporate giants.People in Sadhuwali showered rose petals as the cavalcade moved to express solidarity with the farmers camping on the Delhi border. Arrangements have been made for langar at local Gurudwara Singh Sabha in Sriganganagar for farmers going to Delhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warm-welcome-for-rajasthan-farmers-in-punjab-181412
08-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||People’s movement reclaims lost democratic space||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7The farmers’ uprising is not just about economic gains but seems to have already reclaimed the democratic space which was snatched away from different unions in the past decades by the Central and the state governments.The farmers who are protesting in the heart of Delhi were not even allowed to enter Chandigarh to protest in the past one-and-a-half decades. For years, the government machinery would stop them at the Bhakra canal near Patiala in Punjab.The last major protest held at Chandigarh’s Matka Chowk was in 2006. After that, before any protest, the Chandigarh Administration would seal the entire city with barricades to stop the protesters from entering the city or would ask them to stage their dharna at Sector 25. In some cases, the state government stopped them at various district points like the Bhakra canal in Patiala and other places in Ropar.The outcome of the situation was that several places in Punjab like Moga, Bathinda and Sangrur became protest capitals.“Long back, till the mid-1980s when we were young, the farmers were allowed to hold protests in front of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in Chandigarh and in the heart of Delhi. However, by late 1980s, it became a phenomenon that the Centre and the state government snatched the right to protest and the space to protest from people,” says Dr Dharamvira Gandhi, former Member of Parliament from Patiala. He says the way the farmers’ march reached Delhi, it has undoubtedly reclaimed the democratic space, which was lost long back. “It will have consequences for various other states too,” he says.Prof Jagmohan Singh, president of the Association for Democratic Rights, Punjab, agrees. “The Constitution of the country gives the right to peaceful protest to any aggrieved citizen. However, the respective governments snatched that right in the garb of various laws. This was not only undemocratic but also unconstitutional. So, the farmers of Punjab with their peaceful protest have not reclaimed the lost democratic space but they have reclaimed democracy,” he says.“Chandigarh is the capital of Punjab and Delhi of the whole country. We have regained the right to protest in the national capital,” says Raman, a student who works for the Students for Society in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/peoples-movement-reclaims-lost-democratic-space-181413
08-12-2020||---||3,000 blankets sent for Delhi protesters||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, December 7Volunteers of the Gurdarshan Singh Nabha Foundation, an NGO, carried 3,000 blankets, 3,000 cases of drinking water and a huge quantity of medicines for farmers of Punjab, Haryana and other states protesting at the Delhi border. A big contingent of volunteers left for Delhi today.NGO head Sikandar Singh said farmers were fighting for a national cause, as the farm laws would affect every section of society.It was their moral duty to provide all sort of help to the farmers.He said his father was already supporting the cause, but he, along with volunteers of the NGO, decided to march to Delhi to distribute blankets and medicines. They would also join the farmers’ dharna, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-000-blankets-sent-for-delhi-protesters-181414
08-12-2020||---||Poet Surjit Patar to return Padma Shri||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7“Punjab has won the first battle for the country. So, it is time to celebrate.” This was poet Surjit Patar’s first reactionafter he announcedreturning his Padma Shri on Monday in solidarity with the farmers’ protest.Patar was bestowed with the Padma award in 2012. Earlier, protesting over the issue of intolerance in the country in 2015, he had returned the Sahitya Akademi award.The poet said, “The insensitivity shown towards the peaceful struggle of farmers by the Central Government has pained me. It is an insult to the emotions of people the way the government labelled the protesting farmers and labourers as directionless people. With a broken heart, I announce to return the Padma Shri.”He said the farmers of Punjab had given a new vocabulary to the country. “They have shown that a struggle can be led in such a cultured manner along with our mothers and daughters. Even in such a tense situation, we can feed anybody without bothering on which side of the fence one is,” he said. Earlier, Akali Dal stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal had returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the farm laws. SAD (Democratic) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa had also said he would return his Padma Bhushan award in solidarity with the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poet-surjit-patar-to-return-padma-shri-181415
08-12-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University to shut gates in solidarity with farmers’ protest||The Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has announced support to the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws.In view of the Bharat Bandh call, the teachers’ association has decided to shut the university gates early morning on December 8 and hold a protest. In a separate call, students associated with four student political parties have also decided to shut the university gates and hold a protest.Dr Nishan Singh Deol, PUTA president, said, “Our university is also associated with farmers as students and teachers come from Punjab’s rural areas. Our delegations are already going to Delhi and participating in the protest. At present, four teachers are in Delhi. We will close the university gates and hold the protest in solidarity with the protesting farmers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-to-shut-gates-in-solidarity-with-farmers-protest-181416
08-12-2020||---||Amid stir, BJP leaders lay stone for party office, farmers livid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 7Senior BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, former Cabinet Minister Anil Joshi and party’s local unit president Suresh Mahajan faced embarrassment when they had to face the agitating farmers during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the BJP’s new office in Amritsar today.Ironically, amid slogans from both sides in the presence of heavy deployment of the police, the BJP leaders continued to perform the ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony. Post the ceremony, the BJP leaders left the venue in haste.Reacting over it, Malik said the programme was already scheduled. “Farmers’ cause is our prime concern. The Centre is holding regular meetings with the farmers to resolve the impasse,” he said.Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, were taking out a motorcycle rally to sensitise people and seek their cooperation for the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 against the anti-farm laws when they came to know about the BJP’s function.The infuriated farmers reached the venue and condemned the BJP leaders for holding a ceremony at a time when their brethren have been protesting in biting cold.“How can they be so unconcerned when they get ministry seats on the basis of votes polled by Punjabis? Their actions implied they have been blinded under political influence,” they said.KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the BJP Punjab leaders showed little concern about the agrarian crisis.Activists of various farm unions have been staging a sit-in outside the residence of Malik since July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-stir-bjp-leaders-lay-stone-for-party-office-farmers-livid-181417
08-12-2020||Patiala||Former Patiala MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi holds med camp at Delhi border||Clad in a PPE kit, former Patiala MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi is doing his bit by organising medical camps for the protesting farmers at Delhi border.Dr Gandhi, along with his team, has already treated around 900 protesting farmers and distributed medicines among them. He said only moral support was not enough for the farmers. Given the response of the Central government, the farmers would have to be there for a longer time, therefore, everyone should come forward to actively support the agrarians who have been camping at the Delhi borders to get the contentious agri laws repealed, Dr Gandhi stated.He said, “Along with my open support to the farmers, being a doctor, I am treating them for free because they need medical help also to continue their protest.” The former MP said many farmers were having cough, cold, headache and body ache owing to the cold weather conditions. Besides, many farmers complained of diarrhoea as well. “As they cannot go off the protesting site to get medical help, therefore, we decided to provide them with medicines at the protesting site itself.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-patiala-mp-dr-dharamvira-gandhi-holds-med-camp-at-delhi-border-181418
08-12-2020||Amritsar||SGPC holds ardas for protesting farmers||Supporting the farmers in their stir, the SGPC organised mass ‘ardas’ events at all its historic gurdwaras today, seeking ‘chardi kala’ (success) of the agitation against farm laws.At the Golden Temple complex, the event was held at Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Gurbaksh Singh and was attended by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur.Golden Temple Head Granthi Giani Jagtar Singh said the laws oppressing the farmers should be repealed by the Centre. “(We wish) Guru Sahib grants good will to the Government of India so that it can understand the sentiments of thefarmers,” he said.Kaur said the prayers were held to strengthen the morale of the farmers. “Today, the entire nation and even leaders of countries like Canada, UK, USA and United Nation have stood against the Government of India against the farm laws.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-holds-ardas-for-protesting-farmers-181419
08-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Living in penury, widows contribute to protests||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 7The anger against central farm laws runs so deep that despite living in penury, families of farmers who had committed suicide due to debt are sending flour, ghee and other ration items from their limited stock for protests at Delhi border.Chhajli village resident Baldev Kaur (60) has seen four such deaths — that of her husband, two sons and a brother-in-law — and now the family has no adult male member. She stays with her widowed daughters-in-law amid serious financial problems. However, this has not deterred her from contributing for protesting farmers.“We have given flour, sugar, ghee from our limited stock as it is our fight. Four members of my family have gone only because of debt and the two acres of land that we are left with is the only source of our livelihood. However, after the implementation these black laws, we fear we will lose our meager income too. I have come back from the Delhi protest two days back and will go there again on Wednesday,” she said.Sharnjit Kaur (35) — whose husband, too, committed suicide due to debt — has been looking after her three children on her own. She, too, fears that the farm laws would snatch away her only source of income.“Even after selling our crop on MSP, we are not able to pay off our debt. If private players purchase our crops on lower rates, we will not be able to recover even our daily expenses,” she said.There are many such families which are under immense stress as they feel that after losing their sole breadwinners, they would have to face more problems due to these new laws“Things are getting worse for us as earlier my father committed suicide, leaving back a debt of Rs 10 lakh. With our hard work, we paid off Rs 4 lakh in the last three years. But, if the government stops purchasing our crops, how will we pay off our debt?” questioned Makhan Singh, a young farmer from Sunam.“There are many families who are in dire straits but they are leaving no stone unturned to contribute towards the protest,” said Pala Singh, a BKU Ugrahan leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/living-in-penury-widows-contribute-to-protests-181420
08-12-2020||Gurdaspur||Sunny Deol distances self from Deep Sidhu over farm laws||Gurdaspur BJP Member of Parliament (MP) and actor Sunny Deol has distanced himself from a former aide who has joined ranks with the protesting farmers, a development which has invited rebuke from Congress leaders of his constituency.Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi film actor-turned-social activist, was Deol’s ‘Man Friday’ when the actor contested the polls in May last year. He has now lent support to the farmers in Delhi.The MP has now come out with a statement in Hindi on social media platforms claiming that the “issue was between the government and the farming community and that some people were exploiting the situation.” Deol referred to Deep Sidhu saying “he was with me during my campaign but is now being driven by his own agenda”. “I have nothing to do with his activities,” he added.Congress leader and Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “Deol has started targeting those people who are standing by agriculturists in their need of the hour”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-distances-self-from-deep-sidhu-over-farm-laws-181421
08-12-2020||---||Applications sought for MBBS seats from Covid warriors’ wards||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, December 7The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) of the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare on Sunday announced to allot five MBBS seats to children of Covid warriors.The MCC and the Directorate General of Health Services invited applications from the eligible children of the deceased Covid warriors.The MCC has defined the Covid warriors as those who are public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who have to be in direct care of Covid patients and are at a risk of being impacted by this, which includes private hospital staff and retired/volunteer/local urban bodies/contractual/daily wage/ad-hoc/outsourced staff requisitioned by states/central hospitals/autonomous hospitals of Centre/states/UTs, AIIMS and INIs/hospitals of Union Ministries drafted for Covid-related responsibilities.As per the MCC notice, only NEET-qualified and eligible children of Covid warriors will be considered for these five seats and all nominations/applications need to be routed through the respective Directorate of Medical Education or the Directorate of Health Services of the respective state/UT after scrutiny about their eligibility.Vice-Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, is the Directorate, Punjab medical education. Candidates are required to state their preference for medical college from among Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi (for girls), MGIMS, Wardha, Maharashtra, NSCB Medical College, Jabalpur, MP, JLN Medical College, Ajmer, Rajasthan, and Government Medical College, Haldwani, Uttarakhand, where one seat is available in each college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/applications-sought-for-mbbs-seats-from-covid-warriors-wards-181422
08-12-2020||---||Fog leads to car-truck collision, six killed||Our CorrespondentAbohar/Sriganganagar, Dec 7Five women and the driver of a Bolero van were killed as it collided with a truck due to dense fog on the Pallu mega highway near Hanumangarh on Monday.The victims, who belonged to Bhairusari village, were going to attend the ‘bhog’ceremony of a relative in Dungargarh. They started to travel at 9.30 am but thick fog had not receded till 11 am when the mishap occurred.The deceased were identified as driver Lala Ram Jat (60), Reshma (65), Kamla (46), wife of Devi Lal, Kalavati (30), Kamla (35), wife of Kanha Ram, and Seema (50). Their relatives, Bhagirath (40) and Hanuman Yadav (50), were shifted to a government hospital in Sardarshahar.The police said that truck driver fled, leaving the vehicle behind, but his assistant had been taken into custody for investigation. In another mishap, Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Sadiq Shiwali village, died as an unidentified vehicle reportedly hit the motorcycle he was riding. The deceased, a photographer, was returning to Jaitsar after attending a marriage function in Chak 12-A village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fog-leads-to-car-truck-collision-six-killed-181423
08-12-2020||---||Army officer dies in mishap||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, December 7Two persons, including an Army officer, were killed, and one person suffered serious injuries yesterday after the car, in which they were travelling, collided with a roadside tree.Gurmale Singh, SHO, Barnala city 2 police station, said Ravinder Singh, an Army officer, along with two other persons, Nirmal Singh and Rajwinder Singh, were travelling in a car. When they reached on Nanaksar Road, Barnala, the car collided with a tree.“Ravinder and Nirmal died in the mishap, while Rajwinder suffered injuries. He is undergoing treatment. We are conducting investigation to ascertain the exact reasons of the accident,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-officer-dies-in-mishap-181424
08-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||NHRC seeks report from Health Department||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 7The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice and sought action taken report (ATR) from the Health Department in the case of transfusion of HIV-positive blood to a seven-year-old thalassaemia patient at the Bathinda Civil Hospital.The commission has sent a notice to the Principal Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, asking him to send the action taken report with regard to the incident within four weeks.The move comes on the complaint filed by Kulwant Singh Nagra of Jalandhar to the NHRC chairperson on October 10.In a serious lapse, the seven-year-old thalassemia patient was given blood of an HIV-positive person at the Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital here. The blood bank at the hospital issued the units after taking it from a donor without carrying out mandatory checks.A probe committee was constituted which indicted three officials of the blood bank for negligence.The police had registered a case against Medical Lab Technician Baldev Singh Romana and he was arrested as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhrc-seeks-report-from-health-department-181425
08-12-2020||Amritsar||SIT to probe Amritsar cop’s death, 7 booked||A day after the mysterious death of ASI Gurnam Singh in Khandwala area on Sunday, the city police have formed a special investigating team headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma and Chheharta police station SHO Rajwinder Kaur are other two members of the SIT. The role of the Khandwala police chowki in charge, SI Sarvan Singh, is also being looked into. The police also registered an FIR on the charge of abetment to suicide against ASI Manjit Singh, who is posted as the in charge of the Lawrence Road police chowki. Among others who were booked in the case are Amrit Lal, Aarti, Meenu, Rajni, Puja and Bablu. No arrest has been made till now as the accused went into hiding after a protest by residents of the Dhakka Colony and family members of the deceased.ASI Gurnam Singh allegedly ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance following harassment by his seniors. He had allegedly caught ASI Manjit Singh with a woman in an objectionable position. He raided the house following a complaint by residents of the area. However, instead of taking action against the accused ASI, the Khandwala chowki in charge allegedly harassed Gurnam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-to-probe-amritsar-cops-death-7-booked-181426
08-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Accident relief ‘grabbed’, HC orders arrest of accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Coming to the rescue of an accident victim and his family, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Pathankot SSP to arrest two accused who played “fraud” with them by grabbing compensation amount.Justice HS Madaan also made it clear that the amount was required to be recovered and handed over to the complainant-wife and her husband. The directions were issued “keeping in view the poverty and miserable physical condition of the complainant’s husband, who had suffered injuries in a road side accident”.Justice Madaan said the SSP was required to inform the court after doing the needful. The Registry was directed to put up the papers again in case intimation regarding the direction’s compliance was received within 15 days.The directions came as the anticipatory bail filed by the two accused — father and son duo — virtually boomeranged. The two had moved the court seeking pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered for cheating and criminal conspiracy on November 12, 2019. Justice Madaan said the allegations against the petitioners were “grave and serious”. A young married person having family had sustained injuries and was “confined to the bed”. He was granted compensation by the Pathankot Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal. But the petitioners, showed “insensitivity to the human values, grabbing the compensation amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accident-relief-grabbed-hc-orders-arrest-of-accused-181427
08-12-2020||Abohar||Missing boy’s body found||The body of a class XI student of Government Senior Secondary School, Dharampura village, was found today found at the tail-end of Daulatpura minor (sub canal) near Kallarkhera village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway.Komal (16) went missing from the village on December 4, and today some persons spotted the body stuck at the tail-end. As the victim’s legs had been allegedly tied with rope, it appeared to be a murder case. The body was sent to Civil Hospital for autopsy. Further proceedings would be initiated after examining the medical report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-boys-body-found-181428
08-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Of camaraderie & grit at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceTikri, December 7“May I use your quilt? Mine was soiled with milk this morning,” Tej Singh from Jhabelwal village in Muktsar asks farmer Mahinder Singh as both decide to retire for the night on a tractor-trailer after a hectic day of rallies, speeches and sloganeering at the Tikri border.In fact, there is a long queue of trailers that have been converted into temporary homes where wards of protesting farmers attend online classes during the day. Intelligence reports say there are hundreds of vehicles housing more than 30,000 farmers.Bhola Singh, who cookslangar at the protest site, is about to call it a day. “We are a team of four. We begin work at 4 am and close the kitchen at 11 pm. Food is served to anyone who walks in. We have stocks that will last months. Our ‘kisan bhai’ from Haryana are daily supplying us with milk and vegetables,” he says. “We have enough volunteers for washing utensils,” adds cook Suba Singh.“We have been allowed to use toilets in factories in the vicinity. Mobile public toilets have been stationed at certain places. Locals too are kind enough to allow us use the toilets in their homes,” informs another volunteer as he unrolls his mattress for a good night’s rest.It’s 10.50 pm. A 70-year-old Kewal Singh from a village in Faridkot asks a group of youngsters to turn off the music, reprimanding them gently. The youngsters are in high spirits. They relent after a brief conversation. Just then Binder Singh, 75, from Golewala village in Faridkot, begins coughing. “You are frail and our agitation may be prolonged. Should I take you to a doctor,” asks an anxious Tej Singh, rushing to his side. “I am fine. In case of any emergency, you can take me to a nearby hospital,” responds an abdurate Binder Singh.A few vehicles away, members of the Kirti Kisan Union are engaged in a discussion on “alternative” strategies. “We know it’s a long battle and we are prepared for it,” says vice-president Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala even as Bajinder Pal Singh from Bathinda prepares to carry protesters from his village back home the following day. “Replacement teams in two tractor-trailers have already started from the village,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/of-camaraderie-grit-at-tikri-181285
08-12-2020||Chandigarh December 7||Scrap laws, Badal writes to Centre||The SAD patriarch, Parkash Singh Badal, in a letter to the PM, has asked him to ‘show magnanimity’ and scrap the three controversial farm laws “as the first step” towards resolving the crisis. Sounding the alarm, he noted: “The scars of wounds already inflicted by the farmers’ protest will take a long time to heal.”He demanded cent per cent procurement of crops at the MSP, stressing that this must be made a legal right of the farmers. Drawing the PM’s attention to “how politics of confrontation has fractured our social fabric,” he said consultative processes alone led to consensus, and consensus alone could avoid confrontation. “The laws that have pushed the country into deep turmoil must be withdrawn without making the farmers and their families endure any more suffering. Not just the farmers, the issue affects the economic fabric of the entire country,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scrap-laws-badal-writes-to-centre-181288
