08-11-2020||Chandigarh||11 deaths, 494 new COVID cases in Punjab||The Punjab health authorities on Sunday reported 11 coronavirus deaths as 494 new infections surfaced, taking the state’s case tally to 1,37,445, according to a medical bulletin.So far, 4,318 people have died from the infection in the state. Three deaths were reported from Rupnagar, two each from Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar and one each from Muktsar and Amritsar, as per the bulletin on Sunday. The places that reported new infections included Mohali (100), Ludhiana (67), and Patiala (55).There are 4,910 active cases in the state currently, the bulletin said.A total of 396 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,28,217, it said.Nine critical patients are on ventilator while 126 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 27,47,106 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-deaths-494-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-167957
08-11-2020||---||Mohali reports 75 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1 death||Mohali, November 8Mohali on Sunday reported 75 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the district to 12,897.Meanwhile, one more fatality was witnessed during the past 24 hours. With one more death, the death tally in Mohali has risen to 246.The district also reported 61 more patients being cured of the virus and discharged from the hospital.Out of the 75 positive cases, 53 were reported from Mohali urban, eight from Lalru, seven from Dera Bassi, four from Dhakoli, two from Kurali and one from Kharar.As of now, 11,955 patients have been cured.There are 696 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-reports-75-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-167955
08-11-2020||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Former Meghalaya Guv asks Shillong Bengalis to emulate Sikhs||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, November 8Former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy, whose term ended in August this year, has asked Bengali Hindu residents of Shillong to defend themselves against racial violence by emulating “the sardarjis”.Lamenting that the state government in Meghalaya was having no concern for the safety of non-tribals and it acted as if Meghalaya was not a part of India and the question of rights of non-tribals was quite immaterial, Roy, who lives in Kolkata, tweeted citing the example of the Sikhs of Shillong (who were successful in defending themselves against violence).“Meghalaya unfortunately has a government which has chosen to forget that they are part of India and non-tribals are equal citizens of India.But Bengali Hindus must unite and fend for themselves. Can any of these anti-non tribals dare to take on the Sardarjis of Punjabi Lane?” Roy, who is a senior ideologue of BJP but evidently quite disillusioned with the BJP-backed Conrad Sangma-led government of Meghalaya, tweeted  on Saturday.Shillong, capital of Meghalaya, has been facing a fresh wave of ethnic violence targeting Bengalis following a clash in Ichamati village located on the state’s border with Bangladesh.Khasi Students Union (KSU), an organisation notorious for unleashing violence against  Bengalis and other non-tribal residents of Shillong, put up banners in various parts of Shillong recently which read, “All Meghalaya Bengalis are Bangladeshis”, “Khasi land for Khasis”, “Foreigners Go Away”, and so on.The Punjabi Lane of Shillong is located close to the city’s two prime commercial districts, namely, Police Bazar and Burra Bazar. Residents of Punjabi Lane primarily consist of Sikhs. KSU wants them to relocate or simply leave Shillong.But, racial violence, which has worked very well against the Bengalis and resulted in their steady exodus from Shillong, has failed to intimidate the Sikhs whose ancestors had come to Shillong with British colonialists.Meghalaya government’s brazen attempts to evict the Sikh residents of Punjabi Lane has also come to a nought owing to the strong evidence favouring the residence of the Sikhs in the neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-meghalaya-guv-asks-shillong-bengalis-to-emulate-sikhs-167947
08-11-2020||   Kolkata||Sikh FB group remembers Kamala Harris’s chequered past||A Sikh Facebook group has refused to get swept off by Kamala Harris’s election as Vice-President of USA and has reminded its followers about her questionable role in a lawsuit filed by a Sikh man challenging an official agency of California for denial of a job to him because of his beard.According to an article circulated by citysikhs.org.uk, one of the largest International Sikh groups on Facebook, Trilochan Oberoi, a former commander in the Indian Navy, was denied job as a state corrections officer in California in USA in 2005 because he refused to shave his beard. The beard was posing problem for the mandated gas-mask fitting.When Oberoi appealed, an arbitration board ruled in his favour and said the state agency had discriminated against him by making “no effort” to find an alternative for Jolly, like giving him a mask different from the ones in use.Oberoi reapplied for the position and was again denied. He then sued the state.In the court filings, Harris, who was sworn in as California’s first Indian-American attorney general only three days before, backed the Department of Correction, arguing that Oberoi couldn’t be properly fitted for a gas mask unless he shaved and that no exception to the rule had been made since the policy came into effect in 2004.The case returned to haunt Harris when she announced her intention to run for the post of the US President. A report published in Religion News Service (RNS) on July 2, 2019, under the headline “Sikh activists ask Kamala Harris for apology over beard ban for California prison guards” quoted Oberoi as having said that trimming the beard was against his religion.Kate Waters, spokeswoman for the Harris campaign, explained to the RNS in an email that Harris’s hands were tied.  “Attorney General of California, Senator Harris was obligated to defend state clients including the Department of Corrections,” Waters said.The RNS, an independent, non-profit and award-winning source of global news source on religion founded back in 1934, quoted Rajdeep Singh Jolly, a Washington-based Sikh lawyer, as having said that the clarification by Harris’s campaign office was “not true at all” .“Attorneys generals have discretion. They have the power to exercise discretion about how they’re going to allocate their resources, what kinds of cases they’re going to take,” Jolly said.The state settled the case in 2011, six years after Oberoi had originally applied for the job, paying Oberoi $295,000 in damages and giving him a manager position in the corrections department. But no change was made to the no-beard policy.In 2012, the Governor of California signed a bill to protect workers wearing religious clothing or hairstyles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-fb-group-remembers-kamala-harriss-chequered-past-167946
08-11-2020||---||Capt Amarinder speaks to Amit Shah on goods train services issue, says hopeful of early resolution||Chandigarh, November 8Reiterating his assurance of smooth and safe goods train movement in the state, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday said he had spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his intervention to ensure restoration of rail services and was hopeful of early resolution of the issue, a press release by the state government read.The Chief Minister spoke to the Union Minister on Saturday to discuss the situation and assured him that there were no law and order concerns to prevent the resumption of the services for facilitating the supply of essential commodities in Punjab and neighbouring states, including Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir — all of which are suffering colossal losses due to the continued suspension of trains.He pointed out that the security concerns could, however, be serious for the nation if essential supplies did not reach the Armed Forces in Ladakh and the Valley before snowfall due to the Railways’ decision not to ply goods trains immediately.Countering the misinformation being spread on this count, Captain Amarinder said all tracks had been cleared by farmers for movement of freight trains.“The situation on the ground was totally peaceful and conducive to safe transportation of goods,” he apprised the Home Minister. He pointed out that the agitating farmers had not disturbed peace in any part of Punjab over the past few weeks of their protests.Restating his earlier assurance to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the Chief Minister told Shah that he had directed Punjab police to extend all support to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in providing security on the tracks as well as the platforms to enable the smooth movement of freight trains.He stressed that it was the joint responsibility of the Central and state governments to ensure that the train services were resumed at the earliest.“The state government,” said Capt Amarinder, “was closely engaged with farmers’ organisations to persuade them to lift their blockade completely to allow passenger trains also to commute so that Punjabis, including the 1.5 lakh soldiers stationed in various places, could come home for Diwali.”Several of his ministers were in discussion with the farmer unions in this regard, he added.“On its part, the Central Government should take immediate steps to restore normalcy by directing the Railways to commence movement of the goods trains through the state,” he said.Pointing out that it was in Punjab’s interest to ensure the early revival of rail services, the Chief Minister termed it unfortunate the attempts by the Opposition, including certain Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, to politicise the issue.He said he had expressed concerns on this count in his open letter to BJP national president JP Nadda, wherein he had called for joint efforts by the Centre and the state to find an amicable solution to the problem, triggered by the Farm Laws, which had led to unrest among farmers.“Given the gravity of the issue, it was time to come together to resolve the issue in the interest of the nation,” the Chief Minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-speaks-to-amit-shah-on-goods-train-services-issue-says-hopeful-of-early-resolution-167933
08-11-2020||Washington||US Sikhs welcome election of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris||Sikhs across the United States have hailed the victory of President-elect Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris in the November 3 elections, saying America needed a leader who would set a positive tone in the nation and the world.“We are pleased with the results of these hard-fought elections. Finally, the nation can come together and move towards reconciliation during this very difficult time," said Dr Rajwant Singh, chairman of the Sikh Council on Religion and Education (SCORE) and Founder of EcoSikh."America needed a leader who would be serious about solving the biggest health challenge of COVID and would set a positive tone in the nation and the world. Joe Biden is such a person and it is a big plus to have Kamala Harris as the vice-president to guide this nation towards the right direction,” he said.Biden and Harris defeated incumbent President Donald Trump and his deputy Mike Pence on Saturday in the bitterly-fought presidential election that attracted a record number of Americans to cast their votes.Harris will make history in myriad ways, becoming the first woman - and the first woman of colour - to occupy the office."We are proud that Kamala Harris is the first women VP, first Black women, first Asian American and first Indian American to be elected to the high office in America. Those are a lot of glass ceilings shattered with this election," Singh said."Joe Biden has repeatedly said that he will the President for all Americans regardless of whether they voted for him or not. This is exactly the kind of leadership needed to create a sense of togetherness as the nation is facing a major spike in COVID cases and the resulting economic downturn," he said.Gurwin Singh Ahuja, the co-founder of the National Sikh Campaign, also congratulated Biden and Harris and said Sikhs are encouraged to see a woman elected to the high office in the United States.“We look forward to President-elect Biden and his administration to set the right tone towards healing the soul of our nation. Our leadership must provide understanding and reconciliation in our deeply divided country," he said. “We look forward to working with Biden transition team and administration on the important issues facing the Sikh community," he added.Biden has always supported issues of concern to the Sikh community, Ahuja said, adding that they are confident that Biden's White House will welcome Sikhs and other communities to play a role in strengthening the nation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-sikhs-welcome-election-of-joe-biden-and-kamala-harris-167836
08-11-2020||Legal Correspondent||Notice to Centre, Punjab over Shanan Hydro Electric Project||Shimla, November 7The High Court has issued notices to the Centre, Punjab and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited over handing over the Shanan Hydro Electric Project to HP.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara directed the authorities to file their response within four weeks.The court passed this order on a petition filed by Laxmender Singh of Mandi, who had stated that the British government in India proposed an electricity project in order to supply electricity to Punjab and an agreement was executed between the British Government of India and the erstwhile State of Mandi (Darbar) for the construction of the Uhl River Hydro Electric Project.It was agreed that the Mandi state would provide the land and water of the Uhl to the project and in lieu of that, the Mandi state would be supplied 500 KW free electricity from the project.He had further alleged that prior to freedom of India, the project was in the territory of then Mandi State and after Independence also, it exists in Mandi, but Punjab had occupied the project.It was further alleged in the petition that in 1965 and 1975, agreements were executed and notification was issued in favour of the Punjab electricity board qua the project, but the interest of Himachal and its public was not taken into consideration by the Government of India, which is not sustainable in the eyes of law.The petitioner said HP had very limited income sources and the income of the project is over Rs 100 crore per year.Petitioner’s claimPrior to freedom of India, the project was in the territory of then Mandi State and after Independence also, it exists in Mandi in HP, but Punjab had occupied the project. If the project is handed over to the state and its public, it will strengthen the economy of Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notice-to-centre-punjab-over-shanan-hydro-electric-project-167759
08-11-2020||The last few years have been troublesome for sensitive and perceptive people||Lessons from Amritsar, 1981||I want to narrate a small link in the chain of events that wreaked havoc in Punjab for more than two decades. Small innocuous beginnings organised by the people of the type mentioned above led to the drama of death and violence. One such incident, orchestrated from behind the scenes, while I was posted as the Amritsar SSP occurred in 1981 in the form of an anti-tobacco march.Militancy had started picking up under the leadership of the Damdami Taksal based at Chowk Mehta near Baba Bakala. The head of the Taksal was Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, a relatively young and unknown person at the time of his taking over after the death of Sant Kartar Singh in an accident. In the aftermath of the Baisakhi clash of April 13, 1978, the Taksal remained busy in agitating against the Nirankaris. However, Bhindranwale was consumed with the humiliation he had received in the Baisakhi clash and was always looking out for causes he could take up to challenge the state. By 1981, he had acquired a strong following. The role played by various parties in helping in sustaining and strengthening this militancy and allowing its followers to get armed was only to further their own political agendas.The incident I want to narrate began with the floating of the idea of having Amritsar declared as a holy city. Further, smoking of tobacco was sought to be banned in the city. Bhindranwale was staying in Guru Ram Das Ji Serai, which was the doing of SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra. There was a Congress government in the state headed by Darbara Singh.Bhindranwale announced that he would take out an armed procession from Sri Darbar Sahib to the Baradari on May 29, 1981, and himself lead it. This announcement led to a lot of concern and various efforts were made to forestall the march. I was asked, rather directed, to meet Bhindranwale to persuade him to give up the march. An appointment was fixed at his place and this was done through Amrik Singh (son of Sant Kartar Singh), who was a far more reasonable person. I was to go alone without any security.He as usual was sitting on his bed and there was a chair for me, which was a good sign because he normally did not offer one to visitors. After the usual pleasantries, I came to the point and requested him to withdraw his call for a procession and that the government would consider the issue of placing a ban on smoking in the city. His immediate response was to reject the request. He said he had given his word to the ‘sangat’. For the next hour or so, we went back and forth and I ultimately told him that I was not going to leave the room till he had agreed to my request. He then went out and conferred with Amrik Singh and told me that an unarmed march would take place and would go only up to the Kotwali, a short distance from Darbar Sahib. He also agreed not to lead it personally. He wanted an officer to receive a memorandum at the Kotwali, after which they would disperse. I thanked him and informed the government (perhaps a bit too soon).However, events were to take a different turn the next day. On May 28, when I was going back to office after lunch, I heard a lot of sloganeering. I was informed that some boys belonging to a particular community and led by BJP MLA late Harbans Lal Khanna had taken out a procession in vehicles and most of them were smoking cigarettes and showing them off. Objectionable slogans were raised and on the way they tossed up the turbans of a couple of Sikhs. The atmosphere in the city and especially around Darbar Sahib was surcharged with tension. The procession for the 29th was revived, and this time Bhindranwale would lead it. I was asked to get in touch with him again but I refused, knowing that in light of the obviously provocative, mischievous procession of the 28th, there would be an immediate response from Bhindranwale in the form of reviving his armed procession.We had a long meeting at the Kotwali and it was decided that officers would be deployed tactically along the route and with the procession. Experienced officers would bring up the rear as it could be a major source of trouble. Another key decision taken was to remain deployed during the dispersal of the crowd, which would be in the form of small groups going in different directions.The procession began and there were thousands of persons with all types of arms. The bazaars were closed and not a soul was to be seen along the route. I was at the head alongside the Taksal leadership and we were virtually jogging, perspiring profusely and perpetually thirsty. We were kept hydrated by the volunteers of the Taksal, who, in the true Sikh spirit, gave water to the protesters as well as the policemen. Along the way, the wireless chaps kept on reporting clashes and deaths. I told myself to get the procession to reach its destination and then take stock. We reached the Baradari, a few kilometres from Darbar Sahib, in record time, where after short speeches the dispersal started. I stationed myself at the Kotwali, where we had kept about 15 mobile groups. During dispersal, these came in handy and I kept on dispatching them to trouble spots. Finally, I was left alone with my vehicle. At this stage, Amrik Singh and Avinashi Singh (PA to Tohra) came to me and said they had kept their promise that no violence would take place. Just then, information came that Bibi Amarjit Kaur, a firebrand, was heading towards Dr Baldev Prakash’s clinic in an interior location. I had nobody to send and I requested Amrik Singh and Avinashi Singh to go in their own car and bring her back. Dr Prakash was a senior BJP leader and a very decent human being. Fortunately, they reached in time and brought her back to the Kotwali. After that, I waited for the officers to come back and report. It was heartening to hear that not a single death or clash had taken place and all the reports to the contrary were ‘fake news’. Although there had been grave apprehensions of large-scale violence, the police managed to ensure that no such thing happened in spite of being outnumbered and ill-equipped.In the next couple of days, I went over the whole chain of events and came to the conclusion that the pro-smoking procession led to all our immediate problems, which were to increase later on. Within a few months, I was offered a deputation to the CBI, which I accepted. When I reached Delhi, I was met at the railway station by some of my batchmates, who informed me of major trouble at Chowk Mehta that day and of people having died in police firing. Mischief was really afoot, but for the time being, I was out of it.Today, once again, divisive forces are hard at work creating a similar witches’ brew and we are standing at the crossroads of history, not knowing which path this country will follow. To the men in uniform, I can only say it is under your watch now and in these difficult times, be true to your oath and follow the law of the land.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lessons-from-amritsar-1981-167746
08-11-2020||New Delhi||No need to ban fire crackers, Punjab tells NGT||The Punjab Government has told the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that there is no need to ban fire crackers as no part of the state falls in the National Capital Region.It said Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations had been installed in non-attainment cities of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Patiala, Jalandhar and Khanna and the air quality index (AQI) remained in the range of good in August, satisfactory in September and moderate in October.It said the state had already notified time restrictions on bursting of crackers on Diwali, Gurpurb, Christmas and New Year. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-need-to-ban-fire-crackers-punjab-tells-ngt-167680
08-11-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Protests on tracks, Railways won’t resume services||The Railways today refused to resume goods train services in Punjab, as demanded by agitating farmers who cleared the tracks after over 40 days, maintaining it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or else none.The protesters called the railways’ attitude “stubborn”, alleging the Centre wanted to harm Punjab financially.At a virtual press conference, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said, “The statements from both the protesters and the state government are similar — run only freight trains. The railways cannot operate in such a manner. If tracks are clear, they are clear for both freight and passenger trains.” Yadav claimed protesters still remained at one railway station and had assembled just outside station premises in 22 other places in Punjab, “threatening to move to tracks if passenger trains were run”.Hitting back, Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said, “We condemn the stubborn attitude of the Railways and the Centre for not resuming goods trains in the state. BKU (Dakunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill alleged the Centre wanted to harm Punjab’s economic interests. “It is making lame excuses,” he said.Top central ministers said they were ready for negotiations with the agitating Punjab farmers. In response, a group of 30 farm organisations made it clear that they were open to talks with the Centre but certain conditions must be met.“First, we want a formal invitation. We won’t respond to any informal invite through local BJP leaders. Second, the government should reveal the name of its representative, who must have the authority to take a decision,” a farmers’ leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-on-tracks-railways-wont-resume-services-167681
08-11-2020||New Delhi||Always ready for talks with farmers: Ministers||Two Central ministers said today the government was always open for talks with Punjab farmers on the “pro-farmer and pro-agriculture” laws. “The government's doors are always open for farmers for any discussion on the three Central Acts,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal said.The three Acts have resulted in a prolonged standoff between Punjab farmers and the state government led by Capt Amarinder Singh, and the BJP-led NDA at the Centre.On October 15, farmer organisations had walked out of a meeting with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal, claiming they were called for an interaction where not even one minister was present.However, Agriculture Ministry officials said the meeting was scheduled to be held at the “level of the Secretary and farmers knew about it”. “Various issues related to farmer welfare were discussed for two hours. The Centre is committed to protecting the interests of farmers,” said the ministers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/always-ready-for-talks-with-farmers-ministers-167699
08-11-2020||Bathinda||Two Haryana men held in Punjab with fake notes||The Bathinda police have arrested two persons for printing fake currency notes at Dabwali in Haryana and selling these in Punjab. The police have seized fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 9.50 lakh from accused Sonu Kumar and Pankaj Sharma of Dabwali.The police have also seized a printer and ink from the accused. CIA 1 official Amritpal Singh said: “We got a tip-off that Sonu and Pankaj, who print and sell fake currency notes in other states, were on their way to Bathinda. Acting on the tip-off, the police laid a naka near Doomwali and arrested both accused.The police seized a printer and ink used to print fake currency notes. The premilinary investigation has revealed that the accused used to sell fake currency notes with a face value of Rs 1 lakh in lieu of Rs 30,000. A case under Sections 489A, 489B and 489C of the IPC has been registered against both accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-haryana-men-held-in-punjab-with-fake-notes-167568
08-11-2020||Abohar||Abohar MC to inspect all houses to control dengue||To curb the spread of dengue in Abohar, the Municipal Corporation, a meeting was convened by MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish with representatives of all 33 wards.It was decided that a joint team of the Municipal Corporation and Health Department would survey all houses in the city and ensure that none would have dengue larvae.The Commissioner appealed to the people not to allow accumulation of water anywhere inside the house. Sources said four patients had died due to dengue here, and the number of active patients was about 300. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-mc-to-inspect-all-houses-to-control-dengue-167566
08-11-2020||Bathinda||Man killed as car catches fire in Bathinda||A man was killed after a car caught fire after colliding with a trolley on Friday night here. In the accident, one more person suffered serious injuries.After the car caught fire, two persons sitting in the car were trapped and suffered injuries. Both were taken to a hospital where one died. The deceased has been identified as Salim, a resident of Meerut. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-as-car-catches-fire-in-bathinda-167595
08-11-2020||Bathinda||Mobile phone seized from gangster in Bathinda jail||Bathinda jail officials claimed to have recovered a mobile phone from gangster Harvinder Singh, who was arrested after a police encounter in December 2017.The officials claimed that a phone was recovered during a checking from Harvinder Singh in a barrack in Bathinda Central Jail.Harvinder Singh, a notorious criminal was booked along with two others lodged in the jail in January this year for cutting wires of CCTV cameras installed inside the premises.Many mobile phones have been seized from jail inmates in the recent past, which has raised a question mark over the functioning of the Jail Department.Sources said police officials were aware of the presence of mobile phones in the jail. The authorities tapped phone calls of inmates to get information. However, inmates have now started making use of WhatsApp calls, which are untraceable.A case under Section 52 of the Jail Manual Act has been registered against Harvinder Singh at the Cantt police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobile-phone-seized-from-gangster-in-bathinda-jail-167596
08-11-2020||Fazilka||Heroin worth Rs 15 cr seized, two arrested in Fazilka||The police claimed to have recovered 3.666-kg heroin worth over Rs 15 crore in the international market and arrested two drug smugglers in the Jalalabad subdivision of Fazilka.Harjeet Singh, SSP, said acting on a tip-off, a CIA team arrested peddler Gurbhej Singh, alias Bheja, a resident of Nizamwala village in Ferozepur, and Kulwant Singh, alias Kanta, a resident of Usmanwala village in Ferozepur. The police recovered 120 gm of heroin and Rs 60,000 from them on November 4.The SSP said during the interrogation, Gurbhej Singh confessed that he had smuggled heroin from Pakistan through the Indo-Pak border in Ferozepur. On the basis of his confession, the police recovered 3.546 kg heroin more and a Berreta pistol.The SSP said Gurbhej was already facing five cases of drug smuggling. Besides, another accused Kulwant Singh has already been booked in two cases under the NDPS Act and the Excise Act. — OCPeddler nabbed, Rs 13.5l recoveredFerozepur: The police have nabbed drug peddler Karaj Singh of Phattewala village and recovered 500 gm opium from him besides Rs13.5 lakh drug money. SSP Bhupinder Singh said following a tip-off, Karaj was arrested near Phattewala village on Friday. During his search, 500 gm opium, besides drug money amounting to Rs13.5 lakh was seized from him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-15-cr-seized-two-arrested-in-fazilka-167597
08-11-2020||Patiala||Covid-19: Three national players test +ve in Punjab||Three players of the National Centre of Excellence Scheme have tested positive for Covid-19 at the National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala.This is for the first time that players — one fencer and two judokas — at the NIS have tested positive for Covid ever since the pandemic broke out.It learnt that the players, following the SOP, had already been undergoing quarantine for 14 days since November 1. The players who tested positive have been identified as Jyotika Dutta, Ajinkya and Pardip Gaikwad.The players have already been shifted to a private hospital in Patiala. The district health authorities informed that all three players were asymptomatic.Dr Harish Malhotra, Patiala, Civil Surgeon, said, “The players have already been shifted to a private facility. We have started contact tracing of the three players. We will conduct more tests, in the coming days on the NIS campus.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-three-national-players-test-ve-in-punjab-167570
08-11-2020||---||Covid-19: Virus claims 15 more lives in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 7With Covid-19 cases beginning to inch up again, the state reported 480 cases and 15 deaths in the past 24 hours.As per a government report released on Saturday, with 480 new cases, the tally reached 1,36,958 and number of deaths 4,310. In the district-wise breakup of the cases, SAS Nagar topped the chart with 93 , followed by Jalandhar (78), Ludhiana (74), Patiala (55) and Amritsar (24).The number of active Covid cases have also witnessed an increase and have reached to 4,827. At present 128 patients are on oxygen support and 12 on ventilator support.The state reported 15 deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise breakup, Ludhiana topped with six deaths; Jalandhar two; Bathinda, Fazilka, SAS Nagar, Muktsar, Pathankot, Patiala and Ropar reported one death each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-virus-claims-15-more-lives-in-punjab-167571
08-11-2020||Muktsar||Youth booked for raising Khalistan demand at rally||The police have booked a youth of Khubban village in Fazilka district for raising the demand for Khalistan in the “Kisan Bachao Rally” organised by the Congress in Malout town on Friday.Malout MLA and Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti was also present on the stage when one Sukhpreet Singh allegedly said if the farmers’ demands were not met, they would raise the demand of Khalistan.As soon as the statement was made, some Congress activists among the audience stood up and condemned it. Later, Bhatti too during his public address condemned the statement.Meanwhile, the Malout (City) police registered a case under Sections 124-A and 153-B of the IPC. The accused is however yet to be arrested.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-booked-for-raising-khalistan-demand-at-rally-167562
08-11-2020||---||Punjab Govt launches mission to achieve 100 pc school results||Chandigarh, November 7Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday distributed 2,625 tablets to students in 372 primary government schools.He also launched ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ (Mission 100%) for the year 2020-21 to empower schools to achieve 100 per cent result despite the Covid-19 crisis.He also virtually inaugurated 1,467 smart schools in the state.At the virtual event, which connected him to teachers, students and their parents from more than 4,000 schools, the Chief Minister also announced the creation of 8,393 pre-primary school teachers’ posts. He said these would be filled soon by the Education Department.Pointing out that services of 14,064 contractual teachers had been regularised, he listed out various measures undertaken for the welfare of the teaching staff. Captain Amarinder disclosed that self-defence training was being given to women physical education teachers below the age of 50 so that they can further train girl students.Pointing out the challenges in education in view of the Covid situation, Captain Amarinder said the Mission Shat Pratishat was aimed at further strengthening the digital education infrastructure in schools through e-books, EDUSAT lectures, e-content and online classes.The mission, said the Chief Minister, would help further boost the standard in government schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-launches-mission-to-achieve-100-pc-school-results-167563
08-11-2020||Vishav Bharti||AAP ‘endorsed’ Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi’s son for post of State Information Commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has been making a hue and cry about nepotism in politics, but Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema ended up supporting it when it came to appointment of Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi’s son Anumit Sodhi for the post of State Information Commissioner.Cheema, along with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, was member of the three-member committee which gave a go-ahead to the appointment.The State Information Commission (SIC) has to be appointed by the Governor on the basis of recommendations by the committee. The Leader of Opposition is made part of the committee so that government doesn’t indulge in any kind of nepotism or favourtism.Last month, when Anumit Sodhi and Maninder Singh Patti, an aide of Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, were appointed to the commission, the state government had drawn flak from the media and the Opposition, including AAP.Even AAP MLA from Sunam Aman Arora had flayed the decision and said the government which promised ‘ghar-ghar rozgar’ is only giving jobs to children of its own ministers. Arora said he was not aware of the fact that Cheema gave consent to the ‘controversial’ appointment. He agreed that his party’s principles are against this. “I will take up the matter at appropriate platform of the party,” he said. AAP state president Bhagwant Mann was not available for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-endorsed-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhis-son-for-post-of-state-information-commission-167564
08-11-2020||Sangrur||6,832 smart schools in Punjab, says Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla||School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Saturday said his government had converted 6,832 schools into smart schools and Punjab would soon become the first state to provide smart classrooms in all government schools.Singla along with Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar, was here at Government Senior Secondary Smart School (Girls) to participate in a virtual programme in which CM Capt Amarinder Singh interacted with teachers and launched several schemes. “The state government has spent Rs 700 crore to convert government schools into smart schools. We will soon start a campaign to convert smart schools in super smart schools. This year, government schools have witnessed more than 3.5 lakh new admissions which is a clear indicator of improving standard of education,” Singla said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-832-smart-schools-in-punjab-says-education-minister-vijay-inder-singla-167565
08-11-2020||---||Ready for talks with Centre: Punjab Farmers||Chandigarh, November 7Reacting to the Central Government’s offer, farmer organisations said they were ready to join the negotiations, but besides three agriculture Acts, they would discuss the ordinance on pollution, electricity amendment Bill and no interest waiver on farm loans.Meeting only with decision-makersSukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) said they had never run away from any negotiations, so they were ready to join this one also. “Besides three farm Acts, we want discussion on other three issues; first is the ordinance brought in haste against the stubble burning, second is the electricity amendment Bill, and the third keeping out farmers from any benefit under interest exemption scheme extended to those who have availed loans,” he said.Kokri alleged the Central Government was hell-bent on protecting the interests of big corporate houses and had unleashed attack on farmers, which was unacceptable. “We want discussion and solution to every attack unleashed on farmers in the garb of Covid,” he said.However, 30 farmer organisations said they were open to any offer for negotiations but with certain conditions. “First, we want a formal invitation. We won’t respond to any informal invite for meeting conveyed on phone or through local BJP politicians. Second, the government should reveal the name of the person who will represent it and must send only that official/minister for negotiations who is authorised to take decisions,” they said.For over past five weeks farmer organisations have been holding protests across the state. Though they lifted dharnas from railway lines and petrol pumps of corporate houses, they are continuing to gherao houses of BJP leaders across the state and holding protests in front of private thermal plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-for-talks-with-centre-punjab-farmers-167558
08-11-2020||---||Non-resumption of trains may lead to unrest in Punjab: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Chandigarh, November 7Reacting sharply to the Railways' decision not to resume trains to Punjab, Congress minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said the Centre’s behaviour may lead to unrest in the border state and it seems there was a larger conspiracy against the state.MPs: Meeting with Amit  Shah, Piyush Goyal positiveResponding to the statement of Railways Board Chairman RK Yadav that it was not feasible to run trains to Punjab due to protest by farmers, Randhawa said the Centre was playing a dangerous game with the border state. Randhawa was a key member in the Punjab Government committee on negotiations with farmers and the Centre on Central farm Acts.“Our Chief Minister is worried that the well-known forces against the border State of Punjab may use this as an opportunity to provoke people and cause trouble. The Centre is playing a dangerous game of causing financial blockade but it amounts to playing with fire,” Randhawa said.Sunil Jakhar, president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, said the move was a part of a larger conspiracy against Punjab and there may be a backlash. “This does not augur well for the region. It is against the federal spirit of the country. It is actually a frightening situation,” Jakhar said.He termed it absurd that the Railways wanted the Punjab Chief Minister to give a guarantee for security of the trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-resumption-of-trains-may-lead-to-unrest-in-punjab-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-167559
08-11-2020||---||BJP: Punjab must help restore train services||Chandigarh, November 7BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh flayed Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for not responding positively to the request of the Railway Ministry to clear the tracks in the state for smooth running of passenger and goods trains. He claimed that the Chief Minister was playing a double game on the matter.Tarun Chugh, BJP General SecretaryWork earnestlyThe CM should earnestly help in resumption of trains so that the economy of the state does not suffer. In a statement, the BJP national general secretary said the Congress was playing dirty politics in Punjab in the name of farmers. He wondered why the state government, in spite of giving assurance to the Railway Ministry, had failed to persuade the protesting farmers.He demanded that the Chief Minister should earnestly help in resumption of passenger and goods trains so that the economy of the state does not suffer and people could also commute during the festive season.“It is the Chief Minister’s responsibility to ensure peace on the railway tracks,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-punjab-must-help-restore-train-services-167560
08-11-2020||---||Barnala farmers gherao Manoranjan Kalia, other BJP leaders for 5 hours||Barnala, November 7Hundreds of farmers today gheraoed the residence of Barnala district BJP president Yadwinder Shanty where former minister Manoranjan Kalia and other party leaders had come for a meeting.As farmers protested, the BJP leaders remained stuck in the house for around five hours. Farmers relented after getting an assurance from the BJP leaders that they would raise their concerns regarding the farm laws with the Central Government.Requesting farmers not to fall in the trap of the political parties, Kalia and other BJP leaders said the Central Government would take all steps to protect the farming community. “Our government has brought the latest laws to double the income of farmers. The minimum support price would not end. Our party has done nothing wrong, but our political opponents are spreading misinformation,” said Kalia.Farmers have been protesting in front of Shanty’s residence for past many days. When Kalia along with other leaders reached there, more farmers joined the protesters and started raising slogans against the BJP-led Central Government.“Had the Central Government been serious, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Cabinet Ministers would have conducted meetings with us. But it is sending officers to talk to us, which is unacceptable,” said Rup Singh, a Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader.Another protesting farmer, Kulwant Singh, said the Central Government should come out of the illusion that the agitation would end in some days, as farmers were mentally prepared for a long haul. “Manojranjan Kalia is a Punjab BJP core committee member. He hadcome here to meet farmers and allay their fears regarding the farm laws. Initially farmers gheraoed him, but later they listened to him,” said Shanty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-farmers-gherao-manoranjan-kalia-other-bjp-leaders-for-5-hours-167561
08-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Replace faulty streetlights: Punjab and Haryana High Court to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7In an order liable to brighten up the residential areas just before Diwali, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the State of Punjab and other functionaries were at least required to replace or repair the defective streetlights.Punjab and Haryana High CourtRemedial measureIt is expected that the respondents as a remedial measure will at least ensure that the defective streetlights are duly replaced/repaired. Rapping the local bodies for forcing the citizens to run pillar to post for resolution of their minor grievances such as replacement of streetlights, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill also questioned their failure to use technology for coming up with an online complaint redressal mechanism. “A citizen should be able to lodge such minor complaints online by accessing website of the authority, while sitting at his home,” Justice Gill ruled.The assertion came on a petition filed by Dinesh Sharma for directions to the State of Punjab and other respondents to comply with provisions of the Punjab Transparency and Accountability in Delivery of Public Services Act, 2018, and also the rules framed therein.Taking up the matter through videoconferencing, Justice Gill asked the respondents to inform the Bench as to why a complaint mechanism pertaining to public utility services, especially of minor nature, could not be made online.Justice Gill added the FIRs nowadays were being lodged online. Even the cases in the courts were being filed online, while the litigants and their counsel could be sitting at their homes. In these circumstances, it was unexplained why the local bodies — nagar panchayat, etc. — did not make use of the available technology, while forcing the people to run in and out.Asking the respondents to file a specific reply in this regard, Justice Gill asserted many persons, in advanced age, were not able to effectively convey or lodge their complaints. “In the meantime, it is expected that the respondents as a remedial measure would at least ensure that the defective streetlights are duly replaced/repaired,” Justice Gill added, while fixing the case for December third week.The direction came after Sharma told the court that public authorities were required to make relevant forms available for the convenience of the people to enable them to avail the public services under the Punjab Transparency and Accountability in Delivery of Public Services Rules, 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/replace-faulty-streetlights-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-punjab-167573
08-11-2020||Harshraj Singh||Stubble burning cases soar to 3-year high, cross 58,000 in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 7Breaking the records of past three years, the stubble burning cases have crossed the 58,000-mark in the state during the ongoing kharif season. A total of 58,448 stubble burning cases were reported in Punjab till November 7 evening while more cases are likely to be reported in coming days.Gagandeep Singh Walia, Local The ash of burnt stubble is falling on the rooftops of our houses. The government should take steps to control stubble fire incidents. This year’s figure of stubble burning cases is higher than the total number of cases that were reported in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The total number of such cases were 45,384 in 2017, 50,590 in 2018 and 55,210 in 2019. On Saturday, a total of 5,406 cases (maximum 831 from Bathinda) were reported in the state.The maximum cases this year so far (till November 6) have been from Sangrur (6,876), followed by Ferozepur (5,609), Bathinda (4,451), Patiala (4,344) and Tarn Taran (4,238). The cases are rapidly rising in other districts too.Meanwhile, the air quality has dipped in different parts of the state. The air quality index (AQI) was 282 in Patiala, 252 in Amritsar, 229 in Jalandhar, 224 in Rupnagar and 203 in Ludhiana at 8 pm on Saturday. If the AQI falls between 201 and 300, it is considered to be in the “poor” category and can cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.As many as 2,805 farm fire case were reported in Ludhiana district till Friday. Ludhiana resident Gagandeep Singh Walia said, “The ash of burnt stubble is falling on the rooftops of our houses. The government should take steps to control stubble fire incidents.”Kuldeep Singh of Bharti Kisan Union said, “We had demanded from the government to pay us bonus for the management of stubble last year, but nothing was done. If the government pays bonus to farmers for the management of stubble, they will not be forced to burn stubble.”Member-Secretary of the PPCB Krunesh Garg said they had imposed a penalty of over Rs 2 crore for stubble burning so far. “The situation will be controlled soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stubble-burning-cases-soar-to-3-year-high-cross-58-000-in-punjab-167575
08-11-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: Former Jathedar Ranjit Singh leads protest outside Golden Temple||Amritsar, November 7Akal Takht former Jathedar Ranjit Singh along with a few SGPC members and his supporters took out a protest march towards the Golden Temple and held a sit-in today, questioning the SGPC about the whereabouts of 328 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.They held a four-hour-long sit-in outside the Ghanta Ghar Gate where neither representatives from the SGPC nor Akal Takht came out to meet them.He alleged that the SGPC concealed the original report written by Akal Takht appointed three-member panel headed by Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh and had uploaded another report pertaining to misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’ on its website on October 6.He claimed that the original report carried Ishar Singh’s signatures on its each page whereas the secondary report, which contained 1,100 pages, had his signature only on its last page.Though the SGPC had banned protests in the holy complex, the protesters staged a sit-in at the Golden Plaza for four hours, raising slogans against SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and the Badal family.Jagjot Singh Khalsa, president of the religious wing of the Lok Insaaf Party, said his party extended support to Jathedar Ranjit Singh-led protest, seeking criminal proceedings against SGPC officials who were involved in misappropriation of the ‘saroops’.He said they were seeking account of those Sikh manuscripts also which were returned by the Army to the SGPC after the Operation Bluestar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-saroops-former-jathedar-ranjit-singh-leads-protest-outside-golden-temple-167567
