09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wearing face masks compulsory in Punjab now: CM Amarinder||The Punjab government on Thursday made wearing face masks for people mandatory in public due to the COVID-19 outbreak.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh made this announcement on his Facebook page.“Masks are compulsory in Punjab now. Health Secretary is issuing a detailed advisory for the people. Just remember to wear mask when you step out of home for any emergency/essentials. A piece of clean cloth is all you need. Let’s all stay safe and fight #Covid_19 together,” Singh posted in the evening.In the past few days, the state has witnessed a spike in the number of coronavirus cases. The total count of confirmed cases in Punjab stood at 130. The COVID-19 related death count was 10 while 18 have been discharged from hospital.Earlier in the day, the Uttar Pradesh government also issued similar orders for people to wear masks while venturing outside while the Rajasthan government made it mandatory to wear face masks in all urban areas and agriculture mandis of the state.A few days back, the Chandigarh territorial administration had announced that people must wear masks in public places. — PTI
09-04-2020||Jalandhar||60 people booked for stalling cremation of Jalandhar’s first COVID-19 deceased||An FIR has been lodged against 60 unidentified residents of Harnamdsapura in Jalandhar after they stalled the cremation of the city’s first COVID-19 deceased here on Thursday. The residents were booked for locking up the main gate of the Harnamdaspura cremation ground and stalling the cremation of the city’s first COVID-19 deceased, a 59-year-old chemist, who died earlier this morning. The FIR has been lodged under sections 188, 269, 270, 271, 353, 186, 149 of the IPC and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 1996.While the cremation eventually took place at the same cremation ground – it happened after a delay of at least two hours, during which hundreds of area residents came out on to the streets to prevent the administration from cremating the body there. A congested area with many houses situated on the boundary wall of the cremation ground—residents were apprehensive of an infection spreading in the area during the last rites. Residents began gathering early noon – after police made an announcement in the area – instructing residents to stay inside homes since the cremation of a COVID-19 deceased would be held in the area. However, under false fears that the fumes from the pyre would impact their health – hundreds of residents gathered around the cremation ground – obstructing the entry of vehicles with ropes tied up to cordon off the area. They also locked up the main gate.  If took two hours of efforts to pacify the people by administration members, officials of the police and members of the Shamshaan Ghat committee for people to go back to their homes.The commissioner of police, Jalandhar SDM, Cremation Ground committee member Jimmy Kalia, and local councillors were present on the occasion. It was on their insistence that the residents finally relented.  Harnamdaspura resident Anil Kalyan, who lives in the street adjoining the Shamshaan Ghat, said, “People somehow got the idea that the fumes from the pyre will be infectious. Reports that cremation had been denied at another nearby cremation ground also fuelled people’s ire. It was after much effort that members of the administration convinced residents that the pyre would not impact them. Eventually everyone went home and it was only select members of the health department and family members who carried out the cremation.”A team of health department officials carried out the cremation in strict COVID-19 protocol wearing PPE kits and proper protective covering.All major leaders had left the spot by then and while four to five people cremated the body – the cremation took place under heavy police deputation. Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said those who opposed the cremation were being identified.DCP Gurmeet Singh said, “Residents were apprehensive of the fallout of the cremation. Cremations cannot be stalled this way. The FIR has been lodged for causing obstruction for a vital government work. Police also had to threaten them—it was only after the committee members pacified them that they relented.”
09-04-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, his father among Congress party men on 14-day self-quarantine||Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry and his father, senior Congress leader Avtar Henry, on Thursday placed themselves under a 14-day self-quarantine after a 59-year-old Ayurvedic chemist tested positive last night and died on Thursday.While the son of the chemist, Deepak Kumar, is a block president of the Congress party – he had been active in ration disbursal in the bazaar areas of the city.Both Henry and his son – including their family – as well as almost half a dozen other Congress functionaries placed themselves under precautionary quarantine after they received the news.Bawa said the step was taken to set an example of social responsibility in view of the recent escalated spread – he asked others to do the same.  Deepak had met MLA Bawa Henry on March 30 concerning a ration disbursal issue. The Henrys put up a sign outside their Jalandhar home reading – “As per WHO guidelines, came in contact with indirect COVID-19 patient!! I have put myself in public interest “Self Quarantine” (sic).Speaking to The Tribune, Bawa Henry said, “I had met the son of the person who came out positive on March 30. Though there is no direct contact with his father who died today, the seven members of our family – including me and my father – have placed ourselves in self-quarantine for the sake of public interest. At least four to five other Congress councilors as well as party workers have also placed themselves under quarantine as a safety measure.”Henry said he had not met the deceased for the past two months – but did meet his son recently.Bawa Henry further said, “Deepak had been very active in the interest of ration disbursal for Covid affected or the needy. He was doing that in a personal capacity for which he had our support. Rations disbursal is still being carried out by many since its vital. Community transmission seems inevitable in the country also—with the positive cases today, it is evident that community transmission has begun here too. We are doing our part to help flatten the curve. We also request all those who have doubts of social contact with those testing positive to self-quarantine themselves.”   Congress councilors and their kin who have placed themselves under quarantine include Deepak Sharda, Om Parkash, Mike Khosla among others.
09-04-2020||---||24 new coronavirus cases, two deaths in Punjab in last 24 hours||Chandigarh, April 9The last 24 hours have once again proved bad for Punjab with 24 new coronavirus cases reported, taking the tally to 130.Twenty cases were reported yesterday, which means of the total cases so far, around 35 per cent have surfaced in the last two days in the state.Besides that one death each was reported from Barnala and Jalandhar districts.As per the state’s media bulletin, seven cases have been reported from SAS Nagar, six from Mansa, four each from Ludhiana and Jalandhar and one each from Muktsar, Barnala and Sangrur.The Mansa district from where the first case of COVID-19 reported recently only, today reported six more confirmed cases thereby taking the total count of infected patients to 11 in the district. These all new cases were in contact of the five already tested positive cases in the district. The district police have sealed the residential areas where positive cases were found in the district.Apart from three fresh cases, one death was reported in Jalandhar district. The bigger worry for the district is at least four of the total five new cases in the past 48 hours are totally unconnected to each other – indicating at community spread in the district. With health authorities confirming there is neither any travel history nor any positive contact of the three new cases as yet – the cases are an indication of community breakout in the city.The three new patients reported today are a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Bhairon Bazar, a 42-year-old woman resident of Purani Sabzi Mandi and a 53-year-old man from Maqsudan. As the man from Maqsudan was also serving as technician at the Sacred Hospital in Jalandhar, a containment plan has been implemented at the hospital.Meanwhile, four new cases tested positive in Ludhiana district today. These include son of deceased positive patient, who was the first to die in Ludhiana due to COVID-19. Another 24-year-old male, who was involved in a theft case tested positive. Third positive case is a 15-year-old nephew of the Chowkiman positive patient who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Delhi.  Fourth positive case is from Ramgarh village, Jagraon and is 32-year-old male, who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Delhi.In Sangrur, a 65-year-old resident of Gagadpur village has tested positive. The patient had travelled by air from New Delhi on March 24. Gagadepur resident was asymptomatic, but his report has come positive. He had been under quarantine at his house. Besides that a 52-year-old woman from a village in Barnala district who was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and later died yesterday was COVID-19 positive. The woman had complained of high grade fever and breathing difficultly for the last 6-7 days and she died yesterday and her sample was sent for testing which came out to be positive.As per the department, so far samples of 3,192 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 2,777 samples were found negative and reports of 285 were still awaited.
09-04-2020||Patiala||Patiala police is using technology to nab the curfew violators||In order to implement the concept of social distancing and also ensure that the curfew related guidelines are not violated, the district police have started identifying and booking people using drone technology.Already 16 people have been booked using footage shot from drone cameras.“In the beginning, people were made aware about the importance of social distancing and self isolation. Further, enforcement is being done thorough nakabandis, patrolling parties, PCRs and human intelligence. A number of FIRs have been registered against violators.“But now enhancing its capacity Patiala police have started using technology in the form of drones to cover the entire city and specifically the colonies from where reports of violations are coming,” said Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu.Using drones, Patiala police have nabbed 16 people who were sitting together in open space without any valid reason. An FIR was registered and all the violators were arrested.Besides drones, CCTV cameras installed at various locations would be used to add more eyes to technological surveillance.Patiala police again appealed to the people to follow the social distancing norms. The slogan of “Stay home, stay safe, stay healthy” is being advocated through various platforms.“However, it is fully prepared to act against persons who unnecessarily go outside and violate curfew provisions. Use of drones has enhanced its surveillance capacity, no one will be spared if found on the wrong foot,” warned the police.
09-04-2020||Mohali/Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab to launch rapid testing drive to screen 1 million people||Health Ministers of Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry through video conference on Wednesdya evening, shared best practices adopted in their states to contain the spread of COVID-19.Each State/ UT shared its strategy and apprehending future spike in COVID-19 cases agreed upon the need to scale up tracing and testing.Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health Minister, Punjab, appraised his counterparts that Punjab has ramped up testing capacity 10-fold with the procurement of requisite machines.Punjab intends to launch a rapid testing drive aiming to screen one million people, he said. Gearing up for this, acquisition of 10 lakh Rapid Testing Kits (RTK) has been approved by the Punjab Cabinet and order for requisition of one lakh kits from ICMR has been placed.Besides, the testing capacity of Viral Research Diagnostic Labs (VRDL) in Government Medical Colleges at Patiala and Amritsar has been increased. Approval for testing at GMC, Faridkot, DMC and CMC, Ludhiana, has also been sought from Government of India, he added.The Punjab Health Minister said modalities are being worked out for manufacturing PPE kits at Ludhiana which once operational would enable Punjab not just to meet its requirement but would have sufficient kits to supply to other states.Some of the Health Ministers suggested setting up of testing facility at every district headquarters, in case of exponential growth in COVID-19 cases. However, Punjab is expected to cope up the situation with GoI's approval to rope in GMC, Faridkot, DMC and CMC, Ludhiana, said Balbir Singh Sidhu.So far, Influenza-like Illness (ILI) cases or those with international travel history or the contacts of COVID-19 patients are being screened but asymptomatic cases being found positive in different parts of the country is an alarming phenomenon which calls for better preparation, agreed all.Besides others, the Video Conference was attended by Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor (both MP) as well as Padma Bhushan Sam Pitroda.
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder lauds 81-year-old Mohali woman who defeated coronavirus; watch inspirational video||An 81-year-old woman, who defeated coronavirus in Punjab, here on Thursday urged people to stay indoors to protect themselves from the infection.According to a video shared by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Twitter, Kulwant Nirmal of Mohali, a diabetes and hypertension patient, tested positive for coronavirus.But her will to fight overshadowed everything, and now she is healthy and at home.She is among the patients in the state who have recovered from the infection. In her video message, she said with folded hands: "Doctors took care of me. Never be afraid of the disease. Follow whatever the government and the doctors are saying.""Keep your will power strong. Have courage and do prayers. Waheguru will save you," the octogenarian said.Story of 81 year old Kulwant Nirmal ji of Mohali who has recovered from #Covid19 is truly inspiring. Kulwant Ji had pre-existing conditions like diabetes & hypertension but her will to fight overshadowed everything. She is now healthy & back home. Sharing her video with you all. pic.twitter.com/4YZsYdzlA9  Her son Gurminder Singh said he was quarantined in the home along with the other family members when her mother was admitted to a private hospital.Her mother, a diabetes and hypertension patient for 30 years, was the only coronavirus case in the family, he said.Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Pathlawa village, as well as seven others from S.B.S. Nagar, tested negative multiple times for COVID-19 and were declared fully cured. Fourteen patients in Punjab have been cured. IANS
09-04-2020||Moga||Woman trainees of RSETI make 5,000 masks to donate||Making an important contribution in Punjab government's fight against coronavirus, the Punjab and Sind Bank's Rural Self Employment Training Institute (RSETI), has taken up the task of making 5,000 masks and donating the same to district administration of Moga for further distribution and use.The RSETI Director Vikas Dadhwal said that Punjab and Sind Bank runs RSETI at Moga, Ludhiana and Faridkot.All the three districts have been asked to create 5,000 masks each.The RSETI Moga has entrusted this task to a group of 10 women aged 20 years to 45 years, who had earlier taken training for stitching clothes from this centre.Giving them raw material and teaching them the correct method of making masks at center, complete care was taken to maintain social distance.Also, the center has distributed material to the women and asked them to make masks at their homes itself."Each woman would be making 50 masks a day. All the 5000 masks will be ready in 10 days," he said.The women making these masks belong to villages Dhalle ke, Dunne ke, old Moga and city area. Though as of now women were working voluntarily, the RSETI center plans to give them honorarium on completion of work.Once stitched, all 5000 masks will be deposited in the office of Deputy Commissioner from where they will be sent to the civil hospital to be sanitized and further distribution.
09-04-2020||Ludhiana||Dead woman’s sample tests positive for COVID-19 in Ludhiana||A 52-year-old woman, who died in Ludhiana on Wednesday, had coronavirus, her test reports confirmed on Thursday. The woman—who was from Barnala—had complained of breathlessness and high fever. She was admitted to the Fortis Hospital here.
09-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||Owing to Covid-19, Punjab’s Clinical Establishment Act may finally see light of day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9The coronavirus breakout may end Punjab’s wait to get the Clinical Establishment Act as the government is planning to bring an ordinance to end the plunder by private doctors.The draft of the act has been hanging fire in the state for the past eight years.According to sources, the state government is planning to bring an ordinance, ‘the Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration, Regulation & Transparency) Act, 2019’, in the cabinet meeting slated for Friday.The Chief Minister has announced that it is not acceptable that the way private doctors have shut down the OPDs. He said they would cancel licences of all the clinics and doctors, who have refused to give services in these testing times. The CM also confirmed in a TV interview that the government would bring in the ordinance regarding the act on Saturday.Interestingly, with a view to regulating the functioning of private hospitals in the country, the Centre had enacted the Clinical Establishment Act, 2010, which was adopted by several states. But instead of adopting the same act, the then Punjab government decided to draft its own act and in 2012 constituted a Clinical Establishment Act Drafting Committee.However, thanks to the powerful lobby of the private health care practitioners, the draft was never accepted.After a series of meetings, the committee headed by Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, School of Public Health, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, submitted the draft of the bill to the state government in 2013. The draft had important provisions like every private or government hospital has to display the services it offers and will also mention the fee it charges for all the services. Besides, it was also proposed to make it mandatory for all private hospitals to get themselves registered.However, the draft was neither cleared by the cabinet nor it was taken to the Assembly. The members of the committee had publicly said that the draft of the move regarding the act was scuttled by the lobby of big corporate hospitals.After formation of the current government in 2017, the then health Minister Braham Mohindra had also announced to implement the act but he also failed to do anything.In November last year, the state government once again posted draft of the bill on its website and had asked for feedback.  But once again, the powerful body of private doctors was successful in scuttling the move. Soon after that, Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu assured an IMA delegation that all their genuine demands would be incorporated before finalising any decision. But the act could never see the light of day. Provisions of the act* Mandatory for all private hospitals to get themselves registered* Private or government hospital has to display the services it offers* Display the fee it charges for all the services* Every hospital with more than 100 beds to set up Fair Price Medicine Shop and Fair Price Diagnostic Centre* Free treatment to 20 per cent of Outdoor Patient Department patients and 10 per cent of Indoor Patient Department patients
09-04-2020||---||Jalandhar man who had tested positive for coronavirus passes away||Jalandhar, April 9Parveen Kumar, who had tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, has passed away.He was 59 and a resident of Mitha Bazaar here.He was reportedly on ventilator for the past three days at Jalandhar Civil Hospital but his test report came on Wednesday.He ran an ayurvedic medicine centre in the city and his son is a block Congress president here.The son is a close contact of MLA Bawa Henry, who has chosen to remain home-quarantined for now.3 more test positiveMeanwhile, three more people tested positive in Jalandhar.They are 65-year-old woman, a 42-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man.The 65-year-old is a resident of Bhairon Bazaar, the 42-year-is-old is from Purani Sabzi Mandi and the 53-year-old man is from Maqsoodan.None of them has an established contact history yet.
09-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||She is staying away from kids for her job||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8Posted at recently created corona ward in Government Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Dilraj Kaur, a nurse, is truly a frontline soldier.Mother of two small children, she took a tough decision of not going home after she was assigned the job of attending to Covid-19 patients.She, along with other staff, has been staying at the SGPC-run serai.Video call is the only way to exchange views and share feelings with her two children Dhurjeevan (7) and Diljot (5) and other family members. Dhurjeevan is studying in Class II and Diljot in UKG.She said her in-laws were taking care of the children as she had not visited her house since April 1. Her hobbies include cooking delicacies and desserts for her children. However, their demands remained unmet as she was focusing on her job.At professional front, she was handling patients suffering from ailments such as HIV, swine flu, hepatitis B.She was among the staff members of the hospital who had raised the demand for providing them PPE kits, sanitisers, gloves, masks, besides accommodation to attend to Covid patients.They were getting precautionary kits at the corona ward but were not given the same at the ICU and emergency wards where suspected Covid patients were kept.
09-04-2020||Aman Sood & Karam Prakash||38 private schools in Punjab get notice for seeking fee||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 8The Education Department has served notice on 38 private schools in Punjab for demanding fee from students during the lockdown. The Education Minister has warned of strict action against schools for “unnecessarily harassing parents” by sending notices/fee reminders.Despite orders by the department “not to demand for tuition fee for the next session” during the lockdown period, these schools had been forcing parents to make payments.“I had asked the department to slap notices on erring schools but instead of revoking their fee reminders via text messaging, some are even calling up parents,” said Education Minister Vijayinder Singla.Of the 38 schools, six are from CM Amarinder Singh’s home town Patiala. Besides, 10 schools in Mohali; seven in Ludhiana; three each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur; two in Jalandhar; and one each in Faridkot, Sangrur, Kapurthala, Fazilka, Fatehgarh Sahib, Pathankot, Bathinda and Barnala have been served notice.In fact, some school managements have asked parents to deposit fee or face cancellation of their wards’ admission. Ashok Khatri, a parent, said: “I am being asked to deposit fee or my son’s name be struck off.” Another parent in Patiala said he had been served notice to “deposit fee online”.In a message by one of the private schools, its principal said they had to clear dues and meet expenses and the only way to do it was by “not blocking anyone’s payment”.The department said notices had been issued following complaints that schools were not adhering to the orders. “If they still continue to demand fee, we will cancel their licenses,” said an official.Singla said the list of the 38 schools had been shared with district education officers for necessary action. “In these trying times, some schools are troubling residents. This is sheer harassment and it will not be tolerated,” he said.
09-04-2020||Amritsar||US resident gives Rs 5 lakh to SGPC to provide langar during lockdown||Suspension of MPLAD fund unjust: TewariGarhshankar: Manish Tewari, MP from Anandpur Sahib, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the suspension of MPLAD funds was unjust and there were other means and ways to fight Covid-19. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Tewari said he could understand the reason for the 30 per cent reduction in the salary of MPs, but it was injustice to suspend the MP fund for two years. “This seems to be an ill-judged decision, which was bound to get a backlash,” he said. OCGive tax exemptions to traders: AAPChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded that the state government should ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities of daily use, including ration and medicines, for the poor and needy. The state should take up with the Union Government the issue of allowing special tax exemption to shopkeepers, traders and businessmen under Section 80-C of the Income Tax Act, said Harpal Singh Cheema, Leader of the Opposition. TNS
09-04-2020||---||A first: Holy city  residents to be screened||Amritsar, April 8The holy city will be the first town in the country to conduct screening of nearly one and a half million residents to stem the spread of Covid.The decision was jointly taken by the district administration and the Municipal Corporation in a meeting held here today.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said though the pandemic had not reached an alarming level here, the step had been taken to prevent its spread.At present, there are eight positive patients in the city. Two had died of the deadly coronavirus.Each resident of the city will undergo screening. This will identify the patients in the first stage of Covid.Rintu said the screening of those who came into contact with positive patients and their areas would be carried out on priority.DC Shivdular Singh Dhillonsaid Krishna Nagar and Sultanwind areas would be taken under a pilot project as positive cases were found here.
09-04-2020||Ropar||Row over labourer's death||
09-04-2020||Patiala||Late payment surcharge for PSPCL reduced||In a major reprieve to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), the power regulator has temporarily reduced the rate of late payment surcharge (LPS) due towards all private thermal plants and solar power stations in the state. Taking suo motu action on the Punjab Government’s direction of March 30, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has  decided to provisionally reduce the rate of LPS to 6% per annum for such payments which become delayed beyond the due date during the period from March 24 till June 30 payable by the PSPCL to the generating companies and  Punjab State Transmission Corporation. The orders in this regard were issued on April 7 by the PSERC. The government had on March 30 issued directions to the PSERC under Section 108 of the Electricity Act, 2003, to specify a reduced rate (subject to maximum 6% per annum) of late payment surcharge for payable by the PSPCL to generators during the period from March 24 to June 30 this year. It said the restrictions imposed by the Central and state governments to contain Covid-19 should be treated as an event of force majeure. As per Section 108, the commission shall be guided by such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as the state government may give to it in writing. Even due to less cash flow in such conditions, the PSPCL has to make regular payments on account of coal cost, railway freight, salary and pension and power purchase payments. This matter will be taken up for hearing along with a public hearing on May 7, 2020. — TNS
09-04-2020||Amritsar||Patients seek clarity on medical bills||Amid the Covid-19 threat, confusion prevails over the state government’s commitment of providing medical aid ‘free of cost’ to Darshan Singh, who has assisted former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple Nirmal Singh Khalsa for over three decades, and his family members, who are undergoing treatment at Fortis Escorts Hospital in Amritsar after their medical reports testified them to be positive for the disease.  The Fortis authorities say there has been no clarity on who will foot the bill. Darshan Singh’s son Jagpreet Singh, who has been in home quarantine with his wife, daughter and brother, said though his family members were in safe hands, he was awaiting an official confirmation about CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s assurance of bearing the medical expenses.  Jagpreet’s mother Sukhbir Kaur, brother Palwinder Pal Singh and nine-year-old son Taanveer are also in the isolation ward of the hospital.  Jagpreet claimed his family members were first admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital on April 3.  “Not one staff member visited them for a check-up. Even a thermometer to check the temperature was not available. Under such circumstances, we had no choice but to shift,” he said. — TNS
09-04-2020||Muktsar||Nakas by locals hit supply of goods||The ‘nakas’ being laid by the public to seal the entry points of their localities and villages are resulting into clashes and causing problems to milkmen, those going to buy medicines or coming to supply essential goods. For instance, three persons have been booked for allegedly thrashing Angrez Singh of Surgapuri Basti in Muktsar town at a naka in Ward-15 here yesterday. Those booked have been identified as Nirmal Singh, Sanjeev Kumar and Satpal Singh, all local residents. The accused claimed Angrez was repeatedly crossing the naka and abused them as well. Local said the way streets were being blocked, in case there was any medical emergency, one would not be able to reach the hospital in time. “A number of people have blocked the entry by throwing poles. It will take time to clear the road in case of any emergency. The administration should look into it,” said some residents. A resident of neighbouring Udekaran village said the committee formed to seal entry points of the village was having a biased approach and not giving passage to people owing allegiance to the Opposition party. Rajbachan Singh Sandhu, SSP, Muktsar, said, “We have formed committees in all villages and municipal wards in the town so that anyone coming from some other district is screened thoroughly. We will soon issue them identity cards as well.” — TNS
09-04-2020||---||Drug addicts queue up for therapy as supply chain cut||Moga, April 8The availability of illicit drugs in the state has gone down by many notches in the wake of Covid-19-induced lockdown in the country. Resultantly, unable to contain the urge, a number of addicts have started visiting opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics to get substitutes in the form of medicines to keep themselves in ‘good’ shape.In Moga, the addicts can be seen out on the streets begging for money to buy the contraband despite being rebuked by policemen for violating the curfew orders.Some registered drug users in the state have been given medicines on prescription for 15 days, but many are still awaiting outside the OOAT clinics.Senior medical officer Dr Neelam Bhatia posted at a community health centre in Moga’s Dhudike village said: “We are giving medicines to drug addicts on prescription, however, those with no substitute are out on streets in hopes of obtaining drugs.”Before lockdown, there were 600 registered addicts at OOAT centre in Dhudike village, as against 672 at present, DR Bhatia said.A Health Department official said more than 1,000 addicts had got themselves registered in the past few days.A Health Department official said more than 1,000 addicts had got themselves registered in the past few days.“It is the right time for the state government to identify addicts and treat them at the village level by involving panchayats,” said Navdeep Singh Sangha, spokesman for AAP.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “The government has decided to provide them with two-week medicines so that they can undergo self-isolation at their homes.”
09-04-2020||Ludhiana||Small units seek relief||While most of the units have welcomed the move of the PSPCL of providing relief so far as fixed charges are concerned, the small-scale industry is perturbed over “step-motherly” treatment meted out to it.JS Thukral, president, Small-Scale Industry, Janta Nagar, said the PSPCL had provided relief to large and medium units by waiving fixed charges for two months. “But there is no relief for the small industries, whose power connections are up to 20 KW. These are small units where not more than three-four employees are working. The entire industry is dependent on such units for parts of cycles, automobiles, sewing machines etc. Thousands of such units will be ruined if no relief is given to them.” — TNS
09-04-2020||Patiala||Patiala youth held for ‘communal’ FB post||In a crackdown against the persons who are posting derogatory and objectionable messages on various social media platforms, the district police have registered a criminal case against a youth for posting such messages against a community in a bid to create communal disharmony.DGP Dinkar Gupta said immediately after this incident was brought into his notice by the members of the community based in Ludhiana, the SSP Patiala swung into action. Subsequently, an FIR under Sections 188, 295A, 505C IPC and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, was registered at Tripuri police station against Akash Deep, who had been arrested in this case.He would be produced in court on Thursday and his mobile phone used for uploading this objectionable content had also been taken into possession, the DGP said.The DGP warned that swift and strict legal action would be taken against persons violating the curfew. He said anyone trying to disturb peace and communal harmony by posting objectionable content or speaking against any religion or community or anyone circulating fake and false messages would also be dealt with severely. — TNS
09-04-2020||---||With Rs 2.3 cr equipment, testing capacity up 10 times||Chandigarh, April 8The government has ramped up its Covid-19 testing capability by 10 times with the procurement of five RTPCR and four RNA extraction machines (with automation) at a cost of Rs 2.31 crore. The government is also preparing to launch rapid testing from April 10 to check the spread of the virus.While 10 lakh rapid testing kits, already ordered from the ICMR, are awaited, the state has also floated inquiry in the open market for another 10,000 kits, according to Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan. She said antibody testing through rapid testing kits had now been allowed by the ICMR in hotspots to check community spread of coronavirus.With the new equipment, the testing capacity of the viral research diagnostic labs (VRDL) in government medical colleges at Patiala and Amritsar has gone up to 400 each from the existing 40, said Mahajan, adding that together these two labs had so far tested 1,958 samples.In addition, Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, has been put on fast-track for testing approval. It will have initial capacity of 40 tests per day.Apart from state’s own labs, the PGIMER, Chandigarh, has also been carrying out about 40 tests daily of samples from Punjab. About 650 tests have been carried out by the PGI till date.The government has also sought approval from the Centre for allowing similar testing facilities at DMC and CMC, Ludhiana. Both hospitals have already acquired the necessary equipment and applied for the NABL certification, said Mahajan.
09-04-2020||---||1,000-bed quarantine facility set up as cases on the rise||Chandigarh, April 8Despite stringent lockdown measures, there seems to be no respite from new coronavirus cases in the state. The total count in the state has reached 106 with seven new patients reported today.As per the state’s media bulletin, four cases surfaced in SAS Nagar, two Jalandhar and one Faridkot.The four cases of SAS Nagar are from Jawaharpur village, Derabassi. The positive cases from Jawaharpur alone have touched 15. According to district health officials, the results of 164 samples were pending and of these, 118 belonged to Jawaharpur. Out of this, the report of 80 samples was found negative.The SAS Nagar administration and a private university have collaborated to establish the state’s largest Covid-19 isolation facility at Gharuan. It comprises of 1,000-bed quarantine facility with separate arrangements for doctors and paramedical staff.In Jalandhar, two more patients tested positive, taking the city tally to eight. The son of a 72-year-old woman, who had previously tested positive, and a 58-year-old man from Mittha Bazar are the new patients. Interestingly, the son of the woman was discharged from the civil hospital a few days ago after his sample was tested negative. He was again admitted after he complained of respiratory trouble on Sunday. The second case is of a chemist in Mitha Bazar area, who has no established travel history or contact with any positive patient. He had been admitted to the emergency of the civil hospital for past several days.Apart from this, a new case of coronavirus was reported from Faridkot. The affected person is one of the close friends of the first patient of Faridkot. The condition of the both is stable. They are under treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital.Tablighi activist Muktsar’s 1st caseMuktsar: The district got its first Covid patients after an 18-year-old Tablighi Jamaat attendee tested positive on Wedneday. He is among 14 Jamaat attendees who had come to Muktsar on March 18. TNSRopar man diesRopar: The first Covid-19 patient of the district died at PGI on Wednesday. The 55-year-old, belonging to Chatamali village, was admitted to GMSH, Chandigarh, on March 31. Later, he was shifted to the PGI. TNScovid-19 CasesDiSTRICT-WISE COUNTDistrict    +ve      DeathsSAS Nagar   30   1SBS Nagar   19   1Amritsar   10   2Jalandhar   8Hoshiarpur   7   1Pathankot   7   1Ludhiana   6   2Mansa   5Moga   4Ropar   3Fatehgarh Sahib   2Faridkot   2Patiala   1Barnala   1Kapurthala   1Total   106   8
09-04-2020||---||Can’t fight battle sans PPE kits: Jalandhar nursing staff||Jalandhar, April 8Staff nurses and frontline workers deputed at the most sensitive trauma ward of Civil Hospital in Jalandhar on Wednesday raised objections over the non-provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to them.Over 20 frontlines workers, including nurses, sweepers and Class IV employees, donning masks and gowns, gathered outside the office of medical superintendent and stated that they needed PPE kits for carrying out their duties.Out of 11 persons deputed at the trauma ward which include four staff nurses, three doctors, two sweepers, two Class IV employees, only three have been provided with PPE kits. In a shift, the kits are made available to only a doctor, a nurse and a sweeper.A nurse deputed at the trauma ward said, “Only three personnel deputed at the isolation ward are being provided with PPE kits. We earn a meagre Rs10,000 per month and have no health insurance. We and our families are at serious risk.”Another nurse said, “After a patient lodged at the Civil Hospital’s emergency ward tested positive today, a nurse who had been attending to her for the past two days broke down as she feared having caught the infection. She has a two-year-old child. Support staff with PPE kits spend 90 per cent of their shift in close contact with patients. Unless we are provided with adequate protection, and health cover, it is risky for us to work with both suspects and positive patients.”Dr Mandeep Kaur, Medical Superintendent, Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “Adequate PPE kits are being provided to all staff members and there is no dearth of the kits. Patients are being taken care of properly and three also went home today after getting recovered.”
09-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||With 30 cases, Mohali worst hit in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 8With four fresh cases today, Mohali tops the list of Covid-affected districts in the state with as many as 30 reporting positive till Wednesday evening. The first case was reported on March 21.Till date, as many as 626 samples from the district have been sent for tests of which 30 have turned out to be positive. Test reports of 75 samples are awaited. As many as 15 cases have been reported from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi block of the district.Till date, one person, a resident of Nayagaon village in Kharar subdivision, has died at the PGI, Chandigarh. As his family is under isolation, no relative or family friends in the village had come forward to perform his last rites. He was cremated by officials of the district administration.The Tablighi Jamaat incident is the main factor behind the spread of Covid in the village as a foreman working in a factory had come in contact with the 43-year-old panch of the village. The foreman, who had attended the congregation in Delhi, had met five to six labourers working at the tent house owned by the panch. Three more members of the Jammat had visited the congregation in Delhi and two of them had tested positive. Later, the son of one of the members had also tested positive.Two sisters, aged 74 years and 69 years, who were en route to Kartarpur Sahib for pilgrimage from London, had also tested positive. Till date, five persons have been cured of the disease and discharged from various hospitals.As only two ventilators were available at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, the health authorities have allied with private hospitals, including Fortis and Max, for setting up isolation wards. At present, 50 ventilators are available in the district.The district administration had set up a special isolation ward with 300 beds. The administration, in association with Chandigarh University, has also set up 1,000-bed isolation facility at the university complex as part of the state government’s contingency plan to prepare isolation facilities well in advance so that in case the number of infected cases rises, the administration can quarantine them quickly.Jamaat factorThe Tablighi Jamaat incident is the main factor behind the spread of Covid in Jawaharpur village as a foreman working in a factory had come in contact with a 43-year-old panch of the village. The foreman, who had attended the congregation in Delhi, had met five to six labourers working at the tent house owned by the panch. Three more members of the Jammat had attended the congregation in Delhi and two of them had tested positive.Five dischargedTill date, five persons have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in Mohali district. As only two ventilators are available at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, the health authorities have allied with private hospitals, including Fortis and Max, for setting up isolation wards.
09-04-2020||---||Back on duty, 55 ex-cops say ready for challenge||Ropar, april 8To face the threat of Covid-19, many retired police personnel are voluntarily assisting the police in managing traffic and checkpoints.CHANCE TO SERVE SOCIETYWe have got a chance to serve society again. We may not have the agility now, but we surely have experience. We will help people during this pandemic.Gurmail Singh, Inspector (Retd)A total of 55 retired personnel, including one DSP, 12 inspectors, 16 sub-inspectors, 21 assistant sub-inspectors, 11 head constables and four ex-servicemen, are manning a total of 16 checkpoints from the NFL Chowk, Nangal, to Banmajra.Retired inspector Gurmail Singh, 74, who was CIA in-charge for 12 years, said, “We have got a chance to serve society again. We may not have the agility now, but we sure have experience and will to help people during this pandemic.” Retired sub-inspector Satvir Singh from Makarabpur near Chamkaur Sahib hung his boots in 2014, but is back on the duty again. “I will teach the new boys in the police on how to deal with emergency situations and curfew enforcement,” said Satvir, proudly doing duty at Bassi Gujran, Chamkaur Sahib.Retired sub-inspector Naseeb Chand, who was injured during a counter-insurgency operation many years ago, is also happy to be back on duty. Proud to have served the Punjab Police, Chand said now he was doing his bit in a tough fight against coronavirus.Retired sub-inspector Daleep Singh, who arrested hardened terrorists in his serving days, is raring to go again. He said, “The outbreak is unprecedented. I am willing to utilise my experience to meet the challenge head on.”“Once a policeman always a policeman,” said retired inspector Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Mahrauli. “My motivation to serve the state and society has never diminished,” he said. He has been stationed at a checkpoint at Bhanupli, near Nangal, to manage vehicles carrying essential goods to Himachal Pradesh. Lauding the efforts of retired cops, Ropar SSP Swapan Sharma said given their maturity and experience in handling crisis situations, they were providing help to the police in enforcing curfew.
09-04-2020||Sangrur||Sanitation woes plague wheat purchase centres||In a few days, people would be able to buy wheat, however, purchase centres here are plagued by sanitation woes. Farmers who visited the centres reportedly told that all they can see there is heaps of cow dung cakes and weeds, which works them up.  During a visit to various villages, The Tribune found that the officials have neither bothered to get the centres cleaned nor have they asked locals to remove waste from the centres. Garbage dumped at the centres has earned the government a bad name. “We have worked hard to grow wheat, but lack of cleanliness at grain markets can expose farmers to catching infection. We have requested the authorities many a times, but no avail,” said Kuldeep Singh, a farmer from Ladda village.  In Sangrur, there are 208 purchase centres. Some farmers alleged that due to lockdown, majority of residents had been staying indoors, which is why they didn’t bother to flag the issue of uncleanliness at the centres. DC Ghanshayam Thori said they had been making all required arrangements. “People will be able to buy wheat from April 15, and I have been taking daily meetings to make all arrangements,” said Thori. — TNS
09-04-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal---||No govt support, mustard growers struggle to get MSP||Fazilka, April 8 Mustard growers of Fazilka district are facing financial losses as the government has not been procuring their produce at the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the Centre due to the alleged lack of coordination between the state and Union Government authorities.  The farmers are compelled to sell their produce for less than Rs 1,000 per quintal to private traders.  Sources said the MSP of mustard had been fixed by the Centre at Rs 4,450 per quintal while it was being purchased by private traders at Rs 3,400 per quintal, causing a loss of more than Rs 1,000 per quintal to farmers.  They said mustard had been sown in about 6,000 hectares in Fazilka this year. The produce arrived in the market last week.  Hardip Singh Dhakka, sarpanch of Khanpur village, where mustard was sown in 22 acres, said the farmers were forced to sell the crop at Rs 3,200 to 3,400 per quintal to private traders.  Viswajeet Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Food Processing, Punjab, said no Central agency was operating in Punjab to buy the mustard crop. However, he shall take up the issue with the Centre soon.  Another mustard producer Rai Singh of Kerian village said after persuasion by the government, they had sown mustard crop which consumed little water but the callous attitude of the government could harm the diversification prospects.  Earlier, the farmers used to take their produce to nearby districts of Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan and used to get the remunerative price for their produce, but this year, due to the lockdown followed by sealing of borders, the farmers had failed to do so.
09-04-2020||Sameer singh||As harvesting nears, farmers lose sleep over defunct equipment||Tribune news serviceBathinda, April 8Ahead of the harvesting season, farmers are a worried lot. Reason: They cannot get their farm equipment and machinery repaired owing to the lockdown. Most of the repair shops are shut due to the curfew. Besides, no new implements and machinery can be bought.The farmers have sought the government’s intervention in the matter, as the procurement agencies would start buying wheat from April 15 onwards.While Finance Minister Manpreet Badal on Wednesday, during a public event in Bathinda, claimed that all arrangements with regard to the harvesting and procurement had been made, farmers are perturbed as to how they could start operations if their combine harvesters and tractors are not in working condition. Even as administration has issued curfew passes to owners of combine harvesters and other farm machinery, it would be of no use in case repair shops are not allowed to open. While some farmers are managing things by getting repair work done secretly, others are left no option but to delay the harvesting.Harpal Singh, a combine owner at Mehma Sarkari village, said, “Even if you manage to get convince mechanics to repair the farm machinery, they cite unavailability of spare parts. Besides, nakas by villagers to seal their areas have further aggravated our problems.”Balkrishan, who deals in farm implements, said, “I have been getting orders for supply of spare parts, but in view of curfew restrictions our hands are tied. We have not been getting fresh supply. We work and earn our livelihood by selling machinery for three months (wheat and paddy harvesting seasons) in the entire year. If no solution is worked out, it would be difficult for us to sustain.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “Farmers would get relaxation to carry farm machines such as combines during the harvesting season.”Exemption orderNakodar: Keeping in view the upcoming harvesting season, the Union Home Ministry has exempted agricultural machinery shops and repair shops from the lockdown and curfew. Punjab Additional Chief Secretary (Home), in an official communication to all administrative secretaries and Deputy Commissioners, said consolidated guidelines of home affairs had been reviewed by the Union Government and it had exempted certain areas from lockdown restrictions. OC
09-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna---||All government departments told to slash expenses||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, April 8 With the Punjab Government facing a huge revenue loss, caused by the crisis emerging from the Covid-19 pandemic, all government departments have been asked to immediately reduce their expenditure.  Though the state government will be paying the full salaries for this month and clearing the pension, the government is non-committal on whether cuts in salaries and wages can be imposed, just as the Telangana and Maharashtra Governments have done.  Talking to The Tribune, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said all ministers had been asked to hold meetings with their department secretaries, and recommend to the Finance Department on how much revenue can be reduced immediately. “Each department has been asked to come up with a definite plan on reducing their expenditure substantially. Once they are ready with the roadmap, the Finance Department will have to impose the cuts immediately,” he said.  Punjab is facing a shortfall of Rs 4,641 crore in revenue vis-a-vis committed expenditure, if the lockdown were to end on April 15. The state’s own income from GST, value-added tax, excise duty on liquor, stamp duty, and taxes on vehicles has been nil so far, since the curfew was imposed from March-end.  “We are reviewing the situation on a daily basis. We have to see where revenue can be cut, so that the aid being provided to people suffering because of the curfew remains the top priority,” said the Finance Minister, when asked if the state government would impose cuts in salaries to legislators as well as employees. Punjab’s monthly salary bill (including grants-in-aid salary) is Rs 2,300 crore, while the pension bill is Rs 1,022 crore each month.  Interestingly, the government today got some reprieve with the Centre clearing the GST dues of Rs 1,136 crore. At the time, when the state government’s own sources of revenue have dried up, this release of dues has come as a big relief. It may be mentioned that the Centre owes three instalments of GST to the state government, amounting to over Rs 6,500 crore.
09-04-2020||---||Give bonus to farmers: Sukhbir to Prime Minister||Chandigarh, April 8SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to pay bonus to farmers for delaying delivery of wheat to government agencies even as he sought a package for the industry.The SAD president, who participated in the all-party meeting called by the PM through video-conferencing, appreciated the bold and decisive actions of Modi. Seeking relief for farmers, he said a bonus of Rs 100 per quintal should be given for a one-month delay and Rs 150 per quintal for a two-month delay. He also suggested that government agencies be directed to purchase wheat at the village level. He also sought compensation for potato and vegetable farmers.
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Minister dials Opposition leaders, seeks support||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday held consultations with senior leaders of various parties, including the Congress, SAD, AAP and CPI, on the way forward for the state in the current crisis, and sought their suggestions on the preparatory steps to be taken to ensure gradual return to normalcy.The Chief Minister held a series of separate calls with SAD’s Parkash Singh Badal and rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, AAP’s Harpal Singh Cheema (Leader of Opposition in Vidhan Sabha) and CPI’s Hardev Singh Arshi, preceded by a video conference with Congress MLAs led by party chief Sunil Jakhar. All party leaders extended their support to the state government in its fight against Covid-19 and broadly agreed with the government line of action in tackling the problem, though SAD leaders were in favour of distribution of more food packets through the government machinery in the state, an official spokesperson said. The CM also assured Opposition leaders of all possible help from the government.Describing the situation as a developing one, with statistics from the world suggesting that things were not good, the Chief Minister said while India was still doing better than many advanced countries, one could not afford to be complacent. — TNSTo set up task forceChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced that a task force would soon be set up to find ways to get out of the unprecedented lockdown. Addressing leading industrialists via videoconferencing, the CM assured them of addressing all critical issues and challenges that they were facing. He also invited them to be a part of the government’s decision-making process at this crucial juncture.
09-04-2020||---||Mamata promises smooth supply of gunny bags||Kolkata, April 8West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee today spoke about arranging gunny bags for wheat which are required urgently by Punjab for the procurement season beginning from April 15.Talking to reporters here, Mamata said, “Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh called me today. They want gunny bags for storing wheat. The necessary arrangement must be made.”While gearing up for the procurement season, Punjab is keen to ensure availability of an adequate number of gunny bags for storing the crop. However, the jute mills of West Bengal, which supply gunny bags, are closed due to the ongoing lockdown.Banerjee said she received requests for gunny bags from Telengana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao also.
09-04-2020||---||Punjab Government to take call on curfew tomorrow||Chandigarh, April 8‘Report Speculative’The advisory had subsequently been withdrawn by the ChiefSecretary on his directions, he added.\Apart from taking a call on the extension of curfew beyond April 14, the Cabinet, which will meet on Friday, will decide on financial cuts required to cope with the battle against Covid-19.Development works have already been halted to spare resources to counter the outbreak. In the last Cabinet meeting held on April 4, the Chief Minister had directed the Finance Minister to prepare a roadmap for the post-lockdown situation.The financial steps could include reviewing budgetary allocations for various schemes, diversion of funds, seeking funds from the Centre, staggered payment of salaries etc.Though the ministers and Congress MLAs have announced donating one month’s salary to the CM’s relief fund, the Centre’s decision to cut by 30 per cent salaries and allowances of the Prime Minister, cabinet ministers and MPs for one year is expected to be taken up, said sources.The neighbouring BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh has already announced 30 per cent cut in salaries and allowances of the CM, ministers, MLAs and political appointees.On the extension of curfew beyond April 14, the Cabinet is expected to take a decision in line with the Centre’s strategy on containing Covid spread.The state government is continuously assessing the situation, which was changing each passing day, and any decision would be taken in the context of the conditions prevailing around mid-April.Reports from the Centre suggest chances of extension of the national lockdown, aimed at enforcing social distancing. Opening up industry in a phased manner, mobilisation of workforce for harvesting and procurement of wheat and movement of essential services are already being done. There was likelihood of extension of other restrictions, but a final call would be taken on April 10, the sources said.
