09-08-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjabi singer Kulwinder Billa tests positive for COVID-19||Punjabi singer Kulwinder Billa has tested positive for COVID-19, he announced in a post on social media.The singer shared a post on Instagram that he has tested positive for COVID-19 and has quarantined himself at home. He said his family has also undergone the tests and they tested negative.He further said that he is feeling alright and hoped that no one else was affected by him.The singer had made his acting debut with the movie Subedar Joginder Singh in 2018.A post shared by Kulwinderbilla (@kulwinderbilla) on Aug 9, 2020 at 8:40am PDT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-kulwinder-billa-tests-positive-for-covid-19-124321
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: AAP questions police cover given to Badals||Why the Badal family continues to enjoy the state police cover when it has been withdrawn from Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, AAP chief Bhagwant Mann asked the Punjab Government on Sunday.The Badal family, to which Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal belongs, is at the helm of the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab.The Punjab Government on Saturday had decided to withdraw the police security given to Bajwa, saying he enjoys the central security cover and virtually faced no threat.          The decision had come days after Bajwa and another Congress Rajya Sabha MP, Shamsher Singh Dullo, sought a CBI probe into the illegal liquor trade in the state.Commenting on it, the AAP chief in a statement asked why members of the Badal family continue to enjoy the state police security if it is withdrawn from the Congress MP on the pretext that he has been accorded a central security cover.Why this criterion could not be applied to other politicians like the Badal family and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia who have been granted security cover by the central security agencies as well as the Punjab Police, Mann asked.The AAP chief asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to clarify his stand about the “voluminous” security provided to the Badal family and Majithia by the Punjab Government.Slamming the CM for allegedly not “tolerating” his own criticism, the Sangrur MP said the Amarinder Singh government could go to the “extreme” extent against anyone, even if they are senior leaders of their own party for criticising its functioning. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-aap-questions-police-cover-given-to-badals-124300
09-08-2020||---||Punjab records 987 coronavirus cases, 24 deaths; tally stands at 23,903||Chandigarh, August 9Punjab on Sunday reported 987 COVID-19 cases, taking the state tally to 23,903.Meanwhile, 24 deaths were also recorded in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the state now stands at 586.As many as 459 patients were also discharged today. The discharged cases include 133 from Amritsar followed by Ludhiana (90), Gurdaspur (52), Sangrur (50), Taran Tarn (35), Fatehgarh Sahib (25), Kapurthala (23), Fazilka (20), SAS Nagar (10), Hoshiarpur (7), Barnala (6), Mansa (4), Muktsar (3) and Moga (1).The 24 deaths were reported from Ludhiana (9), Amritsar (4), Bathinda (3), two each from Kapurthala and Jalandhar, and one each from Barnala, Gurdaspur, SAS Nagar and Sangrur.The number of active cases in the state has climbed to 7,998 while the number of discharged patients has risen to 15,319.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-987-coronavirus-cases-24-deaths-tally-stands-at-23-903-124295
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||PCA’s new international stadium to be named after late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh||The Punjab Cricket Association has decided to name its new stadium in Mullanpur after the last ruler of erstwhile Patiala state, late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, who had played a Test match for India in 1934.He was the father of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.This was decided in a meeting attended by PCA president Rajinder Gupta and secretary Puneet Bali apart from other office-bearers of the association.“The idea was proposed by the PCA president and has been given approval,” Bali said.The PCA has also started the process of renovating the existing IS Bindra Stadium to turn it into an international cricket academy.The facilities to be upgraded include grounds, swimming pools, gyms and other infrastructure, Bali said.The 38.2-acre stadium in Mullanpur was conceptualised by former PCA president IS Bindra.Among other agendas passed in the apex council meeting, the PCA has decided to increase the number of cricketers to be offered contracts from 30 to 40, including 10 women players.Bali said one of the main agendas of the meeting was regarding approval of the scholarship scheme.“A proposal was also approved to implement the district development scheme. Under this, eighteen district associations in Punjab will first submit an agenda for development and the PCA inspection committee will study the plan,” he said.It has also been decided to increase the grant to minor and major districts.“A bonus of Rs 40,000 will be given to office staff and ground staff working during the pandemic,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pcas-new-international-stadium-to-be-named-after-late-maharaja-yadavindra-singh-124264
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||'What Delhi Model are you talking about', Punjab health minister asks Harpal Singh Cheema||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday has claimed that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has made a "laughing stock" of itself with absurd claims over the COVID-19 management in the National Capital.   The minister termed Punjab Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema's statement expressing "dissatisfaction" over the Amarinder Singh government's measures to tackle the pandemic as "ludicrous", and said the AAP MLA was clearly oblivious to the fact that Punjab continues to fare much better than many other states in the fight against coronavirus, which in fact had totally exposed Delhi's inadequate health care infrastructure.Sidhu pointed out that the effectiveness of Punjab's battle against COVID was not on account of any help from the central government, unlike Delhi where the Centre had to step in and virtually take over the pandemic management to pull the city out of the "total and unprecedented mess" into which the AAP government had pushed it.The less said about the AAP government's COVID management in Delhi the better, said the minister, pointing out that even now, the Delhi High Court was continuously questioning and, in fact, pulling up the Kejriwal government over its pandemic strategy.Just last week, the court had termed as "incomprehensible” the resistance shown by Delhi government on its monitoring the progress made in ramping up the testing, he recalled."What Delhi model is this, which even the High Court is not satisfied with?,” he asked, adding that Punjab remains far ahead of Delhi in terms of effectiveness in COVID management.Given that the entire testing strategy of the Delhi government was under the court’s scanner, Cheema’s insistence on Punjab adopting the same strategy was not just laughable but a clear indication that the AAP was not interested in protecting the people of Punjab, said Sidhu. All they (AAP) have ever cared about was promoting their own interests, which the people of Punjab had seen through back in 2017 itself when they had shattered the party’s dreams of forming the government in the state, he added.In sharp contrast to Delhi, where the Centre had to chip in to strengthen the medical infrastructure, Punjab was continuously augmenting its hospitals, COVID centres and bed capacity as well as other facilities/equipment, almost on a daily basis, said Sidhu. Asking Cheema to verify his facts before shooting through his mouth, the Minister further noted that the Kejriwal government’s mismanagement had caused Delhi to contribute 10% of the total deaths in the country. Punjab, on the other head, has accounted so far for 1% of the deaths, and those too mostly related to co-morbidity, he added. Sidhu said he did not think even a single Punjabi would want this kind of Delhi model being emulated in their state.Reacting to Cheema’s allegation of misappropriating of funds by the government in Punjab, Sidhu challenged him to produce proof of his unsubstantiated claim. The truth of the matter was that despite no financial aid from the central government and no resources of its own, the state government was ensuring that fiscal constraints do not come in the way of saving the lives of Punjabis from the deadly Coronavirus, he added.The fact was that AAP has no leg to stand on in Punjab, which was headed towards Assembly polls in just about 18 months, and was thus resorting to falsehoods and fabrications to mislead the people, said the Minister. Pointing to the restructuring of AAP’s Punjab unit, he further said the move showed how pathetic the party’s situation in the state currently is.To Cheema’s remarks on a media report regarding two bodies lying on a hospital floor for 12 hours, Sidhu said the report had already been proven to be false and the newspaper had subsequently also published a clarification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/what-delhi-model-are-you-talking-about-punjab-health-minister-asks-harpal-singh-cheema-124252
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Excise Department raids three factories in Dera Bassi, seizes over 27K litres of illicit chemicals||Punjab Excise Department seized 27,600 litres of illicit chemical containing spirit in raids conducted at factories at Dera Bassi in Mohali on Sunday, officials said.The raids were conducted at three factories---Allychem Laboratories Pvt. Ltd, Om Solvi Trading and Pure Solutions.Seven people have so far been arrested in these raids. The factories have now been sealed. The raids are a joint operation between the excise department, police and SIT. Officials said the excise team found a factory in Dera Bassi manufacturing unauthorised chemicals like isopropyl alcohol stored in 136 drums of 200 litres each."We had received information that some factories were producing some chemical containing alcohol. Acting upon it, we raided factories at Dera Bassi," said Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal.A week before the hooch tragedy in Majha region, over 5000 litres of denatured spirit was seized from another chemical manufacturer Binny chemicals, which was sold illegally.KP Singh is the managing director of the bulk drug manufacturing company Allychem Laboratories Pvt. Ltd,  the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change said. --- With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-excise-department-raids-three-factories-in-dera-bassi-seizes-over-27k-litres-of-illicit-chemicals-124231
09-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Dealing with whining kids, peeved elderly wasn’t easy, docs on Covid duty played counsellors too||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8In the past four months, a single doctor on Covid testing has slid the nasopharyngeal swab (the 6-inch-long stick used for Covid tests) into the throats and noses of 5,000 people, while others have been pushed away by peeved toddlers and 3 to 4-year-olds to 70-year-old people, unwilling to allow the intrusion.Scurrying streets, alleys, hotels, deras, residential colonies and slums for the past four months, these doctors, assisted by a team of lab technicians and nurses, have been scrambling across high-risk and containment zones.Some of them have elderly parents who they haven’t hugged for months and other have little children, who have to await their parents’ customary shower and gargle (a mandatory daily ritual in Covid times) to hang out with them each day. While five of the dental doctors have been on the job from the day testing took off in the district, as many as six to seven teams have been carrying out sampling since April.Recently, seven to eight more ENT and other dental specialists were also included in the team. Barring doctors, a team of lab technicians, nurses, para-medical staff also accompany the mobile and CHC-based testing teams for conducting sampling. In all, about 40 to 45 doctors carry out sampling in Jalandhar.Dr Manpreet Ghumman hasn’t hugged his 71-year-old grandmother for months and lives in his own house like a recluse. Having trained over 30 doctors in the district himself, he has conducted testing of 5,000 to 6,000 people so far – sometimes over 100 a day.He says: “The heat is certainly a factor which made testing in PPEs challenging at first. But now, we are used to it. My 71-year-old grandmother looks at me questioningly saying nothing will happen to me. But I still stay away and restrict myself to my room.”He said doctors also have to play counsellors to reluctant patients, “There have been kids who cry, push us away and raise hell over testing. They fear it more than a vaccine. But we have to convince them. Sole elders too! Coaxing and persuading patients is a big part of testing process. But we have not let anyone go without a test ever.”Dr Jatinder Kaur, Medical Officer, Dental, who has conducted sampling of over 1,400 to 1,500 people so far, faced similar challenges. She says: “One afternoon, a 70-year-old pushed away the swab stick and declared that he didn’t want the test. There are women, who refuse to get tested because they don’t like the stick to be pushed into their mouth. We have to sit there and convince them. Many people nudge us aside or push swabs away, prompting a long wait.”Dr Kaur said: “There have been times, when I tested 100 people in a single day, but I never felt tired or drained, at least while on job. While Dr Kaur lives with her 70-year-old mother, she doesn’t enter the house until she takes off her shoes and dupatta etc, outside and doesn’t come in contact with anyone at home until she has first taken a bath, washed her hands with disinfectant/soap and gargled thoroughly.Dr Deepak Kajla who has tested at least 2,000 people so far, also says there was no question of contact until he sanitises himself first. Dr Deepak says: “I have myself been tested once and some of our lab technicians and staff too! We have tested NRIs, residents and a countless other people. The most important part is taking the right precautions and protecting both — your patients and yourself. During sampling, sometimes the mucosa of some people is inflamed. Others don’t like the idea of swab tests. But when you get the hang of it, it’s a simple procedure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dealing-with-whining-kids-peeved-elderly-wasnt-easy-docs-on-covid-duty-played-counsellors-too-124115
09-08-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Men of steel: Covered in plastic, healthcare warriors share experience in PPE kits||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 8Imagine covering yourself in plastic from head to toe for eight or more hours everyday and then sit in a room with only a fan and no air conditioner. That is what most of the healthcare workers have to go through as they collect samples, attend to infected patients and perform other duties while wearing a PPE kit.“You do not even cover yourself in plastic. Just switch off the air conditioner and wrap a bed sheet around your body. Just do it for an hour or two and you would get to know how uncomfortable it is,” said a health worker when asked how it is to be inside a PPE kit.The frontliners complained that sample collection centres and patients’ wards do not have air conditioners. The wards have ceiling fans and air coolers. But AC’s haven’t been working for a few years now.“After an hour or two inside the PPE kit, you can feel the sweat inside your shoes and gloves. It is like you are swimming in a pool of sweat. It is suffocating and itches all over the body but you cannot scratch,” a health worker engaged in collecting swab samples said.At the swab sample collection centres, the employees in order to decrease their trouble try to complete all the paperwork so they do not have to stand for long in glass cabins to take swab samples. They try to sample all those persons in one go whose paperwork has been completed.However, at the Covid wards PPE kits have to worn for longer durations. The employees stated that once they are all covered in plastic, they cannot use washroom, drink water or have meals. The high temperature and humidity in air makes the condition even worse.Sample taking, collection and testingThe district has 27 swab sample collection centres. On an average, around 1200-1300 samples are collected everyday from all these centres. A medical lab technician may take swabs of around 30 to 70 suspected patients a day. The samples from entire district are then collected at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital from where they are sent to microbiology lab of Government Medical College (GMC) for testing. The reports tagged as urgent (particulary health workers or police personnel) are received within 24 hours, while the reports of remaining are available in maximum of 48 hours. Luckily, no employee engaged in sample collection task has tested positive so far. Apart from the GMC lab, the testing is also done by Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health sciences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/men-of-steel-covered-in-plastic-healthcare-warriors-share-experience-in-ppe-kits-124164
09-08-2020||Aman Sood||Liquor smuggling: Despite Haryana report, Punjab yet to initiate probe||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 8While the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has decided to probe the role of Rajpura-based NV Distilleries, mentioned in at least 14 cases of liquor smuggling across Haryana, the Punjab Excise Department is awaiting a communique from its Haryana counterpart to initiate investigations against the distillery.A senior ED official said they would conduct a probe to ascertain if liquor illegally diverted to Haryana was also being distributed in Punjab. “We are concerned with the black money being generated thus. We will look into the possibility of money-laundering through liquor smuggling,” an official said. Sources said the ED had sought details of FIRs filed in Haryana and Punjab when liquor cases from NV Distillery were confiscated by the Punjab Police, “but the name of the distillery was not mentioned in the FIR.” The Special Enquiry Team (SET) probing the Haryana liquor scam had sought information from Punjab’s Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation, on June 25, who replied that 22,936 cases of liquor of Rajpur-based NV Distillery remained unaccounted for.“We had found 22,936 cases of liquor meant for other states in a godown of NV Distillery. We have already sought an explanation”, said Punjab Principal Secretary (Excise and Taxation) A Venu Prasad. “We are yet to get a copy of the the Haryana probe report,” he said.Senior officials claimed that without the government nod, no officer in Punjab would dare initiate action against any distillery in the state. Prasad, however, said: “If we get anything against NV distillery, we will conduct a probe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-smuggling-despite-haryana-report-punjab-yet-to-initiate-probe-124129
09-08-2020||New York||US Sikh dies rescuing 3 kids trapped in river||A 29-year-old Sikh man died after he jumped into a river to rescue three children who were swept away in the US state of California, according to media reports.The man, identified as Manjeet Singh, was visiting Reedley Beach on Wednesday evening near his home in Fresno County when he saw the three children struggling in the Kings River, the Los Angeles Times reported on Friday.Two eight-year-old girls and a 10-year-old boy were playing in the river when they were pulled under a bridge by the current, CNN quoted Reedley Police Department commander Mark Ediger as saying.Singh, who was at the river with his brother-in-law and other friends, removed his turban and attempted to use it as a rope to pull the children in but was quickly pulled under himself.“He went in to try and help them and, unfortunately, went underwater fairly quickly and never came back up,” said Reedley Police Commander Marc Ediger.Singh was found unresponsive 40 minutes later, downriver. He was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-sikh-dies-rescuing-3-kids-trapped-in-river-124025
09-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Custodial interrogation of accused necessary, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8Just 10 days after the illicit liquor tragedy led to nearly 130 deaths, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has referred to the incident before making it clear that custodial interrogation of an accused in the spurious liquor case was a must.Advocate moves court seeking CBI probeAn advocate has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court for a CBI probe into the illicit liquor tragedy. Advocate Parampreet S Bajwa has asked for a probe by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. This, the petitioner-advocate contended, was required for a fair and impartial investigation.Justice Deepak Sibal of the High Court made this clear while turning down the anticipatory bail plea of an 18-year-old accused from whose house 100-litre illicit liquor was allegedly recovered.Taking up the matter through video-conferencing following the Covid outbreak, Justice Sibal asserted that illicit liquor was recovered from the petitioner’s house. On seeing a police party, he allegedly evaded arrest by fleeing from there. Besides, the petitioner was facing a trial in another case under provisions of the Excise Act. He allegedly committed the present offence while on bail in the other case.“In view of the above as also in light of the recent incidents in the state of Punjab, in which over 130 persons have died due to consumption of illicit liquor, the petitioner’s custodial interrogation is found to be necessary. Resultantly, the present is not considered a fit case for the grant of anticipatory bail,” Justice Sibal asserted while dismissing the plea.The accused, Baljit Singh, had moved the High Court seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered under provisions of the Punjab Excise Act at the Sidhwan Bet police station in Jagraon tehsil of Ludhiana district.The prosecution’s case was that police officials of the Jagraon narcotics cell were present at a village bus stand on June 11 when they received a tip-off that the petitioner was habitual of distilling illicit liquor. If a raid was conducted at his house, heavy quantity of illicit liquor could be recovered. The FIR was registered on the basis of this information and araid was conducted at the petitioner’s house.The prosecution said the drum containing 100-litre illicit liquor was taken into possession and deposited at the police storehouse. The excise inspector concerned tested the contents and found it to be illicit liquor. Opposing the bail plea, the state counsel said the petitioner’s conduct of fleeing from the spot was required to be taken into consideration for dismissing the present petition.The petitioner’s counsel, on the other hand, referred to the tip-off which formed the basis of the FIR to say that the person alleged to be manufacturing and selling illicit liquor was aged around 30-32. The petitioner, aged 18, could not be the accused person against whom the tip-off was received by the police, the counsel said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/custodial-interrogation-of-accused-necessary-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-124089
09-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||VIP visits ‘impede’ probe in Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 8Regular visits of senior politicians and local leaders to the affected areas of the city are acting as an impediment for the police in probing the sequence of events leading to the spurious liquor tragedy, which, in effect, means more time will be taken to nail the offenders.Not only this, police officials, who are trying to trace the whereabouts of some more accused, are unable to perform their duty as they find themselves bogged down in providing security to these leaders. On Wednesday, Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma were in the town while a day later, the cops, instead of going after the offenders, were left guarding Cabinet Ministers Sundar Sham Arora and Aruna Chaudhury. On Friday, MP Partap Singh Bajwa met the kin of the victims.Earlier this week, AAP and SAD leaders could be seen meeting the victims’ kin. The cops geared up today to provide cover to SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, as he arrives here tomorrow. Although she denied getting affectedby the visits, DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur, who is akey investigator, had to guide both Arora and Chaudhury through the labyrinthine lanes yesterday.Senior officials, for obvious reasons, are unwilling to comment on the issue but a majority of them believe such visits should be stopped till investigations are completed.“A standard operating procedure, like we have for solving certain crimes, should be put in place when such a tragedy takes place. Leaders’ visits should be banned till the accused are nabbed,” said a senior police officer.Sheila, mother of deceased Bhupinder Singh, vented out her anger. “Leaders come, pay lip service and go. What do they achieve by reopening our wounds? It will be better for them if they just stay at their homes till we get our lives back on track,” she said.Residents, too, are not much enthused. “Once a leader is in the town, so many traffic bottlenecks are created. It becomes difficult to move,” said Harvinder Singh, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vip-visits-impede-probe-in-batala-124090
09-08-2020||---||406 held for illicit trade  in Ferozepur||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, August 8Tightening the noose around bootleggers and smugglers of illicit liquor, the excise and police departments launched a joint operation in Ferozepur district.As per information, the authorities have so far filed 312 FIRs and arrested 406 persons involved in the illicit liquor trade. Besides, more than 42 manufacturing liquor units were destroyed during the crackdown.SP Mukhtiar Rai said since January this year, hundreds of raids were conducted by special squads at various hideouts of bootleggers and more than 10 lakh-litre lahan and 19,357-litre illicit liquor had been destroyed. He said a consignment of 15,386 bottles of licit liquor had also been recovered from the smugglers. Officials of the excise department destroyed 29 utensils and drums along with manufacturing units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/406-held-for-illicit-trade-in-ferozepur-124091
09-08-2020||---||Ludhiana reports 12 more Covid-19 deaths||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8With 998 fresh cases and 23 deaths being reported in the last 24 hours, the state seems to be getting no relief from Covid-19.Ludhiana, with 12 deaths and 168 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, was the worst-affected district. Three deaths were reported from Patiala, two from Amritsar and one each from Barnala, Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Ropar and Sangrur.In Ludhiana, among the deceased were two TB patients. A 14-year-old boy from Bhamian lost his life at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. A 24-year-old woman from Janta Nagar also lost her life. She was suffering from anaemia and hypertension. She also had a kidney problem. The patient was admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital. Others who died belonged to the age group between 50-60 years.They were from Khanna, BRS Nagar, Uttam Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, Samrala and Rahon.Patiala reported 139 cases, Jalandhar 120 cases, Amritsar 102 cases, SAS Nagar 91 cases, Bathinda 72 and Sangrur 32 cases.Of the 168 cases in Ludhiana, 144 are contacts of Covid-positive persons. As many as 63 cases were reported from flu corners and 29 from OPDs. Eight of them were cops, five healthcare workers, four pregnant women, three domestic travellers and one undertrial. Sandeep Wadhera, ACP, Industrial Area B, also tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-reports-12-more-covid-19-deaths-124092
09-08-2020||---||State withdraws Partap Singh Bajwa’s security||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8The Punjab Government has decided to withdraw the state police security given to Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception and was, in any case, gettingCentral security directly accorded to him by the Union Home Ministry.This trick won’t work on me: mpDisclosing this, an official spokesperson said the state police security provided to Bajwa had become redundant since he had got personal security directly from Home Minister Amit Shah. A mixed security component was, in any case, not considered good, particularly when the Rajya Sabha MP had, by opting forCentral security, showed that he had no faithin the state police.According to the spokesperson, contrary to the claims made by Bajwa, the Central security he had got was not at the behest of the Congress leadership. In fact, the Union Home Ministry had not even consulted the state government to gauge the threat perception, which is usually done before providing Central security to any person.Bajwa might have simply approached the party’s leader in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad, to seek Central security, and as is the norm, the latter could have simply sent his request to the Union Home Ministry. However, for some reason, the Home Ministry chose not to discuss the matter of Bajwa’s threat perception with the state government in this case, which was a clear deviation from the norm followed in such cases, the spokesperson added.He further said Bajwa had actually been getting enhanced security from the Punjab Police all this time. This was because the state government decided not to withdraw the greater security he had at his disposal as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Ideally, the enhanced security should have been withdrawn as soon as he became anMP, with virtually zero threat perception.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/state-withdraws-partap-singh-bajwas-security-124093
09-08-2020||Archit Watts||Drug trade: List of suspects leaked online||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 8At a time when Opposition parties are cornering the government over the issue of drugs and liquor mafia in the state, a list of suspected drug peddlers made by the Muktsar district police and forwarded to its special branch, has gone viral on the social media.The list of 51 suspected drug peddlers, which is in possession of The Tribune, was sent to the special branch on July 20. It was asked to give a report within five days over whether these persons were active in drug peddling activities or not.However, the purpose of the list seems to have been defeated now as it has gone viral on the social media. “The suspected drug peddlers may have now gone underground to avoid police action. The secret document of the police is out in the public domain and it not just shows the approach of the police, but also signals that there are some black sheep in the department, which need to be identified,” said Ranjit Singh, ananti-drug crusader.Meanwhile, sources said the police had also prepared a separate list of some suspected drug peddlers, who were considered close to a politician.On this, Kulwant Rai, SP (PBI), Muktsar, said, “The list of suspected drug peddlers has gone viral on the social media. We are trying to identify the man who leaked it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-trade-list-of-suspects-leaked-online-124094
09-08-2020||Patiala||SGPC president Longowal protests inaction in Patiala missing ‘saroop’ case||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal today criticised Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur for their “silence” on the theft of a Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ from Gurdwara Ardaspura Sahib at Kalyan village in Patiala.Holding a dharna in front of the SSP office here, the SGPC president said it was shocking that even after 17 days of the theft, the CM and the Patiala MP had not spoken a word condemning the incident.He said the police should immediately act and arrest those responsible for the crime. He said, “If this was not done, the SGPC will be forced to protest to ensure justice in the case.” The SGPC president, along with delegation members, submitted a memorandum at the SSP office demanding recovery of the ‘saroop’ and arrest of the culprits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-president-longowal-protests-inaction-in-patiala-missing-saroop-case-124095
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||AAP dissolves core committee, district units||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has dissolved its organisational structure, including the core committee, all wings and district units, in order to strengthen its base in Punjab under the ‘Mission-2022’.In a statement, state president Bhagwant Mann and incharge of Punjab affairs Jarnail Singh said the decision was taken after a series of meetings at the district, constituency, wing and state levels. Jarnail Singh said the post of party state president, held by Bhagwant Mann, would remain intact till the time a new structure was announced.Mann said based on the feedback garnered from all over the state, fresh responsibilities and roles would be given to competent, loyal and hardworking volunteers and leaders so that AAP emerged as a strong and organised team to fight the big electoral battle in 2022. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-dissolves-core-committee-district-units-124096
09-08-2020||---||Centre grants Rs110 cr for tech hub at IIT-Ropar||Tribune News ServiceRopar, August 8The Central Government today approved Rs 110 crore to set up a technology innovation hub in the domain of agriculture and water at the IIT-Ropar.The Agriculture and Water Technology Development Hub (AWaDH) aims to bring solutions for stubble management, water quality improvement, mapping of hazardous substances in water and soil, and their treatment. The prime objective will be to make agriculture a profitable industry with highly optimised resource intake.To help farmers improve yieldThe IIT-Ropar will develop technologies and agricultural practices which can improve yield and minimise hazardous substances. To achieve the goal, the team will connect with farmers, listen to their problems and come up with viable and technology-based economic solutions.Sarit K Das, Director, IIT-Ropar, said, “In a world propelled by technology, cyber physical system is an integrated system involving sensors, communication, actuators, control, interconnected computing networks and data analytics, which help in developing solutions and technical support for scientific breakthroughs related to agriculture and water.”Pushpendra P Singh, hub coordinator, said, “Unfortunately, along with the success of the Green Revolution in India, th quality of soil and water and overall agricultural environment suffered degradation due to excessive use of fertilisers, water and pesticides in order to grow more per hectare.” He said, “If agriculture goes wrong, nothing else will have a chance to go right in the country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-grants-rs110-cr-for-tech-hub-at-iit-ropar-124097
09-08-2020||---||Now, lighter, more efficient coaches on way||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, August 8The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, is working to reduce the weight of Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches, which will make them more efficient, help in saving energy and increase the speed of trains.An LHB coach weighs around 46 tonne. It is one of the lightest coaches running in trains across the world.Several design improvements have been made to the LHB coach shell, furnishings and electrical fittings to reduce weight. These improvements have made AC first class, AC-2 tier, AC-3 tier, sleeper and general coaches lighter by 7 quintal to 1.5 tonne.The RCF said, “By bringing in changes in seats and berths, reduction in weight of 3 quintal, 6 quintal and 6.7 quintal will be achieved in AC first class, AC-2 tier and AC-3 tier coaches, respectively. Three quintal weight will be reduced by changing material of the AC unit. Replacing partition frame of the sleeper and general coaches with light honeycomb structures will result in substantial reduction of weight in the coaches. A provision has been made to reduce weight through design and structural changes in bio-tanks, transformers and switchboard cabinets, among others.”By adequate weight reduction, haulage cost will be reduced, which in turn, will save energy. The number of coaches per train can also be increased.With the Indian Railways aiming to increase the speed of trains, these light weight LHB coaches will contribute to faster train travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-lighter-more-efficient-coaches-on-way-124098
09-08-2020||---||Three Dalit children beaten up over theft||Tribune News ServiceMoga, August 8Accusing three children of a poor Dalit family of stealing mobile phones, sleuths of the Moga police allegedly beat them up mercilessly at the Ajitwal police station a couple of days ago. They also beat up the mother of the children who went to the police station along with her husband to enquire about her children.The issue came to light when the father of the children Jagjit Singh, a labourer, gave a written complaint to SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill, demanding legal action against SHO Jaswinder Singh and ASI Balwinder Singh. He alleged that the ASI committed atrocities on his children in the presence of the SHO at the police station.“The ASI took my three children in the lock-up and removed their clothes. He started beating them up along with other cops. My wife pushed the door of the lock-up to open it. She was surprised to see that her children were naked and the cops were assaulting them. The cops also started beating her up”, he alleged.“They were released on the condition that I will not take them to a government hospital for check-up,” he said.Talking to a section of media, ASI Balwinder Singh denied the reports of assaulting the Dalit woman and her children.The SSP did not respond to the calls. However, it is learnt that he had marked an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-dalit-children-beaten-up-over-theft-124099
09-08-2020||Abohar||Capt Amarinder Singh orders probe into death of Abohar lecturer||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered an inquiry into the death of Dr Parwinder Kamboj (45), a college lecturer in Abohar, who had breathed his last in the Faridkot hospital.Neeta Dhanju Kamboj, wife of the victim, had written on Facebook that she and her husband had decided to get tested for Covid after Parwinder developed mild fever. She flayed the Health Department for poor services and insensitivity.The CM also marked a probe to the Muktsar DC after Anu Bala, a student of a private school in Malout, complained to him that her school had kept her notebooks and were not letting her take them back till she paid the school fee. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-orders-probe-into-death-of-abohar-lecturer-124100
09-08-2020||Sameer Singh||Seeking food, Covid patients climb atop Bathinda building||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 8Enraged over allegedly not being provided food on time, patients at a Covid centre in Bathinda climbed atop the building and raised slogans against the government today.A video clip has gone viral on social media platforms where nearly a dozen patients at Meritorious School Covid Centre, Bathinda, can be seen raising slogans and demanding food from the authorities. In the video, a few patients threatened to the jump from the terrace, if they were not provided food.Video goes viralA few patients even claimed that they were not infected with the virus, but were being kept there for no reason. A few city-based NGOs have been providing food to Covid patients.Dr Amrik Sandhu, civil surgeon, said as the number of patients at the centre was more, there was a delay in providing food. “The district administration can better comment on the matter as they are directly dealing with the food delivery at Covid centres,” he said.SDM Amarinder Singh Tiwana said, “We make sure that food is being sent to the Covid patients on time. Yesterday, more than 60 patients were admitted to the centre which took time for cooking and sending food there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-food-covid-patients-climb-atop-bathinda-building-124101
