09-05-2020||Lalit Mohan||Will welcome Sumedh Saini after corona-crisis is over: Bilaspur police||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 9After they did not allow former DGP of Punjab, Sumedh Singh Saini from entering Himachal Pradesh some days ago, the Bilaspur police on their official page have posted a message offering to welcome the decorated top cop into the state after coronavirus-crisis was over.On its official page, Bilaspur SP Dewakar Sharma has posted: “We have great regards for Sumedh Singh Saini Sir. His courage, undaunting bravery, leadership and professionalism during those peak days of turbulent times inspires many including myself. For this he will remain role model for many. Nation still remembers his contribution in establishing in Punjab and we hold him in high esteem.”On May 7, at 4 am Bilaspur police had turned back by Sumedh Singh Saini from the state border, who along with two others was going to his Karsog property. The former DGP of Punjab was not allowed to enter Himachal Pradesh by Bilaspur police as he did not have permission to travel during curfew hours from competent authorities.Also read: Ex-DGP booked in 29-yr-old case; denied entry into HimachalNo relief to Saini till Monday as Mohali court reserves order on anticipatory bail pleaNo question of political interference in case against ex-DGP Saini: Capt AmarinderLater, it came to the fore that Punjab police have registered a case on May 6 evening against the former DGP and he might have been trying to go to Himachal to escape arrest.Punjab police had registered a case against Sumedh Saini in connection with disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. The case was registered under Sections 364, 201, 344, 330 and 120 B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-welcome-sumedh-saini-after-corona-crisis-is-over-bilaspur-police-82606
09-05-2020||---||Captain Amarinder advances paddy sowing, transplantation by 10 days in view of concerns over labour shortage||Chandigarh, May 9Responding to concerns expressed by farmers with respect to labour shortage, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Saturday, announced advancement in paddy nursery sowing and transplantation dates by 10 days.The operations will now commence on May 10 and June 10, respectively, instead of the dates earlier fixed (May 20) by the Agriculture Department for sowing of paddy nursery, and June 20 for paddy transplantation during the current Kharif season as recommended by Punjab Agricultural University.Farmers had raised concerns about meeting the cultivation/sowing requirements in view of labour shortage resulting from migrant labourers returning to their homes in view of the COVID-19 crisis.Describing these concerns as understandable, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said it was in the interest of farmers to push the dates ahead by 10 days.Underlining the need to adopt the latest practice of Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR), as well as mechanised paddy transplantation technologies, Chief Minister Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed ACS (Development) Viswajeet Khanna to harness the services of the extension staff of the Agriculture Department to provide all technical support to farmers.The farmers should be helped in making effective use of paddy transplanters and DSR machinery, he said, adding that this advanced technology would be instrumental in filling  the gap created by shortage of migrant labour.Further, to facilitate farmers in ensuring timely transplantation of paddy, Captain Amarinder Singh also directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to make necessary arrangements for facilitating uninterrupted power supply to the agriculture sector in this period.According to the ACS (Development), since farmers had adopted short duration varieties, which mature in about 100 days, shifting transplantation to before mid-June would lead to very early maturation of paddy crop, thus exposing it to vagaries of the receding monsoon in the second half of September.Excessively early transplantation of paddy also led to depletion of the already precarious water table, Khanna added.Khanna said local labour was expected to come forward to take up farm jobs during paddy transplantation, as had been the case also in the wheat procurement operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-advances-paddy-sowing-transplantation-by-10-days-in-view-of-concerns-over-labour-shortage-82605
09-05-2020||New Delhi||Coronavirus: Delhi Sikh body announces life insurance cover for staff providing relief services||The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Saturday announced an insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh for its employees at the forefront of the coronavirus fight in case of death due to the disease.As the country battles the COVID-19 pandemic, the DSGMC has been providing free food to the lockdown-hit homeless people and shelter to health workers in its gurudwaras.It will now provide an insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh each to its 2,500 frontline workers who are providing free community meals, and sanitation and transport-related services across the national capital, its president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said.Staff members of the DSGMC-managed gurudwaras have been distributing food and relief material in JJ colonies, labour camps, shelter homes, etc., as a result of which there is a risk of them contracting the novel coronavirus, Sirsa said.The life insurance scheme will include sanitation staff, cooks preparing langar, religious preachers, security staff and other frontline workers tasked with distributing food."We salute the efforts of our frontline workers to provide services to mankind at the ground level amid the coronavirus threat,” he said.The DSGMC has been taking care of accommodation and food requirements of around 200 doctors, nurses and other healthcare staffers involved in treating COVID-19 patients. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-delhi-sikh-body-announces-life-insurance-cover-for-staff-providing-relief-services-82595
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider home delivery of liquor, wives of Cong leaders urge Punjab CM||Fearing a surge in cases of domestic violence, wives of two Punjab Congress leaders, including a cabinet minister, have urged Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to reconsider his government's decision of allowing home delivery of liquor.The state government had allowed the home delivery of liquor during the third phase of the coronavirus lockdown from Thursday.Though there is no provision for it in the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 and the excise rules, the decision was taken to ensure social distancing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh too on Thursday had said that the opening of liquor shops will lead to an increase in domestic violence.Also read: Punjab ministers walk out of meeting on liquor policy as Chief Secy's remarks don’t go down well with FMExpressive reservations about the decision, Mamta Ashu, a Ludhiana councillor and wife of Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, on Saturday, said the fight against drugs was an election promise of the Congress due to which the decision needed a rethink.Respected @capt_amarinder sir. we know fight against drugs was our election promise,we should rethink our decision of opening liquor vends for home delivery. It might lead to increase in cases of domestic violence during ongoing lockdown. Even contractors not willing to open them  “It might lead to an increase in cases of domestic violence during the ongoing lockdown. Even contractors not willing to open them,” Mamta Ashu tweeted on Saturday.Similarly, the wife of Congress' Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring too requested for a rethink.Amrita Warring on Friday tweeted that the decision may lead to an increase in cases of domestic violence while slamming the previous SAD-BJP government of ‘destroying families'.“Respected @capt_amarinder ji, It is my humble request to kindly reconsider your decision to start Home Delivery of alcohol in Punjab. This will also lead to an increase in domestic violence. Previous @Akali_Dal_ Govt has already destroyed families with alcohol & drug abuse,” she tweeted. PTIRespected @capt_amarinder ji,It is my humble request to kindly reconsider your decision to start Home Delivery of alcohol in Punjab.This will also lead to increase in domestic violence.Previous @Akali_Dal_ Govt has already destroyed families with alcohol & drug abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reconsider-home-delivery-of-liquor-wives-of-cong-leaders-urge-punjab-cm-82593
09-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||No relief to Saini till Monday as Mohali court reserves order on anticipatory bail plea||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 9The district courts here on Saturday reserved the order on former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s anticipatory bail application till Monday.Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal after hearing the arguments from the petitioner as well as the complainant for about one-and-a-half-hours reserved the order thus denying any relief to Saini till Monday in a fresh FIR registered against him at a Mohali police station in a 29-year-old case.Counsel APS Deol appearing for Sumedh Singh Saini argued that the FIR registered in the matter after 29 years was not maintainable.He said the case registered in the same case has already been dismissed by the apex court in 2011 and added that there was nothing substantial against his Saini. He said there was bar on maintainability of the case filed twice and added that CBI had registered the case under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and now a fresh case had been filed in the police station at Mohali in a hush-hush manner. He said the only thing with the prosecution was a report of ‘Outlook’ magazine in December 2015.Pardeep Virk, counsel appearing for Palwinder Singh Multani, complainant in the 29-year-old case, argued that Supreme Court while quashing the FIR registered by the CBI about 9 years ago had made it clear that recourse to fresh proceedings could be taken to, if permissible in law. He said for fresh investigation the custodial interrogation of Saini was must as two investigating officers have already died. He added everybody knew how Saini intimidated judges not only of the lower courts but also of higher courts to turn the case in his favour. Virk said even UN Human Rights Council had slammed the then state government  in 2013  by stating that security officers who committed human rights violations were frequently promoted rather than brought to justice. He said despite curfew in Punjab and lockdown in other states Saini continued to travel without any fear of law. The recent refusal of the Himachal government not allowing him to enter the state was fine example of this, he added.District Attorney Sanjit Batra while filing reply on behalf of the state police opposed the interim bail to the former DGP. He had stated that for fresh investigation the custodial interrogation of Saini was must as two investigating officers have already died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-relief-to-saini-till-monday-as-mohali-court-reserves-order-on-anticipatory-bail-plea-82579
09-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab ministers walk out of meeting on liquor policy as Chief Secy's remarks don’t go down well with FM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9In an unprecedented development on Saturday, Punjab cabinet ministers walked out of a pre-cabinet meeting on liquor policy called at Punjab Bhavan here, following an alleged argument between Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi and Punjab Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh.Objecting to the alleged remarks by the Chief Secretary, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal was the first to walk out of the meeting.Captain Amarinder Singh, I appreciate your efforts in trying to make the PM coordinate COVID activities with CMs. It may help if you would offer the same courtesy to your own colleagues when it comes to affairs of Punjab? https://t.co/3vnXtbsXh9  The meeting was called to discuss the new liquor policy, before it was to be approved in the Cabinet meeting scheduled for Saturday evening. Also read: Controversy arises as Punjab buses bound for Nanded had picked non-pilgrims on the wayBesides the ministers, the meeting was attended by Chief Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Suresh Kumar, and Principal Secretary to the CM, Tejvir Singh.Also read: Reconsider home delivery of liquor, wives of Cong leaders urge Punjab CMThe situation became tense when during the course of discussion, the Chief Secretary made observations about the non-viability of certain suggestions put forth by the ministers. Certain remarks reportedly made by the Chief Secretary were objected to by the Finance Minister, who stood up and left the meeting.Respected @capt_amarinder ji,This type of contumacious behaviour by the Chief Secretary time & again is unacceptable.He has regularly disregarded our cabinet ministers & their decisionsI request you to kindly remove him from his post immediately.https://t.co/zqd62hVeqC  Later, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa also reportedly made certain observations against the functioning of the Excise Department.Though the senior officials tried to pacify the ministers, they had started leaving the venue. The meeting was to be followed by lunch before the Cabinet meeting. But after the fiasco, the Cabinet meeting was postponed till Monday.The ministers suggested a government department taking control of the unsold vends and certain other changes in the excise policy.The others ministers present at the meeting were Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Balbir Sidhu, Vijay Inder Singla, OP Soni, Brahm Mohindra and Aruna Chaudhary.No officials of the ministers present at the meeting responded to calls.Before leaving, the ministers reportedly expressed anguish over thedelay in finalising the excise policy and bureaucracy calling the shots in decision-making in the government.Meanwhile, Congress' Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said the ministers' reaction was similar to a judge walking out of a court after an argument with an advocate.He attacked the ministers, saying they should also resign for “their incompetent behavior”.“During the coronavirus pandemic, the coordination between the ministers and bureaucrats should be strong. The ministers walking out of the pre-cabinet meeting should resign for their incompetent behavior as many others capable of handling work pressure are ready to replace them,” the Ludhiana MP tweeted.During Corona pandemic, the coordination between Ministers and bureaucrats should be strong but Ministers walking out from a Pre-Cabinet Meeting should might as well resign for their incompetent behavior as Many other Capable of handling Work pressure are ready to replace them. pic.twitter.com/frSWlIHqm2  Later, a government release said the Cabinet meeting will take place on Monday.The statement said the ministers of the state government met officials of the Department of Excise and Taxation to deliberate upon suggested changes in the excise policy for 2020-21.“The discussions were inconclusive. Accordingly, the chief minister asked them to complete their deliberations over the weekend and convey their views in the meeting of the Council of Ministers to be held now on Monday,” said the statement.Ever since the Covid-19 lockdown began, some of the ministers have been reported to be sulking over being ignored in decision-making and the bureaucrats running the show.Due to the social distancing, the ministers have not been able to meet Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and have been interacting through video-conferencing, during cabinet meetings.Liquor vends in Punjab to remain closed as meeting on excise policy remains inconclusiveChandigarh: Liquor vends in Punjab will remain closed for the time being as the meeting between the government and the excise officials to deliberate upon the suggested changes in the Excise Policy on Saturday remained inconclusive.The Excise Policy, 2020-21, is now to come up before the Council of Ministers on Monday.The ministers met the officials of the Department of Excise and Taxation on Saturday to deliberate upon the suggested changes in the Excise Policy.The discussions were inconclusive, so the Chief Minister has asked them to complete their deliberations over the weekend and convey their views at the meeting of the Council of Ministers to be held now on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ministers-walk-out-of-meeting-on-liquor-policy-as-chief-secys-remarks-dont-go-down-well-with-fm-82578
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||31 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths reported in Punjab||Punjab reported two more coronavirus deaths on Saturday, while 31 people tested positive for the infection, bringing the number of cases to 1,762 in the state, according to the state government’s medical bulletin.The fresh fatalities pushed coronavirus-related death toll to 31 in Punjab. There are 1,574 active cases in the state, according to the bulletin.A 62-year-old COVID-19 positive man from Hoshiarpur died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here, said a health official. The man was having respiratory problems, the official added.A COVID-19 patient died at a Ludhiana hospital, the official said.A 59-year-old man—who belonged to Manuke village—tested positive after returning on April 30 from Takht Shri Hazur Sahib, Nanded. He was admitted at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, where he took his last breath.  Among fresh cases reported on Saturday, 17 were in Jalandhar, five in Fatehgarh Sahib, four in Rupnagar, two in Pathankot and one each in Patiala, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin.In Ropar, four Covid cases, including one Nanded returnee, were reported. One patient from Chamkaur Sahib had no travel history. The remaining two had returned from Madhya Pradesh and Jammu.Five coronavirus patients from Jalandhar were discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection. So far, 157 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the state.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 287 cases, followed by 175 in Jalandhar, 157 in Tarn Taran, 125 in Ludhiana, 116 in Gurdaspur, 103 in SBS Nagar, 96 in Patiala, 95 in Mohali, 90 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 56 in Moga, 45 in Faridkot, 43 in Ferozepur, 40 in Bathinda, 39 in Fazilka, 29 in Pathankot, 28 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 24 in Kapurthala, 21 in Barnala, 20 each in Mansa and Rupnagar, the bulletin said.One patient is critical and is on ventilator support, it said.A total of 39,462 samples have been collected in the state so far and 33,639 of them have come out negative and reports of 4,061 are still awaited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/31-fresh-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-reported-in-punjab-82566
09-05-2020||---||Controversy arises as Punjab buses bound for Nanded had picked non-pilgrims on the way||Chandigarh, May 9The Punjab buses on their way to Nanded in Maharashtra in order to bring back the pilgrims had also ferried the Punjabis stuck in various parts of the state en route to Takht Hazur Sahib against their original schedule, which has led to a controversy.These people, along with the pilgrims, then travelled back to Punjab.In a video being circulated on social media, senior Akali leader Prem Singh Chandumajra says he had talked to NCP chief Sharad Pawar to facilitate the movement of Punjabis to the shrine on these buses that were in any case going there.Chandumajra is heard saying that the drivers picked up the Punjabis from different locations en route to the shrine. The buses were originally supposed to reach the shrine straight with no midway stopovers.Challenging the Shiromani Akali Dal to come clean on Chandumajra’s statement, Punjab Cooperatives Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the pilgrims had been blamed for no fault of theirs. “Who made the non-pilgrims join the pilgrims before proceeding to Punjab? The Akalis have some explaining to do,” he said.Meanwhile, the Punjab government has blamed the Maharashtra administration for the increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the state owing to the pilgrims returning from Nanded.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said though the state government is testing all those returning from the shrine for coronavirus, it was the Maharashtra government's duty to strictly implement the central government guidelines for containing the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/controversy-arises-as-punjab-buses-bound-for-nanded-had-picked-non-pilgrims-on-the-way-82561
09-05-2020||Muktsar||7 flee quarantine centre, booked||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-flee-quarantine-centre-booked-82558
09-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||Students rush to Punjabi University campus after being asked to vacate hostels||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9Students and their local guardians rushed to the Punjabi University campus on Saturday morning to collect their belongings from hostels after the district administration decided to use them as ‘Covid care isolation centres’.The administration, meanwhile, ensured order and social distancing.The district administration had decided to convert the hostels - Baba Banda Singh Bahadur boys’ hostel, Bebe Nanki hostel and Mai Bhago girls’ hostels as quarantine centres on April 15, around 25 days ago.Later, the university directed the students to vacate the hostels on Friday night. As a result, frantic over losing their belongings, the students rushed to the hostels on Saturday morning.“The hostels should not be turned into quarantine centres. The universities will not open anytime soon if many people are affected due to the epidemic and this will delay academic activity with no alternative option at hand,” a student said.Nikhil, a resident of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur hostel said, “I am a resident of Himachal Pradesh. I can’t come on my own due to short notice and lockdown. I have had to send my local resident friend to collect the belongings.”Arsh, another resident of one of the hostels, had to send the local guardian to collect the belongings. “This has put the local guardian in a difficult position who had to venture out in old age amid the pandemic,” the student said.Prof Tara Singh, dean, student welfare, said the students are maintaining social distancing. “Security officers are on duty and students are being sent one by one.” He said the university got only one day to clear the three hostels from the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-rush-to-punjabi-university-campus-after-being-asked-to-vacate-hostels-82551
09-05-2020||---||Punjab Police arrest another Pak-linked ‘most notorious drug smuggler Cheeta' from Sirsa||Amritsar, May 9 Notorious drug peddler Ranjit Singh, alias Cheeta, was nabbed by the Amritsar Police from Begu village of Sirsa in Haryana.Amritsar Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill confirmed the development. He said he was nabbed following interrogation of his cousins detained recently for allegedly handing over money to Hizbul operative Hilal Ahmad Wagey.Ranjit was wanted in the seizure of 532 kg of heroin by the Customs last year.Also read: Pakistan-linked ‘most wanted’ gangster Billa Mandiala arrested along with 6 othersIn a tweet, Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta on Saturday said Ranjeet Rana 'Cheeta', who was wanted in 532 kg heroin haul from the Indo-Pakistan border in June last year, was arrested from Haryana's Sirsa town.He was one of the biggest drug smugglers of India."Following up further on arrests of Hizbul operatives in J&K and Punjab, Punjab Police juggernaut moved further to nab Ranjeet of Amritsar, one of the biggest drug smugglers of India from Sirsa today," Gupta said.Following up further on arrests of Hizbul operatives in J&K & Punjab, Punjab Police juggernaut moved further to nab Ranjeet @Rana @Cheeta of Amritsar, one of the biggest drug smugglers of India from Sirsa today. Cheeta was wanted in 532 kg heroin haul from Attari in June 2019. pic.twitter.com/tB9D01OtRa  Ranjeet Rana & his brother Gagandeep@Bhola arrested from Begu village in Sirsa, Haryana.Ranjit Rana@Cheeta, suspected to have smuggled in heroin & other drugs from Pakistan, camouflaged in as many as 6 rock salt consignments through ICP Amritsar between 2018-2019. @CMOPb pic.twitter.com/2xcyl2VgkN  "Cheeta was wanted in 532 kg heroin haul from Attari in June 2019." The DGP said Ranjeet Rana and his brother Gagandeep were arrested from Begu village in Sirsa.Ranjeet is suspected to have smuggled heroin and other drugs from Pakistan, camouflaged in six rock salt consignments through the Integrated Check Post at the Attari border, some 30 km from Amritsar, he said.In the biggest seizure of narcotics coming from Pakistan in recent years, the Customs Department on June 30, 2019, seized 532 kg heroin valued at nearly Rs 2,600 crore from the Attari border.The heroin was concealed in gunny bags of a rock salt consignment that was coming from Pakistan.Smuggling of drugs along Punjab's 553-km long border with Pakistan is common.With inputs from IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-arrest-another-pak-linked-most-notorious-drug-smuggler-cheeta-from-sirsa-82542
09-05-2020||Frankfurt Am Main||Indian faces trial for spying on Sikhs and Kashmiris in Germany||An Indian national will stand trial in Germany accused of spying on Sikh and Kashmiri communities for New Delhi's Secret Service, a court said Friday.Federal prosecutors allege the suspect, identified as 54-year-old Balvir, has been working with the Indian foreign intelligence agency Research & Analysis Wing since 2015."He allegedly provided information about figures in the Sikh opposition scene and the Kashmiri movement and their relatives in Germany, and passed this on to his handlers who were working at the Indian consulate general in Frankfurt," the higher regional court in the city said in a statement.The trial will open on August 25.The same Frankfurt court convicted an Indian couple for spying on the same communities last December. — AFP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indian-faces-trial-for-spying-on-sikhs-and-kashmiris-in-germany-82541
09-05-2020||Karam Prakash||ASHA workers engaged in Covid-19 battle to get extra incentive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9The foot soldiers of the fight against COVID-19 — accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers — will now get Rs 2,500 monthly incentive for extra efforts they put in for the battle against coronavirus, which has claimed hundreds of lives.The Punjab National Health Mission (NHM) announced that they would get Rs 1,500 for the house-to-house corona survey while Rs 1,000 for "extra work" of handling the other corona related updating. The incentive for door-to-door survey will be given from April to June while incentives for other work will be paid to them from the month of January to June. The announcement came after The Tribune highlighted that ASHA workers were not being paid for their extra work during the corona time.   Besides, the state government has also announced a financial help of Rs 10,000 – in case ASHA worker or AHSA facilitator get the corona infection. Notably, four ASHA workers, few days ago, have already been tested positive for coronavirus in Moga.       ASHA workers plays a vital role in awareness, data collection and surveillance at the rural level. In fact, each ASHA worker has to visit around 30-50 households daily to create awareness about Coronavirus and collect data for the health department. Moreover, regular advisories issued by the health department are also being conveyed to each household at villages by ASHA workers only.    Meantime, if an ASHA worker or ASHA facilitator dies due to coronavirus in the line of the duty, their family members will get Rs 50 lakh, says NHM -- in a letter to all the Civil Surgeons.  Paramjeet Maan, ASHA worker union president, said, “Finally, the government paid heed to our demand of paying for the corona duty. We are thankful to them. We had to hold silent protest for our demands, but we never stopped our work.”  Director, National Health Mission Punjab, Dr Parvinder Sidhu said, “They are actually working day and night. The government, therefore, has decided to give them incentives for their extraordinary work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-engaged-in-covid-19-battle-to-get-extra-incentive-82538
09-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Despite completing quarantine, Hazur Sahib returnees refuse to leave centre||Tarn Taran, May 8The district administration on Friday faced the wrath of Hazur Sahib returnees, who despite completing the 14-day isolation period at the Mai Bhago quarantine centre here, refused to leave the place in instalments. They said they would leave the place in one go.Of the 167 returnees, the maximum numbers of Covid-19 were detected from this centre. All the devotees staying here were returned from Nanded Sahib. At present, there are 60 Nanded returnees at the centre. The administration wanted to send seven of them home on Friday. Relatives of the returnees criticised the administration over the move and said they would take up the matter with higher authorities.At the Mamta Niketan School centre, 14 of the 49 returnees were sent homes.In another report, 27 Nanded returnees were sent to their homes from Guru Anged Dev College quarantine centre at Khadoor Sahib. Rajesh Sharma, SDM, Khadoor Sahib, today gave certificates of fitness to the persons for completing their quarantine period. The returnees were served food by Baba Sewa Singh head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib. Baba Baldev Singh, follower of the sect, said the returnees were sent in buses arranged by the sect. Baba Sewa Singh blessed the returnees with long and happy life.The administration was tightlipped over the development. Dr Anoop Kumar, Civil Surgeon, did not respond to the calls made to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-completing-quarantine-hazur-sahib-returnees-refuse-to-leave-centre-82420
09-05-2020||Amid lockdown||Milkfed witnesses record  hike in procurement||Considering perishable nature of milk, you had different set of challenges. How did you manage?After milking, milk has to be transported and chilled in the next 2-3 hours. We were prepared to some extent and it helped in smooth running of plants.How did you manage to keep the lines open for procurement and supply?There are four steps involved in milk business — production, procurement, processing and marketing. All of them are vital. I ensured unrestricted movement of dairy farmers to cooperative societies where milk is collected. Further, we had to get curfew passes for around 15,000 workers, cooperative members and field functionaries. The support from the government helped in sorting out things.How did you manage to retail milk?That was a big issue. However, we managed it from the very first day. We supply milk to distributors. Then there is a vast network of around 12,000 small retailers for door-to-door delivery or through milk bars. With the help of district administrations, we activated all channels across the state.How many plants do you have and what is the processing capacity?We have 12 plants with a capacity to handle 27.50 lakh litres per day. At one time, our procurement went up by 40%. On an average, we are getting 25 lakh litres per day, an increase of 22.4% over last year. During the lockdown period, we were working beyond capacity. We had to hire four private milk plants for processing. At the same time, consumption of fresh milk and milk products went down by around 20%.Which products witnessed increase in sales?We witnessed decline in sale of milk, curd and lassi as most of the establishments, shops and institutions were closed. However, we witnessed an increase in sale of ghee (22%), butter (6%), skimmed milk powder (SMP) by 17% and UHT milk (572%) during March 23 to May 7.As procurement was up and consumption down, how did you manage the extra milk?Due to increase in procurement and decrease in milk utilisation, we had to convert 7.5 lakh litres into SMP and white butter daily. Thus, we have manufactured additional 3,150 MT of SMP and 1,900 MT of white butter during these days. This cost us Rs 150 crore. We borrowed Rs 246 crore so that farmers are paid remunerative prices on time.Besides procurement, you ensured farmers didn’t face shortage of cattle feed. How did you do that?Initially, there were reports of disruption in movement of cattle feed. We requested the DGP and the problem was resolved. We have two cattle feed plants where we were producing 500 tonnes per day and the capacity utilisation rose to over 100%.What are lessons learnt from the pandemic?Firstly, we have to become big so that we can withstand these kinds of emergencies and augment farmers’ income. Secondly, we have to focus on our efficiency and tap alternate sources of marketing such as e-commerce. We have tied up with Swiggy and Zomato for home delivery and looking at similar tie-ups with other e-tailers. Thirdly, consumers should use products which are hygienically made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/milkfed-witnesses-record-hike-in-procurement-82509
09-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Four more test +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib, informed that four new persons tested Covid positive in the district on Friday. With this the count of positive patients has reached 23.He said those tested positive include a 34-year-old youth, a resident of Khamano, who was a primary contact of Hazur Sahib pilgrim, 28-year-old of Shehjadpur village with a travel history of Madhya Pradesh, another 28-year-old, a resident of Kotla village having a travel history of Gujarat and a 42-year-old of Behrampur, who has a travel history of Haryana. All have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. A pilgrim from Hazur Sahib, who had tested negative on Thursday has tested positive now, he said. He has also been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital. He said out of 23 patients, 14 are pilgrims, one is a close contact of a bus driver and six are combine operators.District Magistrate Amrit Kaur Gill has declared Adarsh Nagar as a hotspot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-more-test-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-82330
09-05-2020||Mohali||Singer Vadda Grewal walks out of jail on bail||Punjabi singer Gurinderpal Singh, popularly known as Vadda Grewal, was released on bail on the orders of a Mohali court today. He was arrested by the Mohali police on April 15 for possessing 30 gm of opium. According to the police, he was admitted to a hospital in Sohana following drug overdose.Grewal’s counsel, GS Ghuman, and GPS Ghuman had filed his bail plea before the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur.GS Ghuman and GPS Ghuman argued that there were a few loopholes in the police investigation. They said, “The time stated by the police for getting information to register the case was only around 45 minutes, which is questionable as it’s not possible to complete the investigation of an NDPS case in such a short span of time. Secondly, the drug was recovered from his bag placed in a room, and not from his physical possession. The police had not taken any written opinion from the doctor about his drug overdose. Also, the medical reports of Grewal are yet to come.”They also alleged that Grewal was a good friend of singer Elly Mangat, who had already complained against the police about his custodial torture. They added this might be the reason that Grewal was falsely implicated in the case by the Sohana police. Grewal was lodged in a special quarantine jail in Barnala since April 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singer-vadda-grewal-walks-out-of-jail-on-bail-82333
09-05-2020||Aditi Tandon||7 Punjab hospitals, PGI picked for carrying out plasma trials||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 8In a major boost to health research in the region, seven hospitals from Punjab and the PGI in Chandigarh have been selected as part of the ICMR’s nationwide trial to determine if convalescent plasma therapy could work in critical Covid-19 patients.Govt: Have to learn to live with virusNo case in 216 districts: Health MinistryOnly 28 sites have been selected for the trial to be held across hospitals in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, UP, Karnataka, Telangana and Chandigarh.Read also:  Ludhiana’s Satguru Pratap Singh Hospital, Christian Medical College and Dayanand Medical College, Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, Government Medical College, Patiala, and Amritsar’s Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and Government Medical College will be part of the trial approved by the Drug Controller General of India and the National Ethics Committee of the government.“SPS Hospital in Ludhiana is the same facility where ACP Anil Kohli was admitted when he was found Covid positive. We had wanted to try plasma therapy on him but were constrained by time,” said KK Talwar, Advisor to Punjab Government. ACP Kohli had later succumbed to the virus.The ICMR trial is titled “Trial to assess the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit Covid-19 associated complications in moderate disease.” The sample size for the study is 452, ICMR said. The therapy will involve the use of antibody rich plasma from the blood donated by cured Covid patients for the currently critical patients.The trial comes at a time when the count touched 56,342 today with 3,390 fresh cases. The fatalities rose to 1,886 seeing a rise of 103 over 24 hours.Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal today said, “If we comply with the lockdown measures, we can avoid a peak but even if one person fails us, we will see a spike in cases.” There are 216 districts in which no COVID-19 case has been reported to date, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-punjab-hospitals-pgi-picked-for-carrying-out-plasma-trials-82417
09-05-2020||Amritsar||Day later, 2 more linked to Naikoo aide arrested||A day after the arrest of two accomplices of Hizb operative Hilal Ahmad Wagay, two more persons linked to the alleged drug-terror nexus were nabbed by the police today.Wagay was an associate of Hizb commander Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo, who was gunned down in south Kashmir on Wednesday. Ranjit Singh and Jaswant Singh, both residents of Kalanaur (Gurdaspur), were produced in a local court, which remanded them in four-day police custody. Wagay was sent to judicial custody.Sleuths, including those of the NIA, grilled Hilal and others, it is learnt. Hilal was arrested with alleged drug money near a shopping mall on the Amritsar-Attari road when he, along with Rayees Ahmad of Anantnag, was travelling in a truck on April 25. Ahmad’s role could not be ascertained.Yesterday, the police had arrested Hilal’s associates Bikram Singh, alias Vicky, and his brother Maninder Singh, both residents of Guru Amardass Avenue here, and seized 1 kg heroin and Rs 32 lakh cash.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said preliminary probe pointed towards drug money from Punjab being used in fuelling terror in Kashmir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-later-2-more-linked-to-naikoo-aide-arrested-82444
09-05-2020||Mohali||Sumedh Saini moves Mohali court for anticipatory bail||Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini today moved a Mohali court, seeking anticipatory bail in a 29-year-old abduction case. He sought a stay on his arrest, claiming false implication in the case. Additional District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur issued a notice summoning records from the police.A case was registered at the Mataur police station on Wednesday against Saini and seven others on Palwinder Singh Multani’s complaint that his brother Balwant Singh was kidnapped and killed by Saini and policemen under his command in 1991. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-saini-moves-mohali-court-for-anticipatory-bail-82447
09-05-2020||Sangrur||Sunam administration reclaims 3 acres from encroachers||With the help of Sunam Congress Halqa incharge Daman Thind Bajwa, Singhpura village panchayat was able to redeem their land today.“From the last 40 years, the Singhpura village panchayat land had been under the illegal possession of area residents. Few months back, in Sunam constituency, I had identified crores of panchayat land which were possessed illegally and launched a special drive, wherein we freed 3 acre of land worth Rs10 crore from the possession of illegal holders,” said Bajwa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunam-administration-reclaims-3-acres-from-encroachers-82297
09-05-2020||---||Kabaddi player shot by ASI in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, May 8An ASI allegedly shot dead a 27-year-old international kabaddi player at Lakhan Ke Padde village in Kapurthala last night. The accused and his accomplice have been arrested.The victim, Arvinderjit Singh (27), who had played many kabaddi tournaments in England, Canada and the US, allegedly had an altercation with ASI Paramjit Singh over the latter’s car parked at the village.Paramjit Singh, who was posted at Dhilwan police station in Kapurthala, has been dismissed from the service. He had opened fire at the player and his friend Pardeep from his licensed .32 bore revolver. While Arvinderjit died on the spot, Pardeep sustained injuries.An FIR under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered at Subhanpur police station against the ASI and his accomplice. Both have been arrested. Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh said, “The ASI has been dismissed from service. The two groups had an altercation over the parked car of the ASI. During the scuffle, the ASI shot the kabaddi player.”Refuting the charge, Mangal Singh, president of Dashmesh Sports Club, Lakhan Ke Padde, said, “Drug peddlers often visit the village. Last night, when Arvinderjit and his six friends were returning from practice, they spotted a car. When they tried approach it, but it sped away. They chased the vehicle. But the accused opened fire at them without any provocation.”Kulwinder, a friend of Arvinderjit, said, “The villagers are devastated. Since the vehicle had black film on windows, Arvinderjit and his friends suspected that something was wrong. So they chased the car. Arvinderjit had no enmity with anyone. He was the sole breadwinner of this family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kabaddi-player-shot-by-asi-in-kapurthala-82272
09-05-2020||---||Cops ‘torture’ 2 Dalit youths in Sangrur||Sangrur, May 8Gone to file a snatching complaint, two Dalit youths were allegedly tortured at the Sandaur police station for hours.Malerkotla SP Manjit Singh Brar has suspended an ASI and Punjab Home Guards and transferred three police officials to the Police lines.Victims wanted to file snatching plaintOn Wednesday, four persons stopped the vehicle of Simranjit Singh and Lakhvir Singh near Manki village. They claimed that they were police officials and asked the two to accompany them to the police station. But when Simranjit asked them for their identity cards, they started beating him up and snatched Rs20,000 from Lakhvir and fled. — Jagga Singh, former sarpanch of Kasba Bharal village“On Wednesday, four unidentified persons came in a Bolero and intercepted the vehicle of Simranjit Singh and Lakhvir Singh, who are the sons of my two sisters, near Manki village. They claimed that they were police officials and asked the two to accompany them to the police station, saying they wanted to question them in connection with an FIR. But when Simranjit asked them for their identity cards, they started beating him up and snatched Rs 20,000 from Lakhvir and fled,” said Jagga Singh, former sarpanch of Kasba Bharal village.After Jagga Singh and other villagers got to know about the incident, they reached the spot and took the youths to the Sandaur police station on Wednesday evening.But the police allegedly took the two youths inside and did not allow their relatives to enter the police station. “The police pressurised us to confess that no snatching had taken place. When I refused, they started torturing me, while Lakhvir faced their wrath for some time. Drunk officials poured petrol on my private parts, crushed my hands under their shoes, hit my feet with sticks and kept me naked for hours. I request the Chief Minister and the DGP to take strict action against the cops,” said Simranjit Singh.“After our relatives threatened to protest, they released us last evening,” the youths said.“Departmental inquiry will also be conducted,” said the Malerkotla SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-torture-2-dalit-youths-in-sangrur-82274
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bhagwanpuria quizzed in Patiala jail||Notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria was questioned on his alleged links with other gangsters and terror groups in Kashmir, Pakistan and other places in connection with an attack on a Shiv Sena leader and murder of an Akali sapranch, Dalbir Singh Dhilwan.Also, he was asked about the recovery of a mobile phone from him in the Patiala Central Jail. Though senior officials are tight-lipped, sources said Jaggu hinted at a network of gangsters, drugs smugglers and terror groups operating in Kashmir and other places. Bhagwanpuria, who returned to the Patiala jail today, had tested positive for Covid on May 5, though he did not show any symptoms of cough and cold in police custody.Later, his test reports came out negative. He was first questioned in Batala district and later in Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwanpuria-quizzed-in-patiala-jail-82275
09-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||In a first since lockdown, HC constitutes 9 Benches||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8For the first time since the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode more than 50 days back following the outbreak of Covid-19, it today constituted one division and eight single benches to hear urgent and ordinary cases through virtual hearing. In all, the High Court took up no less than 99 cases today through videoconferencing.Available information suggests that the number of Benches may vary in future in accordance with the filing and the workload; and can be more than nine, if required. But the development comes as an indicator of the things to come and the judiciary’s attempt to prevent the period from turning into a “denial of justice phase”.“These are unprecedented times and the prevailing situation is such that could never have been visualised. The High Court, under the circumstances, is working hard to streamline the system. Some of the staff members are sitting late into the night to ensure there is no disconnect between the HC and the advocates appearing before the Benches for virtual hearing.” says a senior High Court functionary.High Court Registrar (Computerisation) Sudeep Goel said: “If somehow, videoconference cannot be connected through any mode, to avoid inconvenience, audio conference/call will be connected by the High Court team with the permission of the Bench concerned,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-first-since-lockdown-hc-constitutes-9-benches-82277
09-05-2020||Balwant Garg||Punjab Govt ends fee disparity in private medical colleges||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 8A week after completing the first round of counselling for admissions in postgraduate medical courses (MD/MS and MDS) in the state, the Department of Medical Education and Research and Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Friday informed all medical and dental colleges about the new amendment the Punjab Private Health Sciences Institutions (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Making of Reservation) Act of 2006.The amendmentAs per the new amendment, the state will regulate admission, fee and reservation in private medical, dental, ayurvedic and homeopathic institutionsAs per the amendment, the state government shall regulate the admission, fix fee and make reservation for different categories in admission to private health sciences educational institutions, which include all medical, dental, Ayurvedic and homeopathic colleges in the state.For 671 MD/MS (clinical and basic) and over 1,100 MBBS seats in the state, there is a huge disparity in the fee structure in private medical colleges.While CMC and DMC, Ludhiana, and Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College, Amritsar, charge Rs 6.5 lakh per annum as tuition fee for MD/MS (clinical), the fee in Adesh Medical College, Bathinda, has been fixed at Rs 14.90 lakh per annum.So far, the fee in Adesh Medical College is determined by the Adesh University Act, 2012. However, in all other private and government medical colleges, it is fixed by the state government. Now, after the new amendment, the fee in Adesh University will also be governed by the state government.Jagdev Singh, registrar, Adesh University, said he had heard about the new amendment but had not got a copy of it so far.Fixation of fee structure and reservation in private colleges had remained a controversial issue. While three government medical colleges in the state charge Rs 4.4 lakh as full-course tuition fee for MBBS, in some private medical colleges, it is up to Rs 70 lakh.The government has exempted Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and CMC, Ludhiana, regarding their reservation policy in minority-category seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-ends-fee-disparity-in-private-medical-colleges-82278
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hike paddy MSP, Capt urges PM||Citing the challenges faced due to labour shortage and the need for ensuring food safety amid the Covid crisis, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday urged PM Narendra Modi to consider an MSP of Rs2,902 per quintal for paddy, along with Rs100 per quintal as incentive bonus, to check stubble burning.In a letter to the PM, the CM said the state had already written to the Ministry of Agriculture, recommending an MSP for paddy atRs2,902 per quintal, as calculated by the PAU, Ludhiana, against the last year’s MSP of Rs1,835 per quintal.“Given the need to ensure food safety, it is imperative that farmers may be given an appropriate price signal by announcing a remunerative MSP for paddy,” stressed Capt Amarinder.The CM underlined the importance of providing farmers a non-burning bonus at a rate of Rs100 per quintal to defray their expenses in handling of paddy straw, thus preventing the burning of paddy stubble. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hike-paddy-msp-capt-urges-pm-82279
09-05-2020||---||No exams for PSEB Class X students||Chandigarh, May 8The students of Class X of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will not have to appear for exams. They will be promoted on the basis of their performance in the pre-boards, said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday.The government has, in fact, decided to promote all students of Classes V to X to the next class without any examination in view of the unprecedented Covid crisis, the CM said.Responding to questions and concerns expressed over various social media platforms over the past few days, the Chief Minister, on Facebook, said for Classes XI and XII, the state would go by the decision of the Union Government.This was the first in a series of such programmes where the CM will be responding, every Friday, to various questions received or issues raised on the issue of Covid and lockdown in the state.In response to a question, Capt Amarinder said there was no question of stopping migrants who wanted to be with their families in these tough times. Of the 13-lakh odd migrants in the state, 10 lakh have registered for going back to their homes. Nearly 35 per cent had later chosen to stay back in Punjab amid signs of opening up of the industry, the CM shared on FB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-exams-for-pseb-class-x-students-82281
09-05-2020||---||Gangster, aides with terror links held||Jalandhar, May 8The police have arrested wanted gangster Baljinder Singh alias Billa, who allegedly had links with “slain” Pakistan-based KLF chief Harmeet Singh Happy and Germany-based Bagga of the KZF. Baljinder’s five aides have also been nabbed.The arrests were made in a joint operation by the OCCU team from Chandigarh, Counter Intelligence, Jalandhar unit and the Kapurthala police last night. Besides Billa, those arrested have been identified as Sukhjinder Singh of Kamoke Beas village in Amritsar; Mohit Sharma of Kapurthala, Lovepreet Singh alias Lovely of Amarkot in Tarn Taran; and Mangal Singh and Maninderjeet Singh alias Happy.Billa was wanted in more than 18 criminal cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder anddrug smuggling.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police had recovered highly sophisticated weapons, smuggled from Pakistan. The recoveries included two .30 bore drum machine guns, three pistols (marked SIG Sauer made in Germany), two glock pistols (made in Austria), two .30 bore pistols, one .32 bore pistol, one .315 bore rifle, 341 cartridges and two drum magazines, 14 pistol magazines along with Rs 3 lakh and 100 Australian dollars.Terming it one of the biggest caches of highly sophisticated weapons from a gang, Gupta said the SIG Sauer pistols are in fact being used by members of US Secret Service, which protects the top US leaders, especially the President.The DGP said they were investigating the role of militants in the supply chain of illegal weapons. Vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner, Etios Lava and Alto cars, and some fake documents were also seized.Rich haulThe recovery includes two .30 bore drum machine guns, three pistols (marked SIG Sauer made in Germany), two glock pistols (made in Austria), two .30 bore pistols, one .32 bore pistol, one .315 bore rifle, 341 cartridges and two drum magazines, 14 pistol magazines along with Rs3 lakh and 100 Australian dollars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-aides-with-terror-links-held-82292
09-05-2020||Abohar||2 held for procuring fake curfew pass||Class III kid donates piggy bank savingsMuktsar: A student of Class III donated his piggy bank savings to Muktsar SSP Rajbachan Singh Sandhu for the Covid relief work going on in the district. In a sweet gesture, Gurkaranveer Singh of Alamwala village in Malout subdivision got a mug from the SSP as a token of appreciation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-procuring-fake-curfew-pass-82295
09-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Most vends shut in Punjab, new policy on cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8Succumbing to the pressure by the powerful liquor lobby, the state government has decided to come out with a new excise policy. The matter will be taken up during a Cabinet meeting scheduled for Saturday.Other than Mohali and some parts of Ropar, contractors across the state have refused to open vends till the issue of licence fee was not resolved.On the cards now is reduction in the quota of liquor the contractors have to sell, compensation for the days lost in the last financial year because of lockdown and starting the time period of the policy from May 7, rather than April 1. The excise department has been asked to submit details of the impact of lockdown on the execution of the policy.A meeting of the Council of Ministers was held today, wherein the demands of liquor contractors were discussed. A delegation of contractors from Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Patiala and Bathinda had held a meeting Excise and Taxation Commissioner Vivek Pratap Singh earlier in the day and sought financial concessions, before they resumed operations.Sources said the loss in revenue incurred by the excise department for the last nine days of March was Rs 600 crore on account of non-payment of licence fee. The contractors, meanwhile, reiterated that they would not open vends till the financial relief was announced. “It is a misconception that liquor sales will peak in Punjab when vends open, as it happened in other states. The few vends that opened saw no rush at all,” said Anil Mahajan, a contractor from Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-vends-shut-in-punjab-new-policy-on-cards-82273
09-05-2020||---||Pizza outlet starts home delivery, 2 managers booked||Bathinda, May 8The Bathinda police registered a case against two employees of a Domino's Pizza outlet for allegedly violating curfew orders by starting home delivery of food in the city.The police said they got a tip-off that the outlet was delivering pizzas in the city. They conducted a raid and arrested manager Sanjay Kumar of Kamla Nehru Colony and supervising manager Manish Baghel, a resident of DD Mittal Tower in the city. However, they were released on bail later.The duo were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to the life), and Sections 51 and 52 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.Eating joint owners in the city are demanding that they should be allowed to start home delivery of food items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pizza-outlet-starts-home-delivery-2-managers-booked-82269
09-05-2020||---||87 new cases in Punjab, another death in Mohali||Chandigarh, May 8With 87 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 1,731. With one death in SAS Nagar, the total toll has risen to 29.As per the media bulletin, Gurdaspur topped the chart with 24 cases today followed by SBS Nagar with 18 cases, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran and Amritsar 11 cases each, Kapurthala five, Fatehgarh Sahib four, and Mansa, Bathinda and Barnala one case each.Other than 11 positive cases, reports of 219 persons were received, and all were negative. — Jugal Kishore, Amritsar Civil SurgeonAmritsar reported 11 new cases. The total count of Covid patients in the district has reached 287, the highest in the state. Besides cases of returnees from Nanded, a local resident admitted at a hospital in Patiala has also tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said they had received 219 tests reports which were all negative. He said the condition of all patients at hospitals in the district was stable.Meanwhile, Tarn Taran district reported 11 new positive cases today. With this, the count of patients in the district has reached 157, the third highest in the state. The two border districts, Amritsar and Tarn Taran, account for over 25 per cent of the total cases of Punjab.With 11 more positive cases today, the Jalandhar tally reached 158. Those positive in Jalandhar include three returnees from Nanded, all women, aged 55, 30 and 30.In Kapurthala, five Phagwara residents who returned from Nanded tested positive on Friday. At present, 38 patients are admitted to the Civil Hospital, Phagwara, and their samples have been sent for testing. Their reports are awaited.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 37,950 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 31,219 samples were found negative and reports of 5,000 were still awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/87-new-cases-in-punjab-another-death-in-mohali-82270
09-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||For transfer, extra points if kids in Punjab govt school||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8Enrolling children in a government school will earn extra points for non-teaching staff of Punjab. This was outlined in the new transfer policy for non-teaching employees approved by the Council of Ministers, which met on Friday through videoconferencing. The new policy will be effective from April 1 this year. The transfer policy for teaching staff is already in place.Affecting near 25,000 non-teaching staff, marks for length of service, special category of employees and performance in service would be added to calculate the total points while deciding upon the transfer requests. The employees imparting education in a government school will earn 15 extra points, under the performance head.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said under the policy, schools/offices had been categorised in five zones, and transfers would be carried out only once a year in an objective manner through a merit-based software. The criteria for deciding the merit would be: 95 points for length of service, 55 marks for special category employees and 90 marks for performance, etc.Govt may amend labour lawsIn light of the impact of Covid, the Cabinet discussed changes in the labour laws to help the efforts to revive the state’s battered economy and industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-transfer-extra-points-if-kids-in-punjab-govt-school-82271
