09-10-2020||New Delhi||HC asks Prisons Department to prepare updated list of cases pending against Jagtar Singh Hawara||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Department of Prisons to prepare an updated list of cases pending against Jagtar Singh Hawara, undergoing life sentence for conspiring to assassinate former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh.Hawara has approached the High Court seeking direction to the authorities to update his case details in the prison records, alleging that their inaction is preventing him from exercising his legal rights like parole, furlough and suspension of sentence pending appeal.Delhi Government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing the Department of Prisons, submitted before Justice AJ Bhambhani that as per the information available with the Delhi Prisons, there were 37 cases against Hawara.Mehra along with advocate Chaitanya Gosain said best efforts would be made to collate the list of cases along with their present status after collecting information from various courts outside Delhi and sought four week time for the purpose.The court ordered, “Accordingly let an updated list be prepared and supplied to the petitioner (Hawara) before the next date of hearing.”     A copy will also be placed before the court which listed the matter for further hearing on December 11.Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing Hawara, said due to the prisoner's incarceration, he was unable to track other cases in which he was implicated and hearings were going on.He said due to this he had faced adverse orders in cases outside Delhi as he was unable to be present in the hearings.He added that since dates of hearings are not available with Hawara, who is lodged in Tihar Jail, he may suffer from adverse consequences.Mehra, meanwhile, submitted that they did not have information of all the cases pending against Hawara as most of them were pending in Punjab.Hawara, in his petition filed through advocates Rudro Chatterjee and Shariq Nisar, said neither the authorities were updating the prison record of the cases against him on the basis of documents sought to be supplied by him nor they were making any efforts to procure information about the cases against him.The plea said this had resulted in preventing him from exercising any of his remedies in respect of release from the prison.It added that this is a mandatory duty of the authorities to keep up to date record of all the cases pending against an inmate.Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) terrorist Jagtar Singh Hawara, the mastermind in the killing of Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh in 1995, was sentenced to death penalty on July 31, 2007 by a Punjab court.The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on October 12, 2010 commuted the death penalty of Hawara and sentenced him to life imprisonment "till death" in the Chief Minister's murder case.Seventeen persons, including the then CM, were killed and 15 others were injured in the incident.Hawara, along with five others, had also been awarded seven years jail term in the 2005 Delhi blasts case.In 2004, Hawara had escaped from maximum security jail at Burail in Chandigarh along with two other Sikh prisoners by digging a 90-feet tunnel with his bare hands. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-asks-prisons-department-to-prepare-updated-list-of-cases-pending-against-jagtar-singh-hawara-153363
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh tests negative for COVID-19||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday tested negative for COVID-19, days after he shared the stage with Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu who has tested positive for the virus.“Punjab CM@capt_amarinder’s RT-PCR & RAT (Rapid Antigen Test) #COVID19 tests have both tested negative.“He had shared the stage with his cabinet colleague Balbir Singh Sidhu, who had later tested Covid positive earlier this week,” Amarinder Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted on Friday evening.Sidhu had recently also shared the stage with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The health minister tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.Sidhu was in Sangrur on Monday for “Kheti Bachao Yatra” to take part in a protest against the new farm laws.The event was also attended by Gandhi, Amarinder Singh and other senior Congress leaders.Gandhi had led a series of “tractor rallies” in the state for three days against the new legislations.On Tuesday afternoon, he entered neighbouring Haryana to continue with the protests. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-tests-negative-for-covid-19-153362
09-10-2020||Jammu||Man held with 100 kg poppy in J&K’s Banihal||A bid to smuggle 100 kg poppy into Punjab from Kashmir was foiled on Friday with the arrest of man in Ramban district, police said.During checking of vehicles on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, a police team intercepted a pickup truck at Banihal and found the poppy in it, they said.Gurvinder Singh, who was driving the vehicle, was arrested and the consignment seized, the police said.During preliminary questioning, Singh admitted that he was illegally transporting the poppy from Kashmir to Punjab.A case was registered at the Banihal police station and an investigation taken up, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-with-100-kg-poppy-in-jks-banihal-153361
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||35 more COVID-19 deaths, 829 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 35 more COVID-19 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 3,773, while 829 new cases took the state’s infection tally to 1,22,459 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.The latest fatalities reported in the state include five coronavirus deaths each in Gurdaspur and Pathankot, four each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, three each in Kapurthala, Mohali and Muktsar, two each in Patiala and Rupnagar and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana and Tarn Taran, the bulletin said.The places which reported new cases include Jalandhar (103), Ludhiana (98), Amritsar (94) and Mohali (77), it said.There are 10,153 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,333 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,08,533, it said.Forty critical patients are on ventilator support, while 208 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 20,84,554 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/35-more-covid-19-deaths-829-fresh-cases-in-punjab-153358
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers hold 2-hour ‘chakka jam’ against police action on farm Bill protesters in Sirsa||Farmer organisations held a two-hour ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) in parts of Punjab on Friday to protest the use of water cannons and tear gas by the Haryana Police during a stir in Sirsa against the new farm laws.Protesting farmers blocked highways and some other roads in the state, causing disruption in vehicular movement, though officials said traffic was diverted to alternative routes at many places.“The national highways and some other roads remained blocked during the two-hour ‘chakka jam’ from 12 pm to 2 pm. However, ambulances and other vehicles having any kind of emergency were allowed to pass,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union.He said farmers also held dharnas at various toll plazas in the state.“We were protesting the police action against farmers in Sirsa, Haryana. They were not allowed to protest, water cannons and tear gas was used, and later, they were evicted from the site,” Pal said.A farmer protesting near a toll plaza in Ludhiana hit out at the Centre, saying, “It does not understand the pain of the farmers. Our colleagues were protesting in Sirsa against the farm laws, but their voice was suppressed.“The central government claims that these laws are for our benefit, but they must understand if farmers are unhappy, what is the worth of these legislations then,” he asked.Farmers protesting in Amritsar and in Hoshiarpur’s Tanda said the new farm laws will not only “hit them but labourers and small shopkeepers too will be impacted”.A protest was held near the Shambhu border, blocking the national highway towards Ambala.Haryana Police had on Tuesday used water cannons and tear gas to disperse agitating farmers, who tried to cross barricades and proceed towards the residences of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala and his grand uncle and Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala in Sirsa located barely 200 metres from the protest site.The farmers were seeking resignations of Dushyant Chautala, a JJP leader, and Ranjit Singh Chautala, an Independent legislator, from the Manohar Lal Khattar government over the recently enacted farm legislations.Meanwhile, in reply to a question, Pal said the Centre should listen to the concerns of the farmers.“The government should call us by extending a proper invite and listen to our concerns. Not only farmers, but so many parties are opposed to these laws, which means there is something controversial on which a discussion should be held.“They should call us on some official forum. Either the prime minister can talk to us or they can form a parliamentary group or authorise some Group of Ministers to discuss things. They should consider these voices of protest from Punjab, Haryana and other parts,” the Krantikari Kisan Union president said.Farmers are continuing their ‘rail roko’ agitation against the agri-related legislations across Punjab. Rail tracks are blocked at 33 places in the state. Protesting farmers have staged sit-ins outside several petrol pumps, toll plazas and shopping malls.Many are also sitting on ‘dharnas’ outside the houses of some BJP leaders.The farmers have said they would continue their agitation till their demand for revocation of the farm laws was met.They have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave a way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-hold-2-hour-chakka-jam-against-police-action-on-farm-bill-protesters-in-sirsa-153348
09-10-2020||Vibha Sharma||To tackle ‘misinformation’, print farm laws in Punjabi: senior BJP leader Avinash Rai Khanna writes to Tomar||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 9With farmers’ organisations continuing and also threatening to intensify agitation against the new farm laws, senior BJP leader from Punjab Avinash Rai Khanna has given an interesting suggestion to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar – print the three farm Acts in local language, Punjabi, and distribute them via the government set-up in order to remove all “misconceptions”.In his letter to Tomar, Khanna wrote that “misinformation is being spread regarding the Acts by the Opposition”, the root cause of which was that only copies printed in English and Hindi were available.“It is because of this very reason that whatever the Opposition tells them, farmers believe it and participate in agitations against the laws,” wrote the former BJP vice president.“Keeping this in mind it is important that the laws are printed in Punjabi in the government press and distributed among organisations and institutions in Punjab via the government set-up so that farmers of Punjab know the truth and they are able to see through the Opposition lies,” said Khanna.This will also help the ‘sangathan’ (BJP cadres) make farmers understand the laws in a better way, Khanna added.Notably, farmers in Punjab have rejected the Centre’s offer to initiate a dialogue and resolve the issue. The unions have also warned Capt Amarinder Singh’s government in Punjab  that they would hold protests outside the houses of state Congress leaders unless the government calls a special Assembly to repeal the agriculture Laws passed by the Centre.The Opposition, primarily the Congress, is hopeful the Centre will be forced to give in under the sustained pressure just like it had in 2015 when facing backlash the Narendra Modi government agreed to drop most of the contentious amendments in the Land Acquisition Act of 2013.While that came as a victory for the Opposition, this time BJP leaders are firm that there is “no scope” of such a thing happening with the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-tackle-misinformation-print-farm-laws-in-punjabi-senior-bjp-leader-avinash-rai-khanna-writes-to-tomar-153321
09-10-2020||GS Paul||SGPC chief draws flak for participating in a Panthic programme at Golden Temple complex||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and executive members of the body on Friday drew flak from Sikh activists after they participated in a programme organised to commemorate Gen AS Vaidya’s assassins Harjinder Singh Jinda and Sukhdev Singh Sukha, at Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga on the Golden Temple premises.A verbal duel ensued as Longowal and other executive members argued that they had been barred from addressing a religious or public gathering for one month, but had not been banned from participation.“We were banned from addressing in religious programmes for one month, but were never barred from participation like a common devotee. The issue was being unnecessarily twisted by several Sikh activists, which was baseless. We have lodged our complaint at the Akal Takht,” said Longowal.Earlier, in a case pertaining to “misappropriation of saroops”, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had on September 18 ordered Longowal and other SGPC members not to address any public function till October 17.  However, during the death anniversary of Jinda and Sukha, a Sikh activist Narain Singh Chaura objected to Longowal’s presence amidst the devotees.Terming it a violation of the Akal Takht’s directive, Chaura said, “Akal Takht has pronounced ‘tankhah’ upon Longowal. He should have honoured the Akal Takht orders by avoiding the Panthic programme.”The issue has reached the Akal Takht, which will take a final call in the matter.Meanwhile, the family members of Jinda and Sukha were honoured with siropas during the function.Besides Longowal, former Jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode, SGPC’s former senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, junior vice-president Gurbakhsh Singh Khalsa, general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami and other executive members were present in the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-chief-draws-flak-for-participating-in-a-panthic-programme-at-golden-temple-complex-153308
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Pollution Control Board imposes total Rs 12.25 lakh fine in 460 stubble burning cases||Punjab Pollution Control Board has imposed a total fine of Rs 12.25 lakh in 460 paddy stubble burning cases in the state, with a senior official on Friday saying that by end of this month one would be able to make a fair comparison whether farm fires have gone up or come down in comparison to previous years.“In 460 cases, we have imposed a fine (environmental compensation) of Rs 12.25 lakh (between September 21-October 7), out of which we have recovered Rs 70,000,” PPCB Member Secretary, Krunesh Garg told PTI.When asked that 1,692 cases of burning of paddy straw were reported in the state between September 21 and October 7 this year, indicating an increase by nearly five times over previous year, Garg said, “it is not a fair comparison to make, it is still early stage of the season”.“Moreover, this time harvesting was also done at an early stage. Also, during the harvesting season last year, there were rains and there was no fire. So, therefore, exact situation will be known by last week of October. Only then we will be in a position to say whether stubble burning cases have gone up or come down this year,” he said.Garg also said more harvest has been done till October 7 as against corresponding period of last year “and if one uses this comparison as a yardstick then farm fire incidents are less”.The official said as per data till October 7, 1692 incidents were reported by satellite imagery, but during field visits by PPCB officials no stubble burning was observed in 763 cases.“A satellite gives data, but sometimes there are other kinds of fire which is not stubble burning,” he said.Majority of the stubble burning cases that have been reported so far in the state were from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Gurdaspur districts.Notably, 8,000 nodal officers have been appointed in paddy growing villages of Punjab this year to check stubble-burning.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had recently appealed to farmers not to burn crop residue, as it could aggravate COVID-19 conditions apart from leading to pollution.Seeking the support and cooperation of farmers in preventing stubble burning amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the chief minister had said that experts have warned it could have serious implications for people already suffering from lung and other diseases.To effectively curb stubble burning during the paddy harvesting season, the PPCB had recently ordered that combine harvester machines without functional Super Straw Management System (SMS) will be impounded.SMS is a piece of machinery attached with the combine harvester machine, which cuts the standing paddy straw into small pieces and spreads it uniformly in the field. The farmers then are not required to burn paddy straw before sowing the next crop.Meanwhile, in neighbouring Haryana, where some cases of stubble burning have been reported from Karnal and Fatehabad districts, Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan had recently directed the Deputy Commissioners to ensure the availability of crop residue management machinery to small and marginal farmers on a priority basis.Vardhan also directed them to carry out a comprehensive awareness campaign at the district, block, and village level, so as to make the people aware about ill effects of stubble burning on the environment.The chief secretary directed the DCs to ensure adequate supply crop residue management machinery in the districts. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-pollution-control-board-imposes-total-rs-12-25-lakh-fine-in-460-stubble-burning-cases-153307
09-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Sukhpal Khaira, Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra extend support to farmers||Khaira and Bibi Khalra expressed these views at Harike, 32 km from here today, while addressing the agitating farmers. The leaders supported the demands of the agitating farmers.Sukhpal Singh Khaira, in his address, called the state government to convene a special session of the state Assembly immediately to resolve the matter of farm-Bills. He also demanded to exempt Punjab from the implementation of these Bills. He alleged that Modi’s policies were in the interest of the corporate sector, which might cost farmers and the other weaker sections of the society. Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra, patron of the Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO), called the move of the Union Government ‘anti-Punjab’ which might harm the livelihoods of many. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhpal-khaira-bibi-paramjit-kaur-khalra-extend-support-to-farmers-153276
09-10-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University profs raise concerns over farm laws||Punjabi University professors have come out in support of farmers and raised concerns over the three new farm laws.The professors said, “Both text and context of the bills go vehemently against the vital interests of the farm sector and farming community. These should be repealed.”Jaswinder Singh Brar, convener, Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), said the entry of private corporate purchasers in the market for purchase of the produce would result in a dual market system for farm produce, which would weaken the assured minimum support price and government purchase system.He said, “Private players will be in a position to dictate terms of trade. According to the new laws, the unfolding of policy package will jeopardise the farm economy of Punjab with consequential impact on all sections of society.”The teachers said the decision would also affect the circulation of funds to farmers, labourers and others associated with farm produce. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-profs-raise-concerns-over-farm-laws-153138
09-10-2020||After taking control of Amritsar in 1805 Maharaja Ranjit Singh||Gates  to the grand past||Maharaja’s 12 gatesThere were twelve strong gates in the city. Some of them were surrounded by defences with two or three brass guns. The Lahori Darwaza served as the main entrance on the road from Lahore. Moving in anti-clockwise direction, one is confronted by other gates of the city: Khazana, Hakeema, Rangar Nangalia Gilwali, Ramgarhia, Doburji, Ahluwalia, Deori Kalan, Rambagh Deori Shahzada and Lohgarh. The names of a few have changed since mid-19th Century. The WallA massive double wall of unbaked bricks, with a double moat was constructed by the Maharaja. Gurbaz Singh, in his work Tarikh-i-Punjab (Punjabi translation of the portion dealing with Punjab in Ahmad Shah’s Tarikh-i-Hind) writes that the fortification was 25 yards broad and 7 yards high. The circumference of the walled city was around 5 miles. The British had the moats filled and built a few police chowkis. The old wall was demolished and a new one rose. However, it, too, has perished and its later versions, renovated and reconstructed, are available at a few spots.Hall GateIt is the 13th gate built by the British in addition to the 12 erected during the Maharaja’s era. It is named after then Deputy Commissioner CH Hall. It was named Gandhi Darwaza after Partition, but only for a short period of time. The original name remains. There used to be a prison at the place which was shifted to Gumtala after the construction began.Hathi Darwaza (Darwaza Sehzada) This gate used to have many baghs outside it. A prominent citizen of the time, Lala Sant Ram Sapra, also lived in the area. It is said to have acquired its name from the stable of elephants resting close by. Chattiwind Gate (Ramgarhia Darwaza)A road from the gate leads to Tarn Taran. It is rather young as it was recently built by the Ramgarhia community. In the old days, a ‘talab’, ‘sarai’ and ‘thakur dwara’ built by Mahesh Ram Khatri was a prominent attraction of the area. Sultanwind Gate or Delhi Darwaza (Doburji)The gate connected the city to Sultanwind, Verka and Doburji villages further connecting to the main road for Jandiala. Khazana Gate (Darwaza Khazana)Many believe that gate is named after the Maharaja’s treasury, when in fact, it is named after a servant named Khazana, who owned the land on this side of the city. Going with the popular belief, the government around three decades ago got a ‘sandook’ built in the nearby chowk to depict treasure. A road from here also connected the city to Kasur (now in Pakistan).Lahori GateWith Lahore as the capital, the gate was most prominent among all the others built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. A prominent place outside it used to be Bagicha Hakeem Gulab Rai, which, too, has been the victim of time. Gate Hakeema (Darwaza Hakeema Wala) The gate was built under the supervision of two hakeems — Noor-ud-Din and Chirag-ud-Din. As a route from here led to Patti, it was also known as ‘Majhe Wala Darwaza’. This also led to villages — Bharariwal and Fatehpur. Darwaza RambaghOne of the most prominent of 12 gates, it was en route Maharaja’s Summer Palace, Ram Bagh to Darbar Sahib. It was through this gate that the Maharaja, during his stay in the city, would go to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib. The Ram Bagh Deori, in close vicinity to the gate, was recently renovated by the government under heritage project. LOST IN TIMELohgarh GateA road starting from Lohgarh Gate had side shootings leading to the nearby towns, Majitha and Fatehgarh Churian. Qila Gobindgarh was the only strong establishment outside the walled city in that period. It links city to Gujranwala and Sialkot. Gate Bhagatawala (Darwaza Rangar Nangalia)Presently, no gate exists at the place. A railway station outside the gate was built in 1908, which was called Bhagatawala station. Darwaza Gheo Mandi (Ahluwalia Darwaza) Lost in the mists of time, it is still named Gheo Mandi Darwaza. During the Maharaja’s reign, the gate was known as Ahluwalia Darwaza after Ahluwalia sardars.Gilwali GateNo gate is seen at the site today. This used to lead to Harike Pattan and connected city to Gilwali village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gates-to-the-grand-past-153187
09-10-2020||---||GNDU offers new short-term courses||Amritsar, October 8Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has started short- term courses to boost career opportunities for students.One such course is drug and pollution testing laboratory (DPTL). Dr Preet Mohinder Singh Bedi, who is the coordinator, said a large number of students passing the intermediate examination were looking for short courses. “On the demand of students, we started short-term programmes, including water and waste water analysis, air monitoring and analysis and instrumental methods of analysis. Short-term courses are like career-boosting opportunities for students,” he said.Boosting career opportunitiesDr Bedi said, “These courses help students in enhancing their skills and acquire more knowledge on core subjects. In a way, it helps the students in gaining more information, different perspectives and an in-depth understanding of vital subjects or topics which a student is willing to know more about.”He informed that the DPTL was established as per the decision of the Syndicate. “It was set up for providing a wide range of testing services independently. Its main objective is to carry out high-end testing, consultancy and research,” he said.Dr Bedi said these courses have been designed to aid in understanding operation, daily working, analysis, calibration, troubleshooting and software handling. On-site training programmes may also be offered as per the specific requirement. The university will provide a certificate after evaluating performance of each student in every module.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndu-offers-new-short-term-courses-153113
09-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||No overweight cops during raids: HC to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8Portly policemen in Punjab now stand a fat chance of remaining in active frontline duties. For, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Punjab Police not to depute overweight police officials in investigation of cases involving raids on bootleggers and drug peddlers.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan directed the police not to depute officials, who failed to nab the accused at the spot during investigation, even though the accused were either middle-aged or older.Justice Sangwan also called for physical fitness test of all police officials who failed to nab accused in excise and drug cases. The test would be conducted at the police training academies in presence of a team of doctors. “If need be, all these police officials be deputed for physical training session of three months to make them physically fit for conducting raids. In the alternative, the Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, will explore the possibility of deputing young and fit officials, where the raid under the Excise Act is to be conducted,” Justice Sangwan said. The direction came after Justice Sangwan took cognizance of cases, where middle-aged, and even elderly persons, managed to run away from the police. Justice Sangwan asserted it was noticed the accused managed to run away from the spot on seeing a police party in some of the cases under the NDPS Act, and a majority of cases under the Excise Act.In some cases, it was noticed that some accused escaped after jumping from the roof or scaling the wall during the raids on the basis of secret information by police party comprising four or five personnel.The ADGP was also asked to collect details of FIRs, mainly under the Excise Act, where the accused ran away from the spot in the presence of the police party. He was also asked to find out the reasons why the same thing was happening in a number of FIRs. For the purpose of report submission, Justice Sangwan set a three-month deadline.Justice Sangwan was hearing a case in which a man, aged about 45, allegedly managed to run away from the spot despite the presence of four or five police officials “raising a doubt about the incident”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-overweight-cops-during-raids-hc-to-punjab-153189
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat hints at PPCC overhaul||AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat today indicated structural changes in the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). He said it may take some time to tweak the list of office-bearers of the PPCC, which is pending since January this year.The previous list of the office-bearers submitted by then Punjab affairs in charge Asha Kumari, in consultation with PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, was not being reworked on the basis of the feedback received by Rawat from party MLAs and workers.In the past two weeks, Rawat, apart from meeting Navjot Singh Sidhu, has met party MPs, MLAs and workers to get feedback on ways to energise the cadre. The general feedback from party workers indicated sincere efforts to re-energise the party’s rank and file. Sources said Rawat was not satisfied with the functioning of Jakhar and wanted more to be done.Rawat has been working on getting Sidhu appointed as the PPCC president, though the Chief Minister has reposed faith in Jakhar. Rawat, who today attended a meeting of the Chandigarh Pradesh Congress Committee, told party leaders and MLAs regarding the need to focus on strengthening the functioning of the PPCC.To bring more focus on Punjab, Sanjay Chaudhary has been appointed as the secretary in charge, Punjab affairs, to assist Rawat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-hints-at-ppcc-overhaul-152967
09-10-2020||Faridkot||Arms smuggling accused linked to Naxals, court told||Investigation by the Punjab Police’s organised crime control unit (OCCU) into unlawful and illegal trafficking of foreign-made weapons here has found that some of the accused in the racket were working in connivance with people linked to Naxals in Bihar.The OCCU has accused the investigating officer (IO) of dropping the stringent Section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act from this case to favour certain influential accused.Role of investigating officer under lensWhile opposing the anticipatory bail plea of Faridkot-based Akali leader’s son and wife of a Chandigarh-based gun shop owner in this case, the OCCU today claimed in the court of Additional Sessions Judge, Faridkot, that the FIR was originally registered against Ranjit Singh, alias Dupla, and others for illegal trafficking of foreign-made weapons and indulging in supply of weapons to gangsters and civilians by forging sale bills in October 2014.The OCCU alleged some of the accused, who bought the illegal weapons, were not intentionally nominated as accused by the then IO.Opposing the bail plea of Satish Kumar, owner of Vishal Gun House, Chandigarh, and anticipatory bail plea of his wife, who owns Shivam Gun House, Chandigarh, the OCCU alleged while Satish was part of the conspiracy hatched bythe other accused, he was intentionally not made an accused by the then IO.The OCCU has recovered 21 foreign-made weapons from Satish. It claimed there was ample evidence on record that Satish was in connivance with accused Ranjit Singh, alias Guru, owner of Kalyan Gun House, Mansa; and accused Ranjit Singh, alias Dupla, and that they indulged in unlawful trade of foreign-made weapons. The accused in connivance with Rajesh Kumar Gupta of Bareli (UP) and Uma Kant Yadav of Munger (Bihar) had been actively associated with Naxals in Bihar. For this reason, Section 16 should have been included, but the charge was removed intentionally by the IO, it said. The OCCU has now added the charges under the Act against the accused.Besides denying regular bail to Satish and anticipatory bail to his wife, the court refused bail to the son of an Akali leader who had been summoned by the OCCU to appear before it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arms-smuggling-accused-linked-to-naxals-court-told-152968
09-10-2020||Moga||Highway robbers’ gang busted, 2 held in Moga||The Moga police have busted an inter-state gang involved in several cases of highway robberies, attempt to murder for ransom, gang wars, snatchings and other criminal activities.Active in 10 states, 4 vehicle lifters heldSSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said the local police had arrested two gang members Ajay Kumar, alias Mani, a resident of Patwari Mohalla, Kotkapura, and Amritpal Singh Bhinder, a resident of Chakki Wali Gali, Moga, and recovered two country-made pistols of .32 bore and .30 bore with 13 live cartridges, besides a stolen motorcycle.They both allegedly connived with a Dunneke resident, who is presently in Canada, and committed crimes in the state and Haryana. After committing the crime, they would leave for UP and Uttarakhand. Both Mani and Bhinder were the main shooters of the gang whose six members had already been arrested. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, the SSP said it used to identify high-net worth businessmen or individuals and demand ransom from them.The gang was active in Moga, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Jagraon. It recently shot at a rice trader in Moga and a sarpanch in the Smalsar area in separate loot bids. Besides, they fired at the son of an ASI at Kotakpura due to a gang rivalry. The SSP said efforts were on to nab the one remaining gang member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/highway-robbers-gang-busted-2-held-in-moga-152969
09-10-2020||Fazilka||Farm Acts: Student union gheraos BJP leader Surjit Jyani’s office||Protesting against the farm Acts, activists of the Punjab Students’ Union and Nauzan Bharat Sabha today gheraoed the office of BJP farmer coordination committee chairman and former minister Surjit Kumar Jyani at a grain market here.Union district president Dheeraj Kumar and Sabha state general secretary Manga Singh Azad alleged that government was heading towards abolishing the power subsidy after ruining the farming community with the Acts. They also termed 44 amendments to labour law anti-labourers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-acts-student-union-gheraos-bjp-leader-surjit-jyanis-office-152970
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t delay law to counter farm Acts: Sukhbir to CM Punjab||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to stop playing a “fixed match” by purposely delaying a legislation to negate the farm laws by rejecting an appeal made in this regard by agricultural organisations of the state.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterCapt hits out at SADWho am I playing a fixed match with? If anyone is playing a fixed match, it is SAD, which continues to act at the behest of BJP.The SAD president said, “Capt Amarinder Singh is again asking for time to bring in the legislation despite the fact that the SAD was the first to make this demand more than 10 days back. We had asked the Chief Minister to call a special session and bring in a legislation making the entire state a single market yard. The farm organisations are also making a similar demand.”Sukhbir said Captain Amarinder came under pressure following the SAD’s ‘kisan march’ and finally announced that he would call a special session.“Now, when farm organisations have tried to pin him down, he is again trying to escape by rejecting the one week given to him by the farm groups. All this points to the fact that the CM is simply playing a fixed match and has no interest whatsoever in ensuring that the rights of farmers of the state are protected,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-delay-law-to-counter-farm-acts-sukhbir-to-cm-punjab-152971
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Explain why bail for ‘groom’, not kin, HC asks Amritsar judge||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for an explanation from an Additional District and Sessions Judge, who granted bail to the “groom” after noticing that the “bride” was just 15 years old, but had denied the relief to his parents. For the purpose of explanation, the High Court has set a month’s deadline.The direction by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed by the parents seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered on March 6 for kidnapping, common intention and another offence under Sections 363, 366 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at the Majitha police station in Amritsar district.Justice Sangwan observed the anticipatory bail application of the parents was dismissed by the Amritsar Additional Sessions Judge on May 12 after observing that the girl’s birth certificate, as per the investigating officer’s statement, was taken in possession and her date of birth was March 18, 2005. The judge also referred to an order passed by the High Court, wherein the girl was shown as 19 years old.But the Additional Sessions Judge formed an opinion that the girl was 15 years old as per her date of birth certificate. As such, the anticipatory bail application of the petitioners or parents was dismissed. Justice Sangwan added, surprisingly, the Additional Sessions Judge granted anticipatory bail to the main accused subsequent to the passing of the order. This was despite the fact that the judge, even in an earlier order, observed that the date of birth was March 18, 2005. He confirmed the anticipatory bail, despite noticing the fact that the girl was 15 years old.“Therefore, it requires an explanation from the Additional Sessions Judge, Amritsar, as to how despite noticing the fact that the prosecutrix was 15 years of age, he has granted bail to the main accused, while declining it to his parents,” Justice Sangwan said.Before parting with the case, Justice Sangwan added the Supreme Court held that Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution, read with the national policy and national plan, provided that a girl between 15 and 18 years needed protection from early marriages. She was also required to be provided a life of dignity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explain-why-bail-for-groom-not-kin-hc-asks-amritsar-judge-152972
09-10-2020||Bathinda||Landless farmer kills 3 kids, self in Bathinda||A landless farmer allegedly killed his three children by hanging them before committing suicide at Hamirgarh village in Bhagta block here late last evening. The incident came to light this morning.Phul DSP Jasbir Singh along with police personnel reached the scene after receiving information and started an investigation.The deceased were identified as Beant Singh (35), and his children Prabhjot Singh (6), Arsh Kaur (3) and Khushi (1).The police claimed Beant was deeply depressed at his wife’s death due to cancer over a month ago. A suicide note mentioning his grief about his wife’s untimely demise was recovered from the scene.Sources said the farmer’s ancestors had a small landholding but no farming was done by the family. The deceased used to earn livelihood by driving a bike-driven cart. After initial investigation, the police sent the bodies for post-mortem to the Government Hospital, Rampura Phul. On the complaint of farmer’s sister, the police have registered a case against him under relevant sections of the IPC.Investigating officer Malkiat Singh said: “The deceased was depressed after his wife passed away a month ago. In his suicide note, he admitted to being under stress and having no desire to live nor leave his children behind.”“The deceased also wrote that none of his relatives showed any empathy towards him after his wife’s death. After initial probe, it was found to be a case of suicide. The deceased did not have personal enmity with anyone,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/landless-farmer-kills-3-kids-self-in-bathinda-152973
09-10-2020||Ferozepur||Two cell phones seized from Ferozepur jail||An undertrial prisoner has been booked following a recovery of two mobile phones from the Central Jail.Assistant Superintendent Jarnail Singh said during the inspection of jail wards, a cell phone was recovered from Dinesh Kumar’s barrack. Another mobile phone in damaged condition was recovered outside the barrack. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-cell-phones-seized-from-ferozepur-jail-152974
09-10-2020||Jalandhar||Nakodar's Bir Pind offers ‘powerful’ solution to straw menace||To all those farmers not convinced with the idea of in situ techniques of handling paddy straw, Bir Pind residents in Nakodar have a message: Give us the paddy straw and we will readily pay you Rs 1,350 per tonne for it.The village panchayat has been using stubble for power generation for the past few years. Using 250 tonnes of stubble to produce 6 MW daily, the panchayat says it needs more stubble to the keep the plant running round the year. Kewal Singh, who manages the plant, says: “We need 75,000 tonnes of stubble to run the plant throughout the year. But we do not get more than 30,000 tonnes of stubble.”Kewal Singh says he has even made videos to appeal to the farmers across the state to use balers in their fields, get bundles of the straw made and get the stubble dropped near their plant. “Even our district has 32 balers. While 20 baler machines were already there, 12 more have been bought by farmers under the 50 per cent subsidy scheme. This machine bales 20 to 25 acres of paddy straw in a day and one acre brings out 25 to 30 quintals of straw,” he says.Mandeep Singh, a Kangna village farmer, says he has been selling around 20,000 quintal paddy straw to the electricity generation plant at Bir village and getting Rs 135 per quintal after making bales of the straws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nakodars-bir-pind-offers-powerful-solution-to-straw-menace-152975
09-10-2020||Bathinda||Unpaid workers protest against  Cotton Corporation of India officials||Members of the Galla Mazdoor Union today protested at a grain market here, alleging they have been denied labour charges by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI).“A labour charge of Rs 29.50 per quintal was fixed for this year’s procurement season. However, this is for the first time that the CCI has denied paying us for loading, weighing and unloading of cotton in mandis,” said Mangat Rai, union president.He said scores of labourers working in the mandis would be rendered jobless with no source of income. Union members met officials of the market committee and submitted a memorandum of demands to them. Senior commercial officer Harjit Singh said: “The CCI will give labour charges to contractors, who will pay the labourers working under them once the cotton clears the quality check and is ready to be sent to the factory.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unpaid-workers-protest-against-cotton-corporation-of-india-officials-152976
09-10-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur DC tills field to raise awareness||In a novel initiative, Deputy Commissioner Ramvir today tilled a field using the ‘superseeder’ machine attached to a tractor at Mardkhera village near Sunam to raise awareness among farmers about the ill-effects of stubble burning.Interacting with farmers, the DC said the burning of crop residue would specifically be hazardous during the Covid-19 pandemic as the virus affected lungs and the smoke from burning caused difficulty in breathing.“The Punjab Government gives farmers up to 80 per cent subsidy for not burning crop residue, and the draw was conducted online to ensure transparency. The authorities have provided agriculture implements to 69 panchayats, 148 co-operative societies, 273 custom hiring centres and 1,124 individual famers recently,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-dc-tills-field-to-raise-awareness-152977
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab on the mend, cases, deaths halve||After one-and-a-half months of continuous spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths, Punjab is seeing a declining trend with the number of cases falling below 1,000 a day and deaths under 50.Going by the figures for September, the state reported 58,000 cases and 1,900 deaths, at an average of 2,000 cases and 65 deaths daily.However, a decline in the cases was witnessed at the start of this month. In the first week of October, the state reported just 5,709 cases and 261 deaths, bringing the daily average of cases down to 815 and deaths to 37.Given the trend, a further decline may continue. Earlier, the state had witnessed a decline in all indicators of the disease breakout, including positivity rate (cases after total tests), which halved, and the case fatality rate, which had also declined significantly.On Thursday, the state reported 930 cases and just 29 deaths. With this, the count of confirmed cases has reached 1,21,716 and the number of casualties 3,741.In district-wise breakup of cases, SAS Nagar reported 155, followed by Jalandhar (122), Amritsar (100), Ludhiana (89), Gurdaspur (60), Ferozepur (49). Besides, the state reported 29 casualties in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-on-the-mend-cases-deaths-halve-152979
09-10-2020||Ferozepur/abohar||Heroin worth Rs18 cr seized in Ferozepur||Sleuths belonging to the 103th Battalion of the BSF recovered four packets of heroin weighing 3.8 kg along the border in this sector.As per information, the estimated price of the recovered consignment is around Rs 18 crore in the international market.In Abohar, the police seized 100-kg poppy husk by intercepting a tractor-trailer on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway today. Driver Ranjit Singh Rana of Hamad village in Guruharsahai and his assistant Jagsir Singh Jaggi of Rohranwali village in Muktsar were arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs18-cr-seized-in-ferozepur-152981
09-10-2020||Mohali||Dr Manjit Singh is Health Director||Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh has been appointed as the Director, Health and Family Welfare. He replaces Dr Avneet Kaur, who superannuated on September 30. Dr Singh said he had taken the charge and Dr GB Singh, Civil Surgeon, who is posted in Barnala, had been appointed in his place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-manjit-singh-is-health-director-152982
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||AAP march to CM farmhouse in Siswan foiled||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema led a march of party MLAs to the Siswan farmhouse of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. However, the police stopped the march near New Chandigarh.Cheema and other MLAs were detained and taken to the Mullanpur police station. They were released after an hour.Addressing the media during the protest, Cheema said just like PM Narendra Modi, Capt Amarinder Singh was also stifling the voice of the Opposition. He said by giving a clean chit to Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the scholarship scam, the CM had betrayed the Dalits of the state. Cheema also extended his support to a ‘chakka jam’ call given by the Sant Samaj Sangharsh Committee and other groups on October 10 to seek justice for Dalit students in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-march-to-cm-farmhouse-in-siswan-foiled-152983
09-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University suspends 3 employees for ‘indiscipline’||The agitation by employees of the SGPC-run Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University over the non-payment of their salaries took a turn for the worse when three employees were suspended after they locked the main gate of the university yesterday. They were suspended for “gross indiscipline”. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sri-guru-granth-sahib-world-university-suspends-3-employees-for-indiscipline-152989
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||New scholarship scheme to cost Rs 500 crore a year||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had recently announced introducing a scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste (SC) students studying in government and private educational institutions. The decision came after the Central Government discontinued the funding of the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.It has been estimated that the scheme will cost the state government over Rs 500 crore annually.In 2019-20 fiscal, a total of two lakh SC students had got themselves registered to seek benefits under the scheme. Of these, 1.40 lakh were from government and government-aided educational institutions and nearly 65,000 from private institutions. Accordingly, it cost around Rs 165 crore to fund the education of government school students, and Rs 260 crore for students of private schools.Initially, the state government had planned to fund the education of students enrolled in government institutions, but later, Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot sought inclusion of SC students studying in private institutions in the scheme.Besides, there are pending arrears of the past three years, i.e. from 2017 to 2020. It was earlier a central scheme, but from April 2017 onwards, the entire financial liability of the scheme was put on the states.A total of Rs 1,550 crore was sought under the scheme for the period from 2017 to 2020. Prior to 2017, over 3 lakh students used to benefit under the scheme. However, now, the number has come down to 2 lakh.“Since the scheme is to be funded by the state, it will require political administration. Besides, it will also have to be renamed. The issue will be again discussed in the Cabinet meeting,” a source said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-scholarship-scheme-to-cost-rs-500-crore-a-year-153031
09-10-2020||Harshraj Singh||Stubble-burning cases rise 5 times in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 8The number of stubble-burning cases in Punjab so far has been five times more than those reported during the corresponding period over the past two years.What experts sayPaddy harvesting began late in 2018 and 2019 due to rainAs it began early this year, stubble-burning cases are initially highThe situation is likely to improve in the coming daysAccording to the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana, 1,692 cases of burning paddy straw were reported between September 21 and October 7 this year. The number was 302 and 307 between the said dates during 2018 and 2019, respectively.The maximum cases this year are from Amritsar (857), followed by Tarn Taran (366), Patiala (104), Gurdaspur (95) and Ludhiana (50). Saudagar Singh Ghudani of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) said, “Farmers are forced to burn stubble as they don’t get any help from the government. Last year, it was announced that the government would give bonus to the farmers for not burning stubble, but nothing has been paid till date. We also demanded that the poor farmers be provided free machines for the purpose, but to no avail.”Experts, however, maintain that these are only initial trends and the situation will improve in the coming days. Dr Anil Sood, Head of Agro-ecosystems and Crop Modelling at the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, said paddy harvesting began late in 2018 and 2019 due to rain. “That’s why cases of stubble burning are initially high this year. I hope the situation will improve soon,” he said.Member Secretary of the PPCB, Krunesh Garg said Rs 11-lakh environmental relief had been imposed in 420 cases of stubble burning so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stubble-burning-cases-rise-5-times-in-punjab-153081
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Talks with PM alone, say wary Punjab farmers||Punjab farmers will hold talks with the PM and none else, said Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan today.He said the farmers wanted the government to legalise MSP and the assurance that the mandi system would stay.“The new farm laws will make mandis non-viable in a few years with farmers getting better prices outside the mandis. That will see the demise of the agrarian economy built on trust,” he argued.The BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary, Jagmohan Singh Patiala, said they were determined to take their struggle to its logical end. “If we give up now, we will be jeopardising the future of the farming community,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talks-with-pm-alone-say-wary-punjab-farmers-153080
