09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 562 fresh COVID-19 cases, 21 more deaths||As many as 562 fresh COVID-19 cases took Punjab’s tally to 1,37,999 on Monday, while 21 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,338, according to a health department bulletin.There are 4,934 active cases in the state, the bulletin stated.The fresh cases were reported from Ludhiana (96), Mohali (89) and Jalandhar (77), among other districts.A total of 510 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,28,727.Fourteen critical patients are on ventilator support, while 127 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 27,56,807 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. --- PTI
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Railways’ linking goods trains operation with passenger ones ‘illogical’: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday termed the Railways’ decision to link the movement of goods trains in the state with the passenger ones “totally irrational and illogical”.The Railways has declined to resume goods train services in Punjab, saying it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or none.Amarinder Singh said there is absolutely no logic in linking the movement of goods and passenger trains, which the Railways are doing as a “patent excuse” to continue with the suspension of freight services.Passengers wanting to come to Punjab can easily travel by train to stations in nearby states, such as Ambala in Haryana and Chandigarh, from where they can go by roads to their destinations in Punjab in a few hours, he said in a statement here.This was not an option for freight movement, he said, adding if the people of Punjab, including its farmers, continue to be deprived of their essential needs in this manner, the situation can aggravate.The train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24, when farmers started their “rail roko” agitation against the central farm laws.Singh said by defending the railway authorities’ decision, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been further “fuelling the fire of anger” among farmers, who have shown more concern for the citizens than the party was doing.Rejecting outright the BJP state unit president Ashwani Sharma’s allegation of Punjab “arm-twisting” the Centre, the CM said it is the BJP leadership which is “inciting” the farmers with its “anti-Punjab” stance on the issue.Instead of questioning the Railways and supporting the state government in persuading the Centre to allow freight trains to ply, the BJP leadership continue to indulge in “dirty politics” at the cost of the Punjab people’s welfare and those of neighbouring states, he alleged.“What’s worse is that the BJP is not even concerned about our soldiers in Ladakh and Kashmir who are waiting desperately for critical supplies before the onset of snow, which would block them off completely from the rest of the country for the winter months,” he added.On Sharma’s accusation that the state government has failed to dissuade protestors from blocking train services, the CM said the fact is that it is his government which convinced farmers to ease their blockade to let essential supplies come in.Even now, several of his Cabinet colleagues are engaged with farmers’ bodies to push for the complete lifting of the blockade to allow even passenger movement, he said, adding it is in his government’s interest to do so as it is responsible for the people of the state.The chief minister said the adamant stand of the Railways, which the BJP was vehemently endorsing, suggested lack of intent to resolve the imbroglio on the goods trains issue.“Why else will the Railways be taking refuge in one excuse after another to continue to suspend the services in Punjab, especially after the farmers cleared all tracks for freight movement and he personally guaranteed full safety for the goods trains even though the Railway security rested with the GRP?” he asked. — PTI
09-11-2020||Amritsar||Former Jathedar of Akal Takht leads Sikh outfits to celebrate Gurdwara Kartarpur corridor anniversary||Exactly one year down the line, the dedicated corridor to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib wore a deserted look on its maiden anniversary, except some Sikh outfits led by former Akal Takht jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti, commemorated the occasion on the Indian side of the corridor at Dera Baba Nanak on Monday.In a one-sided affair, the occasion was ‘officially’ commemorated by the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (PSGPC) across the border in Narowal district.Terming the Kartarpur corridor as symbol of faith and bonds, PSGPC president Satwant Singh showed gratitude towards the Sikh outfits which assembled on Indian side to mark the occasion.“PSGPC has organised the programme dedicated to the occasion with local Sikh and Muslim brethren, but we missed the pilgrims from Indian side. We wish that Indian government too should reopen the corridor at the earliest,” he said.For SGPC, this day passed like any other day. No plan was scheduled to observe the occasion while owing to Union Government’s denial to open the visa free passage on ‘health grounds’ from its side.Nonetheless, at Dera Baba Nanak, there was a clamour of voices to reopen the corridor by the Sikh outfits, including the Dal Khalsa along with Akal Federation, United Akali Dal, former Jathedar Damdama Sahib Giani Kewal Singh and Akal Purakh ki Fauj convener Advocate Jaswinder Singh.The corridor was closed by India on March 15 as part of measures to curb the COVID-19 spread. In June, it was briefly opened on the occasion of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary, but India had declined to open the corridor on its side.On October 2, the Pakistan government had officially announced the re-opening of the 4.7-kilometre-long passage on its side, but the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) was still hesitated to re-open the corridor and kept the decision reserved to observe the coronavirus protocol.“Now when life was going normally, COVID-19 can’t be an excuse to keep the corridor operation suspended anymore. Guru Nanak’s 551st Parkash Purab is slated to be on November 30, so the government must re-open the pathway before the gurpurab respecting the religious sentiments of the Nanak Naam leva sangat from across the globe,” said Kanwar Pal Singh, spokesperson of the Dal Khalsa.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh observed that Kartarpur corridor has been the epitome of peace and tranquillity in entire Asia and could play a vital role in mending the sour relationship between the two neighbouring nations.“Though it was closed due to COVID-19 crisis, but when the religious places across India have officially been opened, there was no point in keeping the operations at Kartarpur corridor suspended. India too should review its decision and reopen the access from Indian side too,” he said.
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab industries suffer Rs 22,000-crore loss due to suspension of goods trains: Minister||Amid the ongoing protests by farmers over the three central farm laws, Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Monday claimed that industries in the state have suffered financial loss of Rs 22,000 crore because of the suspension of goods trains.The Railways had declined to resume goods trains in Punjab, saying it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or none due to the protests.Arora appealed to Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to immediately resume operation of freight trains in the state.“The industry in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Mandi Gobindgarh has suffered a loss of Rs 22,000 crore,” Arora said here while pointing towards the adverse impact of the suspension of freight trains in the state.Industry representatives are meeting him and apprising him of problems being faced by them due to suspension of trains, he said.Arora said the figure of loss being quoted has been provided by the industry representatives.He further said 13,500 containers, which were carrying goods, remain stuck at Dhandari Kalan dry port in Ludhiana as the trains are not operating.“The industry is facing huge losses. If such a situation remains, the industry will not have money to pay even salaries to its employees,” the minister said.Arora said the iron and steel industry has been forced to bear an additional cost of transportation for bringing raw material from other states.“The price of iron and steel material at present is Rs 4 per kg higher than that in other states. In such a situation, why would buyers place an order from here,” he asked.The minister also lashed out at the Centre for adopting a “vindictive attitude” towards Punjab.“I do not know what the Centre has in its mind. But they are discriminating against Punjab,” he said.Train services in Punjab were initially suspended from September 24 when farmers started their “rail roko” agitation against the central laws.Goods trains had resumed briefly after farmer unions on October 21 had announced exempting them from their “rail roko” stir but the Railways suspended them again, saying farmers are still blocking the tracks.Ludhiana-based industrialist S C Ralhan said the credibility of the industry was at stake besides the financial losses.“The damage to the industry is irreparable,” said Ralhan, who is also former president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO).He said the transaction cost of the industry has gone up manifold with containers laden with goods being sent through trucks due to suspension of trains.“Our foreign buyers are also fed up with the delay in shipment of goods and now they have started saying that they will look at sourcing goods from other places,” said Ralhan.Nearly all the industrial verticals including bicycle and bicycle parts, textile, hand tools, automobile parts, steel, machine tools, etc., are facing dearth of raw material in the wake of non-operational goods trains, the industry representatives said.Apart from this, the state industry is also unable to ship finished and ready-made goods for exports as containers have got stuck at ports because of suspension of goods trains. — PTI
09-11-2020||---||Mohali reports 88 COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths||Mohali, November 9Mohali on Monday reported 88 new COVID-19, taking the district count to 12,985.Meanwhile, two fatalities recorded during the past 24 hours took the total number of deaths to 248.As many as 35 patients were also cured and discharged from various hospitals across the district.The number of recovered patients in Mohali now stands at 11,990 while the active cases are 747.
09-11-2020|| Phagwara||SAD leaders Bikram Majithia, Daljeet Cheema detained during protest in Phagwara||Punjab Police detained several Shiromani Akali Dal leaders including former Punjab minister Bikram Majithia, MLAs Baldev Khaira, Sukhwinder Sukhi and Pawan Tinu in Phagwara on Monday.The leaders were detained while holding protests outside the house of MLA BS Dhaliwal over the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam.Police sources claim Akalis broke through three police barricades to make their way to the MLA’s house, which was a kilometre from the actual protest site on the Phagwara-Banga road.Police claimed Majithia and some other leaders had quietly made their way to the MLA’s house while law enforcement authorities were busy stopping a truck that had Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal and another former minister, Jagir Kaur that was heading toward the same place.The protests, which SAD held at various places across the city, saw a good turnout, prompting police to remain on standby with riot control vehicles and water cannons. Jagir Kaur and ex-MLA Sarabjit Makkar were part of an entourage that blocked the Phagwara bypass.Former ministers Daljeet Singh Cheema and Gulzar S Ranike, former assembly speaker Charanjit Atwal, and former Member of Parliament Prem S Chandumajra were part of the protest.
09-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Unite to oust SAD, says Ranjit Singh Brahampura||
09-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Festive season has no meaning for us, say farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8Davinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, always bought sweets and clothes for his 10-year-old son during the festive season. However, this time, he had been protesting against the farm laws implemented by the Centre and fighting for his rights at Behram toll plaza for the last one month.Dashera has passed and Diwali is around the corner, but Davinder hasn’t purchased anything for his family. He said even his child has not sought any gift.“Children of his age ask for gifts. He must have understood by now that his father is busy somewhere. I reach home when he falls asleep,” he said.Numerous farmers like him who had been agitating against the move of the Centre said festivities had no meaning for them.While everyone else is enjoying festivals, everything is bland for famers who have no time to think and take care of their families. Festivals are celebrated with happy hearts, not when one is suffering. —Major Singh, A farmer from Phillaur“Saddi Diwali road te hi manegi,” said farmers, adding that there was nothing to celebrate and they had been left to be on roads to hold dharnas. Satnam Sahni, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), who attended a meeting at Kisan Bhawan, Chandigarh, said, “Saade vaaste kehdi Diwali? Every festival has passed without bringing any joy to us. We strategise for next move daily. Our only motive is to ensure that the Centre should listen to us.”Another farmer, Major Singh from Phillaur, said they had been protesting against the Central Government 24X7. “While everyone else is enjoying festivals, everything is bland for famers who have no time to think and take care of their families,” he said. “Festivals are celebrated with happy hearts, not when one is suffering,” said Major.
09-11-2020||AK Sharma & AD Pathak||Sugarcane farming: Labour productivity the key to sweet success||THE sugarcane sector plays a significant role in Indian economy as it provides raw material for sugar and industries producing alcohol, paper, chemicals and cattle feed. The sugarcane processing network consisting of 762 installed sugar mills has a number of associated industries and backward and forward linkages. Due to multi-purpose uses of sugarcane and its byproducts in various industries, the demand for increased production of sugarcane is growing.With an area of 5 million hectares, sugarcane cultivation in India is carried out on about 2.57 per cent of the total cropped area. It provides employment and livelihood to around 60 lakh sugarcane growers, in addition to indirect employment to lakhs of people in associated industries.There has been a steady growth in area under sugarcane cultivation in India. The area was only 17.07 lakh hectares in 1950-51; it increased to 51.11 lakh hectares in 2018-19. The production of sugarcane was about 123.86 million tonnes by the mid-seventies, which rose to 400.15 million tonnes in 2018-19. The average productivity was 78.23 tonnes/hectare in that year. Uttar Pradesh is the main sugarcane-growing state in the country, allocating about 22 lakh hectares for cane cultivation, followed by Maharashtra with about 8.98 lakh hectares. Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh are other major cane-growing states in the tropical region. In the sub-tropical region, Bihar, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Punjab are the key cane-growing states, besides UP.The growth over the years (as depicted by compound growth rates or CGRs) in the all-India sugarcane area and yield was positive and around 1 per cent per year from 2001-02 to 2017-18 period. In Uttar Pradesh, the area growth was less than 1 per cent, but the yield growth was 1.249%. In Maharashtra, there was positive area and yield growth, with the area growth being much higher than that obtained in Uttar Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have recorded a significant negative growth rate in the area under sugarcane. In the sub-tropical region, Bihar exhibited positive CGR of 7.345% in the area, followed by Maharashtra (4.279%) and Karnataka (3.147%).It is thus evident that Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the sub-tropical region and Maharashtra and Karnataka in the tropical region have exhibited positive growth both in area and yield levels during the past 17 years. This points to scope for further expansion of the sugarcane sector in these states. In other states, more incentives and development efforts will be required to retain the already achieved levels of area coverage under sugarcane.Labour absorptionSugarcane is a labour-intensive crop of long duration (12 months in the sub-tropical region and 12-18 months in the tropical region), which requires 150-180 labour days per hectare in sub-tropical and around 250-300 days in the tropical south region. Most of the operations in cane cultivation are carried out manually and the use of machinery is limited to operations like field preparation by a majority of the farmers. The human labour (HL) component accounted for 32.3% of the total cost of sugarcane cultivation and the factor share of labour in the value of output has marginally increased from 4.5% to 4.7% at the all-India level. The labour productivity in sugarcane cultivation has increased by 28.1%.An analysis of the trends in labour absorption in sugarcane cultivation reveals that the labour use per hectare of sugarcane crop is high in the tropical states compared to the sub-tropical states. The major cane-growing state, Uttar Pradesh, consumed 1,191.4 hours per hectare of the crop, while Maharashtra used 1,728.8 hours per hectare. The labour absorption in sugarcane at the national level witnessed a decline by 15.36% to 1,337.7 hours from 2000-01 to 2016-17. The decrease in labour use per hectare of sugarcane crop during this period was found to the extent of 16% in Maharashtra, just 1.6% in Uttar Pradesh, and 30-43% in other tropical states.The labour absorption pattern has not remained the same in all the zones within a single state. Less sugarcane-intensive zones like Central Plain Zone (CPZ) in UP and the Transition zone-2 (TRZ2) in Maharashtra have emerged as important zones exhibiting increase in labour absorption in sharp contrast to traditionally sugarcane-intensive zones in these states.The proportion of hiring of humans, machines as well as bullock labour is also higher in these zones compared to other zones of the states. Higher labour use in these zones may be attributed to the adoption and diffusion of modern technology by the farmers, as well as the growth of custom-hiring business services in sugarcane production and mechanisation.Impact of mechanisationMechanisation is considered to be a major labour-displacing technological change, whereas innovations in irrigation/water-saving and in planting methods are regarded as labour-augmenting changes. Technology-aided productivity improvements in the form of sub-soilers, improved planting methods like trench planting, drip irrigation and mechanised harvesting are thus required to ensure increasing share of the output to the labourers.The human labour will continue to be the most important component of sugarcane crop cultivation. Hence, a system for monitoring the enforcement of standard labour laws should be established, especially in Maharashtra, where the use of migrant labour is quite prevalent. The negative impact of labour displacement needs to be reversed by developing non-farm employment avenues as well as the deep penetration of technological change for increasing labour productivity.The authors are Principal Scientist and Director, respectively, ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, LucknowCash crop
09-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, agitating farmers target Malls, force their closure||Ludhiana, November 8In the course of their ongoing agitation for over one a half months against the Central Farm Acts, farmers, led by the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), today vent their ire at shopping malls here in protest against the Union government’s “pro-corporate” policies.Groups of farmers held demonstrations at MBS and a few other shopping malls in the city, forcing their partial or full closure.District general secretary of the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Sudagar Singh Ghudani said a policy decision had been taken to intensify the agitation and widen its ambit to include shopping malls where most of the corporate houses and multinational companies (MNCs) had their retail outlets. He said from now on, groups of farmers would continue their protests at all shopping malls in addition to toll plazas.The BKU leader said the Central government was pursuing its secret agenda of handing over foodgrain business to corporate houses and MNCs and the three farm-related laws enacted recently were, in a way, first step towards making the farmers bonded workers for the corporates.“The next step of the government, it seems, will be to force the farmers to hand over their land holdings to the big business houses and corporate houses so that they can monopolise over the farm operations and foodgrain business,” Ghudani said, adding that the refusal of the NDA government to resume the operations of goods trains in the state was an arm-twisting tactic to settle score with the agitating farmers.
09-11-2020||Rajmeet Singh||126 urban local bodies likely to go to polls in January||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8The elections to the 126 urban local bodies (ULBs) would probably be held by the middle of January next year.A formal notification by the government would be issued after the ongoing delimitation exercise in all the ULBs is over. The government would then intimate the State Election Commission about its readiness to hold the elections.Sources say the delimitation exercise in 50 per cent of the ULBs has been completed and is in progress in the rest. “After the delimitation process is over, the file will be put before the CM to decide the dates of the elections, which would be intimated to the Election Commission,” said a senior government functionary.Earlier, a Cabinet sub-committee of ministers comprising Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora, who held a meeting with the CM, had unanimously agreed to recommend holding the elections tentatively on October 11 to the State Election Commission. However, it could not be held due to Covid.Sources said once the delimitation was complete and the government decided on holding the election, the commission would need two months to complete the process before the schedule was finalised. “It all depends on the political will of the government to hold the election as ongoing farmers’ agitation has completely derailed the state’s economy and the state machinery is busy dealing with the current crisis,” said the functionary.
09-11-2020||Fazilka||Four held for murder over land dispute||With the arrest of four persons, the police claimed to have solved the blind murder case of a middle-aged man who was shot by unidentified persons near Ladhuka village in the district on October 29.Sadar police station SHO Shubham Agarwal said Rachhpal Singh’s (50) cousins allegedly hired a shooter to eliminate him over a land dispute.The police said the victim’s family and their cousins were involved in a dispute over five acres for three generations. Rachhpal’s cousins Narinder Singh, Harbhajan Singh and nephew Gurcharan Singh allegedly paid Gurmeet Singh Rs 2.5 lakh as blood money to eliminate him. On October 29, Gurmeet allegedly chased Rachhpal, a resident of Chak Mohamdewala village, while he was on his way back home and shot him near Ladhuka village, the police said. — OC
09-11-2020||Abohar||Bid to smuggle arms for gangs foiled, man held||The Rajasthan Police claim to have foiled an attempt to smuggle Madhya Pradesh-made weapons meant to be supplied to gangsters in Punjab.Bikaner SP Prahlad Singh Krishnia said Onkar Kalia (31) of Dasuya in Hoshiarpur was yesterday arrested carrying eight pistols and 16 magazines in a bag.The SP said Kalia was travelling in a bus coming from Jodhpur. A joint district special squad team led by DSP Ishwer Singh and Gangashehar police station in charge Bhola Ram stopped the bus near the Udayramsar bypass on the highway and arrested Kalia on a tip-off. During initial interrogation, Kalia claimed he had gone to Jodhpur to arrange weapons for further supply to some gangs in Punjab. He also revealed names of some of his associates. The police said a few days ago, some criminals from Jodhpur had flashed photos and videos of weapons on the social media. Kalia approached them for supply of arms to gangsters in Punjab. — OCMade in Madhya Pradesh
09-11-2020||---||Emulate Sikhs, ex-Governor asks Shillong Bengalis||Kolkata, November 8Former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy, whose term ended in August, has asked Bengali Hindu residents of Shillong to defend themselves against racial violence by emulating “the Sardarjis”.Lamenting that the Meghalaya Government was having no concern for the safety of non-tribals and acted as if Meghalaya was “not a part of India”, Roy, who lives in Kolkata, in a tweet cited the example of Shillong Sikhs, who were successful in defending themselves against violence.“Meghalaya unfortunately has a government that has chosen to forget that it is a part of India and non-tribals are equal citizens of India. But Bengali Hindus must unite and fend for themselves. Can any of these anti-non-tribals dare to take on the Sardarjis of Punjabi Lane?,” Roy, a senior ideologue of the BJP but evidently disillusioned with the BJP-backed Conrad Sangma-led government of Meghalaya, tweeted on Saturday. The Meghalaya capital has been facing a fresh wave of ethnic violence targeting Bengalis following a clash in Ichamati village located on the state’s border with Bangladesh.
09-11-2020||Amritsar||Badals misusing SGPC for politics: Dhindsa||Several leaders led by rebel Rajya Sabha MP and SAD (Democratic) head Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today gave a clarion call to boycott the SAD (Badal) leadership under whose tenure sacrilege and disappearance of ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib took place.Dhindsa, along with his supporters and other Sikh outfits, organised a ‘pashchatap path’ (prayers for remorse) to express repentance over the misappropriation of ‘saroops’ at Gurdwara Attari Sahib in Sultanwind. Launching an attack on the SAD, he said the SGPC was being misused by the Badal family for political gains. “Earlier, sacrilege incidents occurred and now, 328 ‘saroops’ have gone missing. How could such a bungling take place under the nose of the SGPC? Where and on whose instance were these ‘saroops’ issued?” he said. — TNS
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||11 deaths, 483 fresh Covid cases||The state reported 494 cases and 11 deaths in the past 24 hours. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases has reached 1,37,445 and the toll 4,318. SAS Nagar tops the list with 100 cases, followed by Ludhiana (67), Patiala (55), Bathinda (40), Jalandhar (39) and Hoshiarpur (34). The number of active Covid cases has also risen to 4,910. At present, 126 patients are on oxygen support while nine are critical and on ventilator support. As far as deaths are concerned, Ropar tops the listwith three deaths, followed by Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar with two deaths each, and Muktsar and Amritsar with one death each. — TNS
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||BJP punishing Punjab 
09-11-2020||---||Sukhbir Badal slams Centre for virtual economic blockade imposed on Punjab||Amritsar, November 8SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today slammed the Centre over the virtual economic blockade imposed on Punjab and demanded resumption of the freight train service.Sukhbir was here to welcome BJP’s former state spokesperson and Tarn Taran district president RP Singh Maini into the party fold.Sukhbir also announced Maini to be the SAD’s spokesperson. Maini had resigned from all posts recently in protest against the farm laws and other “anti-Punjab” policies.Terming the BJP’s leadership as a ‘one-way traffic’, Sukhbir said, “Under the BJP, you are bound to obey the one-side orders and will never be entertained to put forth your point. The NDA, which was founded by Parkash Singh Badal, is on the verge of a collapse. The Janata Dal (United) was the last partner in the NDA but after the BJP’s deal with Ram Vilas Paswan’s party, the JD(U) is also likely to exit the NDA,” he said. Sukhbir said though the railway tracks were cleared by the farmers, the Centre had deliberately not restarted the train service on frivolous grounds.Criticising Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for doing nothing to resolve the crisis, he said, “Except for holding a one-hour protest in Delhi, the CM could not spare time to meet either the PM or the Railway Minister to at least get the freight train service resumed in Punjab,” he said. Meanwhile, on a question about future alliances, Sukhbir said the SAD was being strengthened in all 117 constituencies.
09-11-2020||Fazilka||Punjab BJP leaders meet Rajnath Singh, Narendra Tomar||A delegation of state BJP leaders, led by former minister and party’s farmers’ coordination committee chairman Surjit Kumar Jyani, met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi today.The delegation members included former BJP national secretary Harjit Singh Grewal and Punjab Kisan Morcha president Vikramjit Singh Cheema. Jyani told The Tribune over the phone that the delegation requested the leaders to hold talks with the farmers. He said they also acquainted Rajnath and Tomar about the situation in the state in the wake of continuous protests against the farm laws. They urged the leaders to begin talks with the state farmers to reach at an amicable solution.Jyani claimed that both leaders had assured that they were ready to meet the farmers. Jyani claimed Rajnath spoke to Balbir Singh Rajewal, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), over the phone and invited him for the talks.Rajewal, however, denied having any conversation with the Defence Minister. He, however, said Jyani spoke to him in this regard. Rajewal said they were ready to attend the meeting with Central ministers, but not with the officials. — OC
09-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Worst-hit Sangrur yet to register farm fire FIR||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 8A thick blanket of smog covers many parts of the district as the stubble is being burnt unabated. Even though the district is the worst-hit with 7,628 cases of farm fires, district authorities have not registered even a single FIR against the guilty.Worse, authorities have launched prosecution under Sections 39 of Air Act 1981 only in two cases across the district. As per the official data, of 7,628 fire incidents reported, teams of officers have visited 3,244 sites. To date, authorities have imposed environmental compensation of Rs 30.65 lakh in 1,218 cases.“The process to launch prosecution in more cases is on,” said Sachin Singla, SDO, Punjab Pollution Control Board. But the absence of any FIR under Section 188 of the IPC against any farmer has exposed the laxity of officers. Fields adjacent to main roads have turned black due to stubble burning, but officers are still not able to muster courage to register FIRs against the guilty.“We are willing to shun stubble burning, but without the government help, it’s impossible,” says Amrik Singh, district president, BKU (Ugrahan).Since farmers have announced to gherao officers if anyone come to visit their burnt fields, officers told The Tribune that government should provide them security if it really wants to prevent more farm fires in coming days. When asked why there were no FIRs, Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said: “I will look into the matter to ascertain the reasons behind the delay in registration of FIRs in stubble burning cases.”Action taken so far
09-11-2020||Aman Sood||Rs1,200 cr spent on farm machines, yet stubble burning on||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 8Punjab has 75,000 machines worth over 1,200 crore to manage the crop residue and yet it has witnessed over 60,000 farm fire incidents so far, highest in the past three years and more than the combined cases of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.As per official figures, a fine of Rs 2.11 crore has been imposed on erring farmers, but merely Rs 4.40 lakh has been realised from them.Banking on 75,000 machines, the Agriculture Department had expected to manage stubble on 20 lakh hectares and around 40 per cent less cases of farm fires. But the things have turned out otherwise, with the surge in cases expected till Diwali night.Punjab is providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment and have spent lakhs on awareness campaigns against stubble burning.Senior officials say what is worrying is that despite the fact that the area under paddy has decreased by 2.5 lakh hectares due to crop diversification, the farm fire cases have increased. “With Punjab not objecting to crackers during Diwali, the air pollution is expected to peak and cause breathing problems to the elderly and children,” they fear.Two days ago, the Punjab Government told the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that there was no need for a ban on the use of fire crackers. This, despite the fact that the air quality has been recorded poor in the state, worst in some districts, in the past fortnight.Farmers are burning the crop residue in their fields along the state and national highways. The smoke emanating from the fields is causing inconvenience to travellers on the highways early morning and in evenings as visibility is reduced to almost zero.“Erring farmers, backed by farmer unions, refuse to deposit the fine and even take officials hostage. Investigation in many cases is still pending as the farmer unions have threatened agitation, if their members are harassed,” said a senior official. “Due to to no political will, officials concerned can’t take harsh measures,” he said.
09-11-2020||Ferozepur||SAD(A) to launch ‘Border  Khulwao, Kisan Bachao’ stir||Raising the demand for reopening the Hussainiwala-Lahore border which was closed after the 1971 India-Pakistan war, the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) has anounced “Border Khulwao, Kisan Bachao” rally on November 10.SAD (A) district president Gurcharan Singh Bhullar said the reopening of the border was the last hope for the revival of economy of the Malwa region and to boost the financial prospects of the farmers. “The opening of the border will also revive the tourism in the state. The businessmen, including transporters and hoteliers, will also get the benefit,” said Bhullar.Beopar Mandal president Chander Mohan Handa said the reopening of border would lead to thaw in the bilateral relations. — OC
09-11-2020||---||Don’t crush farmers’ struggle: Ramoowalia||Ludhiana, November 8Former Union Minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia has expressed concern that if the farmers’ struggle was not resolved soon, it could lead to a reduction in the boundless powers of the Union Government, which would have far-reaching consequences. If that happens, it would not be easy to control the situation.In a press statement issued here today, he said the Union Government was pursuing a policy of crushing the struggle by inciting and exhausting the farmers, which was wrong. He said history had shown that peasant struggles had overthrown the governments in many countries like China, Russia and Cuba. Even US President Abraham Lincoln was rendered helpless in wake of the peasant struggle, he added.The former Union Minister recently announced the renaming of his Lok Bhalai Party (LBP) as Lok Bhalai Mission (LBM).
09-11-2020||Ferozepur||Judge hurt in mishap,  farm fire blamed||An Additional District and Sessions Judge who was travelling with her brother from Bathinda to Sultanpur was injured when their car hit from the rear side by another vehicle due to thick smog reportedly emanating due to stubble burning in the adjoining fields.  The incident took place along the main highway near Mahianwala village in Zira subdivision of the border district. As per information, Gurjant Singh Dhaliwal, deputed as a Commandant at the BSF Headquarters in Chandigarh, was going from Bathinda to Sultanpur along with his sister Gurdarshan Kaur Dhaliwal, posted as the Additional District and Sessions Judge in Fazilka, in his car. As soon as the car reached near Mahianwala, it met with an accident. A case has been registered at Zira Sadar police station. — OC
09-11-2020||---||Firm found selling paddy on fake bills||Chandigarh, November 8On the recommendation of the Food and Civil Supplies Department, the Punjab Police have booked Rohit Jain, alias Lada, and others on charges of cheating the government using fake billing for paddy sale.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said he had received information that a firm — “Watson Engineering Works” — located on the GT Road, Khanna, was trying to sell paddy brought from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in state mandis on the minimum support price (MSP).A team, under the supervision of senior officials of the department, conducted a search and found 3,399 paddy bags weighing 40 kg each from the storage facility.The bags were marked as paddy sold in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Besides, documents related to shipping of paddy to other godowns and money transactions were found. The minister said 96 cases had been registered against traders and drivers in the state for selling paddy brought from other states during the current season. The state government would not spare anyone indulging in cheating using fake billing.
09-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Purchase exceeds production estimate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Punjab got a cash credit limit (CCL) of Rs 35,500 crore to purchase an estimated 162 lakh metric tonne (LMT) paddy this year, based on its field data collections of production. However, the state’s paddy procurement touched 179.55 LMT today.This is almost 18 LMT over and above the estimated paddy procurement and 9 LMT over its estimated production. Comparatively, the paddy arrival during the corresponding period last year was just 142.28 LMT.While the Food and Civil Supplies Department denies any anomaly, the disparity in figures suggests bogus billing and arrival of cheap paddy from outside the state as the key reasons for a surge in arrivals in mandis. On Saturday, almost 4 LMT reached state mandis against 3 LMT on Sunday.As the paddy arrival continues to increase — it is estimated that another 15 LMT will reach mandis — the state government has sought an additional CCL of Rs 8,500 crore from the Reserve Bank of India for paddy purchase.Principal Secretary, Food and Supplies, KAP Sinha says the state has sent a request to the RBI to increase the state’s CCL from Rs 35,500 crore sanctioned earlier to Rs 44,000 crore. “If there are paddy arrivals, we have to purchase them,” he said.While the government is trying to brush the aside discrepancy, maintaining the productivity of paddy has gone up, agriculture experts say the highest that the yield can go up will be 10 per cent, given the weather is conducive throughout the cultivation season.Unofficially, the agriculture department denies the yield per acre has gone up. “We have already procured 9 LMT above the production, and we expect another 15 LMT to reach the market. The crop cutting experiments are under way to assess the increase in yield, but it will be surprising if the yield were that high,” says a senior government official.Sources say this year, many traders have bought early yielding paddy directly from farmers at rates lower than the MSP and without paying taxes. This is now being shown in the records as the paddy procured from farmers. “We are monitoring arrivals and doing backward integration to see if paddy being procured is actually sourced from a farmer. This has led us to uncover the nexus between traders and commission agents and over 100 FIRs have been registered,” Sinha said.
09-11-2020||---||Capt dials Amit Shah; says goods train services to resume soon||Chandigarh, November 8Reassuring smooth and safe goods train movement in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said he had spoken to Home Minister Amit Shah for his intervention to ensure restoration of rail services and was hopeful of the early resolution of the issue.Help soldiers come home for DiwaliThe government is closely engaged with farmer organisations to persuade them to lift blockade completely to allow passenger trains too so that Punjabis, including the 1.5 lakh soldiers stationed in various places, can come home for Diwali. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterHe had spoken to Shah yesterday to discuss the situation and assured him that there were no law and order concerns to prevent resumption of the services for facilitating supply of essential commodities in Punjab and neighbouring states, including Himachal, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, all of which were suffering losses due to the continued suspension of trains.He pointed out that the security concerns could, however, be serious for the nation if essential supplies did not reach the armed forces in Ladakh and the Valley before snowfall due to the Railways’ decision not to ply goods trains immediately.Countering “misinformation” being spread on this count, Capt Amarinder said all tracks had been cleared by farmers for movement of freight trains. “The situation on the ground is totally peaceful and conducive to safe transportation of goods,” he had told Shah.He said the agitating farmers had not disturbed peace in any part of the state over the past few weeks. Restating his earlier assurance to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the CM told Shah he had directed the Punjab Police to extend all support to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in providing security on the tracks as well as the platforms to enable smooth movement of freight trains, for which the Kisan Unions had already eased their blockade.He said it was the joint responsibility of the Central and state governments to ensure that the train services were resumed at the earliest. He said the government was closely engaged with the farmer organisations to persuade them to lift their blockade completely to allow passenger trains too so that Punjabis, including the 1.5 lakh soldiers stationed in various places, could come home for Diwali.Pointing out that it was in Punjab’s interest to ensure early revival of rail services, Capt Amarinder termed as unfortunate the attempts by the Opposition, including some BJP leaders, to politicise the issue.
09-11-2020||---||3 booked for Rs18 lakh fraud||Ludhiana November 8The Focal Point police have booked three persons, including a couple, for allegedly duping a city resident of Rs 18 lakh by luring him into making an investment and promising a huge return.The accused have been identified as Suresh Mehra, his wife Anita Mehra and Rakesh Mehra, all residents of Fortune City, Chandigarh road.Complainant Barjinder Mishra of Gurdev Nagar told the police the accused had asked him to invest money in Blue Life Infra Limited and promised to double the amount in a short period.The complainant agreed to invest Rs 40 lakh in the company. Later, when the investment company failed to double the money, he asked for a refund. After dilly-dally, the accused returned only Rs 18 lakh in cash. The victim alleged the accused cheated him by hatching a conspiracy.Investigation officer ASI Gurmeet Singh said a case of fraud had been registered against the accused and further probe was on.
09-11-2020||Lalit Mohan & Arun Sharma||Incomplete Nangal bridge nightmare for commuters||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala/Ropar, Nov 8The incomplete bridge in Nangal, located 6 km from the Himachal Pradesh-Punjab border, has become a nightmare for commuters travelling via Mehatpur in Una district.Thousands of tourists and residents of Himachal Pradesh get stuck in traffic jams on the bridge almost every day, at times for hours.Rs 183-crore Projects underwayThe bridge is vital for residents of Una and Hamirpur districts as it is their only link to Chandigarh. Even ambulances on way to the PGI get stuck in traffic jams.The bridge, built more than 60 years ago, is not wide enough to cater to the increasing vehicular traffic. The NHAI had approved a railway overbridge (ROB) near Nangal Dam, a high-level bridge on the Sutlej and another ROB near Ajouli Mor in December 2017. Authorities in Punjab claim while the first two projects will be completed by April 30 next year, the third is expected to be completed by the end of next year as 80 per cent of the work is still pending.Yuvraj Singh Bindra, Executive Engineer, PWD Central Works, said over 77 per cent work of the Nangal ROB and Sutlej flyover was over and the remaining would be completed by April 30. Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur had written to the NHAI on the issue.
09-11-2020||Vishav Bharti||In Punjab, 15% spurt in coronavirus cases, experts advise caution||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8After a lull for around two weeks (between October 17 and October 31), Punjab is again witnessing a spike in Covid cases. It registered around 15 per cent increase in the number of active cases over the past one week.As per the state Health Department statistics, the number of active cases started declining after mid-October and came down to 4,277 by the third week of October. It remained static till October-end. Since the beginning of this month, the cases, however, have started increasing. On Sunday, the number of active cases increased to 4,910, which means around 15 per cent increase over the October figure. Experts say people should take precautions, otherwise there might be a spike in cases as it happened in September.
