10-09-2020||---||Act against health officials not joining COVID duties: Health Dept||Chandigarh, September 10Meanwhile, when the COVID spike continues unabated, the indiscipline by the state health department seems to have emerged as a new challenge.Acting tough on the doctors and other department employees not joining their COVID duties, the state Health Department has ordered to take action against them under the Epidemic Act-1897.In a communication sent to all Civil Surgeons, the Director of Health Services has said those medical and paramedical employees, who were deployed for level-2 COVID duties, should be asked to join their duties by Saturday.She said: “The list of the employees who fail to join the duties by Saturday should be compiled and sent to the Director’s office by Monday morning so that the required action can be taken against them under the Epidemic Act, 1897.”As per the latest bulletin, Thursday proved to be the worst day as the state reported 2,464 fresh COVID-19 cases and 88 deaths. With these, the total number of cases has reached 72,143 and with 88 fresh causalities, the number of deaths has reached 2,149.
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multani case: SIT conducts raids in Himachal, Delhi to arrest ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||The Special Investigation Team of Punjab Police on Thursday carried out raids in Himachal Pradesh and Delhi to nab former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini who is facing arrest in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case.However, the former Director-General of Police remained elusive.The officials on Wednesday had said they had carried out raids at residences of the associates of Saini at various places, including Hoshiarpur and Mohali in Punjab, Dabwali and Sirsa in Haryana, and Delhi.Saini, whose whereabouts were still unknown, was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani in 1991 when he was working as a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday had dismissed Saini’s anticipatory bail plea in this matter.The bench of Justice Fateh Deep Singh had also dismissed Saini’s second petition that sought quashing of the FIR (first information report) in the case or the transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation.Saini had approached the high court after his bail plea was dismissed by a Mohali court on September 1.The police had last month added murder charge under Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR in Multani’s disappearance case after two former Chandigarh police personnel — former UT police inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh, who are also co-accused — turned approver in the disappearance case.On September 3, the Punjab Police claimed that Saini had “absconded” while leaving behind the Z plus security allotted to him.Saini had left his Chandigarh residence without Punjab Police security personnel and security vehicles, including a jammer vehicle.Multani, a resident of Mohali, was picked up by police after the terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. However, the police had later claimed that Multani had escaped from police custody of Qadian Police in Gurdaspur.Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar.The case was registered against them under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali. PTI
10-09-2020||---||Punjab records highest single-day spike of 2,464 COVID-19 cases, 88 deaths||Chandigarh, September 10Punjab on Thursday reported the highest single-day spike of 2,464 COVID-19 cases, taking the state tally to 72,143.Meanwhile, 88 deaths were also recorded in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the state now stands at 2,149.In a district-wise break-up of the fresh cases reported today, SAS Nagar topped the chart with 307 cases, followed by Amritsar with 295 cases, Jalandhar (277), Bathinda (202), Pathankot (195), Gurdaspur (156), Patiala (144), Hoshiarpur (141) and Ludhiana (120).Also read: Act against health officials not joining COVID duties: Health DeptAs many as 1,348 patients were also discharged today. The discharged cases include 353 from Jalandhar followed by 235 from Ludhiana, Amritsar (154), Kapurthala (92), Mansa (81), Gurdaspur (72), 62 each from Bathinda and Hoshiarpur, Fazilka (61), Muktsar (53), Pathankot (43), SAS Nagar (25), Sangrur (22), Fatehgarh Sahib (17), Barnala (12) and Taran Tarn (4).The 88 deaths were reported from Amritsar (16), SAS Nagar (14), Ludhiana (11), Jalandhar (9), Ferozepur (7), Ropar (5), four each from Kapurthala, Moga and Patiala, three each from Gurdaspur and Fatehgarh Sahib, two each from Hoshiarpur and Sangrur and one each from Faridkot, Mansa, Muktsar and Taran Tarn.The number of active cases in the state has climbed to 18,088 while the number of discharged patients has risen to 51,906.
10-09-2020||Satya Prakash||SC ‘shocked’ at criminal case pending against Punjab politician for 36 years||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 10Shocked over a criminal case against a Punjab politician pending for 36 years, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the state government to explain why it was hanging fire for such a long time.“Why is a case regarding life imprisonment pending for 36 years?” asks a three-judge Bench led by Justice NV Ramana asked during a hearing of a PIL against the criminalisation of politics.As the Bench took up an affidavit filed by senior advocate and Amicus Curiae Vijay Hansaria, Justice Ramana asked which was the oldest pending case.“The oldest case is from 1983. It’s from Punjab,” Hansaria said.“This is shocking! Who is the counsel for the state of Punjab? No one is visible,” the Bench said.As an advocate appeared on the screen, the Bench sought to know why a case involving life imprisonment was pending for 36 years.“Are you not responsible for prosecuting criminal cases?” Justice Ramana wondered.“Yes we are, I will seek information and file a report,” the lawyer said.As many as 35 sitting and former MPs and MLAs in Punjab were facing criminal cases, Hansaria said in an affidavit filed in the court.“There are 35 cases (in Punjab), out of which in 21 cases sitting MPs/MLAs are accused,” he said.The list included one case, each relating to murder and drugs, the affidavit said, adding the proceedings in these cases had been stayed by the Supreme Court.One of the cases related to a 1983 incident was punishable with life imprisonment in which charges were framed in 2019 after 36 years, it stated.Haryana has a total of 42 lawmakers — 11 sitting and 31 former MPs and MLAs — who are facing criminal cases while the number stood at 48 in Himachal Pradesh where 35 of them were sitting MPs/MLAs.The three Union Territories in the northern region — Chandigarh (1 MP), Jammu and Kashmir (1 MP) and Ladakh (6 former MLAs) also figured in the list.The Bench asked the Centre to respond in six weeks to an amended plea of the petitioner seeking to debar convicted politicians from contesting elections and holding party positions after senior advocate Vikas Singh pointed out that the court had said it will decide this issue of lifetime debarment in the end.In all, there were 4,442 cases pending against MPs/MLAs (sitting and former) in different courts including Special Courts set up for MPs and MLAs, it said.“In 2,556 cases, sitting legislators are accused persons. The number of legislators involved is more than the total number of cases since there are more than one accused in one case, and the same legislator is an accused in more than one case. There are 413 cases in respect of offences, which are punishable with imprisonment for life, out of which in 174 cases sitting MPs/ MLAs are accused,” the affidavit stated.The Supreme Court had in 2015 directed the trial in cases against sitting and ex-lawmakers shall be conducted on a daily basis and concluded in one year from the date of the framing of charge(s).
10-09-2020||New Delhi||Centre grants FCRA registration to association running ‘langar’ at Golden Temple||As the government granting FCRA registration to an Amritsar-based association to receive foreign funds to serve langar to devotees of Golden temple, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is blessed that "Wahe Guruji has taken seva from him”.In a series of tweets, the Home Minister said, the Darbar Sahib’s divinity gives strength to us. For decades, the Sangat worldwide was unable to serve there.”He then went on to add: “Modi government’s decision to allow FCRA to the Sri Harmandir Sahib deepens the connect of Seva between the Sangat globally and Sri Darbar Sahib. A blessed moment!”Sri Darbar Sahib’s divinity gives strength to us. For decades, the Sangat worldwide was unable to serve there. Modi Government’s decision to allow FCRA to the Sri Harmandir Sahib deepens the connect of Seva between the Sangat globally and the Sri Darbar Sahib. A blessed moment!  Shah further said, “The decision on FCRA at the Sri Harmandir Sahib is a pathbreaking one which will once again showcase the outstanding spirit of service of our Sikh sisters and brothers.”Union Food Processing Minister and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal thanked the Union Home Minister for granting registration under the Foreign Contribution Regulatory Act (FCRA) to the Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Saheb Sri Darbar Saheb Punjab Association. She said this will enable the shrine to receive ‘Sewa’ from all over the world and go a long way in propagating Gurusahab’s philosophy of ‘sarbat da bhala’.“Happy to share that MHA has granted approval under FCRA to Sri Harmandir Sahib. This will enable the shrine to receive ‘sewa’ from all over the world & go a long way in propagating Gurusahab’s philosophy of ‘sarbat da bhala’. I’m grateful to @AmitShah Ji for making this possible,” she tweeted.Earlier sources in the MHA said, the Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Saheb Sri Darbar Saheb Punjab Association has been granted registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The FCRA registration of the association will be valid for a period of five years.Langar services in Golden temple are provided by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. The Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Saheb Sri Darbar Saheb Punjab Association, which applied for FCRA registration on May 27, has been running ‘langar’ services to the devotees of Golden temple in Amritsar in Punjab, they said.Set up in 1925, the organisation so far has been taking donations from within the country. With the granting of the FCRA registration by the MHA, the organisation can now take foreign contributions, which it can spend for running ‘langar’ services and help poor and needy.
10-09-2020||Lahore||Pakistan Sikh community wants rare 300-year-old religious scripture placed at shrine||The Sikh community in Pakistan said that it wants a handwritten copy of Guru Granth Sahib, which is currently on display at a museum in Lahore and estimated to be 300 years old, to be placed at the Gurdwara Dera Sahib, according to a media report.The handwritten copy of the Sikh holy book, according to experts, is very rare, The Express Tribune said in a report on Wednesday."While there is no date on it, the writing and ink shows it is more than three hundred years old," said Aliza Saba Rizvi, a researcher and in charge of the section of the Lahore Museum dedicated to Sikhism.According to Rizvi, the manuscript, along with other artefacts were received by the museum as a donation from various individuals and organization over a long period of time."This is a rare copy of the Guru Granth Sahib," Rizvi said, adding that a similar copy of the holy scripture is at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, India.Now the Sikh community in Pakistan wants the holy scripture to be placed inside the Gurdwara Dera Sahib, a shrine situated in the heart of Lahore, which stands at the spot where Guru Arjan Dev died in 1606."This ancient copy of Guru Granth Sahib must be kept in a Gurdwara Sahib," The Express Tribune quoted a senior member of the community as saying."It cannot be kept in a closet like any ordinary book," said Sardar Bishan Singh, former head of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (PSGPC)."It needs to be placed inside the Gurdwara with the respect it deserves," said Singh.The community leader said he would place the demand on the agenda for the next meeting of the PSGPC.Singh suggested the museum should transfer the rare scripture to the Gurdwara or hire a member of the community to take care of the holy book as prescribed by Sikh customs. IANS
10-09-2020||Patiala||Soni expresses displeasure with Rajindra Hospital authorities over stealing of valuables||Punjab Medical Education Minister OP Soni expressed his disappointment with the authorities of Government Rajindra Hospital when he came to know that costly personal belongings of COVID-19 victims’ were stolen.The minister got displeased with COVID-19 ward in-charge, IAS Surbhi Malik—for her inaction in the incident of stealing—despite complaints filed by the grief-stricken family. Meanwhile, Malik said that she had already forwarded the complaints to the Patiala SSP.The minister was here at the Government Medical College in Patiala to oversee the functioning of the COVID-19 ward on Wednesday.Soni, said, “It is very sad that family members didn’t get the valuables. If anything happens within the premises of the hospital, the Medical Superintendent is responsible. Thefamily members should get the valuables within two hours of the death of COVID patient.”Action will be taken against doctors indulging in private practice: SoniSoni—when asked about Rajindra Hospital’s Nodal officers’ private practice, said that action would be taken. He said, “If any doctor is indulging in private practice, I will surely take action.”Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, said, “I will take action only if there is a written complaint against the doctor. I don’t consider any video on Whatsapp.”Before the press conference, the minister held a meeting where he instructed the GMC principal and the Medical Superintendent to conduct a detailed analysis of every COVID death caused by COVID, to which doctors said a high-level committee has been already formed.
10-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar's Bazaar Mai Sewan evokes a forlorn tale of lost grandeur||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9With 25 publishers abounding the Bazaar Mai Sewan, it was considered once the world’s largest setting of Punjabi (Gurmukhi) books. But as of now, all glory has been lost in the mists of time.The original area starting from Darshni Deorhi to Chowk Ghanta Ghar, which was more than 200ft, has been reduced. Several historic buildings, including Udasi Akhara, Sangal Wala Akhara, Gianian Wala Bunga and Hathi Khanna dotting the bazaar are all gone.Meanwhile, a big chunk of the history was demolished by the government for the construction of Galiara around the Golden Temple in 1988. Most of the book sellers and publishers were moved to other markers, while many left the business. Today, you could say the market is totally no-nostalgia-evoking, unrecognisable remnant of its past grandeur. Only shops of drafting materials, hotels and religious symbols can be seen. A scanty of booksellers is the only reminder.Market’s displacement and reckless decisionsDuring the much-condemned attack of the Indian Army on Akal Takht in 1984, a number of shops were reduced to ashes. Come 1988, the government’s decision of Galiara at the expense of market left many sellers in turmoil. Many were displaced.Narinderpal Singh, owner of Mehar Singh and sons, laments: “They didn’t care about its legacy during the Galiara’s construction. The business of books is perfect, but the new generations of the publishers are not adopting it. Religious literature is high in demand. We are sitting at the heart of Sikh world and customers from all over the world visit us. The government ruined our market.”They didn't care about its legacy during the Galiara's construction. The business of books is perfect, but the new generations of the publishers are not adopting it. Religious literature is in high demand. We are sitting at the heart of the Sikh world and customers from all over the world visit us. The government has ruined our market. —Narinderpal Singh, owner of Mehar Singh and SonsGursagar Singh, owner of Singh brothers, recalls: “There was a great time of the market, when it was the hub of the Punjabi literature. The business is good, but owing to scenarios several prominent publishers have switched to other occupation.”Balwinder Singh, former Head of the Guru Ramdas School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, sai: “I have submitted a thesis for MPhil on Bazaar Mai Sewan to my guide BS Brar. Once, it was world’s largest market of Gurmukhi books. Now, it’s almost ruined; the market witnessed huge changes during the 20th Century.”Establishment of printing press and publishersWith the emergence of Gurumukhi printing press, a large number of these were established in Lahore and Amritsar. The first Punjabi printing press (using Gurmukhi font) was established through a Christian mission in Ludhiana in 1835. Eminent Punjabi writer Bhai Vir Singh established Wazir Hind Press in the city in 1899. During the 1980s, Lahore became a hub of Gurmukhi printing presses publishing religious text and Qissas.Meanwhile, Amritsar emerged as the main market of religious and Gurmukhi literature. During the early 20th Century, a large number of publishers settled in the Bazaar Mai Sewan and established their machines. Famous Qissakar (story writer) Kishan Singh Arif (1836-1904), whose father Narain Singh was a publisher and bookseller in the same bazaar, published Qissa Shirin Farhad, Puran Bhagat, Raja Bharthari, Raja Rasaloo, Dulla Bhatti and Kalianwali Heer.A number of publishers, including Mehar Singh and Sons, Buta Singh-Partap Singh, Chattar Singh-Jewan Singh, Singh Brothers, Khalsa Brothers, Jawahar Singh-Kirpal Singh, Uttam Singh-Gurmukh Singh, Ameer Bhandar, Kastoori Lal and Sons, Munshi Chirag Deen, Bhai Fakeer Singh and sons and Ladha Singh-Kartar Singh among others had established their presses later on and published religious literature.Shrouded in mythical pastThe Bazaar Mai Sewan started early in the Ranjit Singh era (1780-1839). It was Maharaja Ranjit Singh, who dedicated this bazaar to a lady named Mai Sewan. She was the wife of a military commander Fateh Singh Kaaliawaala. Mai Sewan was known for her dedicated services at the Durbar Sahib and was one of the most respected figures among the locals. Interestingly, a myth also runs parallel to the belief. It is said that it belongs to Mai Sewan, a devotee of the third Sikh Guru — Amardas ji. Once, she expressed her desire of wanting her name to live forever to the master. The Guru is said to have complied with the demand. When fifth Guru Arjan Dev developed the city and allotted land to the settlers, a bazaar leading to Guru Ke Mehal (residence of Guru) was dedicated to Mai Sewan.
10-09-2020||GS Paul||CKD recommends name of Bhai Gurmej Singh for Padma Bhushan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) has urged the Centre to consider Golden Temple’s former hazoori ragi Bhai Gurmej Singh’s name for Padma Bhushan award keeping in view his invaluable services in the field of Gurmat Sangeet and Sikh propaganda.Bhai Gurmej Singh, who himself is blind, is the only one who had transliterated entire Sri Guru Granth Sahib into Braille, the first ever initiative taken by him. He had served the Golden Temple for three decades before he got retired in 1998.Being blind, he dreamt that many like him should not be bereft of reading Guru Granth Sahib. To realise his wish, he started his work on transliterating Guru Granth Sahib into Braille. It took him 12 years to complete the project.The first Braille copy having 2,153 pages in 18 volumes, with page size of 11 x 12 inches, was presented to the visually impaired children at CKD orphanage where he had spent his childhood.The holy script in Braille was accomplished in a few sets. Keeping one for himself, he had presented one set to the Golden Temple for the convenience of the visually impaired devotees and the rest to three other blind home centres.CKD president Nirmal Singh who wrote the letter to the Centre told that Bhai Gurmej Singh was only eight when he came to the CKD-run Central Khalsa Orphanage where he learnt the gurmat sangeet lessons. “Against all odds, his contributions in propagating Gurbani helped the visionless devotees to read it deserved the honour by the nation”, he said.Bhai Gurmej Singh was decorated with “Shiromani Ragi” tag by the SGPC, CKD, DSGMC and the Language Department of Punjab. At present he has been contributing his service at Bibi Bhaini Istri Netraheen Kirtan and Sikhlai Cenrtre in Chheharta (Amritsar). The department of Gurmat Sangeet of Punjabi University has awarded Bibi Jasbir Kaur Khalsa fellowship to Bhai Gurmej Singh in recognition of his service to the Sikh community in 2013.Born in 1940 in Bajidpur village, he had lost vision at the tender age after suffering from the dreaded disease small pox. His father Parsa Singh then sent him to the CKD Orphanage which operates a wing for blind students and impart them vocational training in Kiran. He also learnt the nuances of Braille here only.CKD’s dharam parchar head Bhag Singh Ankhi told that Bhai Gurmej Singh’s creations would be remembered for generations.Former hazoori ragi of golden temple
10-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Remembering Havildar Abdul Hamid – the hero of Indo-Pak war of 1965||On his 55th martyrdom day, Company Quartermaster Havildar Abdul Hamid, PVC, one of the heroes of the 1965 Indo–Pak War, was paid tributes by residents of Asal Uttar village, 50 km from here, at a function organised by the village panchayat, in collaboration with the Shaheed Abdul Hamid Yadgar Committee on Wednesday. The Golden Arrow Division of the Army was to pay tributes to the hero at the village, but the programme got postponed. The administration had capped the gathering at 30 persons.Heroic actOn September 10, 1965, a Pakistan regiment launched an attack at a strategic location near Cheema village (Bhikkiwind Road) in the Khem Karan sector. Intense artillery shelling preceded the enemy attack and then Patton tanks penetrated the forward position.Realising the gravity of the situation, Company Quartermaster Havildar Abdul Hamid, who was then commander of a RCL gun detachment moved defended the country. Taking an advantageous position, he knocked out the leading enemy tank and then, swiftly changing his position, sent another tank up in flames. By this time, the enemy tanks in the area spotted him and brought his jeep under concentrated machine-gun and high-explosive fire.Undeterred, Havildar Abdul Hamid kept on firing on yet another enemy tank with his recoilless gun. During this, he got wounded and later succumbed to his injuries. — OC
10-09-2020||---||Curfew across all towns of Punjab on Sundays||Chandigarh, September 9The Punjab Government has announced that curfew would be imposed on Sundays in all 167 municipal towns of the state till September 30. There will, however, be no curfew on Saturdays.Amid easing of restrictions, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced that those flying in from abroad with Covid-negative certificates up to 96 hours old could now go for home quarantine.International travellers, who got themselves tested on arrival at the airport, as part of the Government of India’s new directives, could also go for home quarantine if found negative, he said, adding that Punjab was currently at the 17th position in the country in terms of Covid cases.The Chief Minister said after the decline in testing due to rumour-mongering and fake propaganda, the number of Covid tests had again touched around 28,000 per day as the police had cracked down heavily on miscreants spreading misinformation in the state. Pointing out that 28,688 tests were conducted yesterday, he said the figures would be raised to 30,000 soon. The focus of the state government was on saving lives, for which early testing was essential, he added.“We have to effectively counter such campaigns,” he told the third group of Congress MLAs as part of his series of video-conferences with party legislators and ministers to discuss the Covid situation. He asked the ministers and MLAs to visit their districts and constituencies to take stock of the ground situation over the next three days. With the peak expected in the state in the next two weeks, it was important for the elected representatives and officials to work together to tackle the crisis, he said.Slamming the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for its “concerted campaign to spread misinformation in Punjab on Covid”, the Chief Minister said despite its lower population, Delhi, which was ruled by AAP, had reported worrisome data on the pandemic. “They (AAP) have made it a subject of competition,” he said, adding that this was shocking.Free distribution of food packets for poor patients in isolation had started in Patiala, and would begin in other districts soon, said Capt Amarinder. He said the process of distribution of free Covid kits to 50,000 patients at homes and in hospitals would begin in a couple of days.Overcharging by private hospitals was a concern raised by MLAs, some of whom said many of these hospitals were also refusing to attend to Covid patients and needed to be controlled. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the state was passing through a critical time, necessitating a joint fight by all stakeholders. She urged MLAs to bring any problems to the notice of the officials concerned.The Chief Minister promised the MLAs that the procurement of paddy would be done smoothly as it had been done for wheat amid the pandemic.Free covid kits to be given soonFree distribution of food packets for poor patients in isolation had started in Patiala, and would begin in other districts soon, said Capt Amarinder. He said the process of distribution of free Covid kits to 50,000 patients at homes and in hospitals would begin in a couple of days. The focus of the state government was on saving lives, for which early testing was essential, he added.
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||108  accounts blocked for ‘Covid rumours’||As part of the crackdown ordered by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh against miscreants inciting public with “hate content” on organ harvesting, the state police have got 38 Facebook, 49 Twitter and 21 YouTube accounts/links blocked by the competent authorities for carrying out propaganda on Covid.Besides, a total of 151 accounts/links of Facebook, 100 of Twitter, four of Instagram and 37 of YouTube have been reported to the authorities concerned. Over 121 FIRs have been registered so far at various police stations across the state.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the state police’s Bureau of Investigation had taken up the matter of blocking accounts/links of anti-national and anti-social elements with the Cyber Law Division, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India, following which 108 accounts/links were blocked. Further action on the remaining accounts was awaited, he said.Gupta said the competent authorities of the social media platforms concerned had also been requested to provide information of users. — TNS
10-09-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh: Plan to put Punjab among top 5 next year||Chandigarh, September 9Expressing dissatisfaction with Punjab’s 19th rank in the Ease of Doing Business Survey, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said his government aimed at putting the state in the top five next year, with a new system of ‘deemed approvals’, which was to be implemented soon.The Chief Minister said the government was working on ‘deemed approvals’, a system wherein online clearances would be issued automatically on the expiry of stipulated time. The process of setting up new industrial parks to attract investments from foreign and domestic companies was also on, he said, citing the upcoming state-of-the-art mega parks in Ludhiana, Rajpura, Bathinda and Mohali.Pointing out that Punjab was the No. 1 state of the 20th century, Capt Amarinder invited the industry to be a part of the government’s efforts to help the state regain its pre-eminent position.The Chief Minister was chairing a virtual round-table conference with some industry leaders on the job landscape and required skill-set for the post-Covid world, organised by Chitkara University, under the Punjab ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission’.Invites industryI invite the industry to partner with the state in improving its skill training and making it more job-oriented. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CMReiterating his government’s commitment to fully support investors as they strive for normalcy in the post-Covid environment, he said his team of officers would do everything possible to help and facilitate the industry in Punjab.He invited the industry to partner the state in improving its skill training and make it more job-oriented and said “you need skilled manpower and you can absorb these trained youth at better rates.” The Chief Minister further said the New Education Policy would be tweaked to suit the specific requirements of the state, particularly in the context of the post-Covid environment, that would need a new skill-set for providing employment to the youth.
10-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Jakhar: Farmers suffering due to unplanned works during SAD rule||Abohar, September 9Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee(PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar, Water Resources Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar today visited more than 12 villages in the Balluana constituency, which has been ravaged by rains in the past three weeks.Jakhar said the state government would work out a plan to solve the problem permanently, but for the time being, the priority was to improve drainage so that farmers could sow wheat.A preliminary survey indicated that rain and drain water had affected one lakh acres in the Abohar subdivision. The PPCC chief said this was the result of many unplanned projects of the previous SAD-BJP government. “Faulty” drains constructed during the SAD regime were to be blamed for farmers’ suffering. He said the NDA government had sanctioned Rs 2,246-crore projects to resolve the problem of “faulty” drains, but the SAD government had not given any details of the utilisation of the money so far. It appeared the money was misused to please Akali sarpanches during the ‘sangat darshan’ programmes, Jakhar added.Sarkaria said, “Our priority was to immediately drain out water from farms and residential areas, and then solve the problem permanently with a comprehensive plan. The officials were told to appoint nodal officers for every village to monitor the drainage arrangements.”Meanwhile, two days after SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal visited some waterlogged villages in the Lambi Assembly segment in Muktsar, Jakhar and Sarkaria today visited the same villages.
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Toll crosses 2K mark, Ludhiana worst-hit||A rapid rise in the death rate is being witnessed in the state as the number of deaths breached the 2,000 mark today. In the past one month, the state has seen a 0.5 per cent jump inthe Covid fatality rate.In July, the death rate was 2.39 per cent among confirmed positive cases. Now, the number has increased to 2.95 per cent, said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer for Covid control in the state. The mortality rate was 1.98 per cent in May, 2.58 per cent in June, 2.39 per cent in July and 2.64 per cent in August, he said.As per the latest bulletin released today, the number of cases in the state has reached 69,684, and the number of casualties stand at 2,061.In all, 2,137 fresh cases and 71 deaths were reported on Wednesday. Besides, 50,558 patients have recovered from the deadly virus, and at present, 17,065 cases are active in the state. In all, 573 patients are on oxygen and 74 on ventilator support.As far as deaths are concerned, Ludhiana was the worst-hit with 13 deaths, followed by Jalandhar (11), Patiala (eight), Kapurthala (six), Sangrur and Bathinda (five), Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and SBS Nagar (four each), Amritsar (three), Gurdaspur (two), Fazilka, Ferozepur, Mansa, Moga, Pathankot and Ropar (one each). — TNS
10-09-2020||Fazilka||Sukhbir blames Punjab govt for peasants’ plight||SAD president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal visited more than 12 rain-affected villages in the Jalalabad and Balluana Assembly constituencies of the district.Badal said even though crops in thousands of acres had been destroyed, the Congress government was “unmoved”.“No official has been deputed to listen to the grievances of people, and no compensation has been awarded to the aggrieved. Besides, no effort is being made to install pipes to drain out water from the affected fields,” alleged Badal. Standing crops in nearly 90,000 acres have been adversely affected due to rainwater. Four children have lost their lives after the roof of their houses caved in due to incessant rain. Besides, 57 ‘kutcha’ and ‘pucca’ houses have been damaged either partially or completely. — OC
10-09-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Revised OTS policy yet to see light of day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9With three-and-a-half years in governance, a user-friendly revised one-time settlement (OTS) policy for non-compoundable violations in urban local bodies across the state is yet to see the light of day. Affecting 30 lakh violations in residential and non-residential buildings in urban local bodies, the government aims to earn a revenue of Rs 1,000 crore by regularising the buildings.The previous OTS policy notified in March last year, when Navjot Singh Sidhu was the Local Government Minister, was held back as it did not find favour with the intended beneficiaries. The department had received just 1,200 applications last year before Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh directed Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra to work out a realistic and people-friendly policy. Based on it, the department had invited suggestions from the public and stakeholders. Covid restrictions and subsequent transfer of two secretaries in the department further delayed the finalisation of the policy. A senior officer said categorisation of urban local bodies for the purpose of charging the regularisation fee and relaxing the parking norms was being proposed.AConsultations on, says MinisterLocal Government Minister Brahm Mohindra said the department was in the process of consulting various stakeholders. “With the department getting a secretary-level officer and final nitty-gritty of the relaxations being worked out, we are shortly coming with the revised scheme,” the minister said.
10-09-2020||Our Correspondent||BKU stir against farm ordinances on Sept 15||Ludhiana, September 9A joint coordination committee of 11 farmer organisations comprising the Kadian faction of the BKU has given a call to farmers to block roads across the state on September 15 for two hours to express their resentment against three farm ordinances.This was stated by BKU president Harmeet Singh Kadian in a state committee meeting here today. He said the ordinances issued in June were to be placed before two Houses of Parliament in this session for ratification and taking necessary follow up legislative action.Through the “chakka jam” for two hours in the entire state, the farmers would draw the attention of MPs to oppose the “anti-farmer” legislative measures both in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and make the government withdraw them.BKU secretary general Jagdev Singh Kanianwali urged all political parties to leave their differences aside and stand with the farmers in their fight against “unjust and unwarranted” legislations.
10-09-2020||Bathinda||Powercom employees protest plant auction||Members of the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Committee Powercom, the Thermal Federation and the Karamchari Pensioners’ Union, today protested against the auction of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in Bathinda district.The members carried out a protest march from the main gate of the plant to Bhai Kanhaiya Chowk and burnt an effigy of the state government. — TNS
10-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sunny Deol set to emulate Vinod Khanna as ‘bridgeman’||Tribune News ServicePathankot, September 9Not long ago, when MP Sunny Deol was asked what plans he had to improve connectivity in his constituency where the topography is dominated by the Ravi, Ujh and Chakki rivers, his reply was, “I will cross the bridge when I come to it.”Now, 18 months into his term, the actor has kept his word. His predecessor Vinod Khanna had earned the sobriquet of ‘Pul Wala Khanna’ (Bridgeman Khanna) for having constructed several bridges. Deol is now all set to emulate him.He has urged Nitin Gadkari, Union Transport Minister, to accord sanction and issue grants to build four major bridges. Officials say the blueprints have been submitted and the money will be given from the Central Road Fund (CRF).The fund is a non-lapsable entity created under the CRF Act-2000 out of the tax imposed by the Union Government on the consumption of petrol and diesel to develop and maintain national highways, state roads and bridges, and Rs 20,000 crore is collected annually for it.The MP has asked approval for overpasses on the Ravi near Makora Pattan, Barth Sahib, Kiri Pattan and Kathlu Khad at Lanzera village in the Dhar block. The Kiri Pattan project will ensure that the distance between Punjab and J&K is reduced by 60 km.The Mukerian and Kathlour bridges, both of which were Khanna’s projects, substantially boosted the economic progress in the area. Similarly, Deol’s ventures, too, will act as a catalyst in enhancing the social and financial prosperity of the area.The MP’s office said work would commence once the sanctions were received. “We intend to start work the moment funds are cleared,” said one of his assistants.
10-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||SFJ chief Pannu’s cousin tried to avert Operation Bluestar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, US-based chief of the banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), is a cousin of nationalist and former High Commissioner to Ghana Daljit Singh Pannun, who passed away in 2007. The land of both families is situated near each other at Khankot village.Daljit Singh had made efforts to avert “Operation Bluestar” by mediating between Jarnail Singh Bhinderanwale and the Union Government. He was a pen friend of Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, when he was an Indian Ambassador to Russia. Later, Dr Radhakrishnan invited him to Delhi when he was made Vice-President.Gaurav Toora, SP (Amritsar Rural), said: “The police have initiated the process to attach the properties of all proclaimed offenders, including Gurpatwant Singh.”A total of 22 acres of family land has been divided between Gurpatwant Singh and his two brothers.Attachment of propertiesAs per NIA, the orders for the attachment of properties of Gurpatwant Singh Pannu were issued in accordance with the ‘powers conferred under Section 51-A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967’His entire family land is being cultivated by Bikramjit Singh, a local farmer, on an annual contract for the past 20 years. Bikramjit said teams of the NIA and intelligence agencies had questioned him a few days ago. He told them that he used to pay land rental to Gurpatwant’s father Mahinder Singh and after his death to his mother. “Now, sometimes Gurpatwant’s brother Magwant comes to collect the amount,” he said.Of the 22 acres, 18 acres fall in Sardara Wala Khankot. The village is divided in three areas with two other being Parla Khankot and Ram Singh Wala Khankot. Situated close to the city and residential colonies being carved out close to Sardara Wala Khankot, the market value of each acre is valued at nearly Rs 60 lakh. The remaining four acres are situated on the rear side of a five-star hotel. It was once owned by Daljit Singh.Residents of Khankot, Gurpatwant’s ancestral village, refrained from commenting on him.Sukhdev Singh, sarpanch of the village, said Gurpatwant’s family had migrated to the US over three decades ago, so the young generation did not know much about them. He added that there were three houses of his relatives in the village. However, they were reluctant to speak to the media.
10-09-2020||---||35 sitting, ex-legislators of Punjab face criminal cases||New Delhi, September 9Thirty-five sitting and former MPs and MLAs in Punjab are facing criminal cases, the Supreme Court has been informed.“There are 35 such cases in Punjab. Sitting MPs/MLAs are accused in 21 of these,” senior advocate and Amicus Curiae Vijay Hansaria told the top court in an affidavit filed in response to a PIL against criminalisation of politics.The list included one case each relating to murder and drugs, the affidavit said, adding the proceedings in these cases had been stayed by the Supreme Court.Situation elsewhereOne of the cases relating to a 1983 incident was punishable with life imprisonment in which charges were framed in 2019 after 36 years, it stated.Haryana has 42 lawmakers (11 sitting and 31 former) who are facing criminal cases, while the number stood at 48 in Himachal Pradesh where 35 of them are sitting MPs/MLAs.The three Union Territories in the northern region — Chandigarh (one MP), Jammu & Kashmir (one MP) and Ladakh (six former MLAs) also figured on the list. In all, there were 4,442 cases pending against MPs/MLAs (sitting and former) in different courts, including special courts set up for MPs and MLAs, it said.“Sitting legislators are accused in 2,556 cases. The number of legislators involved is more than the total number of cases since there are more than one accused in one case, and the same legislator is an accused in more than one case. In all, 413 cases relate to offences punishable with imprisonment for life. Sitting MPs/MLAs are accused in 174 of these cases,” the affidavit stated.The Supreme Court had on March 5 directed high courts to furnish information regarding pending cases against MPs and MLAs in a prescribed format to Amicus Curiae, who was asked to compile it and make submissions for expeditious disposal of these cases.
10-09-2020||---||DGP Dinkar Gupta case: High Court reserves verdict||Chandigarh, September 9Nearly eight months after the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) set aside Dinkar Gupta’s appointment as Punjab Director-General of Police (DGP), the Punjab and Haryana High Court today reserved its verdict on a bunch of petitions filed by the state, the top cop and other petitioners.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash, senior advocate Maninder Singh submitted that UPSC guidelines had been followed 28 times across India while appointing DGPs. The respondent side’s argument was the guidelines were never challenged. It made the matters worse as CAT had virtually set aside the guidelines and thereby rendered bad 28 appointments across the country.Referring to the CAT judgment, he said it armed anyone to go ahead and challenge all 28 appointments made in terms of the guidelines and this could not be permitted.
10-09-2020||---||Behbal Kalan firing: Victim’s kin against SIT move to pardon accused||Faridkot, September 9A week after the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan and Bargari firing incidents approached the court of the District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, making a request for pardon to a prime accused, the brother of the one of the deceased today demanded that the court should not accept the SIT’s demand.In an application moved in the court on September 2, the SIT had urged the court that Pardeep Singh, a police inspector and prime accused in the police firing incident of October 14, 2015, in which two persons were killed at Behbal Kalan, be granted pardon as he wanted to turn an approver in the case.Opposing the SIT, Resham Singh, brother of deceased Krishan Bhagwan Singh, approached the court, saying there was enough evidence on record that accused Pardeep Singh had played a major role in the police firing incident.After Pardeep Singh started slapping and abusing peaceful protesters on October 14, 2015, the situation went out of control which resulted in the police firing indiscriminately on the protesters, killing two and injuring many, alleged Resham Singh.Granting a pardon to a main culprit to make him an approver when the SIT had many eyewitnesses to prove its case in the court was illogical, Resham Singh said.
10-09-2020||Moga||Call to block rail traffic on September 13||Undeterred by the attachment of property of Khalistani activists — Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and Hardeep Singh Nijjar — secessionist group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) has raised the grant amount to Rs 3,500 monthly to help state farmers defaulting on their agricultural loans.A day after the NIA ordered confiscation of property of SFJ’s general counsel Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and Referendum 2020 Canada coordinator Hardeep Nijjar, the SFJ today made a revision in the grant amount.Pannu said: “The history of Sikh people is a witness that no amount of repression can break the resolve of Sikhs for independence. India can take my land, but will not be able to stop Referendum 2020.”The SFJ has also given a call for ‘Rail Roko’ on September 13 to highlight the government’s alleged criminal negligence behind the spurt in the number of farmers committing suicide. — TNS
10-09-2020||Our Correspondent||BSF guns down two Pakistani intruders in Sriganganagar||Sriganganagar, September 9The Border Security Force (BSF) today killed two men who intruded into the Indian territory in Sriganganagar district.Sources said the BSF troops noticed some movement near the Khyaliwala border post at 1 am. Two suspects were seen throwing an object near the barricades and running back towards Pakistan, after which the BSF personnel opened fire and killed them on the spot.The police sources said 10 yellow packets that weighed 8.960 kg were allegedly thrown by the suspects. Eight packets were found on the Indian side while two were seen on the other side of the fencing. The bodies of both intruders were also lying nearby.Two foreign-made pistols, 24 live cartridges, a night vision device, an earphone used for mobile phones and Rs 15,000 in Pakistan currency were recovered from the intruders. One of the deceased, carrying a Pakistan identity card, was identified as Mushtaq Ahmed. The identity of the other intruder was yet to be ascertained. The autopsy was conducted by calling doctors on the spot.Sources said the two Pakistani intruders were suspected to be heroin smugglers. It is also suspected that some persons might have reached the border to collect the contraband. A search operation is being conducted by the BSF and the police are examining call records of the phones active in the area.
10-09-2020||Jalandhar||Education Department plans to launch career guidance portal||To lend a new dimension to the ‘School Sikhya Sudhar Muhim’ (Qualitative Improvement in School Education Drive), the Education Department has planned to launch a ‘Career Guidance Portal’.The portal, which is likely to be launched within a fortnight by Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, would help more than 8 lakh students studying in Class IX to XII in the government schools across the state. It would be launched in collaboration with UNICEF, NGO (Aasman Foundation) and Tata Power.The proposed web portal will have comprehensive information about career choices, entrance examination for different colleges, universities, vocational institutes and scholarships. For those interested in moving abroad for higher education, the portal will help in finding the eligibility of colleges in different countries, scholarships and fellowships. The portal will have information about a minimum of 450 career options, 21,000 colleges and vocational institutes within the country and abroad, 1,150 entrance exams and 1,200 scholarships.New subject for school studentsKrishan Kumar, Education Secretary, said: “In the absence of any such collated information till now and the teachers too lacking in required knowledge, students found it difficult to pick the right career path matching their aspirations. The students were left to fend for themselves.”He said, “The capacity building of teachers through virtual and face-to-face programmes will be done to assist students. Each student will be given a unique ID for accessing the content on the website.” — TNS
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Admit kids  sans transfer certificates’||The Education Department has issued instructions to school heads not to compel students to get transfer certificates in connection with admission in the government schools. A spokesperson of the department said Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has issued instructions to all the District Education Officers and school heads in this regard. Earlier, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had directed to remove the restriction of transfer certificate for admission in the government schools. The spokesperson said school heads have been asked to give admission to students at their own level and send the names of the schools, which were not issuing transfer certificates. — TNS
10-09-2020||Bathinda||ASHA workers seek pay parity||The ASHA workers and ASHA Facilitator Union’s indefinite fast entered 24th day in Mansa district on Wednesday. They demanded increase in honorarium, regularisation and pay hike. Sukhwinder Kaur, district chief of the union, said, “Despite bringing the matter to the notice of senior health department officials, nothing has come out, as a result we have been coerced to work on meagre wages.” — TNS
10-09-2020||---||Two commit suicide||Fazilka: The bodies of two persons have been recovered from near Bannawala village on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Jagmit Singh (25), a resident of Bannawala village, and Preet Kaur (30), a resident of Faridkot. It has been alleged that the duo was in relationship and had eloped on Tuesday. Sources said the deceased had consumed some poisonous substance. OCNab rape accused: ProtestersMuktsar: A large number of people under the banner of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union on Wednesday protested at Lambi police station and sought arrest of the accused involved in rape of a Dalit girl. The protesters said they would gherao the residence of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on September 17. TNSAgri varsity issues advisoryMoga: The PAU has issued an advisory regarding fall armyworm, which infests maize. Dr PK Chhuneja , Head, Department of Entomology, said the incidence of fall armyworm on timely sown grain maize has been little, but farmers should survey the late sown crop.TNS
10-09-2020||Muktsar||Re-verify data, plead widow pensioners||Widow pensioners here have claimed that the Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children have deleted their names from the list of beneficiaries out of “political vendetta”. They have sought re-verification for the same. Besides, they claimed that were also sent money recovery notices.It has been alleged that the department has deleted the names of 7,441 beneficiaries from Muktsar alone.Manjeet Kaur (68), a widow and resident of Lambi village, said, “My husband passed away in 1999, and I have a death certificate to prove the same. However, the department has removed my name from the list of widow pensioners. It seems to have been done at the behest of some people in the village.”Kamla Rani, a resident of Lambi village, said, “My husband passed away eight years ago, but the department has sent me a recovery notice to repay Rs 30,750. I demand re-verification from the department.”Ranjodh Singh, president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), Lambi block, has demanded a probe into the matter. He said, “Many people have been declared ineligible by the department. The state government should conduct a re-verification before issuing recovery notices. Earlier, a number of blue card holders were declared ineligible.”Gopal Singh, SDM, Malout, said, “Eligible beneficiaries who claim that their names have been removed from the list can come to meet me or give their details for re-verification. However, I believe that their names must have been deleted from the lists of beneficiaries on some ground.”Some officials in the department said the names of the aged women could have been removed on the basis of their yearly income. The pension of Rs 750 per month is given to those who earn less than Rs 60,000 a year, they said. — TNS
10-09-2020||Ropar||No check on  ‘goonda tax’ in Ropar: MLA||Local MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa has written to Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri claiming that despite a CBI probe ordered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, illegal mining and “goonda tax” mafia were flourishing in the district.He said in case no action was taken in this regard soon, he would be forced to seek Centre’s intervention.Sandoa claimed that after a CBI inquiry was ordered by the High Court into “goonda tax barriers” last month, the mafia fled the area for a few days. Now it had changed the modus operandi and “goonda tax” was being collected directly from stone crushers.He alleged that mining was rampant all over the area despite the fact that there was a complete ban on it during monsoon. He claimed that thousands of tippers and trucks overloaded with sand and gravel could be seen moving in the district.The DC said she had asked the ADC (General) to look into the matter. — TNS
10-09-2020||---||ITBP to set up retirement home for canine veterans||Chandigarh, September 9After having made dogs an integral part of the force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is now setting up a retirement home for its K-9 veterans — who are no longer fit for active duty — where they can be taken care of.“A case for establishing a retirement home for our dogs is under process at the force headquarters and it is expected to come up at the ITBP’s National Dog Training Centre at Bhanu this year,” an officer said.Case under processA case for setting up a retirement home for our dogs is under process and it is expected to come up at the ITBP’s National Dog Training Centre at Bhanu this year. —offiicalAt present, dogs that are no longer used for operational or security duties due to old age or injury are sent to an ITBP unit where veterinary care is available, where they can pass the rest of their life peacefully.The ITBP uses dogs for border patrolling as well as in internal security duties. Besides tracking humans, they are also trained to storm into rooms and vehicles, neutralise and restrain intruders and armed persons, detect explosives and narcotics and assist in search and rescue operations.
10-09-2020||---||Punjab records highest fatality rate, surpasses that of Gujarat, Maharashtra||Chandigarh, September 9At 2.95 per cent, Punjab on Wednesday recorded the highest case fatality rate (CFR) in the country, surpassing that of Gujarat (2.91%) and Maharashtra (2.9%). Post August 31, Punjab’s CFR has risen from 2.7 per cent to 2.95 per cent in just nine days.Recording almost 2,000 new cases for the past few days, Punjab’s caseload stood at 2,134 of Wednesday.Dr Rajiv Bhaskar, Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, explaining the high CFR, said patients were coming late to hospitals, mostly upon developing serious symptoms such as breathlessness.As per the state Health Department data, 70 per cent of those dead were aged above 50 years. Health officials said though the testing rate in the state had improved and the recovery rate stood at 3.7 per cent, the CFR could be brought down only through “early detection and treatment.”53 more Patiala jail inmates test positivePatiala: Fiftythree more inmates at the Patiala Central Jail have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total tally to 88. The Health Department has, therefore, declared the jail as a macro-containment zone. It has assigned more teams for mass sampling. Sources said it was difficult to stem the spread of virus in jails. These being overcrowded, physical distancing was not possible. TNS
10-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Sumedh Singh Saini enjoyed influence, patronage, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9Describing Sumedh Singh Saini as a blue-eyed boy wielding much influence owing to political patronage, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the former top cop even went to the extent of intimidating the judicial process as evident from observations of a senior HC Judge in 1995 followed by “earlier recusal in these matters by two sitting Judges of this court”.The observations came as Justice Fateh Deep Singh dismissed the anticipatory bail plea filed by Saini in the three-decade-old Multani kidnap and murder case.Dal Khalsa launches poster campaign against ex-DGP Sumedh Saini‘Even overawed courts’Justice Fateh Deep Singh dismissed former DGP’s anticipatory bail plea in Multani case on Tuesday. The state, during the course of hearing, referred to a 1995 HC judgment to impress upon the High Court that the petitioner had gone to the extent of overawing the courtsThe final order was pronounced on Tuesday. The matter was placed before Justice Fateh Deep Singh following recusal by two HC Judges. The state, during the course of hearing, had referred to the 1995 HC judgment in the “Vinod Kumar versus the State of Punjab and others” case to impress upon the court that the petitioner had gone to the extent of overawing the courts.The Bench asserted that a perusal of the records was illustrative of how Multani, illegally apprehended within the jurisdiction of Mohali district, was never produced before a judicial magistrate. He was allegedly produced before an executive magistrate in Gurdaspur. From there he purportedly escaped from a huge posse of police and paramilitary forces. “It, rather rightly, strengthens the belief of the complainant and a rationale person that it was with a preconceived plan that the entire gamut was played to facilitate easy elimination of Balwant Singh Multani”.The complaint and facts, the Bench added, showed that the family had made every conceivable effort to initiate the judicial process since Multani’s disappearance. “Even the innumerable cases that one experiences in life shows that for one reason or the other, be it political or otherwise, many of the crimes remain buried for a period of time and it is with the passage of time that the same are unearthed...”
