10-08-2020||Bathinda||Harsimrat Kaur Badal urges railway minister to start dedicated Kisan rail for kinnows||Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday urged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to start a dedicated Kisan rail with refrigerated bogies from Abohar to Bangalore and Abohar to Kolkata respectively during the kinnow harvest season between the months of December and March to benefit kinnow farmers of Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana.Harsimrat Badal, who wrote a letter in this connection to the railway minister congratulating him for launching the Kisan rail initiative, said the cluster of kinnow cultivation, which included adjoining areas from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, was spread over one lakh hectares.She said the town of Abohar in Punjab functioned as the focal market for aggregation of kinnows and handled twenty five lakh metric tonnes of produce every year.She said a Kisan rail originating from Abohar could take kinnow to the southern and eastern states where there was a big market for the fruit.She said the biggest market for the fruit was in Bangalore and Kolkata even as a significant quantity was exported to Bangladesh.Badal said presently due to the highly perishable nature of the fruit, only 35 to 40 per cent of the harvest reached the end consumers.“The rest gets wasted due to high temperatures during the road transport over long distances leading to loss for farmers.”She said the problem was even more acute in the peak harvesting months of February and March as the temperatures started rising in the southern and eastern states.The Union minister assured the railway minister that she had been assured by the farmers and traders of the area that the Kisan rail would be utilised to full capacity and would be a viable venture for the Ministry of Railways as well.She said besides helping the farmers of the three states the Kisan rail would improve the export potential of the fruit to Bangladesh and other South-East Asian countries.
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Centre accepts Punjab CM’s proposal to set up virology institute in state||The Punjab Government on Monday claimed in a press note that the Government of India has given in-principle approval for setting up a National Institute of Virology Centre for the north zone in Punjab.At present, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune is the only institution in the country capable of providing a well-coordinated medical and public health response to such an emergency.The chief minister, who had proposed the centre some weeks back in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, welcomed the approval, saying the centre would prove to be a milestone to boost research in the field of virology, and make India future ready to predict and detect viruses at the earliest.Capt Amarinder Singh further said this centre would also go a long way in addressing the requirements of the northern region including the states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, UP and UTs of Chandigarh and J&K.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said that the Centre’s letter of in-principle approval had been received by State Chief Secretary from Secretary to Government of India, Department of Health Research of Ministry of India-cum-Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Prof (Dr) Balram Bhargava.He has requested the state government to identify about 25 acres of land on long lease so as to enable ICMR to set up this prestigious centre at the earliest.Notably, Capt Amarinder had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 10 requesting him to direct the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to set up the proposed centre, which would focus on addressing regional, national and global needs in virology, diagnostic, research and therapeutic evaluations to cope with the COVID-19 pandemic.The chief minister had proposed a specialised centre in Medicity, New Chandigarh, which would be well placed to serve the interests of the north-western region given Chandigarh’s international air connectivity.He also pointed out that the centre could easily be incubated in PGIMER, which is located only 7-8 kilometres from the proposed Medicity.An approximate amount of Rs 400 crore would be required for the Centre with BSL-3 facility and an additional Rs 150 crore would be needed for the BSL-4 facility excluding the land, which would be provided by the Government of Punjab.Pointing to the unprecedented crisis faced by the country amid COVID-19, the chief minister hoped that this centre would be instrumental in providing diagnostic support, undertake research in basic virology, build capacity in the field of virology to promote universal health coverage, develop rapid and affordable quality diagnostic assays for viral diseases, besides introduction of teaching courses for the M.Sc Medical Virology and DM, Virology.
10-08-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers protest against agriculture ordinances||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 10The members of the BKU (Sidhupur) on Monday gathered outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here in large numbers to court arrest in protest against the three ordinances passed by the Union Government related to agriculture. Kaka Singh Kotra, state secretary, BKU (Sidhupur), said the ordinances would ruin the farmers as the Union Government wants to “end minimum support prices” in a phased manner.“We will keep on protesting against this and will not shy away in making any sacrifices to save farmers,” said Kotra.The protesters demanded withdrawal of ordinances and proposed electricity and land acquisition bills.They also said prices of petroleum products should be decreased, loans of farmers should be waived and compensation should be given for damage to crops due to rains. Huge police deployment had been made around the DC office in view of the protest. Earlier, farmer unions had taken out a tractor march in protest against the ordinances in the district.
10-08-2020||Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur village mourns death of US Sikh who died saving 3 kids from drowning in California||Manjit and his colleagues had gone to Reedley beach near his home in Fresno County where the incident happened. He had been taking driving lessons. Rebel SAD leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa visited the family and assured them that he would talk to the Centre on the possibility of bringing the body home.
10-08-2020||---||CM orders pre-audit of straw mgmt scheme, says no bias||Chandigarh, August 9Rejecting allegations of favouritism being shown to certain manufacturers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered a first-of-its-kind social pre-audit of the Crop Residue Management (CRM) Scheme for supplying farm equipment on subsidy to farmers.The social pre-audit by the Agriculture Department would nail the lies being propagated by certain vested political interests, said the Chief Minister, adding that not a single farmer had questioned the quality of the machines/equipment being supplied under the scheme. The machinery aims to ensure scientific disposal of paddy straw during the kharif season.‘Will nail lies on scheme’The social pre-audit by the Agriculture Department will nail the lies being spread by certain vested political interests. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CMThe Chief Minister said the pre-audit would seek to make the scheme more efficacious, broad-based and farmer-friendly with the ultimate goal of making the state free of pollution triggered by stubble burning. Suggestions and objections would also be invited from all stakeholders for this purpose.The Centre has been running the scheme for the past two years for distributing machinery among farmers and cooperative societies for effective in situ management of the paddy straw.Under the scheme, farmers from Punjab have been given a subsidy of nearly Rs 460 crore on 50,815 farm machines. The Centre has already listed around 180 manufacturers from Punjab to ensure supply of farm equipment/machinery in this regard.During the current year, the government intends to give Rs 300-crore subsidy on 23,500 such machines. Capt Amarinder Singh has directed Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Anirudh Tiwari to provide these machines to farmers and societies only after the completion of the audit.The ACS said the pre-audit would be completed before the distribution of farm machinery/equipment to the farmers and cooperative societies.As many as 7,000 farmers would be given the machines at 50 per cent subsidy, while 5,000 cooperative societies, panchayats and farmers’ groups would be given the machines at 80 per cent subsidised rate.The state-of-the-art equipment or machines required for in situ management of paddy include super straw management system on combine harvesters, happy seeder, paddy straw chopper/shredder, mulcher, RMB plough, zero till drill and super seeder to ensure zero burning of paddy residue in the open fields.To further improve the paddy management system, the department had also decided to provide mechanised equipment, needed for ex situ management of paddy straw, on subsidy, the ACS said .Rs 460-cr subsidy by centreUnder the scheme, farmers from Punjab have been given a subsidy of nearly Rs460 crore on 50,815 farm machines. The Centre has already listed around 180 manufacturers from Punjab to ensure supply of farm equipment and machinery in this regard.
10-08-2020||Rajmeet Singh||ACS delaying tenders, alleges infra corpn CEO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC), Ajoy Sharma, has accused his senior and Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Local Government, Sanjay Kumar, of causing unnecessary delay in the tendering process of different projects.In an official document accessed by The Tribune, the CEO, in his recent communication to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and Chief Secretary, has alleged that the ACS was interfering and causing unnecessary delay in extending contract of a project management and development consultant and the tendering process of the Rs 250-crore Integrated Command Control Centre Project-Way Finding and Signage under the Smart City initiative.‘No information on matter’As I have not seen any such communication, it will be difficult for me to comment on the matter. As and when any such document comes to me, I will give an appropriate reply. Sanjay Kumar, ACS, Local governmentCiting inability to continue as the CEO, the bureaucrat is learnt to have sought leave for two weeks. The Chief Secretary has been asked to intervene and sort out the matter, it is learnt.The CEO’s communication to the higher authorities came in the backdrop of Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra recommending the registration of an FIR against officials of his department after the file pertaining to allotment of work to a project management and development consultant — Shah Technical Consultant Private Limited — reportedly went missing from the PMIDC office.Interestingly, the file was later traced from the office of a former Technical Adviser to the Chief Minister, whose office is housed adjacent to the PMIDC office in Sector 35 here.Sanjay Kumar was appointed last year as the ACS, Local Government, on the recommendation of Mohindra.In the communication, the CEO has pointed out that the four-year contract of Shah Technical Consultant Private Limited, had expired on March 31, 2020, and needed to be extended till March 31, 2021, as the Centre had extended the AMRUT scheme. Accordingly, the case for extension came up on May 15, 2020, but the ACS sought the main file. As the file on which the tender was floated could not be traced then, it was reconstructed with copies of agreements and approvals and was again submitted to the ACS on June 8. The file was again returned by the ACS on July 3, asking for the main file containing the tendering process.Ajoy Sharma, CEO, PMIDC, said, “The tender mainly related to hiring manpower. It was finalised more than a year before I joined. We got the work done efficiently. The main file could not be traced due to Covid limitations, but was already reconstructed when put up for a decision on May 15. The notings are confidential and I will not comment on the issue.”Sanjay Kumar, ACS, Local Government, said, “As I have not seen any such communication, it would be difficult for me to comment. As and when any such document comes to me, I will give an appropriate reply.”
10-08-2020||---||Check stocks of neutral spirit in distilleries, govt tells cops||Amritsar, August 9After the team probing the illicit liquor tragedy found that extra neutral alcohol (ENA) was being pilfered from distilleries and supplied to bootleggers, the police have been directed to check neutral spirit stocks in each distillery.A magisterial probe was also ordered by the Punjab Government and investigators are looking into the role of the distilleries. The police have been asked to keep a check on dhabas on GT Road and link roads here, an official said. Investigations revealed that the ENA, meant for industrial purpose, was pilfered at dhabas in Rajpura and Zirakpur.While police teams had raided different dhabas at Rajpura and Zirakpur, the name of an eatery in Jandiala also cropped up during the investigation.Meanwhile, the rural police reportedly arrested Raju, the main supplier of spurious liquor. Yesterday, they nabbed Gurwinder and Lovepreet, involved in the manufacturing of spurious liquor. The duo followed the similar process used at Pandori Gola village that led to the tragedy claiming over 100 lives in three districts — Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala.The police are also conducting raids to arrest Bikka and nine others, who used to purchase illicit liquor from the duo. They booked Raju, Gurwinder and Lovepreet for attempt to murder and under relevant sections of the Excise Act.About 160-litre spurious alcohol in four cans of 40-litre each, two empty drums, two empty cans of 40-litre and seven small pouches of 2-litre each were seized from Gurwinder’s house, from where the two accused were apprehended.On testing, it was found that the liquor was spurious. Its key chemicals were 1-propanal, iso-butanol, acetal, ethyl lactate and ethyl hexanoate.Majithia seeks cbi probe into ‘nexus’Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday visited the families of victims of the spurious liquor tragedy during a ‘bhog’ ceremony at Amritsar’s Mucchal village. He demanded an inquiry by a High Court judge or the CBI to unearth the “nexus” operating in Punjab.
10-08-2020||Bathinda/Mansa||98 held for illegal trade in Mansa||Tightening the noose around illicit liquor and drug smugglers, the Mansa police have registered 101 FIRs and arrested 98 persons after recovering a huge quantity of drugs, lahan and illicit liquor.Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said raids were being conducted to make Punjab a drug-free state. He said since August 1, the police had seized 2,230 narcotic pills, 30 narcotic vials, 12-gm smack, 30-kg poppy husk, 5,325-litre lahan, 180-litre illicit liquor, 1,110-litre licit liquor and 18-litre Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL).Meanwhile, the Bathinda police have registered 66 cases under the Excise Act from July 31 to August 6, and arrested 46 persons. The police have seized 467.69-litre illicit liquor, 165.37-litre illicit liquor from other states, 60.85-quintal lahan, 0.570-litre IMFL and four working units. SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “We will rope in social organisations and NGOs. They will identify persons involved in the trade. They will be given counseling.” — TNS
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Capt can’t tolerate criticism, says AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann today lashed out at Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, alleging that he could not tolerate criticism by his own party leaders.“If someone criticises the corrupt working of the state government, the Chief Minister goes after him, even if he is a senior leader of his own party,” he alleged. Mann said though there was a battle of one-upmanship among Congress leaders, AAP had been questioning the anti-people decisions of the government from the very beginning.“The government has lost its credibility among the people," he alleged. — TNS
10-08-2020||Faridkot||MGNREGA workers to build schools in villages||To construct and renovate government schools in rural areas, the School Education Department has decided to involve the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers.The department has decided to nominate one principal in every block to supervise the work along with officials of the Rural Development Department, which has given its final nod.In a letter to the District Education Officers (DEOs), the department had asked schools to take help of MGNREGA workers for the construction, repair and maintenance of school compound walls, plantation, development of parks, playgrounds, multi-unit toilets and construction of kitchen sheds.The department has asked the school authorities to involve panchayats as well to make the programme a success. Sources said work funded under the MGNREGA would be performed by manual labour instead of machines and no contractors would be involved at any stage. — TNS
10-08-2020||---||Village road, school to be named after Moga martyr||Moga, August 9 Sacrifices of martyrs will be remembered forever and their valiant spirit will keep guiding us, Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said today. He said this while participating in the ‘bhog’ ceremony of Sepoy Lakhbir Singh at his native Demru Khurd village in the district.  Sepoy Lakhbir Singh was martyred in the line of duty on the Chinese border in Arunachal Pradesh. Paying homage to the sacrifice of the soldier on behalf of the state government along with MP Mohammad Sadiq, MLA Darshan Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, Baghapurana SDM Swaranjit Kaur and other dignitaries, Rana Sodhi said Lakhbir Singh made his parents and the entire state proud. He said an ex gratia grant of Rs 50 lakh and a government job to one of his family members would be given by the state government. The minister said a government school and the road leading to the village would be named after the martyr. MLA Brar promised the family that the government would extend all possible help to them. Hans said the needs of the family and villagers would be addressed on a priority basis.  Lakhbir Singh had died on July 22 while trying to rescue fellow jawans from the vagaries of nature during patrol duty on the India-China border in Arunachal Pradesh. His body was recovered after a few days and was cremated in the village on July 30.
10-08-2020||Sameer Singh||Bathinda police owe Rs 54 lakh to PSPCL||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 9Electricity bills amounting to around Rs 54 lakh of various police stations (rural and urban) in the Bathinda district are lying pending.Notably, the Powercom had served notices on police stations, which had defaulted on paying charges, but to no avail. Police stations in Bathinda (urban) have outstanding dues to the tune of Rs 37.58 lakh, those in Maur block have pending bills of Rs 10.69 lakh and those in Bhagta Bhai Ka subdivision have pending dues of Rs 6.06 lakh. Police line Hazi Ratan has a pending bill of Rs 6.79 lakh while a police station in Talwandi Sabo has Rs 4 lakh pending.Jeevan Kansal, Superintending Enginner, PSPCL, Bathinda, said, “We have duly intimated all the police stations. We have brought the matter to the notice of Bathinda Senior Superintendent of Police Bhupinderjit Virk, who has given an assurance that pending electricity bills will be cleared soon.”Virk said, “Recently, we paid some dues. I think there is miscommunication as we had not got all the bills from the department. Once we receive the bills, we will clear them.” He said, “We are inquiring about a few police stations where electricity bills were unreasonably higher than others.”
10-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||5 Sangrur men return penniless from Dubai, seek govt support||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 9Having returned empty-handed last week from Dubai even after working hard for five years, five landless residents of Banbhaura village face an uncertain future. They got stuck in Dubai after the company they were working with refused to release their visa papers and salary.“We neither have money nor any source of income. We hope to start working as daily wagers like we had been doing before moving to Dubai. The Centre and Punjab Government should put some mechanism in place to help people like us, who have been cheated by their employers,” said Mukand Singh. Mukand, 29, who along with four others — Beant Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Jarnail Singh and Hardeep Singh — had gone to Dubai after taking loans from private money lenders. Since they belong to landless Dalit families, they decided to work in Dubai for a better future.‘No income source’We neither have money nor any source of income. We hope to start working as daily wagers like we had been doing before moving to Dubai. The government should help us. —Mukand Singh, Banbhaura village residentTwo months prior to the expiry of their visa last year, their employer stopped paying them the salary. Even a case in a labour court failed to ensure the release of their dues. “They have returned after struggling for almost eight months to get their money. Their employer did not even pay them their PF which was being deposited since 2015,” said Gurjant Singh, father of Hardeep Singh. Hardeep said they stayed in a room for almost eight months. Finally, they reached home with the help of Dubai-based businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi. All five reached Chandigarh on July 20. After staying in mandatory quarantine, they reached their village on August 1. “After the families approached me, I took them to SAD leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who contacted Oberoi. Finally, with Oberoi’s help, they have returned,” said Jaswant Singh Gajjan Majra, a leader of the Lok Insaaf party from Amargarh.
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Education survey soon||The Education Department has completed all preparations to conduct the Punjab Achievement Survey.  Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said this would be a unique initiative by any state in the country. He emphasised conducting the survey in a scientific manner. The survey will will evaluate students’ learning outcome. — TNS
10-08-2020||Manav Mander||Covid War: Ludhiana’s crowded areas pose challenge||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 9Ludhiana is the worst-hit district in the state when it comes to Covid-positive cases and deaths being reported so far. The reason behind the spike is the thickly populated urban pockets. Around 87 per cent cases reported are from urban areas while rural areas account for only 13 per cent cases. The cure rate in Ludhiana is 64 per cent while the fatality rate is 3 per cent.Of the 4,512 cases reported till August 7, 3,987 have been reported from Ludhiana city while 175 were reported from Khanna, 141 from Jagraon, 69 each from Raikot and Payal and 71 from Samrala. Similarly, 136 deaths have been reported from Ludhiana city while three each have been reported from Jagraon and Raikot, four from Khanna and one each from Samrala and Payal.In Ludhiana, the first positive case was reported on March 24 and the first death on March 30. In March, two cases were reported and in April, the total number of cases went to 78. In May, the total cases were 195. Once the unlock period started in June, the total cases rose to 840 and in July, the number went to 3,246.The first death in Ludhiana was reported on March 30 and in April, the total number of deaths reported was four, followed by eight in May and 20 in June. In July, the total deaths reported were 82 and shockingly, in August, within seven days, the toll rose to 148.Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said the district was the most populated in Punjab. The number of cases reported was in proportion to the population and there was nothing unusual in Ludhiana as compared to data from other parts of the state.“I appeal to people to maintain social distancing, wear mask all the time, keep washing hands and avoid social functions,” he said.Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said the casual attitude of the people was leading to a spike in cases. “The city is thickly populated and sadly, 50 per cent people don’t wear masks. Lower strata population is generally seen without masks while moving out in the public. On the other hand, the upper class wears masks but people from this strata are not avoiding eating out and attending parties.”
10-08-2020||---||With 4 new labs, testing capacity up by 4K/day in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 9The Medical Education and Research Department has set up four new Covid testing labs to enhance the total daily testing capacity by 4,000 tests with 1,000 tests per day per lab. Apart from this, the total testing capacity in three medical colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot would also be ramped up to 5,000 tests per day per college by August 31.DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, said Guru Angad Dev Veternary and Animal Science University, Ludhiana, had already started its operations on August 5 with the capacity of 100 tests per day, which would be further increased to 1,000 tests per day by next month.Likewise, Forensic Sciences Lab in SAS Nagar (Mohali) will start its operations on August 10, with a starting capacity of 100 tests per day, ramping up to 250 by August 30 and going up to 1,000 tests per day by next month.Similarly, Punjab Biotechnology Incubator will start its operations on August 10, with an initial capacity of 100 tests per day and going up to 250 by August 25 and 1,000 tests by next month. Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab in Jalandhar will start with a capacity of 25 tests per day, ramping up to 250 by August 20 and increasing up to 1,000 tests per day by next month.Meanwhile, the situation in Ludhiana and Patiala seems to be going from bad to worse, as 316 and 204 cases were reported from both the districts, respectively, on Sunday.The state reported 987 fresh cases and 24 deaths in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana topped the chart in terms of casualties with nine deaths. Four deaths were reported from Amritsar, three from Bathinda, two each from Kapurthala and Jalandhar, one each from Barnala, Gurdaspur, SAS Nagar and Sangrur.Apart from that, 131 patients are on oxygen support and 22 are critical and are on ventilator support.Ludhiana reported 316 fresh cases, followed by Patiala (204), Jalandhar (79), Amritsar (76), Moga (59), Bathinda (41) and Fatehgarh Sahib (37).
10-08-2020||---||AAP lying on Delhi situation: Sidhu||Chandigarh, August 9Terming the ‘Delhi model’ as nothing but a desperate bid by the Arvind Kejriwal government to divert attention from its “failures”, Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)was making a laughing stock of itself with its absurd claims on Covid-19 management in the national capital.The minister termed Punjab Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema’s statement expressing “dissatisfaction” over the Capt Amarinder Singh government’s measures to tackle the pandemic as “ludicrous”, and said the Aam Aadmi Party MLA was clearly oblivious to the fact that Punjab continued to fare much better than many other states in the fight against Covid.The minister said the effectiveness of Punjab’s battle against the Covid outbreak was not on account of any help from the Centre, unlike Delhi where the Union Government had to step in and virtually take over the pandemic management.
10-08-2020||BATHINDA||Sanitation staff strike work||Upset over being accused of not doing their work properly, the MC sanitation staff deputed at Covid centres in Bathinda went on a strike on Sunday. The employees alleged that despite performing their duties diligently, health officials were running them down.Suraj Kumar, in charge of the cleaning staff at the Covid centre, said, “We will only relent if the officials treat us well and a doctor, who has issued statements in the media that we don’t work, tenders an apology.”Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said, “The matter is not in my knowledge, but I will get it checked and find a viable solution.” — TNS
10-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Frontline Covid warriors work at meagre salaries, allege bias||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 9Ramneek Singh (name changed), a Covid frontline worker under Mission Fateh, has been borrowing money from relatives to deposit the school fees of his children. A Class-I ayurvedic medical officer (AMO) selected through the PPSC, Ramneek has been going in the field to collect swab samples.With a meagre salary of Rs 9,000 a month, Ramneek, who is on three-year probation, has been finding it hard to support his family. As many as 104 ayurvedic medical officers on probation are facing similar financial constraints.“Despite being a frontline worker, I am getting only Rs 9,000. I am staying at my friend’s place in Patiala, so that I can save money and send it to my family,” said Ramneek.Other officials who have been performing same duties and are working as volunteers are getting more than Rs 50,000 per month.Another AMO, who has been posted at a Covid care centre, said the government had been discriminatory in its treatment. “The government is ready to shell out Rs 50,000 on a contractual employee, but there is no such incentive for regular staff,” he rued.As announced by the Chief Minister, the government will recruit new health staff, including ayurvedic medical officers, on the Central pay- scales to fight Covid. The new recruits would be paid between Rs 50,000 and Rs 60,000 a month.Recently, Health Minister Balbir Singh, on his Facebook account, applauded the state AMOs for rendering special services during the pandemic. Officials have met him several times to highlight the issue, but to no avail.Dr Sanjiv Pathak, president, Punjab Ayurvedic Medical Service Association, said, “We are risking our lives to fight Covid, but the government is ignoring our genuine demands.”Anurag Aggarwal, Health Secretary, said the new recruits were getting higher pay because they were hired as volunteers. “If regular employees think there is discrimination, they should resign and join as volunteer staff. We will pay them a good amount.”
10-08-2020||Vishav Bharti||Staff in containment zones to be considered on duty||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9The workers who are living in Covid containment or micro-containment zones and cannot join work due to restrictions will be treated on duty even if they stay at home, a recent government order said. The decision will be applicable for both government as well as private establishments.A communication sent by Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Anurag Aggarwal to all DCs said to contain and manage the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had been notifying containment and micro-containment zones, restricting the movement of people in those particular areas.It further said workers residing in such zones could not move out for about 14 days and thus were not able to go to work. “Therefore, all such workers residing in containment and micro-containment zones should be treated on duty by all government and private commercial organisations, during the period of containment,” it read.Significantly, there was a sudden spike in number of cases. More than 10,000 cases have been reported in the past one month alone.At present, over 45,000 people live in containment and micro-containment zones. One locality each in Jalandhar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Bathinda districts has been declared as containment zone.
10-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Bodies of two brothers swapped at Nakodar hospital, SMO orders probe||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9The bodies of two brothers were swapped with those of migrant labourers at Nakodar Civil Hospital on Saturday. An inquiry has been ordered by the SMO, Nakodar Civil Hospital, into the incident.Phumman Singh (35) and Pala Singh (50) had died after inhaling toxic gas while cleaning a tank at the Kisan Mentha Plant at Lohian on Friday. The bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination at the Civil Hospital where these were swapped with bodies of two other labourers.‘Serious lapse on part of staff’Despite the relatives claiming it was their mistake, we believe that it was a serious lapse on the part of the hospital. A three-member committee comprising a pharmacy officer and two medical officers, is looking into the incident. —Dr Bhupinder Kaur, Nakodar SMORelatives came to know about the swapping when the bodies were brought to Mundi Chohlian village for cremation. The brothers’ bodies were finally brought back late on Saturday evening. The cremation, initially scheduled for 2 pm, took place at 7 pm.Both the brothers were daily wagers. The wife of Pala and three children of the two brothers are now the only surviving members of the family. Phumman’s wife died a month ago.Lohian SHO Sukhdev Singh said proceedings under Section 174, CrPC, had been initiated.Nakodar SMO Dr Bhupinder Kaur said, “Despite the relatives claiming it was their mistake, we believe it was a serious lapse on the part of the hospital. Wrong bodies shouldn’t have been given. A three-member committeecomprising a pharmacy officer and two medical officers, is looking into the incident.”
10-08-2020||Barnala||Rs 35 crore for Barnala’s development||To help around 3,000 labourers in the Barnala district in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the administration has decided to commence development works amouting to Rs 35 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).The authorities would rope in the MGNREGA workers in construction of water bodies in 15 villages on Seechewal and Thapal model. Apart from it, work on rooftop water harvesting has been going on in 10 villages and construction of 54 houses for the needy is being done under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Grameen). Arun Kumar Jindal, ADC (Development), Barnala, said, “At present, 3,000 labourers are working on various projects.” — TNS
10-08-2020||Archit Watt||Muktsar town’s maiden RoB misses deadline||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 9The maiden railway over bridge (RoB) of Muktsar town has missed its deadline as just 30 per cent work has been done on the ground to date.Notably, the foundation stone of the RoB was laid by the then Deputy Chief Minister, Sukhbir Singh Badal, in February 2014 and the groundbreaking ceremony was performed by PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla in January last year. Singla had said that the Congress government would construct the bridge in Rs 38.25 crore over the next 15 months.Stone laid in 2014Sources said a number of factors had delayed the work, including paucity of funds, change required in design after underground sewerage lines caused a hurdle and labour shortage due to Covid-19. The level-crossing was closed for commuters on Jalalabad road here on February 13 last year and the shopkeepers have been suffering losses since then.“A number of people complain about the slow pace of work of this RoB. The department should provide an alternate passage to the commuters and monetary help to the shopkeepers,” said Sham Lal Goyal, an activist of the National Consumer Awareness Group.On the delay, Kulbir Singh, executive engineer, PWD (B&R), Muktsar, said: “The outbreak of the pandemic and some changes required in the design due to sewerage lines have delayed the work. Hopefully, the RoB will be completed in the next nine months.”The senior railway officials in Delhi too have written to the state government about the delay on the part of PWD (B&R) officials.
10-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Property scam: Abohar MC responds after 4 yrs||Abohar, August 9After four years, the local Municipal Corporation has responded to a state government’s letter seeking clarification on the loss it suffered in an auction of commercial plots in 2010. The civic body had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 71.50 lakh.The Vigilance Bureau had found that the terms and conditions for the sale of commercial plots along Nai Sadak were fraudulently changed using fake signatures of the then president and executive officer of the civic body to benefit a select few bidders.It was also learnt that the MC had executed the sale deed in favour of a bidder, Raman Kumar, even though he had not made the full payment. The Retired Municipal Employees Welfare Association had made several representations to the government in this regard.Three former executive officials of the MC were indicted for negligence and causing loss to the civic body. While the previous government took no action, former Local Bodies Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu got the alleged scam investigated by senior IAS officer RC Nayyar.The Vigilance Bureau had registered a case on March 9, 2016. A special report was submitted on February 6, 2017, but an FIR was registered only against Jaspal Singh, a clerk, and former president Shivraj Goyal of the BJP. However, both were let off.
10-08-2020||---||Faridkot farmer opposes use of ‘his photo’ in agriculture ordinance advertisement||Faridkot, August 9Two weeks after he had participated in a symbolic protest against the Centre’s farm ordinances, a farmer of Chandbaja village in Faridkot was shocked on Sunday when he found his photo making rounds on the social media in an advertisement of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare.In the advertisement, the ministry has used a photograph taken in October 2018, which shows the then Faridkot Deputy Commissioner Rajeev Prashar visiting the fields of farmer Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja during an anti-stubble burning campaign. Gurpreet Singh had not burnt the paddy stubble in his fields that time.“The ministry has used this old photo in their advertisement in support of the new ordinances without my consent,” said Gurpreet Singh. “While I am strongly opposing the ordinances, amending the Essential Commodities Act, the ministry’s use of my photo in the advertisement has shown me in wrong light,” alleged Gurpreet Singh.“Sharing my photo on the social media and in a promotional advertisement in favour of ordinances is an illegal act. The photo was taken on my field so no one can use it without my permission. It amounts to a violation of the Copyright Act. My permission should have been taken before publishing it,” claimed Gurpreet Singh.“Moreover, the photo has nothing to do with the ordinances as it was taken about two years ago. It can be used for an anti-stubble burning campaign, but not for the cause I strongly oppose,” said Gurpreet Singh, claiming the Centre’s three ordinances were anti-farmers.
10-08-2020||Balwant Garg||In Faridkot, 198 ponds cleaned for storing rainwater||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 9Three months after they started a move to desilt all ponds in Faridkot, the district administration and Rural Development and Panchayat Department claimed to have cleaned 198 ponds by spending Rs 168.11 crore in the district. The move was aimed at conserving rainwater in ponds during the monsoon and also providing employment to the daily wagers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, said Vimal Setia, Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot.The cleaning of the ponds during the last three months, generated 64,204 workdays under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), said Baljit Kaur, District Development and Panchayat Officer.In 213 villages of Faridkot district, there are 272 ponds. As most of these ponds were being used to dump dirty water, the district administration initiated a move to desilt these ponds so that these could store rainwater.“As many as 231 ponds in 163 villages were identified. Desilting of 198 ponds has already been completed,” said the DC.In the rainy season, village ponds, commonly known as ‘chhaper’ or ‘toba,’ are crucial to reduce the risk of floods. But ponds have been encroached upon or filled up. So, the district administration had started working on a move to save and revive these ponds.“The silt dug up from ponds during the dry season is used as a fertiliser. It helps in increasing the crop yield,” said Umendra Dutt, executive director, Kheti Virasat Mission, a voluntary organisation of natural farming. With accumulation of silt, mud and highly toxic water, most of the ponds in rural areas have no capacity to hold water for short periods, allowing for better control of the storm water.“Earlier, these ponds were recharging the groundwater. Now, waste dumped in these ponds is further polluting the groundwater in surrounding areas,” said Dutt
10-08-2020||---||Gangster’s mother among three arrested for extortion||Moga, August 9Three persons, including the mother of gangster Gagan Judge, were arrested on the charges of extortion, police officials said here today.The alleged accused identified as Swaranjeet Kaur, a resident of Ferozepur; Harpreet Singh, a resident of Bhamba Landa village in Ferozepur district; and Amandeep Singh, a resident of Chuhar Chak village in Moga district; had come to collect extortion money from someone in Moga when they were arrested by the police.Deputy Superintendent of Police Barjinder Singh Bhullar said an informer had given information that the trio was coming to collect extortion money here. “We arrested them on the spot and recovered two weapons from their possession,” he said.Preliminary investigation revealed that Gagan Judge, who is currently lodged in Amritsar jail, was operating an extortion racket from the jail. He used to make threat calls to the victims, while his associates collected the money on his behalf.The police have booked six persons, including the gangster, under Sections 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act.Gagan Judge was arrested by the Organised Crime Control Unit of the police in March this year. He was among the five suspects who robbed about 30 kg of gold ornaments from a branch of India Infoline Finance Limited on Gill Road in Ludhiana on February 17 this year.Gagan Judge and his gang members were also involved in many other cases, including contract killing, attempt to murder, extortion and snatching.Also involved in contract killingGangster Gagan Judge and his gang members were also involved in many other cases, including contract killing, attempt to murder, extortion and snatching.
10-08-2020||Moga||Moga teen raped, four booked||A 13-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped by a youth of her village at Machike village in Nihalsinghwala sub-division, the police said today.The accused, identified as Kulwinder Singh, had allegedly abducted the girl on the intervening night of August 6 and 7 from her house and took her to his room and raped her.The next day, he dropped her at the grain market area from where the victim managed to come back home. She narrated the incident to her father, a labourer. He sought the help of local leaders and filed a complaint with the police. “We have launched a search to nab four accused,” said Manmohan Singh Aulakh, DSP (Investigation). — TNS
10-08-2020||Abohar||On green drive||‘Opportunity’ amid crisisMuktsar: The practice of preparing hooch has increased manifold since the lockdown was first clamped in the state in March-end when the liquor shops were closed. However, the government failed to keep a check on this illegal activity, which thrived in the rural areas, claim local residents. “A large number of people bought jaggery and other goods said to be used in hooch in huge quantities. Even those who had never tasted hooch are now consuming it,” a grocery store owner. He said: “Those consuming illicit liquor term it ‘cheaper and pure’ in comparison to any branded whisky. They even claim that liquor is distilled locally and is pure and thus they have developed a liking for it.”
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||VP Singh Badnore tests –ve, Principal Secy, 4 others +ve||
10-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||3 Dera Bassi units raided post Majha illicit liquor deaths||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, August 9Modus operandiChemical units buy pharmaceutical waste from various sources and re-distill itThe distillate so obtained is sold as solvent and resold as spirit to bootleggersThe Excise and Taxation Department today raided three chemical units in Dera Bassi and seized 27, 600 litres of illicit chemical containing alcohol. The department claimed it to be the biggest haul ever. The raids come after the spurious liquor deaths in Punjab’s three Majha districts.Four persons, including the owners of the firms, were arrested. Those named in the FIR are KP Singh and AK Chaudhary, Allychem Chemicals directors, Gaurav Chaudhary, the proprietor of Om Solvi Trading Co, and Jagmohan Arora, the proprietor of Pure Chemicals.Officials suspect the seized liquid to be methyl alcohol. However, the nature of the liquid, its ingredients and strength would only be known through gas chromatography, a process that takes two days.Chemical units buy pharmaceutical waste from various sources and re-distil it. The distillate so obtained is sold as solvent which is further sold in the name of spirit and passed on to bootleggers, who sell it as alcohol.Working in tandemPolice teams of Tarn Taran, Amritsar and the Excise Department are working jointly to bust this new modus operandi of using chemicals to produce alcohol. — Rajat Agarwal, Punjab Excise CommissionerDuring the raid, 82 drums of 200 litres each from Allychem Chemicals, 49 drums from Om Solvi Trading Co, and seven from Pure Solutions were seized. Allychem Chemicals, a bulk drug manufacturing unit, has been running at a loss for some time. Excise officials said these firms supplied the material to Binny Chemicals here which would further sold it. On July 23, as many as 5,300 litres of chemicals were seized from Binny Chemicals.Joint Commissioner (Excise) Naresh Dubey said, “The department obtained a lead after six such containers were seized from the area recently. A joint team of the SIT, Excise Department and the Punjab Police conducted a raid, which began last night. Officials investigating the Tarn Taran deaths were here too. We will find out the source, to whom and where the chemical was to be supplied and through whom.”Punjab Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal, in a video, said: “Police teams of Tarn Taran, Amritsar and the Excise Department are working jointly to bust this new modus operandi of using chemicals to produce alcohol.”
