10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Balbir Sr tests COVID negative, but condition remains critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr, a triple Olympic gold medallist, whose condition continued to remain critical, on Sunday tested negative for coronavirus.“His COVID-19 report is negative,” the 96-year-old’s maternal grandson, Kabir told PTI.Balbir Sr was admitted to Fortis hospital at Mohali on Friday evening with complaint of pneumonia.“His condition is still critical, he continues to remain on ventilator. Though slightly better than what he was upon admission to the hospital, he is not yet stable,” Kabir said.Balbir Sr was taken to the private hospital from his residence in Sector 36 in Chandigarh, where he lives with his daughter Sushbir and Kabir.Balbir Sr was running high fever on Thursday night. Initially, the family tried to manage by giving him sponge baths at home but his conditions didn’t improve so they shifted him to the hospital.In January last year, Balbir Sr was discharged from PGIMER, Chandigarh, after spending 108 days in the hospital, where he underwent treatment for bronchial pneumonia.“It is an unparalleled achievement and credit to his grit that he could recover at the age of 95 from the scenario of bronchial pneumonia and near cardiac failure that he was initially admitted with,” Prof Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER had then said when the former India captain was discharged.During the 2012 London Olympics, the iconic centre forward was honoured as the only Indian among 16 chosen Olympic legends across modern Olympic history.His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten. He had scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games.He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and was also manager of India’s only World Cup winning team in 1975. — PTI
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 7 more healthcare workers test positive in Mohali; total cases climb to 105||Seven more positive cases were reported in Mohali on Sunday. All the seven persons are frontline health workers and bring the total number of positive cases to 42 amongst the health workers in Ropar.The total number of cases in Mohali jumped to 105 of which 48 are active cases and 54 have been cured.Three people have died of COVID-19 so far in the city.
10-05-2020||New Delhi||As donations dip, Delhi gurdwaras face difficulty in feeding needy during lockdown||The ‘gurdwaras’ in the national capital are facing shortage of ration and cash following a steep rise in the number of homeless people being fed amid the ongoing lockdown, says the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. Since the imposition of the countrywide lockdown on March 25 to stave off the spread of coronavirus, the DSGMC-managed gurdwaras across the city have provided free meals to around 50 lakh homeless people, migrant workers and elderly.Some of the gurdwaras have also provided shelter to around 200 health staff, including doctors and nurses, besides taking care of coronavirus positive patients in various hospitals.The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has deployed 500 people, including cooks, drivers, and sanitation workers, to carry out relief services during the lockdown.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Sikh body said, “Earlier, the gurdwaras in Delhi would receive around Rs 40 lakh in donations which kept the ‘langar’ (community kitchen) service going.” As a large number of people are unable to visit the gurdwaras during the lockdown, the donations have reduced drastically to just 20 per cent, he said.The langar service is going on thanks to some kind people who have been donating ration, including ghee, oil, sugar, flour, rice, pulses, spices, salt etc.“But the number of people who need to be fed is increasing every day and our resources are under tremendous strain,” Sirsa said.He said the DSGMC has been receiving calls from various gurdwara across the national capital, informing it of the depleting resources.The Sikh body is completely dependent on donations. It is because of the help of a few large-hearted people across the globe that the DSGMC is able to continue with the services, Sirsa said.A few people have come out and donated cash anonymously. A couple donated Rs 2.5 lakh on their 50th anniversary to the DSGMC, he said.“At least 20 trucks of ration have been donated to the gurdwara anonymously,” the official added.Families based in various parts of the world and belonging to different faiths have been donating ration and cash, he said.Recently, the World Punjabi Organisation, a body representing Sikhs across the globe, donated Rs 51 lakh to the DSGMC. Similarly, some businessmen and companies based in India donated cash to help the DSGMC feed the needy.“But, considering the number of people who need food, we require more people to come out and donate in cash and kind. If you cannot go to a gurdwara to do ‘sewa’ (service) during the lockdown, please donate ration to a nearby gurdwara or make monetary contributions to DSGMC through its website,” Sirsa added. — PTI
10-05-2020||Aurangabad||6 test positive, Nanded COVID-19 cases touch 51||The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra’s Nanded district, some 250 km from here, touched 51 after six people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday, health officials said.Of the 51 patients, 32 are being treated in Punjab Bhavan and Yatri Niwas and 11 in Shankarrao Chavan Medical College and Hospital.All six who tested positive on Sunday reside at the NRI Yatri Niwas, an official said.Several people who had gone to Punjab after visiting the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib and Langar Sahib here had tested positive for novel coronavirus after which the two religious places were sealed.“The 51 COVID-19 patients include the Punjab-returned drivers as well as stranded pilgrims,” Civil Surgeon Neelkanth Bhosikar told PTI on Sunday. — PTI
10-05-2020||Patiala||Gumbad of Patiala’s Qila Mubarak damaged by lightning||A rear gumbad and an electricity meter of the historic Qila Mubarak were damaged due to lightning on Sunday.The Punjab department of tourism and cultural affairs has been renovating the qila.Renovation of the area which was damaged today had already been completed, officials said.Jaswinder Singh of the conservation wing at the qila said one gumbad had been damaged along with the electricity meter.“We have informed the officials at the head office in Chandigarh,” he said.Prem Chand, another officer, said a team of officials from the department was on its way to Patiala to take stock of the situation.
10-05-2020||Bathinda||1,300 migrants make their way back to home to Bihar||Over 1,300 stranded migrants left for their homes in Bihar on the first Shramik Express special train on Sunday. Desperate migrants crowded the railway station on Sunday to take the train, posing challenge to social distancing.   The train will take the passengers up to Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, and from there, buses will take them to their own districts.Migrants underwent medical screening before they were let on the train.Food packets, water bottles, juice, facemasks, sanitisers and biscuits will sustain them on the journey.MLA Gidderbaha Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, who was at the station to see the train off, said the state government had spent around Rs 35 crore to send the migrants stranded here to reach their native places.A second train for migrants that will leave today will take back 1,188 migrants, he said.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh/Ropar/Jalandhar||Punjab reports 61 new cases, state’s infection tally stands at 1,823||Punjab reported 61 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the state’s infection tally to 1,823.Ropar (35), Amritsar (8), Fatehgarh Sahib (8), SAS Nagar (7), Moga (1), Kapurthala and Patiala (1) reported new COVID-19 cases, Punjab’s COVID bulletin issued on Sunday evening said.Ropar registered a massive spike in the number of coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the district’s numbers to 55. A large number of Sunday’s infections were reported among health department employees.All cases from Moga, Amritsar and Kapurthala were pilgrims who returned from Maharashtra’s Nanded earlier this month. The pilgrims were on a pilgrimage to Hazur Sahib in Nanded.Of Fathegarh Sahib’s eight new COVID-19 cases, five were combine workers, two were contacts of previously diagnosed cases and one was a new case.The bulletin showed authorities are awaiting details of the rest of the cases.SAS Nagar’s seven coronavirus cases puts its infection number past 100---the number now stands at 102.Punjab reported 25 more cases on Sunday, but these have yet to be added to the state's official tally. Mansa reported 12 new cases on Sunday tally---a development that takes the district tally to 33. Four of the new cases were policemen, five were labourers and three were students.Ropar reported 11 new cases later in the evening.Two policemen from Jalandhar tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday.The policemen---a deputy superintendent of police and a constable---were kept at an isolation centre at PTU in Kapurthala after their return from Maharashtra’s Nanded, where they had gone to bring back pilgrims visiting Hazur Sahib. Both policemen had been stationed at PAP Jalandhar, but their swab samples had been sent from Kapurthala.None of these cases have been added to the state tally yet.Punjab's official count says that Amritsar’s tally stands at 295---just a few short of 300. Jalandhar comes in second at 175---Sunday’s cases have yet to be added. Tarn Taran (157), Ludhiana (125), Gurdaspur (116), SBS Nagar 103), and SAS Nagar (102) all have over 100 cases.The seven districts account for 58 per cent of Punjab’s cases.The state has reported 31 deaths so far.
10-05-2020||New Delhi||Over 150 migrants sent to Punjab from Delhi; Kejriwal says 'God bless them'||Around 150 migrants from Punjab, who were sheltered at a Delhi government facility in Nehru Vihar amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, were on Sunday sent to their home state by bus.In a tweet, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's office said the Punjab migrants staying at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nehru Vihar, shelter were medically screened before they left for their homes."Migrants from Punjab living in Delhi govt's temporary shelter at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Nehru Vihar left for their home towns today morning. They were screened by our medical team and provided with food, masks and sanitiser. God bless them all," the CMO office said.The Delhi government has begun the process of sending migrant workers kept at its shelters in the city to their home states.Over 1000 migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh and 1200 from Bihar were sent home through trains earlier this week. PTI
10-05-2020||Sangrur||Cops celebrate Covid-positive minor girl's birthday in Malerkotla||
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||In photos: Chandigarh wakes up to 'night-like' morning; rain, storm hit parts of Punjab, Haryana, HP||Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali and many parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh were hit by strong winds accompanied by a burst of sharp rain on Sunday morning.Chandigarh residents woke up to a 'night-like' morning as dark clouds blanketed the city around 7:45 am. The city also witnessed several lightning flashes and roaring thunder. Mercury dipped to around 31 °C in Chandigarh on Sunday. Strong velocity winds, accompanied with a thunderstorm, and heavy rains lashed Shimla and adjoining areas on Sunday. The local Met office has predicted that light to moderate rain/thundershowers, with the possibility of hail, is very likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Kullu, Una, Bilaspur and Hamirpur.Heavy showers, accompanied by a thunderstorm, were witnessed in Panipat and Karnal also.
10-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Mother's Day: 'Grateful for imbibing right values'||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh 'paused' for a minute, and 'thanked' his mother for shaping his life on this Mother's Day. On Sunday morning, Captain revealed how he is 'grateful' for his mother to imbibe him with great values and doing one's bit for the betterment for the society.   Sharing a picture of his mother, the Captain reminisced his past on Twitter. "Today we all should pause, reflect & thank our mothers for their defining role in shaping our lives. As I reminisce about the past, I am grateful to my mother for imbibing in me right values of life, especially of doing one’s bit for the betterment of everyone. Happy #MothersDay," his tweet read. Today we all should pause, reflect & thank our mothers for their defining role in shaping our lives. As I reminisce about the past, I am grateful to my mother for imbibing in me right values of life, especially of doing one’s bit for the betterment of everyone. Happy #MothersDay. pic.twitter.com/FEPxvUrS6J  Reactions:Sweet. Poigant. Humble of Punjab CM @capt_amarinder at this age , seniority and leadership stage, to remember his mother’s influence and contribution.  Happy Mother's day.  Happy mothers day to all of those brothers and sisters who are viewing my tweet. 🙏  H'ppy mother' day to every mother
10-05-2020||---||Patients increase, but sampling dips in Muktsar||Muktsar, May 9The number of Covid-19 patients has increased manifold in the recent past, but the number of daily sampling has decreased sharply in the last few days in Muktsar district.For instance, in the last three days, just 63 samples were sent for laboratory testing. These included some samples of Covid-19 patients as well. A perusal of the records showed of the 63 samples, 19 were sent on Saturday, 20 on Friday and 24 on Thursday.Earlier, above 60 samples were being sent for the Covid-19 testing almost on a daily basis.A senior official of the Health Department said the graph had come down as the state government had decided to just screen the persons returning from other states and sampling has to be done of only those who have some Covid symptoms.“Now, just 95 reports are pending in the district,” he said.
10-05-2020||ibune News Service---||Four cops suspended for ‘torturing’ Dalit||Sangrur, May 9 A team of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission led by its member Poonam Kangra visited Dalit youth Simranjit Singh (24), who was allegedly tortured in Sandaur police custody, at the Malerkotla civil hospital on Saturday. It has directed the police to investigate into the matter, seeking a report on May 13. “Simranjit has alleged four cops poured petrol on his private parts and dragged him by hair, hurting his religious sentiments. We admitted him to hospital on Saturday,” Kangra said.  On Wednesday, four persons intercepted Simranjit Singh, who was travelling in his car with his friend Lakhvir Singh, near the district’s Manki village. Claiming to be police officials, the four persons asked the two friends to accompany them to the police station. When Simranjit asked for their identity cards, they beat him up and snatched Rs20,000 from Lakhvir, and fled.  When Simranjit and Lakhvir went to the Sandaur police station to lodge a complaint, the cops allegedly tortured them and did not allow their relatives to meet them. “The police mounted pressure on us to confess that the snatching incident did not take place. When we refused, the police tortured us,” Simranjit told the commission. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Dr Sandeep Garg said four cops —ASIs Sukhwinder Singh and Yadwinder Singh, constable Gurdeep Singh and Home Guard Kesar Singh — had been suspended in connection with the Dalit youth’s torture. “Malerkotla SP Manjit Singh Brar is conducting investigating the matter,” he said. The police, meanwhile, registered a case against unidentified persons in connection with the snatching incident, the SSP added.
10-05-2020||---||Govt announces Rs 2,500/month, Rs 50 lakh cover for ASHA workers||Patiala, May 9The foot soldiers of the fight against Covid-19 — the accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers — will now get Rs 2,500 monthly incentive for the extra efforts they are putting in to fight the virus.The Punjab National Health Mission (NHM) announced the workers would get Rs 1,500 for the door-to-door surveys while Rs 1,000 for ‘extra work’.The incentive for door-to-door surveys will be given from April to June while incentives for other work will be paid from January to June. The announcement came after The Tribune highlighted that ASHA workers were not being paid for extra work during the crisis.Besides, the state government has also announced financial help of Rs 10,000 in case an ASHA worker or AHSA facilitator gets infected by Covid. Notably, four ASHA workers have already been tested positive in Moga.If an ASHA worker or ASHA facilitator dies due to the virus in the line of duty, their family members will get Rs 50 lakh, the NHM said in a letter to all Civil Surgeons.Paramjeet Maan, ASHA Workers’ Union president, said, “Finally, the government paid heed to our demand. We are thankful to it. We had to hold silent protests for our unmet demands, but we never stopped our work.”Dr Parvinder Sidhu, Director, National Health Mission, Punjab, said, “They are working day and night. The government, therefore, has decided to give them incentives for their extraordinary service.”
10-05-2020||Bathinda||Multipurpose health workers seek regular jobs||Members of the Multipurpose Health Employees’ Union organised a protest against the state government at four urban primary health centres in Bathinda city on Saturday.The protesters alleged despite rendering their services in the department for the past many years, the state government had failed to regularise them.President of the union, Harjinder Kaur, said, “We were hired on a contractual basis but even after rendering services for years, our long-pending demand of regularisation was never fulfilled by the government. We demand that if not regularisation, then the government should provide us salaries of at par with a regular employee.”“A contractual health worker is getting Rs 10,000 per month while regular employees get more than Rs 40,000. Moreover, we don’t get any allowances also,” she added. — TNS
10-05-2020||---||Villagers to aid of migrants on way to Rajasthan||Faridkot, May 9Walking from Amritsar to Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, more than 900 km away, a joint family of 26 members, including two pregnant women and 12 children, got help from residents of Chahal village, situated on the National Highway 53, here on Saturday.Villagers served them food and arranged their stay in a government school in the village. After the panchayat of Chahal village brought the things to the notice of Faridkot DC Kumar Saurav Raj, he also rushed to the village to help the migrants who mainly work as labourers in the construction of roads.“When the lockdown was announced, we were stuck in Amritsar. Hoping for the lockdown to end, we waited for over one month. But now when all our savings have been spent, we set out on foot to Chittorgarh, hoping to get some transportation on the way,” said Jai Singh, a member of the family. “We reached Faridkot from Amritsar in three days. We still have more than 700 km to go,” said Jai Singh.Iqbal Singh, a former panchayat member of Chahal, said after some youths in the village noticed the migrants walking on the road with their children and two pregnant women, they informed the villagers and the residents joined hands to help them.
10-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Punjab asks hotels to arrange rooms to quarantine NRIs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 9The Punjab Government has urged the hoteliers to arrange rooms in different cities of the state to quarantine thousands of Indians of Punjabi origin who are being evacuated from overseas.However, they are finding it difficult to resume functioning of hotels in the lockdown as most of their employees have left.About 90 per cent of the employees in the hospitality sector are non-Punjabis who left for their home states after the imposition of curfew.Satish Chandra, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, said about 20,000 people of Punjabi origin registered themselves on the Central government’s portal for evacuation. He added that nearly 1,300 rooms were arranged till yesterday and the hoteliers were calling back their employees to resume operations.In the region, the first evacuation flight from Dubai will land at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on May 14. The international flights will also land at the international airport at Mohali.Subsequently, passengers from the UK, Canada and Australia, besides the Gulf will be flown back at these airports.As per the norms, all of them will have to be quarantined for 14 days here. The evacuated passengers will have to pay for their travel and stay in hotels during the quarantine period.They will be kept at hotels in Bathinda, Mohali, Zirakpur, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Mansa apart from Amritsar. The Cultural Affairs and Tourism Department was given the responsibility to arrange nearly 3,000 rooms.First flight to reach on may 14
10-05-2020||GS Paul---||Trudging 1,000 km, UP-bound labourers get help in Amritsar||Tribune News Service Amritsar, May 9 Carrying her two-year-old daughter in her lap, Chandravati accompanied her husband Sanoj and decided to walk back to her native village in Uttar Pradesh from Jammu. Desperate, they were forced to take the extreme step of covering 1,055 km on foot as there was no end in sight to the ongoing crisis due to the Covid lockdown. With them were 10 others who also migrated to Jammu from Uttar Pradesh. Claiming the Jammu and Kashmir authorities refused to arrange transport, they reached Amritsar after covering 220 km in four days during the wee hours today and were intercepted by the local police.  Sanoj migrated to Jammu from Khalilabad village in UP to work as construction labourer for a living during the last winter. He was earning Rs 300-350 daily and was carrying on with life till the past one and a half months when the lockdown was imposed. He said his wife joined him just two months back as they were to pay obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine. “We could not visit the temple. With no work and earnings exhausted, we decided to move out. The Jammu & Kashmir Government refused us transport, so we decided to walk down and started our journey on May 4. Reaching the Punjab border, we were offered lift for some distance by a tractor-trailer. We covered many kms on foot and reached Amritsar around 2.30 am,” he said. Desperate to go back, Chandravati is worried about her two kids who stayed back in UP. “We both got stuck in Jammu. The crop that was ready to harvest remains unattended. God knows if we will be able to survive,” she said. Another UP migrant Shree Charan said with no arrangements, around 40 more labourers were following them in separate groups walking down towards UP. “The Jammu officials gave us 5-kg rice just for once for the sake of getting their pictures clicked,” he said. The in charge of Vallah police station, Mukhtiar Singh, who was on a round at a vegetable market, spotted them. “We arranged food and later shifted them to Radha Soami Bhawan for stay. We will also make arrangements to send them back by train tomorrow,” he said.
10-05-2020||---||Cong, SAD spar over ferrying non-pilgrims from Maharashtra||Chandigarh, May 9The buses from Punjab on their way to Nanded in Maharashtra, in order to bring back pilgrims, had also ferried Punjabis stuck in various parts of the state en route to Takht Hazur Sahib against their original schedule, which has led to a controversy. These people, along with the pilgrims, then travelled back to Punjab.In a video circulated on the social media, Akali leader Prem Singh Chandumajra says he had talked to NCP chief Sharad Pawar to facilitate the movement of Punjabis to the shrine on these buses that were in any case going there. Chandumajra is heard saying the drivers picked up Punjabis from different locations en route the shrine. The buses were originally supposed to reach straight to the shrine with no midway stopovers.Challenging the SAD to come clean on Chandumajra’s statement, Cooperatives Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the pilgrims had been blamed for no fault of theirs. “Who made non-pilgrims join the pilgrims before proceeding to Punjab? The Akalis have some explaining to do,” he said, adding SAD’s Parkash Singh Badal should take action against Chandumajra.The state government has been blaming the Maharashtra administration for the increase in the number of Covid cases in the state.
10-05-2020||---||Reconsider home delivery of liquor, leaders’ wives urge CM||Muktsar, May 9As the state government has allowed home delivery of liquor from May 7, wives of a few party MLAs have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to reconsider his decision.On Friday, Amrita Warring, wife of Gidderbaha MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, appealed to the CM in this regard. On Saturday, Mamta Ashu, wife of Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu too made a request to the CM in this regard. Amrita runs an NGO while Mamta is a councillor from Ludhiana.In her tweet, Amrita wrote, “It is my humble request to kindly reconsider your decision to start home delivery of alcohol in Punjab. This will also lead to increase in domestic violence. The previous Akali Dal government has already destroyed families with alcohol and drug abuse.”Similarly, in her tweet to the CM, Mamta wrote, “respected Capt Amarinder sir. We know fight against drugs was our election promise, we should rethink our decision of opening liquor vends for home delivery. It might lead to increase in cases of domestic violence during the ongoing lockdown. Even contractors not willing to open them.”Notably, the sale of liquor is yet to begin in some districts as the contractors have demanded some relaxations. Excise officials in Muktsar today said the contractors’ demands had been sent to the higher-ups and they were not ready to start business.On the tweets made by Congress leaders’ wives, a police officer said, “The sale of liquor at a time when people are spending time at their homes will increase the cases of domestic violence.”
10-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||CBI preliminary inquiry had virtually indicted ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9Preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBI into the disappearance of proclaimed offenders in the 1991 blast case had virtually indicted Punjab’s former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini and three other cops.Also read: SAD projected him as ‘best’ officerThe CBI had examined 70 witnesses, including Chandigarh, Punjab and Rajasthan police officials. The FIR in the matter was, however, quashed by the Supreme Court on “technical grounds”. Available information suggests the Punjab Police could seek the record during the course of its investigation in the case registered against Saini regarding the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani.Categorically accusing Saini and three others of abduction and torture, the FIR by the CBI’s Superintendent of Police SP Singh read: “The inquiry conducted by the CBI disclosed that in regard to the bomb attack on Sumedh Singh Saini, the then SSP Chandigarh, FIR No. 334 was registered at the Police Station 17, Chandigarh, on August 29, 1991.”“On December 11, 1991, a Chandigarh Police party headed by DSP Baldev Singh Saini raided and picked up Balwant Singh Multani, son of Darshan Singh Multani, from house number 1741, Phase VI, Mohali. He was kept in illegal custody till December 13, 1991, by the Chandigarh Police…”“He was tortured in the presence of Saini and his men inter-alia to know the whereabouts of Devinderpal Singh Bhullar. Balwant was also found in the custody of the Police Station, Sector 17, Chandigarh, on December 17/18, 1991, in a bad condition and he was not able to walk and talk freely.”“In the police records, it is shown Balwant was taken to police station, Qadian, on December 18, 1991, by Sub-Inspector Jagir Singh and party for tracing and arresting Navneet Singh and was lodged in the lock-up and he escaped from custody in the night. Whereabouts of Balwant Singh Multani is not known since then.”
10-05-2020||Aman Sood||Move will affect water table, claim experts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9The Punjab Government’s decision to advance paddy date in Punjab, despite concerns over the falling water table, has experts worried as the decision comes despite the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and Agriculture Department pressing “for a need to push sowing of paddy only after June 25”.Recent reports submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) by an expert committee suggest that 14.5 lakh tube wells extract as much water as is required “for domestic consumption by 3 crore population of the state for more than 3.5 years”. Every January, the government announces a date for paddy sowing and the preparations to arrange for additional power and other arrangements, including transplanting paddy saplings, are done accordingly.Earlier this year, an expert committee formed by the NGT consisting of members from the Punjab Agriculture University, Central Pollution Control Board and PPCB had strongly recommended that the date should be around June 25.Agriculture experts say groundwater level was falling by 1 metre per annum and early sowing of paddy before this time will “put extra pressure on soil”.
10-05-2020||Amritsar||Sikh outfits hit out at lawyer||The SGPC and  other Sikh outfits have condemned Sikh Gurdwara Judicial Commission chairperson Satnam Singh Kler to appear as counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. After inviting ire of Sikhs, Kler withdrew from the case.  “I accepted Saini’s case out of professional reasons, but the interests of the Sikh community are above the exigencies of the profession,”  he said. — TNS
10-05-2020||---||Paddy sowing advanced by 10 days||Chandigarh, May 9Responding to concerns expressed by farmers with respect to labour shortage, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced advancement in the paddy nursery sowing and transplantation dates by 10 days.Also read: Move will affect water table, claim expertsThe operations will now commence on Sunday and June 10, respectively, instead of May 20 fixed earlier by the Agriculture Department for sowing of paddy nursery and June 20 for transplantation, as recommended by the PAU.The farmers had raised concerns about meeting cultivation/sowing requirements in view of labour shortage resulting from migrant labourers returning to their homes in view of the Covid crisis. Describing these concerns as understandable, the Chief Minister said the decision was in the interest of farmers.Underlining the need to adopt the latest practice of direct seeding of rice as well as mechanised paddy transplantation technologies, the Chief Minister directed ACS (Development) Viswajeet Khanna to harness the services of the extension staff of the Agriculture Department to provide all technical support to farmers.Further, to facilitate farmers in ensuring timely transplantation of paddy, Capt Amarinder also directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to make necessary arrangements for facilitating uninterrupted power supply to the agriculture sector in this period.Govt: Centre delaying supply of pulsesChandigarh: Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has accused the Centre of delaying the supply of pulses to Punjab, causing inconvenience to beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act. “Punjab has received 10,800 MT of pulses under the National Food Security Act and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. The state received 5,565.94 MT of urad dal till Friday night. tns
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Capt warns Pak against spreading narco-terrorism||Asserting that the Punjab Police were keeping a close watch on anti-national activities from across the border even amid the Covid crisis, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday warned Pakistan against its persistent attempts to spread narco-terrorism.“Our eyes are open to what Pakistan is doing,” he said, in the wake of the arrest of a big fish in the drugs racket. He said no matter how much the force was was busy in Covid duties, it was keeping a close watch on the border. He congratulated the force for the arrest of Hilal, a worker of Hizbul Mujahideen. — TNS
10-05-2020||Mohali||Kler gone, advocate Deol takes up case||Eyebrows were raised in the legal fraternity when senior advocate APS Deol appeared as counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who has been booked in a 29-year-old kidnapping case. Deol appeared in the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goel here on Saturday and filed an anticipatory bail plea. Earlier, advocate Satnam Singh Kler had filed the plea but withdrew from the case after Sikh outfits hit out at him. Deol is the counsel for IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, who faces charges in the Behbal Kalan firing case. Deol said, “I took up Saini’s case after he contacted me. As a professional, I can contest the case of anyone who approaches me. I had even contested a case of CM Capt Amarinder Singh.” — TNS
10-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab emerges as manufacturing hub for Covid protective kits||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 9As the need for PPE (personal protection equipment) kits rises among medical staff as well as other frontline warriors engaged in a fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab’s textile industry has transformed itself into a PPE manufacturing hub, getting orders worth hundreds of crores from all over the country.As many as 18 textile units in the state have got orders worth Rs256 crore, for supplying PPE kits to HLL Lifecare, that has been tasked to procure kits. While the major chunk of the order is being fulfilled by Phagwara-based JCT (10 lakh kits, worth Rs157.50 crore), 17 other companies, mostly in Ludhiana, have got orders to supply 15 lakh kits worth Rs98.50 crore from HLL Lifecare, besides orders from other state governments like Orissa.Information available from the state Industry Department showed that of the 40 units that had got the approval, 36 were located in Ludhiana. Among them are shawl, garment and even fabric manufacturers, who seeing a good business opportunity as well as the sudden immediate need for the kits, went ahead and got the necessary certifications.Mahesh Khanna, general manager, Industries Department, Ludhiana, told The Tribune that 40 more units were awaiting approvals for manufacturing. He said five units were also manufacturing the fabric needed for PPE kits.Sources said against the production cost of Rs350 to Rs400, the selling price ranged between Rs635 and Rs1,500. Gaurav Khullar of Pirana International, who has bagged an order, said it was at the instance of the state government that he along with many others decided to take the plunge. “It is difficult to manufacture these suits, as it is cumbersome to tailor. Initially, our staff was not trained for the job, and the production was slow. Now that they have got a hang of it and production is up,” he said.It has taken the state government less than a month to get units to start manufacturing these much-needed suits. The state government took the initiative of getting approvals for these units from South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), which has led to the state becoming a major PPE manufacturing hub.Interestingly, many others are trying to cash in on the business opportunity and about 50 other units are manufacturing the kits and selling in the open market.The sources said most of them did not have the requisite approvals and certification, and the kits supplied were of substandard quality. This explains why the kits sold by the approved units vary between Rs635 and Rs1,500 per kit, while the ones made by these unapproved units are being sold for Rs80 and Rs100.Additional Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, said the unapproved units may be the ones awaiting approvals. “In Punjab, we are buying only from the units approved by either SITRA or DRDO,” she said.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD projected Sumedh Saini as ‘best’ officer||Surrounded by controversies, Sumedh Singh Saini, who served as DGP during the second term of the Akali-BJP regime, was projected as one of the state’s best officers on more than one occasionThe HC was told by the then AG Ashok Aggarwal that Saini was “an honest and bold police officer, who had performed his duties with conviction and without any fear in tackling the extremists and terrorists”.Aggarwal was responding to contentions raised in a petition challenging Saini’s appointment as the state police chief. The matter, initially brought to the HC’s notice as a PIL, was taken up as a suo motu case.The petition, challenging his appointment, had referred to a storm Saini was facing for long. It was alleged that Saini was facing trial before the CBI court.The Bench had observed: “It is mentioned on the basis of the allegations the respondent is involved in abduction and physical liquidation of three persons sometime in 1994. This court had referred the matter for investigation against the respondent to the CBI, which after investigation filed a report confirming it...”The petition was dismissed after holding that there was no fault in the decision-making process and Saini was competent to hold the post. Saini was later dropped as the state police chief even before the completion of his term. — TNS
10-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||Vacation in varsities, but Patiala institute announces exams||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9The Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) has decided to hold the online examinations starting on May 18, even as the state government has announced summer vacation in universities from May 15.The exams will be conducted for the final-year BA LLB (integrated course) and LLM (one-year course) students only.With this, the RGNUL has not only ignored the government’s notification, but also gone against the advice of an expert committee.An expert committee of former Chief Secretary KR Lakhanpal has stated that the online examination should not be conducted given the risk of cheating.Naresh Kumar Vats, RGNUL Registrar, admitted the university could not bypass the government’s directions. But he also said, “The government’s direction is to ensure social distancing. Students will not come to the university as the exams will be conducted online.”He said a committee had been formed to decide on the format of the question paper: multiple choice or descriptive.The Higher Education Department has, however, objected to the RGNUL’s decision. Secretary (Higher Education) Rahul Bhandari said, “As per the UGC guidelines, the exams should be conducted after July 1. I have spoken to Patiala DC Kumar Amit and told him the exams can’t be held in such a manner.”A student on the condition of anonymity said he and his classmates were against the university’s decision. “The online mode does not ensure a level-playing field. It suits students from the elite background only,” he said.
10-05-2020||Bathinda||For traders, fall in sugar sales leaves bitter taste||The sale of sugar has declined significantly as bulk consumption has stopped after the imposition of lockdown in the wake of Covid-19.Sugar wholesalers are in a quandary as except for sale for domestic consumption, there are no buyers for it for over one and a half months now.Wholesalers said the sale had halved after bulk orders stopped overnight from confectioners, wedding functions, hotel industry, beverage makers, tea vendors, bakers and ice-cream makers, among others. Subsequently, its rate has also nosedived.Chandarshekhar Mittal, a sugar wholesaler in Bathinda, said, “On an average, we used to sell more than 50 quintals daily but the lockdown has triggered a steep fall in the sales. Now, only 15 to 20 quintiles of sugar is sold daily.”As the sale declined, stocks have piled up in sugar mills. NK Sighal, deputy general manager of AB Sugars Ltd in Dasuya, said, “Even after curtailing production volumes, sugar stocks have been piling up in godowns. Human consumption is a minuscule part of the consumption and with no bulk orders, sustaining the business will be a Herculean task now. The wholesale rate per quintal of sugar has declined from Rs3,300 to Rs3,160.”
10-05-2020||---||Nanded pilgrim succumbs in Ludhiana||Chandigarh, May 9After a spike in Covid-19 cases, the past two days witnessed a decline in the spread. With 31 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 1,762. With one death in Hoshiarpur and a returnee from Nanded succumbing to the virus in Ludhiana, the total toll has reached 31. It is the first death among over 4,000 pilgrims who returned from Nanded last month.As per the media bulletin, Jalandhar topped the chart with 17 cases followed by Fatehgarh Sahib with five cases, Ropar four, Pathankot two and one each in Patiala, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.In Ludhiana, a patient died today. The 59-year-old belonged to Manuke village and tested positive after returning from Takht Shri Hazur Sahib, Nanded. He came back on April 30 and was admitted at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. He was symptomatic and was doing fine but today morning, he complained of discomfort and passed away after a few hours. The death toll of Ludhiana has now reached six.In Jalandhar, with 17 positive cases, the tally has reached 175. The cases reported today include eight pilgrims from Nanded, three contacts of a previous positive case and one new case. A Jalandhar native, who tested positive at Mansa today, is also reportedly a pilgrim. The new case is a 50-year-old woman from New Gobind Nagar. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old woman from Athaula village also tested positive.In Ropar, four people, including a policeman, tested positive. The cop, along with his six colleagues, accompanied 165 residents of Jammu and Kashmir who were sent to their home last week by the district administration.The first local case of Covid-19 was detected in Bathinda on Friday. A 70-year-old woman, who sells vegetables, tested positive. The worrying fact in this case is that the source of the infection is untraced.17 cases in jalandharOn Saturday, Jalandhar reported 17 cases followed by Fatehgarh Sahib with five cases and Ropar with four cases.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||99.9% contacts of Covid-19 patients traced: Minister||Infected ASI’s workout video goes viralMuktsar: A video posted by an ASI of City police station, who tested virus positive on May 2, went viral on social media today. In the video, the officer is seen working out rigorously on the premises of a Covid hospital. While some people appreciated the cop for utilising the time and sweating out, others remarked that the cop should do less strenuous exercises and take rest in view of the DGP orders. TNS
10-05-2020||New Delhi||Narco-terrorist nabbed after NIA raid in Sirsa||Anti-terror probe agency NIA today arrested notorious narco-terrorist Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, alias Cheeta, following raids in Sirsa.Facilitated Hizb fundingRanjit is prime accused in 532-kg heroin seizure case, was at large for a yearAlso prime accused in Hizb terror funding module busted in AmritsarHelped ultras push drugs into India, fund activities in Valley“The NIA along with teams of the Punjab Police and Haryana Police carried out raids in Sirsa and arrested notorious narco-terrorist Ranjit Singh alias Rana alias Cheeta, a resident of Ram Tirath Road, Amritsar,” the agency said in a statement.Ranjit and his accomplice Iqbal Singh alias Shera are the prime accused in a case registered in connection with 532-kg heroin seizure at the Attari border. The narcotic was found hidden in a consignment of rock salt imported from Pakistan.The Punjab police busted a Hizb terror-funding module in Amritsar on April 25. Ranjit is the key accused in the case that led to the arrest of J&K resident Hilal Ahmad Wagay, a close aide of slain terrorist Riyaz Naikoo, besides seizure of Rs 29 lakh.“This money was being transported to the Valley to be handed over to Naikoo, chief operational commander of Hizb. The case has been re-registered and taken over,” the NIA said. It said Ranjit and his five brothers were involved in smuggling and peddling drugs for years.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab DIG Jails suspended on graft charge||Punjab on Saturday suspended DIG Jails (Amritsar) Lakhwinder Singh Jakhar on corruption charge. Minister for Jails SS Randhawa said a departmental inquiry had been ordered. ADGP Jails PK Sinha said the action followed a preliminary inquiry by IG Jails into allegations by Deputy Superintendent Vijay Kumar, in charge of the Patti sub-jail.Kumar alleged that during a visit on April 7, Jakhar and his staff demanded a monthly bribe and while he paid Rs 10,000, one of the jail warders paid Rs 3,000 to the DIG’s driver. The inquiry recommended action against Jakhar and a charge-sheet was filed. Jakhar denied the charges, saying there was “more to it”. He had made headlines when as Superintendent of Patiala jail he declined to carry out the death sentence awarded to Beant Singh assassin BS Rajoana.
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ministers walk out of liquor policy meeting||A meeting between top officers and Punjab Cabinet ministers over the Excise Policy 2020-21 here on Saturday ended in a deadlock with the ministers walking out. Among the officers present were Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner (Taxation) Karan Avtar Singh, Chief Principal Secretary to CM Suresh Kumar and Principal Secretary to CM Tejvir Singh.Why walkout, asks BittuIf they (ministers) found bureaucracy to be incompetent, they should have replaced the officers and not staged a walkout themselves. — Ravneet Bittu, Ludhiana MPThe meeting was called to finalise the draft Excise Policy, which was to be tabled at a Cabinet meeting later in the day. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, objecting to “undue benefits” to liquor contractors, reportedly observed that a minimum 10 per cent increase in revenue compared to the previous year should have been proposed. In response, the Chief Secretary reportedly made some remark, pointing to the “non-viability”of their suggestions, infuriating the ministers. Told to approach the CM regarding their objections, Manpreet is learnt to have questioned the purpose of the meeting when the officers had “already made up their mind.” He walked out. Other ministers followed suit.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa is learnt to have questioned the department for “incurring losses regularly.”Neither the officers nor ministers took calls for comment.
10-05-2020||Mohali||Mohali court reserves order on Saini’s bail plea||The Mohali district court today reserved its order on former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s anticipatory bail plea till Monday.Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal after hearing the arguments reserved the order, thus denying any relief to Saini till Monday in a fresh FIR registered against him in a 29-year- old abduction case.Appearing for Saini, counsel APS Deol argued that the FIR registered in the matter after 29 years was not maintainable and that the FIRregistered in the case was dismissed by the apex court in 2011. He maintained that there was a bar on maintainability of the case filed twice.Pardeep Virk, counsel for complainant Palwinder Singh Multani, argued that the Supreme Court, while quashing the FIR registered by the CBI nine years ago, had made it clear that recourse to fresh proceedings could be taken, if permissible in law. For fresh investigation, Saini’s custodial interrogation was a must as two investigating officers had already died, he said.Punjab today argued that Saini’s custodial interrogation in the 1991 case was a must.
