10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 304 fresh COVID-19 cases, 6 more deaths||Punjab recorded 304 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday which took the state’s tally to 1,69,033 while six more fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,445, according to a medical bulletin.There are 2,933 active COVID-19 cases in the state, it said.Of the fresh cases, 84 were reported from Mohali, 36 from Patiala and 34 from Jalandhar, among other districts.A total of 312 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection the previous day, taking the total number of cured persons to 1,60,655, the bulletin stated.Eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 104 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, a total of 41,01,234 samples have been collected for testing, it said. PTI
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||AAP again backstabbing and defrauding farmers in name of providing legal help, says Capt Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of once again backstabbing and defrauding the agitating Punjab farmers by making hollow claims of providing legal assistance to them to fight cases against actress Kangana Ranaut and certain other BJP leaders, including Union Minister Raosaheb Danve.Reacting to media reports that four of the five petitioners in such cases were active AAP workers, the chief minister said it’s high time that Arvind Kejriwal and his cronies stop playing their sneaky games for scoring brownie political points.“Your intent is clear. You are only trying to weaken the farmers’ agitation and playing your sneaky games at BJP’s behest,” said the chief minister, adding that such theatrics on issues concerning the lives and future of the farmers are deplorable.“Arvind Kejriwal was always the sneaky little fellow of AAP but it’s surprising that his other party leaders are also following suit and spreading a web of lies to deceive the farmers of Punjab,” said Capt Amarinder.He said it was “pathetic” that AAP leaders were stooping to such low levels and using their own party workers to file petitions against BJP leaders and others to bolster their claims of providing legal help to farmers.Capt Amarinder advised Kejriwal and his associates to stop following Adolf Hitler’s propaganda technique of “große Lüge” – big lies – and stop indulging in colossal lies in the futile and wild hope that people will believe them out of sheer disbelief that anyone can distort a truth to such an extent.The chief minister said after the shameful manner in which AAP government in Delhi implemented the farm laws at a time when the farmers were preparing to march to the national capital, the world now knows who the real agent of BJP is.The collusion of AAP with BJP is now a matter of record, he said, adding that this was not a lone incident.“The Arvind Kejriwal government has been bending backwards to keep its masters in the Central government happy because it is incapable of ruling independently and effectively, as we all saw during the Covid peaks in Delhi. The way Kejriwal went grovelling to the Centre for help each time clearly exposed his closeness to them. After all, in times of crisis, you rush to those you are closest to and not to your political opponents,” he said.The chief minister said merely shouting and screaming a lie again and again does not make it the truth. Referring to the claims of certain AAP leaders about Punjab being member of the Committee on Agricultural Reforms that drafted the farm laws, the chief minister said the way these leaders have started parroting the Akali’s stand, one is forced to draw the conclusion that there is a collusion between the two parties — a collusion founded on lies.He said the so-called committee never once discussed the farm laws.“In fact, far from it, there was not even a passing mention of such laws being considered,” said the chief minister, asking “is that so difficult for AAP and SAD leaders to understand.”The chief minister said unlike the AAP, which has never believed in serious governance and only indulges in street politics and theatrics, the Congress government in Punjab cares about its people and is always working for their good.“We don’t play politics with the lives of our people,” he said, adding that AAP had been totally exposed and should realise that these kinds of antics failed to woo the people of Punjab in 2016-17 and are not going to save them even now.
10-01-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury                                                                     ||Khasi outfit warns Punjab govt against interference||Tribune News ServiceKolkata, January 10Hynniewtrep Youth Council (HYC), a youth organisation of Meghalaya which claims to represent the interest of the local Khasi tribe, has warned Punjab government against interfering in the issue of relocation of Dalit Sikhs living in Meghalaya capital Shillong’s Harijan Colony.In a statement issued in Shillong, HYC president Robertjune Kharjahrin warned of serious repercussions if “outside agencies” try to give the proposed relocation a communal colour. Kharjahrin clarified that by “outside agencies” he meant Punjab government primarily.State government of Punjab had strongly protested when various Khasi interest groups – ranging from the insurgent group HNLC to the state government run by a coalition that includes BJP – tried to arm-twist the Dalit Sikhs living in Harijan Colony to vacate the area.The stand taken by Punjab government to defend the hapless residents of Harijan Colony has not gone down well with the HYC and other Khasi parochial organisations which proliferate in Meghalaya.HYC said relocation of Harijan Colony residents should be viewed from the developmental perspective. “We are asking the outside agencies one last time to refrain from making it a communal issue. Adding fuel to the fire may once again lead to agitations and law and order problems,” the statement, issued by Kharjahrin at Shillong on Sunday, said.Kharjahrin demanded that only state government employees among the Harijan Colony residents should be relocated and the other “illegal residents” evicted.“There is no harm if the legitimate employees are shifted to state government quarters. But I don’t know how accommodation can be provided to Grade 4 employees when the government has not been able to do so for Grade 1 & 2 employees,” the statement quoted the HYC president as having said.According to HYC, there were no records to establish that the Dalit Sikh residents of Harijan Colony were owners of their residences.“The area can be redeveloped for a shopping mall, or a parking lot or a warehouse for storing coal. Utilising the area commercially can sustain the poor people and farmers,” Kharjahrin said.Dalit Sikhs residents of Punjabi Lane claim living in the area for several generations as their forefathers were brought to the hill town by the British for working as sweepers.An incident of assault in the area in 2018 had resulted in group clashes following which the neighbourhood was put under curfew for over a month.
10-01-2021||New Delhi||NGT directs housing project in Mohali to stop construction activity for lack of EC||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a housing project in Punjab’s Mohali to stop construction activity noting that it lacked the requisite environmental clearance (EC). The green panel said commencement of a project without EC has detrimental effect on the environment.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel noted that the EC granted by the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Punjab for ‘Super Mega Mixed Use Integrated Industrial Park’ at Sector 82, 83 and 66A, SAS Nagar, Mohali, does not cover the Falcon View Project.“Contention to the contrary is against the facts on record and has to be rejected. In spite of repeated directions of SEIAA and initiation of prosecution, the appellant has continued the constructions in utter disregard and defiance of the statutory norms and directions,” the bench said.The NGT said in the plea that a writ petition filed against the order of SEIAA cannot in any manner justify continuing illegal constructions in violation of law for which there is no sanction in any of the orders of the High Court.“The appellant is trying to create irreversible situation by completing the constructions and creating third party rights which is not congenial to the enforcement of rule of law and protection of environment and public health,” it said.The tribunal said there is no merit in the contention that the EC issue being within the purview of SEIAA, the state pollution control board cannot go into such question.The NGT observed that apart from initiating prosecution, stopping illegal construction activities, undertaking mitigation/restoration measures and other steps for enforcement of rule of law, it may be necessary to assess the extent of damage to the environment and to recover compensation on ‘Polluter Pays’ principle, following due process of law.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Janta Land Promoters Ltd against order passed by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) directing stopping of construction activity of the appellants. It was held that the appellant did not have the requisite EC under the EIA Notification and the Consent To Establish (CTE) under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (Air and Water Acts). — PTI
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Cold wave conditions in Northwest on January 12, 13||Due to the prevalence of dry winds over most parts of Northwest India, minimum temperature is expected to fall gradually by 3-4°C during the next 3-4 days.This may cause isolated cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan on January 12 and 13, the IMD has said.Strong surface winds (speed 15-25 kmph) are also very likely over the plains of Northwest India during the next three days, the IMD added.
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday, while a thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in the region, reducing visibility.    Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced their minimums at 7.5, 7 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperature of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 5.4, 7.2, 8.6 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 8.6, 8 and 8.5 degrees Celsius, up to five degrees above normal, the official said.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 10.6, 9, 8.5, 9.3, 5.4 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several parts including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Faridkot and Karnal in the morning, reducing visibility, the official said. PTI
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Ravneet Bittu attacks Sukhbir Badal over demand to free Rajoana||Congress leader and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu has attacked Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal over the latter’s demand to free Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted for the assassination of former Punjab CM Beant Singh.“I request the union govt to set Bhai Balwant Singh Rajoana free as a humanitarian gesture. He has served nearly two life terms in prison. All Cong RWAs leaders, including Punjab CM, should also back the release of Bhai Rajoana. Setting Bhai Rajoana free would also be in consonance with GOI’s commitment to commute the former’s death sentence into life imprisonment as a special gesture to Sikh quom on the eve of the 550th Parkash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji,” Sukhbir said Saturday.Bittu retorted asking the Akali Dal chief if he would have made the same demand had Parkash Singh Badal been attacked by Rajoana.“My grandfather Sardar Beant Singh Ji was the Chief Minister and was martyred in service of our country. Your father has also been the Chief Minister of Punjab 5 times, God forbid if he too was assassinated by a bomb while serving the country, would you still appeal for forgiveness of his killers? Do you want Rajoana to be released and kill innocent and peace loving people?“ asked Bittu.
10-01-2021||Amolak Singh Grewal||Prabh Deep, the Punjabi rapper Punjab doesn’t know||Prabh Deep is discerning with words, but his music says a lot. Widely acknowledged as one of the best underground artistes in the country, the 27-year-old rapper made it big right at the beginning — with his very first album, Class-Sikh (2017).Suno (Class-Sikh)Kann kholaan, har paason lavaan gyaan(Okay)Changey samme ch maa da lavaan naam(Hmm)Kyunki jawaan jaddon gharon kalla baar(Fer)Lage mainu bura hona ve anjaam(Kyun)Kyunki galiyaan ajeeb, uchchi vajda sangeetLoki dil de amir, naale paise de garib(Jhooth)Ethe dil da hakeem fadaunda ve afeem(Sachh)Ik karda ve nashe, duja karda ve rees(Kyun)Set in Tilak Nagar, which is home to him, the album painted a vivid picture of growing up in a locality reeling under high unemployment rates and the influx of drugs in the community. The first three singles — “Kal”, “G Maane” and “Kal (Future)” — received widespread acclaim from the press and fans alike. Apple Music featured Prabh Deep under the banner ‘New Artist Spotlight’ and he went on to win the Toto Funds’ The Arts Award for Music in 2018. Thereafter, as they say, there was no looking back.Prabh was hailed as the next best thing in India’s independent music industry. In the last four years, more titles have come his way. Rolling Stone christened him India’s “most fearless rapper” in its cover story last year. His songs have spoken about students ending life due to pressure of exams and drug overdose (“Suno”), as has he made songs on the Kashmir lockdown (“Elaan”, with Ahmer featuring Sez on the Beat) and blamed governments in US-India for instigating violence (“KING”). He has made a mark in the entertainment industry as well, collaborating with Anurag Kashyap (“Sherni” from Manmarziyaan) and Amazon Prime (Paatal Lok).With his yet untitled new album, Prabh aims to break into a more mature audience. All this while, he has stuck to his mother tongue, Punjabi; the lyrics simple enough for a Hindi speaker to comprehend. Still, it comes as a surprise that he hasn’t performed in Punjab. “It’s not like I don’t like Punjab, just that I’ve never felt a connection, especially with what’s going on in entertainment in Punjab. The focus is on typical aspects that are just on the surface.” Being unknown in Punjab is not something that bothers him too. “I didn’t grow up there [Punjab]. We are from Peshawar.”Regarding music emanating from Punjab, Prabh says, “I know people who sold their land and made three tracks thinking they’ll make it big. Now they have no money and are nowhere in the industry. It’s tricky in Punjab. I am familiar with how stuff happens and it is not something I want to do.” He says the structure of the industry in Punjab is not based on talent but rather the money that a label can make off a singer. Nevertheless, he firmly believes the land is full of talent, adding that the volume itself increases competition, making it all about money.As a Punjabi youth icon, it’s not wrong to draw parallels to his contemporaries from Punjab, especially Diljit Dosanjh. “Firstly, huge respect to Diljit. I don’t know if he knows me or not, but I believe that not many artistes from the industry, especially from Punjab, have proved their relevance in the game for as long as him. I’m actually honoured to be compared to him,” he says. On the respective style and identity that the two of them possess, Prabh says, “My music is not something to dance or party to. It’s for you to listen to and, the next morning, you could wake up as a different person; it’s for you to feel things in a different way.”Prabh is profoundly aware of the impact that both he and Diljit have, along with the type and scale of their music. As he admits: “I do not think I will ever be able to make it in that zone. I tried to write those kind of lyrics but failed. That is not who I am. I’ve accepted it.” However, Prabh loves what he does. He says he would want to remain a mirror to society and deliver a narrative that is socially relevant to India.An issue that particularly aches his heart is the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. He lost his grandfather to it. An album on the theme is his main project, he says, one he has been working on for five years. “For me, it’s very personal. My grandma passed away some time back, fighting for justice. This is our last chance. There are many untold stories that I want to tell. I wanted to make this album early but I knew that, as a person, I was yet to grow. Even now, I’m constantly thinking about every word I will use to talk about this.”While many still mistake hip-hop and rap for being vulgar genres, Prabh Deep is not only breaking the stereotype with his work, he is also driven to create awareness and impact through his music. We’ll just have to wait and see what he talks about next.
10-01-2021||Ludhiana||LIP MLA Simarjit Singh Bains seeks all-party meet to support farmers||President of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and MLA from Atam Nagar Simarjit Singh Bains has written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and demanded that an all-party meeting be held at the Punjab Vidhan Sabha so that a concrete strategy be made for the victory of protesting farmers.He said an all-party meeting should be held at the earliest.Amid cold waves and rain, the farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws on the Delhi borders for over one-and-a-half month. Bains said he had demanded from the CM that leaders of all political parties should be invited to meeting and a discussion should be held to formulate a concrete strategy for the success of farmers’ protest. — TNS
10-01-2021||Ajay Joshi||Tractor march in Jalandhar — A ‘trailer’ of what lies ahead||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 9Commuters were at the receiving end on Saturday after a tractor rally was taken out on the city roads to lend support to farmers protesting against the contentious agriculture laws.With rows of tractors, jeeps and cars taking over roads and highways, farmers continued to raise slogans against the Modi government.Flaunting banners of ‘Kisan Union Ekta’, ‘No Farmers, No Food, No Future’ and ‘Repeal black laws’, as many as 3,000 farmers and youth took out the rally as a massive show of strength and unity.A convoy of over 350 tractors and 300 other vehicles travelled for 25 km covering areas including Model Town, GTB Nagar, Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, Skylark Chowk, Nakodar Chowk, Kapurthala Chowk, BMC Chowk, bus stand, BSF Chowk and PAP. The police were also deployed to ensure that the rally remains peaceful.Gurshant Singh Sidhu, who not only participated in the rally, but was also one of the organising members, said they started their tractor rally on Saturday to further intensify the ongoing protest against the three farm laws.“It was just a trailer of the Republic Day tractor march. We want to show the government that apart from farmers on the outskirts of Delhi, a sea of supporters from across the state will also enter Delhi on January 26. We are warning the government to withdraw the controversial laws as it’s just the ‘rehearsal’ of the main show,” he said.Karanveer Singh, one of the protesters who was riding a tractor, said: “It seems like the Prime Minister cannot see us or hear us despite having so much strength. He has forgotten that we are the ones who have voted him to power. Through the tractor rally we would like to tell the government that it is better to take back the laws.”Accompanying him, Gurpreet Singh, a farmer from Lohian Khas village, said: “This tractor rally was just a preparation to the main parade. Through today’s rally, we were successful in exhibiting our preparation and strength to the government and gave them an idea of how the rally on Republic Day will look like. We are an extremely peaceful lot and we have no intention of getting into face-offs with any person or authority of any kind.”Meanwhile, around 300-400 people, carrying mashaals and candles in their hands, took out a mashaal march in the city as well. Organised by NGO V4U (The Helping Hand) and Trade Union Council, Jalandhar, the march started from Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall and concluded at Model Town.Sikh groups to hold rally in ItalyCondemning the adamant attitude of the Centre over the three farm laws, the Alliance of Sikh Organisations (a group of 35 organisations) on Saturday announced to intensify their protest and take it to international level. The organisations said farmers were spending nights on roads in winter season, but the Centre was not willing to accept their demands. On a call given by Italy-based NGO against injustice ‘Movement against Atrocities and Repression’, members of the Alliance of Sikh organisations informed to hold a rally in Rome. They said considering the Covid guidelines, around 100 people will participate in the rally, which will be organised in front of Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations on January 15. Sukhdev Singh Phagwara, spokesperson, said efforts were being made to highlight the issue to gain attention of the UN. “The alliance has decided to hold a massive farmers’ rally on January 15 in Italy. A memorandum will be submitted to the authorities concerned.” TNS
10-01-2021||---||PU Governance reforms: Venkaiah Naidu’s office writes to Punjab Government||Chandigarh, January 9The office of PU Chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Vice-President of India, has reportedly written to the Punjab Government ensuring its involvement in the introduction of the governance reforms, if initiated.The letter was written in reply to the Punjab Government’s submission against not conducting the elections of the PU Senate. At present, the PU is functioning under the Vice-Chancellor in the absence of any governing body. A copy of this letter is believed to have been submitted to the Vice-Chancellor office. “We are unaware if any such letter has been addressed to the PU. It can be confirmed once the registrar’s office opens on a working day,” said a PU’s spokesperson.Meanwhile, sources confirmed that PU authorities have already started the process of bringing governance reforms.
10-01-2021||---||Legal recourse to challenge farm laws ready, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, January 9Taking a dig at state AAP president Bhagwant Mann, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday said it was unfortunate that people like him (Mann), who had no knowledge about the Constitution and legislative procedures, were in politics, and making illogical statements with the sole motive of misleading the people. The CM said the state government had already finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central farm Acts and would do so at an opportune time on the advice of legal experts.“Just like his bosses, Mann too has mastered the art of lying and deception but while doing so he has exposed his incompetence as a parliamentarian by making frivolous statements on matters pertaining to the Constitution and legislative procedures,” said Captain Amarinder. He was referring to AAP leader’s claims of a collusion between the Chief Minister and the Governor over sending the agriculture Bills, passed unanimously in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to negate the farm laws, to the President.“You really have no knowledge of how legislative work is done… If you think that you can mislead the people of Punjab by your lies, you are utterly mistaken, as every Punjabi has seen through your webs of deceit and your betrayal of the farmers’ cause,” said Capt Amarinder. He said while his government’s stand on the Centre’s farm laws had been consistent from day one, both AAP and SAD had been doing flip flops over it.“One day you unanimously support our Bills and your party leaders, including Leader of the Opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema, accompany me to the Governor and the very next day you do a somersault and start opposing them,” said the CM.He further said AAP’s double face and its collusion with the BJP to weaken the farmers’ agitation had been further exposed with Arvind Kejriwal meekly notifying one of the farm laws in Delhi rather than following Punjab’s example of bringing in legislations in the Assembly to negate the impact of the black farm laws.Captain Amarinder said although matters related to agriculture were mentioned in List II (State List) of the Constitution and fell under the exclusive domain of the state, the Government of India had enacted the three contentious farm laws under the provisions related to Agriculture Marketing mentioned in List III (Concurrent List). Being a central legislation, the state government had limited options under Article 254(2) of the Constitution.
10-01-2021||---||AAP extends legal assistance to farmers to sue Kangana Ranaut, others||Chandigarh, January 9Announcing legal aid to farmers who have sued BJP leaders and celebrities, including actress Kangana Ranaut, the AAP today condemned the Punjab Congress for opposing the SGPC decision of not inviting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.During a press conference here, senior leader and Punjab AAP co-in charge Raghav Chadha said the party today helped aggrieved complainant farmers in sending defamation notice to Kangana for her libellous and malicious remarks against Mohinder Kaur.Raghav Chadha, State AAP co-in chargeAmarinder is PM’s agent in stateCapt Amarinder Singh visited Delhi to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, but he did not bother to travel a few extra kilometres to meet the struggling farmers… he is the Prime Minister’s agent in Punjab. “Along with Kangana, we have helped farmers send legal notices to BJP MPs Ramesh Bidhuri, Ravi Kishan, Manoj Tiwari and minister Raosaheb Patil Danve,” he said.He said the party condemned the remarks made by Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa opposing the SGPC decision not to invite the Prime Minister for the upcoming centenary events, including the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Claiming that the entire nation was against the PM due to the farmers’ movement, Chadha said the Captain-led Congress government was advocating inviting him as the chief guest for the upcoming centenary events to be organised by the SGPC.He said Capt Amarinder visited Delhi to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, but he did not bother to travel a few extra kilometres to meet the struggling farmers.Chadha further alleged that Capt Amarinder was the Prime Minister’s agent in Punjab and it had been proven time and again during the farmers’ struggle.
10-01-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht refuses to mediate between Centre, farmers||The Akal Takht has refused to mediate between the Centre and farmers to break the deadlock on farm laws.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, in a video message released here on Saturday, stated that the matter pertained to Indian farmers. It has nothing to do with the Sikh religion and their code of conduct, he said.He said the Union Government should resolve it on priority as farmers had been protesting for a long time.He said he had appealed for support to farmers in the past and sought “bal” (bravery) for them and “sumat” (wisdom) for the government. He said there should be a swift resolution of the matter.He appealed to the farmers to maintain peace and harmony during the protest as the entire world was watching them. Any negativity would lead to their disrepute. — TNS
10-01-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda residents boycott BJP leader Sukhpal Sra over statement||The Sheesh Mahal Residents Welfare Society has taken a decision to boycott BJP leader Sukhpal Sra, who lives in a rented house in the colony. They have told his landlord to get the house vacated at the earliest.Sra is facing flak from various quarters over his statement during a TV debate in which he allegedly drew a parallel between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Guru Gobind Singh.Society members today held a meeting under the chairmanship of Charanjit Singh. They said he had given an irresponsible statement on TV, which had led to unrest among community members. They have asked Sra to clear his stand or tender an apology on the issue.They also demanded that to stop protesters, barricading should be done near the house of the BJP leader, not at the main gate of the colony.Meanwhile, villagers of Gurusar Sainiwala village along with members of the Dal Khalsa and other organisations, too, announced to boycott the BJP leader.Refuting the allegation, he said: “I have sent the video of the debate to the Akal Takth,” He said he apologised to anyone whose sentiments were hurt. Meanwhile, the police have booked Sra. — TNS
10-01-2021||Moga||Railways cancels, diverts trains||Keeping in view the farmers’ stir, the Northern Railway has cancelled, short-terminated and diverted many trains. The Saharsa-Amritsar express special train commencing on January 10 has been cancelled. Consequently, the Amritsar-Saharsa special train will also remain cancelled on January 11.   The Nanded-Amritsar express train will be short-terminated at New Delhi on January 10; it  will short-originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi on January 12.  The Mumbai Central-Amritsar express special train will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 9. The Amritsar-Mumbai central express will also be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas on January 10. — TNS
10-01-2021||Moga||Moga farmer kills self||A 41-year-old debt-ridden farmer allegedly killed himself by consuming poison at Bhinder Kalan village in Dharamkot subdivision of Moga district, the police confirmed today.Darshan Singh consumed the poison yesterday and died within a few minutes. He is survived by his wife and five daughters. The police took the body into custody and got the postmortem examination conducted from the district hospital. Investigating officer ASI Malkit Singh of the Dharamkot police station said the body was handed over to the family members after the postmortem examination.The doctors prima facie confirmed that the said farmer died of consuming poison, but they have collected the samples of viscera from his body, which will be sent to a government laboratory so as to ascertain the nature of poison consumed by him. Darshan Singh’s wife Sandeep Kaur said her husband had taken lakhs of rupees as loan from various sources due to which he had been suffering from depression for the past few months. — TNS
10-01-2021||Amritsar||Protesters to burn laws’ copies on Lohri||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which has been spearheading a rail blockade for over 100 days on the city’s outskirts, has announced to burn copies of the three controversial agricultural laws and an effigy of the Union Government on Lohri and Makar Sankranti on January 13 and 14. The union today lit a bonfire in which photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and copies of three agriculture laws were burnt.  Sarwan Singh Pandher, KMSC general secretary, said the fourth jatha of farmers riding tractor-trailers would move to Delhi on January 12. Jathas of tractor-trailers from different districts would meet on the highway.  — TNS
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent||SAD (D) to take part in R-Day tractor march: Bir Devinder Singh||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 9Former Deputy Speaker and Senior leader of SAD(D) Bir Devinder Singh presided over a meeting of the party to decide the strategy regarding the farmer’s protest and civic elections at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib today.He said the SAD (D) had decided to participate in the tractor march of the farmers on Republic Day. Party workers and leaders from the state will ride on tractors and other vehicles having farmer unions’ flags to express solidarity with farmers.Earlier, a two-minute silence was observed and ‘ardas’ was performed for the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing struggle.
10-01-2021||---||100 UK MPs write to Johnson over stir||Bathinda, January 9More than 100 MPs, cutting across party lines, in the United Kingdom are signatories to a letter written by Punjabi MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi to Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressing concerns over Indian farmers’ protest against the central farm laws.Dhesi has urged Johnson to raise the issue with his Indian counterpart, expressing hopes of speedy resolution to the current deadlock. In the letter, Dhesi has stated that many constituents, especially those belonging to Punjab and other parts of India, were horrified to see water cannon, tear gas and brute force used against protesting farmers. Joint letter by lawmakersConvey concerns to Indian PMCould you please confirm that you will definitely convey to Indian PM the heartfelt anxieties of our constituents, our hope for speedy resolution to the current deadlock?The issue has so galvanised the Indian diaspora community, especially those of Punjabi or Sikh origin, and others who have land or links to farming in India, that thousands of people were engaged in global protests, including in cities across the UK.He has further stated that a cross-party letter was sent to Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to raise the matter with his Indian counterpart.The letter also states: “You were asked about this issue during the Prime Minister’s questions on December 9, 2020. It seems you misunderstood the question since you made the reference to Pakistan and the need of two governments to settle these matters. The issue has nothing to do with Pakistan, but is regarding farmers from across the India expressing their concern of major corporate houses moving into the agriculture sector, as a result of new laws. Could you please respond to clarify your understanding of this important issue?”Further, he has claimed: “We believe your January India visit has now been cancelled, but you intend to meet your Indian counterpart soon. Given the urgency of this matter, could you please confirm that you will definitely convey to Indian PM the heartfelt anxieties of our constituents, our hope for speedy resolution to the current deadlock and also for the democratic human rights of citizens to peacefully protest?” Other Indian UK MPs Seema Malhotra and Virender Sharma have also signed this letter.
10-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma
||Barnala groom takes guests to protest site||Tribune News Service Barnala, January 9 With display of flags of farm unions becoming common during weddings, a bridegroom hailing from Thikriwala village here went a step further on Saturday. He took his wedding guests to a farmers’ protest site at the toll plaza  in Mehal Kalan to take part in the agitation against the new farm laws. The guests had tea with protesters before leaving. The bridegroom also donated Rs 11,000 to protesters. “Our farmers are fighting for their rights on the Delhi borders against the new farm laws. Hailing from rural background, I just tried to express solidarity with them by taking guests to the protest site,” said Jagdeep Singh, groom who is a junior engineer with the PSPCL. The wedding guests went to the toll plaza in vehicles carrying the flags of farm unions. The Mehal Kalan protest has been going on for the past 100 days. Initially, when the vehicles stopped at the toll plaza, protesters thought that wedding guests were just gathering at one place before proceeding further. However, they were surprised when members of the wedding party joined the protest. “My family stands with farmers and we are offering our support to save agriculture in Punjab. Youngsters are well aware that if we want to save Punjab, we must save farming,” said Balwinder Singh. Naryan Dutt from  Inquilabi Kendra Punjab said the agitation had brought a major change in the mindset of youngsters. “Apart from blurring caste lines, the agitation has also contributed immensely by making the youth aware of the importance of farming,” said Dutt.
10-01-2021||Vishav Bharti||Sabotage plans failing, farmers reclaiming lost republic: P Sainath||tribune news serviceChandigarh, January 9Hailing the farmers’ call for holding a Republic Day parade in Delhi on January 26, eminent journalist P Sainath said they are reclaiming the republic.Sainath is in Chandigarh to deliver a lecture on farmers’ uprising on Sunday. The event is being organised by Citizens for Farmers.He said the way this government destroyed institution after institution, the idea of our republic was under threat. “The way farmers have risen against this, it has emerged as a hope to save the republic,” he said. He termed the farmers’ call for a tractor parade on Republic Day as historic.Sainath said it was remarkable how the uprising had countered every strategy of the government. He said the government’s every plan to sabotage the movement failed.Sainath said the PM was on an offensive and at the same time asking a section of Cabinet to play ‘good cop’. There was a bid to divide the leaders on regional, religious or caste lines and troll armies had been unleashed. “After all these remained ineffective, now they (government) are dilly-dallying so that the movement wears out and dies,” he said.“The government is on the wrong path. I have been a student of history. So I can tell you that this protest has many parallels to movements against the Colonial rule. Even then the laws had to be repealed. I am hopeful, this time also same happens,” he said. He said the middle class had shown sympathy towards farmers, which was not the case earlier.
10-01-2021||---||BSF hands back six to Pak within 24 hours of arrest||Amritsar, January 9The Border Security Force (BSF) today handed over six Pakistan nationals to the Rangers within 24 hours of their arrest. The group had inadvertently crossed over into India from the International Border (IB) near Moran village last evening.This is the first time in recent history that so many Pakistan nationals had strayed into the Indian territory from this part of the IB.A BSF spokesperson, said the six youngsters from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province were challenged by the border guards after they crossed over into India. They were held in the buffer zone i.e. between the IB and barbed fencing, 150 yards inside the border.Crossed over inadvertentlyThe personnel, who were authorised to shoot the intruders, chose to nab them, reflecting the humanitarian side of the professional frontier force, said the DIG-rank official. Upon investigation, the six, all between 14 and 25 years of age, were found to have crossed over inadvertently out of curiosity to see the border. Nothing incriminating was found from their possession, except some Pakistan currency.The youngsters were identified as Raza Awan (19), Shaukat (18), Mohammad Arif (22), Mohammad Asif (25), Mohammad Asral (14) and Umar Farooq (21).During interrogation, they identified themselves as labourers working at a primary school in Warra Mangli village, 3 km from the IB. They were unfamiliar with the topography of the area, he said. Last year too, the BSF had returned six Pakistan nationals after they inadvertently crossed over into India.
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||SAD urges Centre to release Rajoana||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged the Centre to release Balwant Singh Rajoana immediately to put a “decisive end to his unending incarceration”. The “humanitarian gesture” of releasing Rajoana would be in conformation with civilised values and justice as he had already served more than the effective equivalent of a life sentence, said Sukhbir. He asked the Congress leaders to rise above political opportunism and back Rajoana’s release. “It is unfortunate that Capt Amarinder Singh has always hunted with the hounds and run with the hare when it comes to emotive Sikh issues. He tries to please masters in Delhi by opposing Rajoana’s release, while maintaining that personally he is opposed to capital punishment.” Badal called upon both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind to personally expedite this gesture as “a fulfilment of a national commitment made to Punjabis in general and Sikhs in particular by the Government of India”. He said, “The Centre has on record committed to commuting Rajoana’s death sentence to life imprisonment. This commitment was made as a special gesture to the Sikhs on the eve of the 550th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev.” In view of this commitment, there was no rationale behind keeping Rajoana behind bars for even a single day more as he had already suffered incarceration in prison for over 26 years, much longer than the effective duration of a life term, he added. — TNS
10-01-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested for sacrilege in Ludhiana||The Daba police today arrested a man for allegedly desecrating a “gutka” at Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri, here.Satnam Singh, a granthi at Kalgidhar gurdwara, Shimlapuri, in his complainant to the police said Satnam Singh came to the gurdwara with a desecrated ‘gutka’, accusing neighbour Balwinder of committing the act. The police arrested the suspect.Balwinder’s family claimed he committed the act under the influence of drugs. The police said a probe would be conducted. A case under Section 295A of the IPC has been registered against the accused. — TNS
10-01-2021||---||Behbal Kalan police firing accused denied bail in arms case||Faridkot, January 9In a case of alleged illegal trafficking of foreign-made weapons into the state by some Bihar and UP-based gangsters, the Additional District and Sessions Judge here has dismissed the bail application of one of the accused, Pankaj Bansal, a Moga-based car agency owner.Bansal is an accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing incident of October 2015. Charged with allegedly fabricating bullet marks on a police Gypsy, he has been in jail since August 21, 2020.In the six-year-old case, Bansal was earlier not named as an accused in the FIR, but cited as a prosecution witness by the police. However, after the probe was handed over to Punjab Police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) last year, the re-investigation pointed a finger at some police officers for shielding some accused in the case.After the re-investigation, Bansal was arraigned as an accused and was arrested in August last year.The OCCU alleged that he was one of the buyers of illegal weapons from gangster Ranjit Singh, alias Dupla, through Ranjit Singh, alias Guru, owner of Kalyan Gun House, Mansa. It claimed that he purchased the weapons unlawfully smuggled into India from abroad.The OCCU alleged that though there was ample evidence on record that Bansal in connivance with other accused — Rajesh Kumar Gupta of Bareli (UP) and Uma Kant Yadav of Munger (Bihar) — indulged into the unlawful trade of foreign-made weapons. Gupta and Yadav have also been associated with Naxalites in Bihar.However, he was given a clean chit by the police six years ago. After naming and arresting Bansal, the OCCU has also added the earlier-deleted Section 16 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case. It is alleged that the smuggled weapons were used for robbery, ransom and other crimes.
10-01-2021||---||Two MP men held with cache of illegal weapons||Amritsar, January 9The Punjab Police today claimed to have busted a gang involved in the supply of country-made weapons to criminal elements, including gangsters and alleged terrorists, in the state. Two Madhya Pradesh residents have been arrested in this regard.As many as 12 country-made pistols with 15 magazines along with a cache of ammunition was recovered from their possession.The gang is suspected to have supplied 24 pistols (.32 calibre) to gangsters and criminals over the past three months. Those arrested have been identified as Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu, both natives of Khargone village in MP. They were nabbed by an Amritsar (Rural) police team, headed by DSP (Detective) Gurinderpal Singh Nagra, during an operation in MP.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police recently seized four illegal .32-calibre weapons from different individuals and it was found they had procured these from Rahul, who allegedly had links with gangsters and hardliners lodged in Punjab jails.“The gang was also the source of a consignment of six .32-calibre pistols that was intercepted and seized by the Patiala police in September,” he said.“The possibility of the gang having links with Punjab terrorists cannot be ruled out as investigations indicate the kingpin, Rahul, was in contact with several gangsters and hardliners lodged in Punjab jails,” said the DGP.Rahul was also in touch with Akashdeep Singh, the prime accused in the drone module bust by the Punjab Police in 2019. He is presently lodged in the Amritsar jail.Besides, the name of Rahul’s associate Gopal Singh Sikligar of Satipurain Khargone also figured during their interrogation. He said names of both Rahul and Gopal had been included in the FIR registered by the Gharinda police in Amritsar (Rural) area.
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers firm: Won’t back off, even if told by courts||Agitating farmers today said they would not back down from legitimate protests against the farm laws, even if the court tells them to. After a meeting with their legal representatives here, farm union representatives said they would only implead in the Supreme Court in the pending petitions seeking removal of protesters from Delhi borders and not in any matter regarding the constitutionality of the farm laws.Another suicide at TikriNew Delhi: A young farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib Amrinder Singh died by consuming poison at the Singhu border on Saturday. Paramjit Singh of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha said Amrinder was a resident of Machrain Kalan in Fatehgarh Sahib district. He died at FIMS, Bahalgarh, Sonepat. TNSThe Supreme Court had in mid-December allowed eight farm unions to implead in the petition challenging their protests on grounds of Covid-related issues. The farm unions said these unions would go to the court on Monday in the pending case.“The eight farm unions which are already part of the case and have been impleaded in the matter of protests by farmers will go to the SC on January 11. The issue of constitutionality is not even before the SC and we will not become party to it. We have consulted our lawyers,” Darshan Pal, one of the union leaders said on a day the Congress threw its weight behind the protesters, daring the PM to quit if he could not rescind the laws.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged the SC to introspect. “The Modi government was elected by the people, not the SC. It is answerable to the people for its decisions and not to the Supreme Court. The responsibility of making and annulling the laws is that of Parliament. I would urge the SC to ask itself why the farmers are so unwilling to approach it? Why does the government want the SC to solve all contentious issues, from the CAA and the National Register of Citizens to farm laws,” he asked. Announcing protests on January 15 in solidarity with the farmers, Surjewala said “Jan Andolans” would be held at all state headquarters and the day observed as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. Swaraj Abhiyan chief Yogendra Yadav also slammed the government for suggesting that the farmers should go to the SC.“The SC has said earlier that it will not intervene... The government is dodging dialogue,” he claimed. “Bring whatever orders you wish. We are not going anywhere until you repeal the laws,” said a resolute BKU leader Rakesh Tikait.
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: Govt may have ‘Plan B’ ready||After several rounds of fruitless negotiations with farmers, while the Centre appears to be waiting for the outcome of the January 11 Supreme Court hearing on a batch of pleas challenging the validity of the three farm laws, it also seems to have a “Plan B” ready.The likely courseordinance on air quality mgmt during Budget sessionIt is also willing to have a joint 10-member panel todiscuss changes in the lawsSources indicate if nothing works out by January 15, the government may consider bringing amendments (as proposed to the farmers) to the three laws and the ordinance on air quality management in the Budget session. “But it is certain that there will be no repeal (of the three Acts),” the sources say.The ongoing agitation is an “undesirable” situation for any popular dispensation, but the government believes it will be able to “tide it over”. If laws are amended, it will be a proof of the BJP’s intent towards the farmers.The government is also willing to have a joint 10-member panel to “discuss and make changes in the farm laws”.Having relented on the proposed power Act, stubble burning ordinance and amendments to Acts, this is about as far the government is willing to bend. Any further concessions will end uo in “opening possibilities of more protests.”
10-01-2021||Bathinda||Pvt players in Punjab buying cotton way above MSP||Cotton farmers in Punjab are elated over private players making purchases way above the minimum support price (MSP) this season.While the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is buying cotton at Rs 5,665 (the MSP for premium quality is Rs 5,725), private players have started making purchases at Rs 5,900 per quintal.High demandis Rs5,725 per quintalPvt parties making purchases at Rs5,900 per quintalExperts attribute it to the rise in cotton demand globallyThe CCI made a record purchase (27.50 lakh quintals) in the initial few months but it’s the private players who are dominating the show now. They have purchased 5.5 lakh quintals so far. Neeraj Kumar, GM, CCI, Punjab said: “Owing to high demand, cotton prices in the international market have soared. Also, traders at times store raw stocks and wait for the prices to rise further to earn handsome profits.”Mohan Singh of Chahal Spintex Ltd, Kot Shamir, Bathinda, who bought cotton at Rs 5,880 per quintal, said: “Unlike the last season, the CCI has made bulk purchases.To meet the increased demand, we are making purchases way above the MSP.”A section of farmers is holding on in the hope that the prices will increase further in the coming weeks. Resham Singh from Shergarh village said the government needed to increase the MSP as input costs had risen manifold. Sarup Singh, general secretary, BKU-Lakhowal, was of the opinion that if the CCI was to competewith the private players, “it must raise the MSP”.
10-01-2021||---||Stay peaceful, artistes appeal at Tikri border||Sonepat, January 9The farmers’ protest against the three farm laws at Singhu and Tikri borders continued for the 45th day on Saturday. Thousands of people from Punjab and Haryana joined the protest on Saturday.Express solidarityArtistes — Harbhajan Mann, Jazzy Bains, Kanwar Grewal, Rabbi Shergill, Swara Bhaskar, Aarya Babbar, Harf Cheema, Gurpreet Saini, Jass Bajwa, Noor Chahal, Gurshabad Kular — reached Tikri border to solidarity with the protesting farmers. Punjabi singers and theatre artistes appealed to the protesting farmers to stay peaceful and the victory of the farmers would be for sure.The farmers paid tribute to Sir Chhotu Ram on his death anniversary and took oath to fight till their last breath for their rights.Amid bone-chilling cold wave, Singhu border witnessed heavy rush of the farmers today. As per intelligence reports, more than 55,000 farmers were at Singhu border on Saturday.Firm on their demand of repealing of the three farm laws, the farmers said that they were ready to face all odd situations but would return only after the repealing of these laws.Sukhbeer Singh of Fatehgarh Singh said that he, along with his friends, came here to support the farmers. He brought his bicycle in his car to roam about freely in the farmers’ camps. Every day, farmers were dying at the Delhi borders. So, the government must accept their demands as soon as possible so that they could go home happily and safely, he added.Balwinder Singh alias Vicky of Moga, who reached Singhu border along with six friends on bicycles, said that they have come here to support farmers. Earlier, he and his friends had come to Singhu border on motorcycles.Jogender Singh of Ludhiana said that we have come to Delhi for a decisive battle against the three farm laws and for legal guarantee of MSP. We won’t step back till our demands are fulfilled.
