10-06-2020||Jalandhar||Mechanised paddy transplantation picks up in Doaba||Paddy transplantation machines appear to be come to the rescue of farmers in Punjab’s Doaba region this harvest season.As paddy transplanting season begins at a time when farm labour is short because of reverse migration spurred by a lockdown, farmers in Punjab’s Doaba have turned to machines to help them. Recommended by Punjab Agricultural University, the machine helps plant by 33 seedlings in every sq metre area. Jalandhar Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said he expected 1.68 lakh hectares of agricultural land in the district to come under paddy cultivation this year.“Paddy transplanting machines will come handy at the time of a labour shortage in the state. We are telling the farmers to ready seedlings on mats,” he said.Some 45 such machines have been purchased in Jalandhar district under Punjab Agriculture Department’s subsidy scheme. The scheme offers up to 50 per cent subsidy on the machine.Kapurthala Chief Agriculture Officer said he expected the machines to be in about 6,000 hectares of the land this year. Kapurthala’s Agriculture Department officials said various farmer groups had pooled money to buy 65 machines.Parminder Singh, who owns over 100 acres in Talwandi Purdal of the Nadala block in Kapurthala, said he bought such a machine for 13.25 lakh and used it over 10-12 acres so far.Sukhminder Singh, a progressive farmer from Dyalpur village in Jalandhar who has bought a machine, said over 60 farmers had contacted him for the machine.
10-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Subordinate judiciary can allow filing of non-urgent cases: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10More than two months after the Courts went into restricted functioning mode following the outbreak of Covid-19, the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh was on Wednesday given a green signal to permit the filing of non-urgent cases not involving the need for granting immediate relief.The final decision would be of the Sessions Judges in the two states and the Union Territory based on the prevailing circumstances.Keeping in view the circumstances following the eruption of the pandemic and after considering the prevailing situation in the States of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s Administrative Committee today resolved that the District and Sessions Judges may allow the filing of non-urgent cases, in addition to the urgent cases, in their Sessions Division.While regulating the filing of such cases, the District and Sessions Judges would ensure there was no over-crowding in the Courts and adequate measures were taken at their own level. They were also asked to utilise their resources to the optimum to regulate the footfall.An order issued on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry added such filing would be staggered to prevent overcrowding at the filing counter also.“The category of non-urgent cases which are to be allowed for filing, at the first instance or in the phased manner, shall be decided by the District and Sessions Judge, keeping in view the nature of litigation in the Sessions Division/Sub-Division. Further, the District and Sessions Judge concerned shall be at liberty to allow or not to allow such filing, keeping in view the prevalent situation, arising out of COVID-19 in the respective Sessions Division, at a given time,” the order added.It was further added the District and Sessions Judges while taking such decision would also take into consideration the location of the Courts, whether these were in red, orange or green zones or in containment zones.“The District and Sessions Judge shall depute the requisite number of judicial officers and their staff as may be deemed necessary, keeping in view the guidelines/advisories issued by the authorities from time to time. The remaining officers as well as the staff shall work from home. They will not leave the station except by taking requisite permission from the competent authority...,” the order added.All officers and officials attending the court were also directed to strictly adhere to the government and health advisories/ guidelines issued from time to time. They were compulsorily asked to take all precautionary measures to maintain safe social distancing and use masks, hand sanitiser, etc.The order added the court buildings would be sanitised regularly. All the entrants would also be screened. Any officers/officials showing the symptoms of high fever, cold, cough or sneezing would be asked not to attend the office.
10-06-2020||Hyderabad||IPS probationers returning from Punjab, Delhi test COVID-19 positive||The National Police Academy known as the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) at Hyderabad has tested two Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers positive for COVID-19.Both men–in their early 30s—are from Delhi and Punjab cadres.Sources from the Academy said that the two were among the 131 IPS probationers of 71 Regular Recruits (RR) 2018 batch—who returned from District Practical Training (DPT)—to the Academy.All probationers that returned in different batches—between June 3 and June 6—for phase II training were quarantined at the academy for seven days.Since, the quarantine period ended on Monday, their samples were collected for testing.Two tested positive for coronavirus.Anxiety is in the air of the Academy as several still await for their COVID-19 results, according to sources.One of the two, who tested COVID-19 positive, was attached to a DCP in Delhi during his training, while the other trained at Bathinda.An official statement from the Academy reads: "Two IPS trainees as of now have tested positive for the coronavirus. One is asymptomatic and the other is with very mild symptoms and the protocol is that they should be home quarantined, and we are taking care of them in the Academy itself,”Together, there are about 300 IPS probationers at SVPNPA.The probationers, who returned from their field training as a part of their DPT, have been kept under quarantine for 10 days.COVID-19 tests of 45 probationers are expected anytime now.Telangana’s Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is the hub of COVID-19 pandemic with a majority of the cases being reported and treated in this area.All the fresh cases were reported from different parts of Telangana, and no migrants, deportees or foreign returnees were found positive for coronavirus, said a Health Department bulletin.Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy has written a letter to Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) expressing serious concern over the spread of the virus in Hyderabad-Secunderabad area.He said that the Union Health Secretary had given some suggestions to state officials to check the spread of the virus, which needed to be followed effectively
10-06-2020||---||Centre grants Punjab another Rs 638 crore||New Delhi, June 10The Union Finance Ministry on Wednesday released the third monthly installment of Rs 6,195 crore to 14 states as of ‘Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant’ to provide additional resources during COVID-19 crisis.Punjab will get Rs 638.25 crore and Himachal Pradesh 952.58 crore while Kerala gets the maximum of Rs 1,276.91 crore.“The government released Rs 6,195.08 crore to 14 states as the third equated-monthly installment of the post devolution revenue deficit grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. This would provide them additional resources during the corona crisis,” said the Office of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet.The Ministry had released similar amount on April 3 and May 11 as the first and second installments of the post devolution revenue deficit grant to 14 states—Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.
10-06-2020|| Chandigarh/Sangrur||Punjab reports 86 new coronavirus cases, state tally now 2,805||Punjab reported 86 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the state’s COVID bulletin showed---a worrying sign that the infection could be spiking again even as the state continues to ease lockdown restrictions in line with other states in the country.Punjab’s COVID-19 infection tally now stands at 2,805.The state also reported one more fatality, although this has yet to be recorded in the official tally. An 86-year-old man who recently tested positive for COVID-19 died in Jalandhar. At least 16 of the state’s 86 cases were people who had a recent travel record---either people who recently returned from abroad or people who came back from other states lockdown restrictions eased.Pathankot (19), Amritsar (13), Gurdaspur (13), Ludhiana (11), Faridkot (11), Sangrur (4), SAS Nagar (3), Patiala (3), Jalandhar (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (1), SBS Nagar (1), Kapurthala (1) and Barnala (1) made up Wednesday’s new COVID-19 cases.At 19 new COVID-19 cases, Pathankot reported the most in the state on Wednesday. Amritsar, Ludhiana, Faridkot and Gurdaspur all had double digit figures.Out of Pathankot’s 19, three were domestic travellers who just returned from Andhra Pradesh, Pune and Delhi. Three were contacts of already diagnosed cases, 11 were self-reported cases, one was classified as ANC and the last was a police official.Five of Amritsar’s 13 were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness), four contacts of already diagnosed cases, one was self-reported, one was categorised as SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and two others were categorised as new cases.Garden Enclave, Varindavan garden, Shashtri Nagar, Katra Khazana, Purani Mandi Hall Gate and Rambagh each reported one ILI case. Of the five contacts who tested positive, two were from Garden Colony and one was from Sharma Colony.All of Faridkot’s and Ludhiana’s cases were contacts of already diagnosed patients. In Faridkot's Kotkapura town, 13 members of a joint family tested positive.Of Ludhiana's 11 cases. a 51-year-old woman and 60 year-old-man from Chhavani Mohalla, and two children ages, 10 and 13 from Chhaowni Mohalla were among those testing positive.  Both are containment zones.Twenty-two people, including the source of infection, have tested positive for COVID-19 from the two containment zones. In Gurdaspur, one had recently returned from abroad. The remaining were contacts of already diagnosed cases.The bulletin said SAS Nagar reported three cases---two with recent travel history.One had a record of having travelled recently to Kashmir and the other came back from Delhi. The third case was categorised as ILI.Two of Sangrur’s four cases had travel history---one had recently returned from abroad and the other was a domestic traveller who recently came back from Kolkata.Two others were catergorised as new cases---one of who was a shopkeeper, the bulletin showed.Sangrur reported 11 more COVID-19 cases later in the evening, but these have yet to be added to the state tally.All three of Patiala’s cases were domestic travellers.Two of Fatehgarh Sahib’s three cases had travel history---one recently came back from Uttar Pradesh and the other from Mumbai. The third case was a jail inmate, the bulletin showed.Jalandhar’s lone patient on Wednesday was categorised as new case.SBS Nagar, Barnala and Kapurthala all had people with a recent travel record testing positive for COVID-19.Besides this, the bulletin also said 16 people from outside Punjab reported positive, but these have not been included in the state bulletin.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (515), Jalandhar (312), Ludhiana (277), Tarn Taran (159), Gurdaspur (165), Hoshiarpur (135), Patiala (140), SAS Nagar (126), Sangrur (120), Pathankot (113), SBS Nagar (110), Ropar (71), Muktsar (70), Faridkot (84), Fatehgarh Sahib (71), Moga (67), Bathinda (55), Fazilka (48), Ferozepur (46),  Kapurthala (41), Mansa (34), and Barnala (27).    The state has reported 55 deaths so far.The state's death toll stands thus: Amritsar (11), Ludhiana (10), Jalandhar (8), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (4), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (3), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Punjab has steadily witnessed an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases since the beginning of this month---a development that comes at a time when the state looks at easing some lockdown restrictions imposed to slow the spread of coronavirus.Punjab currently has 518 active cases---more than twice the number reported at the end of May.Three districts---Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana---together account for more than 39 per cent of the state’s cases and 52 per cent of its fatalities.Four people are currently on ventilator support in the state and seven on oxygen support---five of those from Amritsar.
10-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar woman jumps off roof after stabbing six-year-old son for 'loving his grandmother more'||In a tragic incident, a 30-year-old woman stabbed her six-year-old, before she jumped off the roof of her house in Shahkot, Jalandhar.The much-loved child was a 1st standard student at a local school. The innocent life was claimed by his mother's angst over her son's love for his grandmother, as per the police report.The 30-year-old woman, Kulwinder Kaur, stabbed her six-year-old son, Arshpreet Singh, with a vegetable knife. As per the child's grandfather's statement, his daughter-in-law was "angst-ridden at her son for loving his grandmother more."Around 9:30 pm on Monday night, the woman's father-in-law, Avtar Singh and mother-in-law Charanjit Kaur, were chatting in the living room, when they heard the six-year-old screaming and crying. When they reached, they saw the boy bludgeoned with a knife on the abdomen, and the mother was holding the vegetable knife. The mother said that "she had murdered the child". Holding the knife, the mother went up to the roof of the house and jumped.While the child's grandfather took him to a local hospital at Nakodar, the child could not survive the injuries inflicted by his mother and died on the way.As per the grandfather, Avtar Singh’s statement's to the police, Kulwinder Kaur and Charanjit Kaur had constantly been fighting at home on several issues. He said Kulwinder was also angry because the child liked his grandmother and regularly insisted on going to her.Kulwinder married Avtar Singh’s son Surjit Singh seven-years-ago. Surjit—who is settled in Italy for several years—came back to India six months ago.Arrested by the police, Kulwinder is under treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar. She is receiving treatment for her injuries including, a cracked nose-bone.An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been lodged against her.Images of the innocent child —who appears to be sleeping with two knife wounds on his abdomen—were released by the Shahkot police.SHO Shahkot police station, Surinder Kumar said: “There was a constant fight at home and the woman’s husband was also in Italy. The child was much loved by everyone at home and was a constant source of cheer among the grandparents and relatives. As per the child’s grandfather, his mother couldn’t bear his constant demand to go to his grandmother and in a fit of angst murdered her only child brutally.”
10-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar records 10th coronavirus death||Jalandhar recorded its 10 death from coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said---a development that comes at a time when the district continues to report COVID-19 cases.The latest fatality was an 86-year-old man who had tested positive for COVID-19. Doctors said he had pre-existing health conditions. He was being treated at a private hospital where he tested positive. He died on his way to IMA facility in Shahkot, doctors said.(READ: Punjab reports 86 new COVID-19 cases)     Dr. TP Singh, the nodal officer for COVID-19 in Jalandhar, said: “So far no previous contact of the deceased has been established, but district authorities are tracking down and testing the rest of the family. He was 86 years of age and also had co-morbidities. He died on his way to the IMA facility and authorities there declared him brought dead.”Jalandhar had previously reported a COVID-19 fatality on June 3.Meanwhile, Jalandhar reported one positive case on Wednesday, Punjab health department's COVID tally said. The bulletin categorised this as a new case.District authorities put the number of coronavirus cases in Jalandhar at 317, but Punjab's COVID tally put the number at 312 on Wednesday.
10-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Milkha Singh's appeal to fight coronavirus gets CM Amarinder's appreciation: 'Punjabis will respond'||Chandigarh, June 10 Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday shared a video message of "Flying Sikh" Milkha Singh urging people to fight the deadly disease, coronavirus. Sharing the clip on the micro-blogging website, the Chief Minister thanked Milkha Singh for his time and support. In the 53-second clip, Milkha Singh requested people to wear their masks and wash their hands at least 3-4 times a day. "Sharing an appeal by our 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh Ji. Thank you Milkha Singh Ji for your time and support. I am sure all Punjabis will respond to your appeal and take necessary precautions against #Covid19 in our #MissionFateh," the post read.Sharing an appeal by our 'Flying Sikh' Milkha Singh Ji. Thank you Milkha Singh Ji for your time and support. I am sure all Punjabis will respond to your appeal and take necessary precautions against #Covid19 in our #MissionFateh. pic.twitter.com/1RLUbdthit  Reactions: Thnx Flying Sikh  Good message  Salute to Flying Sikh Milkha Singh.  👍👍
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: GPS trackers may be used for home quarantined people in Punjab||The Punjab government is mulling procurement of Global Positioning System (GPS) trackers for keeping a check on those flouting COVID-19 home quarantine guidelines.The trackers fitted with a SIM card can be integrated with the state government's COVA app for tracking those home quarantined people who defy guidelines, putting the lives of others in danger, an official said on Wednesday.The COVA Punjab (Corona Virus Alert) App has been developed by the state government to provide people with preventive care information and other government advisories.“This is a lockable GPS based tracker put on wrists. It will send an alert if a home quarantined person violates the guidelines by going outside,” Punjab Special Secretary cum Chief Executive Officer, E-Governance, Ravi Bhagat said on Wednesday.“It is reusable after the completion of 14 days of the quarantine period,” he further said.Bhagat said the issue of procuring GPS-based trackers was at the discussion stage and the health department is yet to take a decision on this.Punjab has around 20,000 active home quarantine cases as of now. Among them are people who have returned from other states and many who are symptomatic.As per guidelines, home quarantined people are required to download the COVA app on their mobile phones so as to track their movements.But there have been reports that many homes quarantined people do not install COVA app, while some who download the app do not keep GPS and Bluetooth on and a few keep their mobile phones at homes and then go outside in order to hide their movements.The state government had last month raised the fine for violating home quarantine guidelines from Rs 500 to 2,000 as part of its measures to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. PTI
10-06-2020||---||75-year-old man 'done to death' by wife, son in Ludhiana’s BRS Nagar||Ludhiana, June 10A 75-year-old man was allegedly killed by his wife and son at BRS Nagar here on Tuesday night.Police have arrested his wife and the 45-year-old son.According to reports, following a scuffle between the man and his wife and son, the son, who is said to be a drug addict, allegedly hit him on the head with a hard object and later also stabbed him in the eyes with a knife.Deceased Sham Singh had retired from IFFCO as General Manager, North India.After killing the man in the night, both reportedly kept vigil over the body the entire night. On Wednesday morning, the son called his uncle—the deceased's brother—and told him that they had done Sham Singh to death.Assistant Commissioner of Police (West) Sameer Verma said they were investigating the matter.
10-06-2020||Sangrur||ASI dies under mysterious circumstances at Punjab-Haryana border||An Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI) of police, posted at a check post on the Punjab-Haryana border at Kadail, died after suffering bullet injuries caused by his carbine weapon on Wednesday.His body has been taken to the Moonak civil hospital for a post-mortem examination and police have initiated an investigation into his death.ASI Krishan Dev had gone to a washroom located near the police check post around 8 am and was found lying in a pool of blood minutes later.“Our cops heard gunshots and they ran towards the washroom where ASI Krishan Dev was found lying in a pool of blood with a bullet injury to his throat. He died on the spot. A total of five bullets were fired from a carbine weapon. We have started an investigation,” said Moonak DSP Buta Singh Gill.Sangrur SSP, Dr Sandeep Garg, said that police officers were talking to the ASI’s family and gathering information on his personal life.“We have been conducting detailed investigations to ascertain whether it was an accidental firing or a suicide. Our officers are talking to the family to know whether the deceased had any family problem,” said Garg.
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Plans for Balbir Singh Sr’s birth anniversary||
10-06-2020||---||Covid positive woman delivers baby in Patiala||Patiala, June 9A 23-year-old woman, a resident of Salempur village, who had tested Covid-19 positive on June 1, delivered a baby boy at Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital on Monday.Test report of newborn awaitedKeeping in view her medical condition, an emergency C-section was performed and the baby weighed 3 kg at the time of birth. Nasal swab of the newborn have been sent to the PGI, Chandigarh.Dr SPS Goraya, Dr Sameer Singla, Dr SS Bajwa and Dr Pankaj Goyal, among others, ensured a successful surgery.Dr Goraya said the woman was around 37 weeks pregnant when she tested positive. She was asymptomatic and referred to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital on June 3, he said.
10-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Thali Bajao, Sarkaar Jagao’ protest by gym owners in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9Members of the Jalandhar Gym Owners’ Welfare Society were seen protesting outside the District Administrative Complex on Tuesday.They said they were struggling to pay the rent and salaries of their employees, as they were unable to do any business in the last over two months.Similar to the Prime Minister’s initiative of beating thalis to acknowledge Covid warriors, gym owners and their staff members, in order to grab the attention of the administration, launched a protest naming it ‘Thali Bajao, Sarkaar Jagao’.Through the placards they were holding, they asked: ‘Kahn Gaya Fit India Movement?’; ‘How to Pay Rent?’; ‘Save Fitness Industry’; and ‘Save Gym, Save Trainers’.Jimmy Bhambra, president of the gym owners’ welfare society, and the owner of ‘Bulls The Gym’, said: “The fitness industry will soon be under debt. Gyms are the only source of income for trainers and we have been out of business for around 75 days now. The government has allowed markets, restaurants, malls and various other sectors to operate, where the fear of Covid is much higher. However, gyms, where people can remain healthy by improving their immunity, are still closed. Gyms and fitness studios run on real-time cash flows and have been massively hit. But on the contrary, we are being pressurised by our landowners to pay hefty rents.” He said he had employed around 15 people, including trainers, housekeeping staff and receptionists. There are around 400-500 gyms in the city and hundreds of staff members are unemployed post the lockdown. Manpreet, a gym trainer, said: “We are finding it difficult to make ends meet. The owners are not able to pay full salaries, as there is no business. We urge the government to allow gyms to operate at the earliest. Besides, bodybuilders are unable to prepare for different championships.”Himanshu Chaddha, who owns three branches of Neo Fitness gym, said: “We have to pay rent, bills, bank EMIs and other expenses, which is not possible right now. Due to the pressure from landlords, we have been forced to take more loans. Our clients are also demanding refund of their fee in the absence of services. Therefore, we demand that the government should either allow gyms to open or their building rents should be waived off.”
10-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Construction workers in Punjab await Rs 3K grant||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 9Fifty-year-old Ashok Kumar, a registered construction worker, has been struggling to make ends meet since the lockdown. A one-time financial aid of Rs 3,000 was to come from the Punjab Government in March, but the wait seems to be unending.The government, it is learnt, has already released an amount of Rs 86 crore — to be transferred directly to the bank accounts of 2.86 lakh beneficiaries — but there are many like Ashok who are yet to receive it.They have been making repeated rounds of labour offices and banks, only to return empty-handed. Some workers and activists have been alleging a scam saying genuine beneficiaries had been left out due to fake registration of workers.Vijay Walia, an activist fighting for construction workers in Punjab, said, “If the government has already transferred the grant, why have so many beneficiaries not received it. This shows it must have gone into wrong hands.”Kulwant Kaur, another worker who is part of the ongoing construction at government school in Thuhi village of Nabha, said, “I didn’t receive any help from the government during the lockdown. If the money has been disbursed, where has it gone?... into whose account?”Another worker, Kuldeep Singh, who doesn’t have money to purchase groceries, said whenever he visited bank to enquire about the amount, he had to return disheartened. “Some middlemen could have managed fake registrations, thus depriving the real beneficiaries like us of the much-needed help,” he said.Officials in the Labour Department said they had initiated tele-verification of the disbursed grant. JP Singh, Assistant Labour Commissioner, Patiala, said, “All workers have received the grant. If someone has been left out, we will verify it. The delay could be on account of incomplete bank details.”VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “Bank-related issues have surfaced in some districts. I will direct the labour officers to fix these.”
10-06-2020||---||Amritsar worst affected in Punjab, count breaches 500-mark||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9With 56 fresh Covid cases coming to the fore on Tuesday, the total number of patients in the state has risen to 2,719.As per the media bulletin, 20 cases were reported from Amritsar, 15 from Ludhiana, five each from SAS Nagar, Sangrur and Jalandhar, three from Pathankot, one each from Patiala, Tarn Taran and Ropar.The count of Covid-19 cases in Amritsar has increased to 502. A Dubai-returned male and nine contacts of five earlier cases apart from 10 with influenza-like illness are among the new cases.With the exception of returnees from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, the maximum positive cases were reported from Amritsar so far. The district at present has the highest number of 135 active Covid-19 cases and registered maximum deaths (11).In Ludhiana, among the new patients are two foreign returnees and a 42-year-old woman and her 13-year-old daughter from Chowni Mohalla. A 32-year-old man from Islamganj, the driver of a previously positive patient with travel history to Rajasthan, has also tested positive.A 48-year-old-man from Vishwkarma colony, Tajpur, who had come in contact with a positive patient, also tested positive. A 57-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman doctor from Khanna along with her two domestic help workers are the other patients.Of five patients from Sangrur, two are admitted to a Ludhiana hospital. One has travel history to Kuwait and another had travelted to Kolkata.Narrow holy city lanes pose challengeAmritsar: Cabinet Minister OP Soni on Tuesday visited various localities in the walled city and found that government guidelines for Covid prevention were not being followed properly. He appealed to city residents to abide by the norms, while also acknowledging that lanes, most of which are less than 6-ft wide, made social distancing difficult. He said dense population and narrow lanes made it an uphill task to follow social distancing in the walled city areas. He also held a meeting with officials of the district administration, Municipal Corporation, Health Department and others to tackle the situation emerging out of Covid. Acting on the recommendations of the Health Department, the district administration declared six localities in the walled city containment zones. Prof Balvinder Singh, conservation spatial planner and former head of the Guru Ramdas School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said residents needed to be more careful in the walled city due to its labyrinth street pattern. Neeraj Bagga
10-06-2020||---||For tests, district hospitals to get TrueNat machines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Tuesday that to conduct immediate Covid test of suspected frontline workers, sick patients requiring quick diagnosis and in emergency surgeries, dialysis, etc, the state government was all set to install 10 TrueNat machines at district hospitals.5 already installedHe said presently TrueNat machine confirmed only negative tests and positive results needed to be reconfirmed by RT-PCR. But recently the ICMR had approved the testing of positive tests from TrueNat to be confirmed by these machine itself by conducting second-step test. For this purpose, special chips would be made available at district hospitals by tomorrow where such machines were to be set up. Then it would not be necessary to send samples for confirmation of positive results by RT-PCR.He said at present five TrueNat machines had already been installed at district hospitals in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mansa, Barnala and Pathankot, adding that 10 more machines would be installed at Bathinda, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Moga, Muktsar Sahib, SBS Nagar, Ropar and Sangrur.Revealing about the features and functioning of TrueNat machine, the minister said for TrueNat machines, no AC or special bio-safety cabinet was required. “One TrueNat machine can take one hour to conduct Covid test at a time. At a given time, two samples can be tested simultaneously,” he said.“Besides TrueNat machines, there were two CB-NAAT machines installed for Covid-19 testing, one at TB Hospital, Patiala, and other at GMC, Faridkot. Four samples can be tested simultaneously in one hour, but it requires AC or special bio-safety cabinet. So far around 194 tests have been conducted on these machines,” he said.“In addition to routine testing, civil surgeons have been directed to depute a nodal officer preferably microbiologist/pathologist/medical officers for adequate utilisation of TrueNat machines,” he said.
10-06-2020||Ludhiana||In Ludhiana, 6 pregnant women positive so far||Six pregnant women have been tested positive for Covid in Ludhiana district till now.Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, said, the Health Department had been conducting Covid tests on all pregnant women visiting hospitals. “Even asymptomatic expectant mothers are being tested and hospitals have been directed not to refer any pregnant woman to other health centres for testing,” he said. “Since pregnant women are at a high risk of catching the virus, we have been conducting the Covid test on them during their visit for a regular check-up,” he said.The Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Society of India has issued guidelines for mother and childcare during Covid-19. Dr Venus Bansal, head of the gynaecology department, SPS Hospital, Ludhiana, said children and pregnant women were a special group and medical practitioners should be extra cautious while taking care of them. — TNS
10-06-2020||Aparna Banerji ||PIMS infrastructure remains unutilised||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 9 The Jalandhar Civil Hospital is providing treatment to over 200 patients at one point of time and a number of private hospitals are also referring Covid suspects coming to them to other establishments, however, not a single Covid case has been referred to the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, so far.Of the 311 positive cases reported in Jalandhar so far, none was reported from or referred to the PIMS. A majority of Covid cases are with the Civil Hospital and many others are being referred to DMC, CMC, PGI, and the IMA facility at Shahkot.Sources said one of the primary reservations among the authorities at PIMS was of housing Covid patients, as all wards in the hospital were housed in one building and medical facilities were all interlinked. Besides, at present, the medical college had only five ventilators, of which only two could be used for Covid patients. Sources said PIMS had sought additional ventilators from the state government, but didn’t receive any response.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “At present, PIMS is not taking any Covid cases. We aren’t referring any of our patients there, as in the past PIMS has refused to us on multiple occasions.”Anurag Aggarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said, “There are enough beds at the civil hospital. We are planning to resume operations at the civil hospital, where the de-addiction centre would serve as a Covid unit.”
10-06-2020||Aman Sood||Migrant exodus hits liquor sales||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 9Contractors have recorded a dip in the sale of Punjab Medium Liquor (PML), a favourite among industrial and migrant workers.Following the mass exodus of migrants, the PML sale in urban areas has taken a hit. Liquor contractors say sale has dipped by Rs 100 crore in the past two months, especially in urban areas.Liquor contractorSales have been hit in Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amritsar and Jalandhar. At some vends, the liquor sale has come down from Rs 50,000 per day to Rs 5,000.“Sales have been hit in Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amritsar and Jalandhar. At some vends, the PML sale has come down from Rs 50,000 per day to Rs 5,000,” said liquor contractors, who operate vends in many districts. “There is hardly any sale of premium brands near industrial towns, where labourers used to come in hordes to buy the PML,” they said.Liquor vend owners have been seeking waiver in licence fee. They said fee collection should be done on the basis of the actual liquor sales as against the fixed quota system. “We are yet to overcome the losses caused during the lockdown, when illegal liquor mafia minted money without paying any duty,” they said.“The labour season in Punjab is at its peak in June and July and the PML sales are dipping. Even marriage functions have been banned,” they said.A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary (Excise and Taxation), said, “Liquor contractors have been facing losses in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar and some other industrial hubs, where migrants have gone back to their hometowns. However, there is no plan to compensate the contractors as of now,” he told The Tribune.
10-06-2020||---||Cop killed, 4 hurt in Moga firing incident||Tribune News ServiceMoga, June 9A constable was killed and two other cops among four were injured in a firing incident at Khosa Pando village in the district during the early hours on Tuesday. A police team had gone to the village to arrest one Gurwinder Singh on the complaint of his uncle regarding property dispute.Property disputeOn seeing cops, Gurwinder Singh opened fire at them with a revolver owned by his father and fled the spot. Constable Jagmohan Singh (45) died on the spot.CIA Staff incharge Inspector Tarlochan Singh and head constable Vedam Singh were injured. While Tarlochan was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, Vedam Singh was taken to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana. The doctors said their condition was critical due to heavy loss of blood. But senior police officials claimed that both were stable and out of danger. Two local residents Kala Singh and Gurdeep Singh were also injured in the incident. They were undergoing treatment at the district hospital here.Meanwhile, the accused met with an accident near Daulatpura village. He was admitted to the district hospital from where he was arrested. He was later taken to Faridkot under tight security.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said a case under Section 302, 307, 353, 186 of the IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act had been registered against Gurwinder Singh and further investigations were in progress. Jagmohan was cremated at his native village Manuke with police honours. DGP, Punjab Armed Police, IPS Sahota paid homage on behalf of the police force. SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said the accused used his mother as a “human shield” to flee after firing shots. His mother was with him when his car met with the accident.
10-06-2020||---||Sowing ops begin today, CM promises 8-hr power||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9Chief Minister Capt Minister on Tuesday assured farmers of uninterrupted eight-hour power supply for the tubewells, as well as regular water supply needed for successful paddy transplantation. The kharif season for sowing paddy will begin on Wednesday.In a message to the farmers ahead of the paddy sowing operations, the Chief Minister urged them to wear face mask and diligently follow all health protocols advised by authorities from time to time. With Covid cases rising across the world, especially in India, Punjab could not remain isolated, he warned.Expressing hope for another bumper kharif crop by state’s farmers, who had delivered in tough conditions in the recently concluded rabi season, the Chief Minister urged all farmers to strictly follow all social distancing norms and take all necessary precautions to protect themselves.Amid the Covid crisis, Punjab had successfully completed procurement of 128 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) without a single instance of Covid infection reported from as many as 4,000 mandis across the state. This, said the Chief Minister, had demonstrated the successful implementation of social distancing norms during the intricate 40-day process, which the farmers had managed against all odds.Capt Amarinder expressed satisfaction at the initial results of the unique direct sowing method for which state government had provided machines to farmers this season.The results have been encouraging, with paddy needing less water, he said, adding that the technique was also less labour-intensive. The state government has been encouraging the use of these machines in the light of the reduced migrant worker availability and the pandemic dangers involved in manual sowing.
10-06-2020||---||SAD: Pay farmers for high input cost||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked the Congress government to compensate farmers to the tune of Rs 3,000 per acre for the extra cost that will be incurred by them in transplanting paddy. The party also urged the government take the responsibility of power, water and sewerage bills pertaining to the lockdown period and pay the same out of the Disaster Management Fund.A resolution to this effect was passed at a meeting of the core committee, which met today under the chairmanship of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.The core committee took into account the crisis faced by the farm sector due to the unavailability of labour. It said in case the government did not step in and give compensation of Rs 3,000 per acre to paddy growers, the agrarian crisis would deepen further.It said neither the common man nor the industry was in a position to pay power and water bills and the government should pay the dues of three months as a onetime measure.The meeting passed resolutions asking the Congress government to give a complete account of Rs 5,600 crore revenue loss incurred by the excise department and fix responsibility for the same.The committee also decided to bring these issues to the notice of Governor VP Singh Badnore on June 11 and demand an inquiry into the liquor, seed and ration scams. It said the government was trying to bury Rs 5,600 liquor scam as well as the Rs 4,000 crore seed scam.It also noted that sugarcane dues of Rs 680 crore were due to 70,000 farmers and cooperative and private mills had not paid farmers for their produce.
10-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Rural Dept to seek 10 per cent  more share from panchayats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9The cash-strapped Punjab Rural Development and Panchayat Department will be demanding an additional 10 per cent contribution from all panchayats in the state. This money is to be used for regularly paying the salaries of panchayat secretaries.Till now, the panchayats have been contributing 20 per cent of their income to 150 block samitis in the state. An additional 10 per cent being demanded from the 13,262 panchayats in Punjab would hit them hard.Notably, block samitis employ 1,700 panchayat secretaries. However, the income of block samitis has failed to rise in accordance with their committed expenditure. As a result, the panchayat secretaries do not get their salaries on time and a huge backlog in the payment of salaries has built up over the past years. “We want to ensure that the panchayat secretaries’ salaries are paid on time. Though these secretaries are appointed by the state government, their salaries are paid by the block samitis. Over the past couple of months, the samitis are themselves facing financial crunch. Thus, we have proposed that all panchayats contribute 30 per cent of their income to the samiti, instead of 20 per cent contributed till recently,” Punjab Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa told The Tribune.Sukhpal Singh Gill, president of Panchayat Secretary Union, Punjab, said there is mismanagement of funds that reach the block samitis by some unscrupulous block development officers. “They do not use the funds as per budgeted expenditure and violate government directions by over-spending on unnecessary things. This creates a backlog in payment of salaries,” he said, adding that they did not get their salaries for six months at a stretch till March this year.
10-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||PPCC revamp on the cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9Five months after the Congress national president Sonia Gandhi dissolved the “top-heavy” Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC),an announcement on a revamped state unit is on the cards before the end of this month.New faces may comeThe revamping will enable the party leadership in bringing new faces and energising the party’s rank and file — Senior party leaderAn attempt is being made to trim down the structure and make it more effective, said party leaders.After a meeting last week, another round of meeting between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Asha Kumari and PPCC president Sunil Jakhar is expected in the coming days before the names are shortlisted and sent for approval to the party president.The revamp is being done keeping in mind various power equations within the party and recent outburst by some of the party MLAs over the functioning of the government. Though most of the MLAs seem to have been pacified, it is yet to be seen what responsibilities will be assigned to legislators in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections.In the last one year, Captain Amarinder-led government has appointed half-a-dozen MLAs as CM’s political advisers with Cabinet ranks, besides appointing senior leaders as heads of public sector undertakings. “The revamping will enable the party leadership in bringing new faces and energising the party’s rank and file,” said a senior party leader.The revamping will include changing at least six district unit presidents. Like the Ropar district president Barinder Dhillon has been elected as the president of the Punjab Youth Congress unit. This time, a comparatively thinner body is likely to be announced. Punjab affairs in charge Asha Kumari said a meeting with the Chief Minister and the PPCC has to take place before the list is finalised.It may be mentioned that Sunil Jakhar had resumed his charge as PPCC chief in September last year after his resignation post-defeat in the 2019 Parliamentary elections was rejected by the party president.
10-06-2020||Archit Watts||Inclement weather hits kinnow growers||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, June 9The rain, high velocity winds and huge difference between day and night temperature at this time of the season has almost doubled kinnow dropping in orchards. Fruit growers are now expecting dip in their income as Covid-19 pandemic may also decrease the demand of fruit in faraway places.A kinnow grower said on an average an orchard in one-acre had nearly 100 trees and one-kg kinnow from each tree has dropped as of now. “The dropping is almost double of last year. An orchard in one-acre has witnessed fruit dropping of one-quintal, which would have weighed 15-20 quintal at the ripened stage. Now, if we don’t get better prices in October-November, our losses will mount up,” he said.Similarly, Avneet Brar, a kinnow grower of Daulatpura village in Abohar subdivision of Fazilka district, said, “The frequent change in weather has led to high kinnow dropping this season. Unlike past, fruit traders too are this time reluctant to make contracts of standing fruit in orchards as markets remained close.”Some fruit growers even said due to the high price of dried kinnow, some thefts from orchards have occurred.The fruit dropping was negligible in May-June last year. However, riots in Delhi in January had hit hard the supply to the National Capital and other parts of the country, thus the prices had come down. Notably, kinnow harvesting starts in November and lasts till March.“The growing kinnow at this stage requires hot and stable weather, but the weather vagaries are hitting it. Usually, there are no rains in May, but this time the picture is different. The price of matured kinnow depends on orange production in Maharashtra. It is all wait-and-watch game,” said some fruit growers.
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||CM okays Rs 200 cr for road projects||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sanctioned an additional Rs 200 crore for completing all ongoing planned roads and bridges on priority in the current and next fiscal.The CM issued the directions during a video-meeting of the Empowered Committee of Cabinet on projects of key concern to the state. The meeting was attended by the Finance Minister, the Public Works Minister, the Forest Minister and several senior state government officials.Chairing the meeting, the CM said the allocation of another Rs 200 crore would give a boost to the ongoing roads and bridges projects. — TNS
10-06-2020||Ludhiana||Hit by MLA’s SUV, biker dies in Ludhiana||A biker was killed after being allegedly hit by the SUV of Fazilka MLA Davinder Singh Ghubaya, near Mundian in Jamalpur, last night. The victim was identified as Ravi Kumar, a meat shop owner.The vehicle was being driven by MLA’s driver Surinder Singh of Jalalabad. The driver and a gunman of the legislator also suffered minor injuries in the accident. Ghubaya was not travelling in the car. The driver was headed to Chandigarh to pick the MLA.Sources said the incident took place around 11 pm. The MLA’s Toyota Fortuner was moving towards Chandigarh and when it reached near Mundian it rammed into the bike.Ravi suffered serious head injuries in the accident. He was rushed to hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead.The police said a case of negligent driving had been registered against the driver, who had been arrested. — TNS
10-06-2020||---||Subsidy on machinery to manage straw||Tribune News ServiceMoga, June 9Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has said the Cooperative Department is providing machines to farmers on subsidy through cooperative societies in villages to prevent burning of crop residue.“The more farmers associate themselves with the cooperative societies, the more they would gain from the initiave,” he said, while inaugurating a revamped store of the multipurpose cooperative agriculture services society at Bhinder Kalan village in the district.Appreciating the efforts of the society, he said the group was not only getting good revenue, it was also helping the farmers to a great extent. Randhawa said the Bhinder Kalan society was among those 500 societies in the state that were in profit.Local MLA Sukhjit Singh Lohgarh, Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Vikas Garg and Dharamkot SDM Narinder Singh Dhaliwal accompanied the minister.At Khosa Pando village, Randhawa said despite having only 500 members, the village society was running in profit. He said its store was selling fertilisers, essential goods, cattle feed among other things.He appealed to the farmers that in wake of Covid spread, they should keep themselves safe at home, in fields and at grain markets.
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab over retd teachers’ pay cut||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice to the Punjab Education Department and Union of India on writ petition filed by two retired ETT teachers against the reduction of their monthly salaries prior to retirement from Rs 37,800 to Rs 15,000.Justice Rajbir Sehrawat also issued notice to the Punjab Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan for August 25 on the petition filed by Hoshiar Singh and Baljinder Singh. The Bench was told that their salaries were reduced retrospectively from June 2018 vide notification dated January 23 last year. Counsel HC Arora submitted the petitioners subsequently retired from service. The reason, although not stated in notification, was that they had not submitted option for seeking regularisation in the Education Department on the terms and conditions mentioned in the regularisation notification. — TNS
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh hosts lunch for Amritsar MLAs||Amid reports of Navjot Singh Sidhu interacting with some of the disgruntled party MLAs, CM Capt Amarinder Singh hosted a luncheon meeting for some legislators from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency. Sidhu, however, was not present in the meeting.Among those who attended the lunch were Inderbir Bolaria and Raj Kumar Verka, besides Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra. After the meeting, the MLAs said issues pertaining to the development of their constituencies and efforts to contain Covid-19 were discussed. The CM informed the MLAs that Rs 25 crore was being released for each Assembly segment.Party sources said the invites for the lunch were sent three days ago after reports of AAP wooing Sidhu surfaced. The CM has already rubbished these reports on Sidhu, stating that he was “very much a part of the Congress” and had been in touch with the party high command in that capacity and if Sidhu had any issue, he could meet him.Verka, who met Sidhu a few days ago, said concerns of Sidhu on Bargari and drugs were the concerns of all party leaders. “As the concerns are being addressed, Sidhu will be back to work for the party. It will happen soon and he will campaign for the party in the 2022 elections,” said Verka. — TNS
10-06-2020||Barnala||MLA on dharna over ‘bogus’ auction of reserved land||Alleging violation of norms during the auction of reserved village common land in Pakhon Kalan on April 30, Bhadaur AAP MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula, along with five panchayat members, have been sitting on an indefinite protest in front of the Barnala Deputy Commissioner (DC) office since Monday.The Panchayat Department had conducted the auction of the panchayat land on April 30. However, as per allegations, department officers allegedly allowed some upper caste landlords to participate in the auction of reserved land meant for Dalits under fake names.“Since general category candidates took the reserved land under fake Dalit names, it is a violation of norms. Only Dalits, who want to cultivate land, have the right to take that reserved land. I gave an application to the authorities on May 6 for the cancellation of the bogus auction, but to date, officers have not taken any action,” alleged Bhadaur AAP MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula while sitting on an indefinite protest.Five panchayat members -- Jaswant Singh, Amarjit Singh, Satnam Singh, Nikka singh and Sarbjit Kaur -- have also been sitting on protest, out of the total 11 members of the panchayat.They alleged that to help the upper caste landlords, officers have been assuring them a detailed inquiry.“As within a day or two, paddy transplantation will start, officers want to help upper caste members by ordering an inquiry. Why did not they order an inquiry last month when I had requested them? We will not lift our protest till the cancellation of the auction,” said MLA Dhaula.Barnala SDM Anmol Singh Dhaliwal, said, “We are ready for an inquiry, but the MLA and panchayat members are demanding immediate cancellation of auction. We are looking into the matter thoroughly,” said Dhaliwal. — TNS
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eway to connect 5 Sikh shrines  in the offing||The Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry has issued directions to the National Highways Authority of India to develop a new expressway to connect Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Tarn Taran with Amritsar. It will create a new Sikh circuit covering five religious shrines as part of the proposed Delhi-Amritar-Katra expressway.Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said she had received a communication from Union Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari which sought keeping the sentiments of Sikhs worldwide under consideration.She said Gadkari had assured her that he had got the entire issue examined, and now a new greenfield alignment would be developed via Nakodar to cover all Sikh shrines associated with five different Sikh Guru Sahiban.Gadkari had also told her that the expressway would be extended to Dera Baba Nanak to provide connectivity to Kartarpur Sahib corridor. — TNS
10-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Withdraw FIRs or face protest, says sect head||Avtar Singh, head of Gurdwara Dal (Organisation) Baba Bidhi Chand sect, Sursingh, condemned the district police for registering two cases against as many as 100 followers of the sect with regard to a property dispute.The cases were registered on the complaint of his younger brother Gurbachan Singh, who had been demanding share in the sect property.Avtar Singh today organised a gathering and accused the police of disturbing the peaceful atmosphere for vested interests. He demanded the cancellation of cases registered against the followers. He warned the police of protests in case the FIRs were not withdrawn. — OC
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seed scam accused has political links: LIP||Lok Insaaf Party leader and MLA from Ludhiana Simarjeet Singh Bains today alleged that the main accused in the seed scam was not only linked to the Congress, but also the Akali Dal.Addressing a press conference, Bains demanded a CBI probe into the case. He said he had sought an appointment with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and would hand over the proof of political links of the accused.He also pointed the finger at PAU officials. Why no PAU official had been summoned by the investigating team, he questioned.He siad even the SIT formed by the CM was afraid of hauling up the real culprits. — TNS
10-06-2020||Batala||Fighting graft, MLA gets ‘support’||The ruling Congress is backing Batala SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal in his fight against corruption with several ruling party MLAs clandestinely supporting him forcing several PWD officials, who are said to be on his radar, into a huddle keenly awaiting his next move.On May 31, the MLA had released a video clip of a PWD Executive Engineer (XEN) in which the officer could be seen receiving a bribe from a contractor for allocating him tenders and later getting payments released.Lodhinangal claimed to have in his possession several video clips in which “PWD officers are seen asking for bribe”. He said he would release these in the next few days.A majority of the department’s officers across the state have either switched off their phones or are not responding to calls ever since the first video was put into public domain.“We have stopped taking calls, not only from outsiders but also from near and dear ones, fearing these may be recorded,” said a Gurdaspur-based officer.Lodhinangal said despite the fact that the ED had filed charges against PWD (Pathankot circle) SE Bhupinder Singh Tuli, the state government was not taking action against him. — TNS
10-06-2020||Abohar||PSPCL workers stage protest||Members of the Technical Service Union today burnt an effigy of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited management. They said in September 2019, PSPCL management had reached an agreement with the joint forum of trade unions that the wages to them would be paid on the formula agreed in 2011 for the state government staff. However, the demand was not met with even after 9 years. — OC
