10-10-2020||---||Amarinder Singh among Cong star campaigners for Bihar polls||New Delhi, October 10Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is in the list of 30 star campaigners the Congress submitted to the Election Commission on Saturday.The list is led by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, chief ministers of Congress ruled Rajasthan Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Punjab.The list also includes Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Vadra, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Raj Babbar and Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot.Others star campaigners of Congress in Bihar are Randeep Surjewala, Tariq Anwar, Shatrughan Sinha and Kirti Azad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-singh-among-cong-star-campaigners-for-bihar-polls-153861
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rail blockades: Left with 2 days’ coal, Punjab stares at severe power outages||The ongoing rail blockade has severely impacted coal supply for the thermal power plants in Punjab, officials said on Saturday, as fear of severe power outages rises in the state.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal appealed to the farmer outfits, which have been protesting against the three new contentious agriculture laws, to ease their agitation to allow movement of goods trains.“If (goods) train services do not resume, I fear there can be power cuts and maybe total power shutdown in the state,” Badal told reporters.With no movement of goods trains because of the ‘rail-roko’ agitation for an indefinite period, the coal supply in thermal power plants has reached a critical stage.“We are now left with two days of coal,” Punjab State Power Corporation Limited chairperson and managing director Venuprasad said.According to officials, Lehra Mohabbat, Ropar thermal and GVK thermal power plants are already shut. Two other power plants—Talwandi Sabo and Nabha—are running at half of their total power generation capacity.Some of the areas in the state have already been facing power cuts due to less electricity generation.The state is procuring 6,500 MW of power from other sources, including private ones, as against the demand for more than 7,000 MW.Different farmer bodies have been protesting against the new farm legislations. They had stepped up their agitation by resorting to rail blockades for an indefinite period from October 1.Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting on the rail tracks in Amritsar and Ferozepur since September 24.Meanwhile, several farmer organisations held a meeting in Barnala on Saturday to discuss Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal for relaxing their ‘rail-roko’ agitation.However, it concluded without any decision as representatives of some farmers’ bodies could make it to the meeting.In their October 7 meeting, farmer leaders did not pay heed to Singh’s appeal for allowing goods trains.While appealing to farmers, the chief minister had said the state government needed to urgently transport foodgrain, coal, fertiliser and petroleum on priority, besides lifting the paddy grain from the wholesale markets.He had also noted that the state’s coal stocks were critical and if not replenished soon, there would be severe power shortages, which would hamper the wheat sowing operations.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rail-blockades-left-with-2-days-coal-punjab-stares-at-severe-power-outages-153859
10-10-2020||---||90 fresh Covid cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, October 10Fresh 90 covid positive cases have surfaced in Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the infection tally to 11,318 till Saturday.As per official date out of the 90 fresh coronavirus cases 52 were from Mohali (urban), three from Kharar, 16 from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli, one from Banur, two each from Gharuan and Kurali and nine from Lalru.Meanwhile, 120 patients of Covid-19 have been cured and discharged from the hospital. As of now there are 11,318 positive cases and out of these 10,066 had been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 1045 active cases with 207 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/90-fresh-covid-cases-surface-in-mohali-153849
10-10-2020||Gopeshwar||Uttarakhand: Hemkund Sahib closed for devotees||The gates of Hemkund Sahib, a Sikh shrine in Garhwal Himalayas, were closed for devotees on Saturday.The Sikh temple remains closed during winter when it is snowbound.Around 1,350 pilgrims were at the temple when its gates were closed at 1.30 after prayers, said Seva Singh, Chief Manager of Hemkund Sahib Management Trust.The first ardas was offered at 9.30 am followed by Sukhmani recitation at 10 am. Shabad kirtan took place at 11 am and the antim ardas for this year at 12.30 pm, he said.Hemkund Sahib was opened late for devotees this year on September 4 due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the pilgrimage went on only for 36 days during which 8,500 devotees visited the shrine, said Singh.More than 2.39 lakh devotees had visited the shrine last year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uttarakhand-hemkund-sahib-closed-for-devotees-153832
10-10-2020||Lahore||Pak NGO installs plaques to pay tribute to Lajpat Rai, Amrita Pritam and other legends of Lahore||A non-governmental organisation in Pakistan has started installing the plaques of some 140 ‘extra-ordinary people’ like freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai, novelist Amrita Pritam and Maharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak at the places associated with them in different vicinities of Lahore to pay tribute to them.The Lahore Sangat, which is working to remember and pay tribute to outstanding personalities, has installed a total 20 plaques of such people so far by mapping where they lived and worked and putting up distinctive blue enamel plaques in their memory. It has a plan to install over 140 plaques of such people. The plaques of Lajpat Rai, Amrita Pritam and Maharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak were installed at the gate of Gol Bagh (Nasser Bagh), Dhani Ram Street, Anarkali and Dehli Muslim Hotel, Anarkali, respectively in the cultural capital of Pakistan.Lajpat Rai (1865–1928), popularly known as Punjab Kesari, was an Indian freedom fighter who played a pivotal role in the Indian Independence movement. Prof Molka (1917- 1994) was an artist and a pioneer of fine arts in Pakistan after its independence in 1947.Amrita Pritam (1919–2005) was an Indian novelist who wrote in Punjabi and Hindi. She is considered the first prominent female Punjabi poet, novelist, essayist and the leading 20th-century poet of the Punjabi language, who is equally loved on both sides of the border. Maharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak (1905–2001) was a classical dancer and teacher.This week, the Sangat installed plaques of Prof Anna Molka at the Punjab University Old Campus and Bhai Ram Singh at the Boundary Wall of Lahore Museum & National College of Arts here.Earlier, plaques were installed within the Walled City of Lahore, honouring luminaries including Hafeez Jalundhri, Gama Pehlwan, Bare Ghulam Ali, Abdul Rahman Chughtai, Nur Jahan and Allama Muhammad Iqbal.  “We want to remember some of the outstanding people of this region by installing their plaques so that people in general and students in particular could read about them to get inspiration,” said Dr Ajaz Anwar, a distinguished painter of Pakistan.The Lahore Sangat has listed down outstanding painters, writers, poets, architects, craftsmen, storytellers, actors, scholars, revolutionaries, philosophers, jurists, cooks, weavers, embroiderers, doctors, saints, mystics, musicians, singers, freedom fighters, dancers, sportsmen, travellers and journalists. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-ngo-installs-plaques-to-pay-tribute-to-lajpat-rai-amrita-pritam-and-other-legends-of-lahore-153826
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bandh call by Dalit groups against Hathras incident hits normal life in parts of Punjab||Markets and commercial establishments were closed and commuters faced inconvenience as protests were held in many parts of Punjab on Saturday as part of a statewide shutdown called by Dalit organisations against the Hathras incident.Activists of several Dalit organisations blocked roads, held demonstrations and demanded justice for the victim's family. Police personnel were deployed at sensitive places to maintain law and order.The victim, a 19-year-old Dalit woman, was assaulted and allegedly raped by four men in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh on September 14. She died a fortnight later at a hospital in Delhi.The victim was cremated in the dead of the night on September 30. While her family claimed the cremation was carried out against their wishes, the police said the last rites were held "as per the wishes of the family".The 'Punjab Bandh' was called by Dalit bodies including Bharatiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj, Ambedkar Sena Mool Nivasi, Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj, All India Rangretta Dal, Bhagwan Valmiki Action Committee and Bheem Sena.The maximum impact of the shutdown was witnessed in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, and Phagwara, among other places, where shops, markets and other commercial establishments remained shut.In Phagwara, several roads were blocked due to the bandh call, causing inconvenience to commuters.Traffic on the main roads was diverted due to a sit-in and rally by protesters, police said.Protesters assembled at the Bhagwan Valmiki temple in Subhash Nagar on the Phagwara-Banga road and took out a protest march in various bazaars of the city. They carried placards and raised slogans against the Uttar Pradesh government.They also demanded death sentence for the culprits.All India Rangretta Dal president Joginder Singh Mann and Ambedkar Sena Punjab president Harbhajan Suman addressed the protesters.The Dalit organisations threatened to step up their stir if their demands are not met.Shops and commercial establishments also remained closed in Hoshiarpur. However, chemists and hospitals were open.Activists of various Valimiki Sabhas and Dalit groups led the protests in the district.The protesters raised slogans demanding justice for the victim. They were seen taking rounds in almost all markets of the city to enforce complete shutdown.Superintendent of Police (Investigation), Hoshiarpur, Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu said no untoward incident was reported from any part of the district.The bandh call was peaceful, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bandh-call-by-dalit-groups-against-hathras-incident-hits-normal-life-in-parts-of-punjab-153809
10-10-2020||Bathinda||Organisations protest in Bathinda; demand justice for Hathras gang-rape victim's family||Several organisations protested in Bathinda against the Hathras gang-rape incident.Bathinda Social group, Democratic Right Sabha, Punjabi Sahit Sabha, Kendria Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, Bheem Army Bathinda, Suchet Punjabi Bathinda, Istri Sabha Punjab, and Power Board employees were among the various organisations.The members condemned the incident, and said, that once again the Hathras incident brings out the issue of women security in our country, but sadly, neither the police nor the officers, and our elected representative seem serious about as this since their focus is to face the rape accused, and defame the rape victim.The evidence was buried as the victim's body was cremated at mid-night. The protestors also demanded justice for the victim's family.In order to make sure our families were secure, the protestors urged people to remember this slogan: "Bachna hai toh ladna sekho, Ek duje naal khadna sekho”.Further, they appealed to people to unite with each other, and said, that if they wanted to do something about ensuring women's safety, then they should join "Surakhshit Bathinda Mission”.Gurpreet Artist, Amandeep Singh Sekho, Kulwinder Singh Happy, and others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/organisations-protest-in-bathinda-demand-justice-for-hathras-gang-rape-victims-family-153784
10-10-2020||Kolkata||Protest against Bengal cops for pulling Sikh man’s turban during BJP march||Around 50 members of Sikh community have taken out a protest rally in the city condemning the alleged assault of a Sikh man and pulling off his turban by police during a BJP march to the state secretariat at Howrah in West Bengal.The rallyists shouted slogans in Bengali on Friday night demanding an explanation from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee about the October 8 incident involving the 43-year-old Sikh man Balwinder Singh from whom a loaded pistol was recovered by police during the BJP Yuva Morcha rally to the state secretariat on October 8."CM Mamata Banerjee please explain why the turban of a Sikh has been pulled by your police. You should explain or leave the chair," the rallyists chanted on Central Avenue near Esplanade Crossing.The rallyists also carried posters with the same demands written on it."We are aggrieved over the way a member of our community has been treated by the lawmakers. We demand punishment of the cops who committed such act," Surinder Singh, one of the protesters, said, adding aggrieved members of the community in city assembled to voice protests and they don't belong to any political party.Controversy erupted on Friday over the alleged assault of the Sikh man and pulling his turban during the Nabanna rally in Howrah, but the police said the person was carrying a firearm and that his headgear "had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued".The BJP accused the Trinamool Congress government of hurting the sentiments of Sikhs.The incident drew wide social media attraction after cricketer Harbhajan Singh posted on Twitter, tagging Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, which read: "Please look into the matter. This just isn't done."As visuals of the incident went viral, the West Bengal Police tweeted Friday, "The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday's protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer."It is It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community."Singh, a resident of Bhatinda, is a former Indian Army soldier and currently works as a private security officer hired by a BJP leader, the party leadership claimed."West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police Station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state," the police said in another tweet, with a photo of Singh in turban.Parts of Kolkata and adjoining Howrah resembled a battle zone on Thursday as BJP workers and supporters clashed with police, hurling stones and blocking roads with burning tyres, to protest a string of killings of saffron party workers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-against-bengal-cops-for-pulling-sikh-mans-turban-during-bjp-march-153767
10-10-2020|| ||Himachal man shot dead in Zirakpur in road rage incident||Zirakpur, October 10 A 35-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Zirakpur on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.He has been identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Kharar. The incident took place at around 1.30 am on Saturday.According to information, five men riding a Fortuner on VIP Road here had an argument with the men occupying another Fortuner over the issue of overtaking the vehicle.The men in one of the vehicles asked their friends Anil and Monty to come to the spot. Anil, who was attending a birthday party in Zirakpur, arrived on the spot where he had an argument with the other men.One of them, a native of Faridkot, allegedly fired three shots at him of which two hit him.He was rushed to a local hospital where he later died.Anil, who used to repair lifts, leaves behind wife and a 10-month-old son. He hailed from Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/himachal-man-shot-dead-in-zirakpur-in-road-rage-incident-153751
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM expresses shock over Sikh man’s turban being pulled by West Bengal cop||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday expressed shock at the “humiliating treatment” of a Sikh man by the police in West Bengal who allegedly pulled his turban while he was being taken into custody for carrying a firearm during a BJP rally.“Not done, says Punjab CM@capt_amarinder, expressing shock at humiliating treatment of a Sikh youth by @WBPolice, who reportedly pulled off his turban during arrest,” Singh’s media advisor Raveen Thukral tweeted late on Friday evening.Not done, says Punjab CM @capt_amarinder, expressing shock at humiliating treatment of a Sikh youth by @WBPolice, who reportedly pulled off his turban during arrest. CM has urged @MamataOfficial to take strict action against concerned cop for hurting Sikh religious sentiments. pic.twitter.com/bixa26ar4B  The Punjab Chief Minister has urged his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee to take strict action “against concerned cop for hurting the Sikh religious sentiments”.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal also strongly condemned the “vicious attack”.A controversy erupted on Friday over the police allegedly assaulting the Sikh man and pulling his turban during a BJP rally in Howrah in West Bengal but the police said the person was carrying a firearm and that his headgear “had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued”.The incident drew wider social media attraction after cricketer Harbhajan Singh tweeted, tagging Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, to say, “Please look into the matter. This just isn’t done.”Plz have a look into this matter @MamataOfficial this isn’t done 😡😡 https://t.co/mKrbQhn1qy  As visuals of the incident went viral triggering a huge political controversy, the West Bengal tweeted Friday, “The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday’s protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer. It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community.”The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday's protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued,without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community(1/2) pic.twitter.com/aE8UgN36W5  According to the police, a loaded pistol was recovered from him. The licence of the pistol is valid till January next year. It also said the police officer concerned had asked him to “put his turban back before the arrest”.“West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police Station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state,” it said in another tweet, with a photo of Singh in turban.West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police Station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state(2/2) pic.twitter.com/BnTWztfDGW  The man was identified as 43-year-old Balwinder Singh, a resident of Bhatinda.Shiromani Akali Dal president Badal said that the Sikh man was a security official and the manner in which the policeman behaved with him has infuriated Sikhs across the globe.“Strongly condemn the vicious attack on a Sikh security official Balwinder Singh & disrespect of his #turban by West Bengal Police. The dishonour has infuriated Sikhs across the world,” Badal tweeted.Strongly condemn the vicious attack on a Sikh security official Balwinder Singh & disrespect of his #turban by West Bengal Police. The dishonour has infuriated Sikhs across the world. I urge @MamataOfficial ji to take exemplary action against the erring policemen. pic.twitter.com/o0QUP9pnWJ  He urged the Mamata Banerjee-led dispensation to “take exemplary action against the erring policeman”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-expresses-shock-over-sikh-mans-turban-being-pulled-by-west-bengal-cop-153711
10-10-2020||---||FIR sought against Punjabi singer Jassi Jasraj||Ludhiana, October 9Members of the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Welfare Society sat on a hunger strike for an indefinite period. They demanded action against Punjabi singer Jassi Jasraj for allegedly speaking ill about Shaheed Bhagat Singh.National president of the Akhil Bhartiya Hindu Mahasabha Baba Nand Kishore also reached the place to support the hunger strike.Vishal Nayyar, president of the society, who is also the grandson of martyr Sukhdev Singh, alleged that the Punjabi singer had raised slogans against Shaheed Bhagat Singh due to which he filed a complaint against the singer with the Ludhiana police.He said the police were yet to register a case against the singer. An effigy of the singer was also burnt by the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fir-sought-against-punjabi-singer-jassi-jasraj-153572
10-10-2020||---||Bouncer shot dead in Amritsar, gangster claims responsibility on FB||Amritsar, October 9A bouncer was shot dead by unknown armed assailants on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Jagroop Singh of Nangli Batha village. The miscreants reportedly fired eight bullets.Preet Sekhon, a notorious gangster, claimed the responsibility of the attack and threatened his rivals as well.Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said investigation is underway and they were ascertaining the claims made by Sekhon. Jagroop worked at European Night Beer Bar and Restaurant. He was returning home along with his friend, Sukhwinder Singh Goldy, after his shift.When they reached near In and Out Bakery, around four persons came in a white Swift car. Three of the occupants came out of the car and fired indiscriminately at Jagroop and fled from the spot.He suffered bullet injuries on his neck and back. Goldy rushed Jagroop to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.As per initial probe, Sekhon and Jagroop had a dispute at a marriage of a common friend in Sanghna village last year. Later, the duo had struck a compromise.“We are investigating all possible theories behind the murder of Jagroop. Preet Sekhon’s claim on social media is being verified,” said Bajwa. A case has been registered against unknown persons, he said.Gurmej Singh, elder brother of the deceased, sought immediate arrest of the accused. Jagroop is survived by his pregnant wife anda 3-year-old child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bouncer-shot-dead-in-amritsar-gangster-claims-responsibility-on-fb-153475
10-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Industrialists want reopening of cross-border trade with Pakistan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9Industrialists, including SAD trade wing, have sought reopening of cross-border trade with Pakistan to bolster the sagging economy. SAD after parting ways with the BJP raised the matter. They also sought opening of Kartarpur corridor to allow Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit Darbar Sahib in Pakistan.Rajinder Singh Marwaha, senior vice-president of SAD’s trade and industry wing and president of trade wing border zone, said the closure of Indo-Pakistan trade, Punjab, in general and Amritsar in particular were suffering acutely which would affect entire state’s economy. Not only traders but also porters, clearing agents and transporters have been affected by the closure of trade.“People are already struggling with the economic downturn due to the corona famine and instead of providing relief to them, the Central Government has not lifted the trade embargo and their situation has worsened,” Marwaha said.Another trader Charanjit Singh Puji said along with the ban on trade, the blockade of Kartarpur corridor has also proved to be detrimental to Punjab and the border district’s economy as people all over the world used to come and pay homage at Kartarpur Sahib and stay in hotels of Amritsar. Tourist hub status was also given to the city of Golden Temple and now with the closure of all this, the hotel and food industry of Amritsar have been greatly affected.Harpal Singh Walia, another trader, said 200 per cent raise in customs duty affected over half of the city traders alone. He claimed that about 125 customs agents, over 4,000 truck drivers, 2,500 labourers, parking lots and even petrol pumps on the Attari road were affected.Other entrepreneurs Kapil Agarwal, Amardeep Singh Bawa, Gurpreet Grover, Kavarun Dhawan, Amit Madan, Suresh Kumar, MM Goyal and Praveen Gupta appealed the Union Government to resume trade between the two countries so that the city’s economy and the unemployment of the people could be stabilised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industrialists-want-reopening-of-cross-border-trade-with-pakistan-153478
10-10-2020||Amritsar||Gangster Kangla, 3 accomplices nabbed by Amritsar cops||The Amritsar (Rural) police have nabbed notorious gangster Bhupinder Singh, alias Sonu Kangla, along with three other persons. The police confiscated two pistols and 20 cartridges from their possession.Those nabbed along with Kangla have been identified as Kuldeep Singh, alias Deep, Jatin Arora and Kuldeep Singh, alias Raja. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against them.The police said they had received a tip-off that all four were moving in a car bearing registration number PB-02-DZ-4511 and were armed with weapons. The police said they laid a naka near Bhagtupura village and intercepted the car.During search, the police found two Chinese semi-automatic pistols along with 20 cartridges. Kangla has over 30 murder, dacoity, robbery, extortion and the NDPS cases registered against him. He was currently out on bail.The police said interrogation of the accused would lead to more recovery of arms. The police said they raided at numerous places in the city to nab other accomplices of Kangla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-kangla-3-accomplices-nabbed-by-amritsar-cops-153484
10-10-2020||Our CorrespondentDasuya||Convene gram sabhas to revoke farm laws: AAP||Bhagwant Mann, Member of Parliament and president of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has termed gram panchayats and gram sabhas as the roots of a robust democracy, saying the gram sabhas could be an effective weapon against dictatorial dispensations. Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema were addressing a public meeting at Jhingar Kalan village in Hoshiarpur district on Friday.Mann made a fervent appeal to all sarpanches across Punjab to rise above political and other considerations and immediately convene gram sabhas in their respective villages and pass resolutions against the black laws being implemented with brute force. He said that anyone, who wanted to get any information about how to go about passing a resolution in the gram sabha, he/ she could contact AAP leaders or volunteers who were just a call away.Mann said the Aam Aadmi Party, through its jan sabha programmes being held across the state, was appealing to as many as 12,000 villages gram panchayats in the state to convene gram sabhas in their respective villages immediately so that the Union Government’s move to implement the three anti-farmer agriculture laws by force could be thwarted, thereby saving the ‘annadata’ from ruining.The Leader of Opposition on the occasion said the proposed draconian laws passed by the Modi government at the Centre in collusion with Captain and Badals were out make the farmers dependant on private players, saying they were not mere anti-farmer but anti-people as these laws would ruin, besides the farmer, arhtiyas, book-keepers, transporters and other sections. He alleged the anti-agriculture black laws passed by the government would demolish the farm sector and its best market regime, besides impinging upon the rights of the states, besides guaranteeing no MSP on crops right to sell their crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/convene-gram-sabhas-to-revoke-farm-laws-aap-153663
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||Minister Rana Gurmit urges  NRIs to invest in Punjab||Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi today held a virtual meet with Jalandhar-based Karan Randhawa NRI coordinator; Kripa Shankar Saroj, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of NRI Affairs; DPS Kharbanda, Commissioner-cum-Special Secretary Department of NRI Affairs; and Amardeep Singh Rai ADGP NRI, Punjab Police.Randhawa said the minister appealed non-resident Indians (NRIs) to contribute towards betterment of Punjab.“The minister said Punjab had suffered a lot in the past and issues like farm laws will also impact. Contribution from NRIs is essential to boost economic prospects,” said Randhawa. He told us that the state government was working to woo NRIs and corporate from around the world to invest in Punjab. “The Punjab Government is going to constitute an Investment and Sponsorship Committee comprising NRIs that will work to bring foreign investments and sponsorships,” said Randhawa.Sodhi said NRIs were the face of Punjab and can inspire the rest of the world to invest in the state.“The NRI Affairs Department and Invest Punjab will formulate apolicy and make NRI coordinators aware of the sectors where NRIs and others can invest,” Randhawa said.The minister said the government was working towards digitisation of revenue records to protect properties of NRIs, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-rana-gurmit-urges-nris-to-invest-in-punjab-153664
10-10-2020||---||3rd party audit ordered over bloated tech varsity works||Chandigarh, October 9Taking a serious note of inflated cost of works at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, its Board of Governors (BoG) has ordered a third-party audit of the entire project for the construction of an administrative block, lecture theatre and departments.Inflated costsThe cost of work escalated from Rs98.31 crore to Rs140 crore, of which the contractor was paid Rs115 croreThe contractor moved the HC for the release of pending Rs25 crore payment. The HC directed the university to consider his representationThe BoG chairman formed a panel, which pointed out that additional work was executed without the work orderThe cost of works had escalated from Rs 98.31 crore to Rs 140 crore, of which the contractor was paid Rs 115 crore.The BoG, headed by the Secretary Technical Education Anurag Verma, met yesterday and ordered suspension of Executive Engineer Jagdip Singh Sidhu and his predecessor Tek Singh, besides initiating punitive action against them.The Department of Technical Education has questioned the university authorities for executing works worth Rs 42 crore without the approval of the BoG.After the contractor, ASC Builders Pvt Ltd, approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court regarding release of the pending payment of Rs 25 crore, the Secretary, Technical Education, also the chairman of the BoG, constituted a four-member committee headed by the Registrar to examine as to how the contractor was asking for Rs 140 crore against work allotted for Rs 98 crore. The High Court had directed the department to consider the representation of the contractor regarding release of the pending amount.The committee, in its observations, pointed out that additional work was executed without the work order. Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education, said the BoG had decided for a third-party audit apart from initiating action against the officials responsible.The issue surfaced after the contractor wrote to the Principal Secretary seeking payment of the pending bills. Against the estimated cost of Rs 115 crore, the work was awarded for Rs 98.31 crore.During the execution of the work, the scope was enhanced to Rs 115 crore and the same amount was released to the contractor. But due to further enhancement, the project cost rose to Rs 140 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3rd-party-audit-ordered-over-bloated-tech-varsity-works-153534
10-10-2020||Bathinda||Three held for heist at jewellery shop in Goniana Mandi||Three persons have been nabbed for a robbery at Lakhi Jewellers shop in Goniana Mandi. The incident took place on September 25. Reportedly, gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 2.5 crore was looted at gunpoint.IGP (Bathinda Range) Jaskaran Singh and SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said the accused had looted 1,840 gm of gold, 5 kg of silver jewellery and Rs 1.20 lakh from the shop in broad daylight.The accused have been identified as Inderjit Singh of Panjgrani, Gurtej Singh of Kothe Sarava Bajakhana and Jaswinder Singh of Romana Albele Singh Jaito in Faridkot. However, Alamjit Singh, Jagjit Singh and Resham Singh, residents of Faridkot, are still at large. A vehicle with a fake number plate, 7,07,540 mg of gold and 2,481 mg of silver have been seized from the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-for-heist-at-jewellery-shop-in-goniana-mandi-153535
10-10-2020||---||Longowal takes part in ‘Panthic’ event, draws ire||Amritsar, October 9SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and its executive members faced the ire of Sikh activists when the former attended a programme organised in the remembrance of Gen AS Vaidya’s assassins Harjinder Singh Jinda and Sukhdev Singh Sukha at Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga on the Golden Temple premises today.A verbal duel ensued between the two sides when Sikh activist Narain Singh Chaura stood up after spotting Longowal among devotees.Terming it a violation of the Akal Takht’s directions, Chaura said, “The Akal Takht has pronounced ‘tankhah’ (religious punishment) upon the SGPC executive headed by Longowal. He should honour the Akal Takht directions and not attend the ‘Panthic’ programme organised to commemorate the Sikh ‘martyrs’ today. Let the Akal Takht decide if this was a violation,” he said.On the other hand, Longowal argued that the religious sentence had barred the SGPC executive from ‘addressing’ a gathering for a month, but never banned ‘participation’ in it.“The ban is on conducting a public address. There is no bar on our participation in any programme like a common devotee. The issue is unnecessarily being twisted by several Sikh activists. We have filed a complaint with the Akal Takht,” he said. The issue has now reached the Akal Takht, which will take a final call.Meanwhile, as an atonement of ‘saroops’ getting destroyed in a fire incident in 2016, SGPC executive members, including president Gobind Singh Longowal, today completed the three-day service of sweeping the Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/longowal-takes-part-in-panthic-event-draws-ire-153536
10-10-2020||---||Allow filing of non-urgent cases too: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, October 9In an attempt to further streamline the functioning of the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked all District and Sessions Judges to allow the filing of non-urgent cases as well.High Court Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry made it clear that this would be in addition to the other categories of cases already allowed to be filed. The Sessions Judges were also asked to depute sufficient number of judicial officers on each working day so that cases could be taken up for hearing in an effective manner. “This, of course, should be subject to the prevailing local conditions, including the intensity of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the order said.The High Court has already directed the District and Sessions Judges to increase the categories of cases taken up for physical hearing, subject to consent by counsel appearing for all parties to the litigation.The order comes at a time when the courts are making attempts to prevent the pandemic period turn into a denial of justice phase. In district courts across Punjab, 77,246 cases were disposed of out of 1,89,056 cases filed. In Haryana, 70,439 cases were disposed of out of 1,87,344 cases filed in the district courts. No less than 2,434 cases were disposed of in the UT district court out of the 7,418 cases filed during the period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-filing-of-non-urgent-cases-too-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-153537
10-10-2020||Muktsar||45% water samples fail potability test in Muktsar||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, getting potable water has become a major problem for residents of Muktsar district. In the past nine months, over 45 per cent water samples have failed the potability test in the district.A perusal of the records procured from the Health Department revealed that 42 of the total 93 samples collected this year had failed the potability test. “We conduct the tests of bacterial contamination randomly. When the test report comes negative, the officials concerned are asked to take corrective measures or change the source of water. The re-sampling is done after some time to check the water quality,” an official said. — TNSResidents demand water surveyMuktsar is one of the worst-affected districts with cancer and hepatitis-C. Though residents have time and again demanded a detailed survey of the underground water, it has not been conducted to date||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/45-water-samples-fail-potability-test-in-muktsar-153538
10-10-2020||---||For water mission, woman sarpanch from Bathinda district gets Centre’s pat||New Delhi, October 9The Union Government has applauded sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur Brar for her effective leadership in the ‘Water to All’ movement under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in Mehma Bhagwana village of Bathinda district.Besides the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, her role has drawn attention of the authorities in the Punjab Government as well.The JJM is the Centre’s flagship programme which aims to provide piped water connection to every rural household in the country by 2024.“Today, Mehma Bhagwana village is a perfect example of community participation and mobilisation under the JJM. The village has 100 per cent functional household water connections and they are running successfully for a population of 1,484 people. This can be emulated by other villages,” a Union Jal Shakti Ministry’s functionary said.But for Kulwinder Kaur, the journey has just begun as she now plans to work towards grey water management and installation of solar lights in the village.Since childhood, Kulwinder had seen village women suffer due to the paucity of potable water. The JJM was used as an opportunity to turn things right.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-water-mission-woman-sarpanch-from-bathinda-district-gets-centres-pat-153539
10-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Upcoming infra projects attract traders to Majha||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 9The eight-lane Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway, which will run through the heart of Majha, and the ongoing development works which were started in the wake of construction of the Kartarpur corridor, are among the major infrastructural projects which will act as a catalyst in spurring economic growth in the area. As a result, the prices of agricultural lands are likely to witness a surge.Real estate prices may see upswingAt least four rail under-passes and an equal number of overbridges have been sanctioned which will connect mainland Gurdaspur to a cluster of 12 villages. Entrepreneurs said once the 3.6-km stretch of the narrow gauge rail track running through Pathankot city was elevated, real estate rates were bound to skyrocket.A source said the 670-km-long expressway would lend Majha a new look, and open up the possibilities of industrial avenues. This also explains why prominent businessmen from other states have started viewing the area with a keen interest. The once famed industrial units of Batala, which had been dying a slow death due to an assortment of reasons, would get a major respite following the increased connectivity.Moreover, the 66-km-long four-lane Rayya-Batala-Dera Baba Nanak highway will also act as a game changer. An amount of Rs 172 crore, which was released by the CM for Dera Baba Nanak when the corridor was conceptualised in 2018, is bearing fruit with several development projects seeing the light of day.Besides, Cabinet Minister and local MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has launched a world-class Sugarcane Research Institute and a degree college in Kalanaur.At least four rail under-passes and an equal number of overbridges have been sanctioned which will connect mainland Gurdaspur to a cluster of 12 villages.Entrepreneurs said once the 3.6-km stretch of the narrow gauge rail track running through Pathankot city was elevated, real estate rates were bound to skyrocket. “Even if 75 per cent of the projects fructify, industrialists are sure to view Majha as their El-Dorado,” Randhawa said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upcoming-infra-projects-attract-traders-to-majha-153540
10-10-2020||Abohar||Kinnow sale at Abohar mandi brings cheer to farmers||The purchase of kinnow and malta has begun in the local mandi located at the new grain market complex here.Abohar contributes about 65 per cent of the total kinnow and malta produce in the state. Despite drain water fury which affected dozens of orchards in the villages falling in the Balluana constituency, the subdivision was expecting a bumper crop, said a fruit grower.Even as kinnow was not ripe, it was transported to retail juice processors. Besides, the first lot of 800 quintals was purchased by some businessmen at Rs 7 per kg. However, about 250 pieces of malta were sold at the rate of Rs 25 to 29 per kg, bringing cheer on the faces of farmers, who still prefer to grow citrus instead of its hybrid combination with orange known as kinnow.A trader said kinnow, after ripening, might fetch a wholesale price of Rs 15 per kg after a month or so. “I have been receiving orders for green kinnow from Delhi, Noida, and Meerut,” said the trader. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kinnow-sale-at-abohar-mandi-brings-cheer-to-farmers-153541
10-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Nawanshahr judge indicted by HC for ‘undue’ favour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9Indicting Nawanshahr District Judge for non-application of judicial mind, ignoring principles of law, failure to perform administrative duty and showing undue favour to a contesting party, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought explanation from the judicial officer on no less than 13 counts. The High Court has also withdrawn the appeal pending before him and transferred it to another judge.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan made it clear the explanation, to be submitted by District Judge Amrinder Singh Grewal through the Registrar-General within 30 days, would be placed before the Administrative Judge concerned. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after a petition was filed against Neeraj Saluja and other respondents by the SBI through senior advocate Munisha Gandhi. Justice Sangwan asserted: “It is not understandable why the district judge/appellate court is adjourning the appeal despite the fact that the suit stands dismissed for non-prosecution on November 29, 2019, and the plaintiffs on both counts are seeking adjournments and both courts, on face of the record, are showing undue favour to the plaintiffs.”Justice Sangwan observed the civil court passed an order in the presence of the contesting parties. But the court was adjourning the appeal for the serve of un-served defendants not contesting the matter before the civil court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nawanshahr-judge-indicted-by-hc-for-undue-favour-153647
10-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jobs vanish: Rs65k/month to zilch||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 9A science graduate and diploma holder in leather technology with 18 years of work experience is now jobless. Vishal (name changed), who was earning around Rs 65,000 a month, was suddenly asked by his employer to put in papers, saying the firm didn’t have enough work because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since then, Vishal is in search of a job, but with no luck so far. Having exhausted his savings, he had to sell his car to meet household expenses and discontinue his daughter’s NEET coaching.In the absence of any source of income, he has applied for a blue card so that he could benefit from various government schemes, he said.There are hundreds of others who have lost their jobs ever since the pandemic onslaught.Hoshiarpur-based 38-year-old Sushil (name changed) has done BTech in leather technology. He was working in a Jalandhar firm as an assistant manager at a monthly salary of over Rs 70,000. After 14 years of service, he was also asked by his employer to put in papers. “Now, I am surviving on my parents’ pension. It’s embarrassing,” he says.Tale of 31-year-old Neelesh (name changed) is no different. A graduate in geography, he was also into a job for nine years, but now he has to request money from his brother in UP. “Twelve employees were asked to put in papers by my employer in Jalandhar,” he claimed. He has written a letter to the Union Labour Minister highlighting the problems being faced by educated youths in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Assistant Labour Commissioner JPS Sohal said, “We do receive such complaints and are dedicated to resolve them. Our effort is to ensure that the employees get their dues and there is no injustice with them. Tricky cases are generally taken to the court of law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobs-vanish-rs65k-month-to-zilch-153644
10-10-2020||The Tribune interview||BJP will form next govt in Punjab: Tarun Chugh||Newly appointed BJP national general secretary, who belongs to Amritsar, terms Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a ‘part-time politician’ and Akalis the ‘real killers of democracy’ for supporting the farm reforms in private and opposing these in public. Speaking to Jupinderjit Singh, the leader expresses confidence that the BJP will form the next government in Punjab.How do you view SAD-BJP alliance break-up?The BJP has followed the coalition dharma. The Akalis spoke different languages in private and public. It is not ethical to break the alliance on the farmers’ issue and claim the moral high ground, while supporting the farm Bills earlier. They talk about democracy, but democracy died when SAD Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal supported the farm ordinances in the Cabinet only to oppose these outside.Do you think BJP stands a chance in state?The BJP got more than 16 per cent vote share in the 1992 Assembly elections when it contested 65 seats, with the Akalis boycotting it. Many leaders are looking to join us. We will form the next government in Punjab. Our fight will be with the Congress. The SAD may be third or beyond.Harsimrat is insisting she gave a dissent note in Cabinet. What’s your take?She not only supported, but advocated the legislations. Before the farmers’ protest, all top Akali leaders insisted the Bills were good. Even their patron Parkash Singh Badal issued a statement in favour of the farm reforms. For the Badals, the family comes first. When the NDA offered them a Cabinet seat, they proposed Harsimrat’s name, who is way junior in the party.Senior Badal is saying BJP is tampering with federalism and killing democracy?The BJP as well as the entire NDA have always held Badal sahib in high esteem. It is sad after supporting the farm reforms, he is using expressions like ‘danger to federalism’ and ‘black day for democracy’.Rahul claims Modi government is selling India to corporates. What do you have to say?Rahul is a part-time politician. He wakes up from slumber to venture on political tourism. He returns to enjoy his ultra-luxurious life style and waits for the next opportunity to embark on tourism again. Where was he when more than 120 persons died due to hooch?Are reports that Sidhu may join BJP as the CM face in the 2022 polls true?The Sidhus are more of a problem for the Congress than us. The cricketer-turned-politician’s wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu has indicated many times she wants to join the BJP. The question on Sidhu’s future should be asked to the Congress leaders, especially Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state affairs in charge Harish Rawat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-will-form-next-govt-in-punjab-tarun-chugh-153545
10-10-2020||Mansa||Elderly woman protester dies in Mansa||An elderly woman today died during a protest organised by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) on the railway tracks at Budladha in Mansa district.Identified as 83-year-old Tej Kaur, a resident of Varhe village, she had come to participate in the dharna.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, district president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said she was the first woman martyr of the agitation against the agricultural laws. He demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the next of kin and a government job for a family member of the deceased. Bagha said unless the demand was met, the deceased wouldn't be cremated.Reacting to the development, former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal posted on her social media account: “I extend my heartfelt condolences to the family of 80-year-old Tej Kaur, who lost her life during a dharna in Mansa against the Centre's anti-farmer and anti-Punjab laws. She lost her life fighting for a noble cause, but I would say her life was snatched away by those who passed these anti-farmers Acts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elderly-woman-protester-dies-in-mansa-153546
10-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Spurious products make way into market||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 9Ahead of the festival season, the problem of spurious ghee and food items in the region has come to haunt the residents again. The Bathinda Police have registered a case against the owner of an Australian dairy located on the Gillpati village road here for supplying spurious ghee to people.A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered at the Thermal police station against Yogesh Kumar of Faridkot district. The police got a tip-off that the accused was making spurious products at his dairy. Later, the police conducted a raid and seized 6,555 kg spurious ghee.Last year, during the festival season, food safety teams had cracked down on 11 ghee manufacturing units. The licences of eight firms in Bathinda, namely New SK Agro Industry, Ashoka Agro, Anmol Food Rampura Phul, Shri Balaji Trading, BS Agro, Goyal Sons, AR Agro Industry and Merry Agro, had been cancelled. The licences of two firms of Mansa, namely Ganesh Agro Foods and Shri Krishna Foods, and one of Barnala, namely Jugal Kishore and Company, had also been cancelled.Last month, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had denied bail to Bathinda District Health Officer Ramesh Maheshwari, who is facing allegations of taking bribe from milk sellers, grocery shops, dairies and ghee factories for not collecting samples from them.Meanwhile, taking a serious view of violations of the Food Safety and Standards Act, Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Adjudicating Officer (Food Safety) Rajdeep Singh Brar has slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on Fine Food Products company over violation of norms.Brar said a team led by the District Health Officer had taken samples of various products. He said violations had been found in the report sent by the food analyst. He said products like Utsav Cooking Medium, Home Day Cooking Medium and Star Fresh Cooking Medium had been fined Rs 1 lakh each over non-compliance to the standards set under the Food Safety Act.Raids are conducted throughout the year to check the supply of adulterated food, but some systemic loopholes make it an uphill task for the Health Department to enforce the rules strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurious-products-make-way-into-market-153552
10-10-2020||---||Punjab farmers block roads for Haryana brethren||Patiala/Bathinda, October 9To protest the recent police lathicharge on farmers in Haryana’s Sirsa, state farmers today blocked the border with the neighbouring state at the Shambu barrier for two hours. The road blockades were reported from several parts of the state also. At many places, farmers staged a sit-in and raised slogans against the Haryana Government.Condemning the police action in Haryana, the farmers said they stood united with farmers of the neighbouring state in the fight against three contentious agriculture Acts.‘Won’t be scared by pressure tactics’There is no space for discussion, expression and dialogue right now. We won’t be scared by lathicharge and other pressure tactics. We will resist the Acts till our last breath. — Saudagar Ghudani, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)“Today’s ‘Chakka Jam’ was against the police action of Haryana. “We (farmers) are united against the Acts. One should not take this as a daylong or weeklong protest. It is an indefinite protest, which continue till the Acts are rolled back,” said Buta Singh, a farmer leader.Swaran Singh, another farmer leader, said: “If the Modi government believes farmers are divided, they are mistaken. We will not be scared by the lathicharge or the cases against us. The protest will be intensified in the days to come.”Protesting farmers blocked the Patiala-Sirhind road near Baran village, Patiala-Samana road near Dhaintal and Patiala-Nabha road near Kalyan village.In Bathinda also, farmers blocked roads. A major protest was held on the GT Road connecting Mansa and Dabwali roads near ITI Chowk flyover. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “Apart from ongoing protests, BKU today staged separate protest at seven places against the cane charge incident.” In Sangrur too, farmers blocked the Barnala Chowk and announced to intensify their agitation against the farm Acts.“The government can’t scare us by using force. We will further intensify our agitation against the farm Acts,” said Bhupinder Singh Longowal, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union.In Mandi Ahmedgarh, farmers staged dharnas on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla highway. While the dharna in front of a filling station of Reliance continued for the ninth day, protesters began a sit-in today at a toll plaza for an indefinite period. At Doraha in Ludhiana district, residents of several villages joined the protest led by the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), resolving not to move even an inch till their demand for revocation of the contentious farm legislations was met.Commuters a harried lot on national higwaysRopar: Commuters faced harrowing times as traffic remained disrupted due to dharnas by farmers on two national highways. A large number of vehicles were stranded on the Chandigarh road and Morinda bypass on the Kharar-Ludhiana road as farmers protested.The traffic was diverted towards Bahrampur Zamindara and Khabra villages. The narrow village roads failed to accommodate a heavy traffic of the national higways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-block-roads-for-haryana-brethren-153526
10-10-2020||---||Centre allows one-time payment through arhtiyas||Chandigarh, October 9The state government has been allowed to “temporarily” disburse payment to farmers through arhtiyas in the ongoing paddy season.The Centre has clearly stated in a letter to the state government that this will be the last time that the farmers get payment through the arhtiyas.‘Save our interests’Arhtiyas’ removal from the procurement process won’t be tolerated. We are sure the state government will safeguard our interests. — Vijay Kalra, arhtiyas’ federation president‘Govt is with you’The state has been assured that the arhtiyas are legal entities under the APMC Act. We are firm that arhtiyas cannot be removed. — Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Food Supplies MinisterThe regional office of Food Corporation of India (FCI) has been directed by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution to ensure that the directions of making direct payment to farmers are followed from the next crop marketing season before accepting the foodgrain from the state.The state government had earlier pleaded with the Centre to allow payments through the arhtiyas, citing Covid-19 and farmers’ stir the reasons for not completing the KYC norms under the Anaj Kharid portal.A sum of Rs 61,564 crore is being disbursed to farmers for both wheat and paddy this year. While Rs 26,064 crore was disbursed for wheat procured in April-May, Rs 35,500 crore is to be disbursed for the paddy purchase.The Centre has been pushing Punjab for two years now to make direct payment to farmers. The state government has been avoiding this, mainly because the arhtiyas or commission agents enjoy political patronage because of their money power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-allows-one-time-payment-through-arhtiyas-153527
10-10-2020||---||Hold direct talks with farm unions: SAD to PM||Chandigarh, October 9SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the grievances of the farming community by holding direct talks with farmer organisations as well as all other stakeholders to come out with a solution which was acceptable to all.He said: “Farmer organisations have rightly rejected the secretary-level talks offered by the Agricultural Ministry as a bureaucrat cannot offer anything on the table. Farmers have taken to agitation at grave personal risk to themselves during the pandemic. In such a situation, leaving aside any middlemen, the Prime Minister should intervene and hold direct talks with farmers as well as other stakeholders, including all political parties.”He said the SAD stood for a written assurance on continuation of Central Government’s procurement of foodgrains as per MSP followed by a legislation making this a statutory law. “We also stand for constitutional guarantees banning trade in foodgrains below the MSP,” he added.He said the SAD would initiate formation of a national pro-farmer front by coordinating with other parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-direct-talks-with-farm-unions-sad-to-pm-153528
10-10-2020||---||Capt: Sukhbir trying to hijack farmers’ stir||Chandigarh, October 9Challenging Sukhbir Badal’s moral right to question the Congress government on the farm laws, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today asked the SAD president to first answer three key questions on the issue. The CM accused Sukhbir of trying to hijack the farmers’ agitation to push his party’s agenda.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMWhy remind PM now?Why did you (Sukhbir) not remind the PM of his responsibility towards farmers all those years when you were colluding with the BJP to ruin the farmers?The CM said the SAD president should refrain from commenting on the farm laws till he gave satisfactory answers to his three vital questions — “Why did Harsimrat not oppose the farm ordinances when they were first approved by the Union Cabinet? Why did Sukhbir not support the state government at the all-party meeting he (Capt) had convened to evolve a consensus against the anti-farmer legislations? Why did the Akalis boycott the Vidhan Sabha session in which other parties (barring BJP) had voted in favour of the resolution on the farm laws?”On the SAD forming a national pro-farmer front with “like-minded parties”, the CM quipped the SAD had quit the coalition of “like-minded parties”, whose only common interest was to ruin agriculture and appease corporate honchos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-sukhbir-trying-to-hijack-farmers-stir-153529
10-10-2020||---||16.7 L MT paddy arrives in Punjab mandis||Chandigarh, October 9Mandis across the state recorded an arrival of 16.70 lakh metric tonne of paddy till Thursday evening.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan said this year, the paddy procurement season commenced from September 27 with four state procurement agencies — Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup & PSWC — involved in the process. Besides, the FCI also participated.The minister said the A grade variety of paddy was being procured at a minimum support price of Rs 1,888 per quintal and as per the specifications laid down by the Government of India.The state government had made arrangements to procure an estimated 170 LMT paddy for KMS 2020-21. A cash credit limit amounting to Rs 30,220.82 crore had also got sanctioned from the RBI on account of making MSP payment to farmers, he said.Of the total paddy that has arrived in the mandis, 15.91 LMT has been procured by government agencies and the remaining by private traders. Lifting of the procured crop has been going smoothly and a total of 7.15 LMT paddy has already been lifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-7-l-mt-paddy-arrives-in-punjab-mandis-153530
10-10-2020||---||Malwa records fewer stubble-burning cases than Majha||Bathinda, October 9A total of 245 stubble burning cases have been reported from nine Malwa districts of the state so far.Amritsar registers maximum of 857 casesWhile 245 stubble burning cases have been reported from nine Malwa districts so far, Amritsar alone has recorded the highest 857 farm fire cases, followed by Tarn Taran (366) and Gurdaspur (95)As per the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) data, Patiala has recorded the highest 104 farm fire cases, followed by Ludhiana (50), Sangrur (41), Ferozepur (28), Faridkot (11), Barnala (5), Mansa (3) and Bathinda, Muktsar and Fazilka (one each).PPCB officials said the harvest started early in the Majha region so a significant number of farm fire cases have been reported from there. Amritsar has recorded the highest 857 farm fire cases, followed by Tarn Taran (366) and Gurdaspur (95).Agricultural experts said the harvest was yet to gather pace in Malwa. If authorities don’t act timely, farm fires would increase at a rapid rate in the coming weeks.“PPCB is fully prepared to tackle the emerging situation and has already started imposing a fine on farmers burning stubble,” said Surinder Matharu, XEN, PPCB.“We, especially the marginal farmers, have no alternative but to burn paddy straw. On the one hand, the government promises compensation to farmers not burning stubble and when they act by pooling in resources by taking loans, it doesn’t honour it’s own word,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Shingara Singh Mann said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malwa-records-fewer-stubble-burning-cases-than-majha-153531
10-10-2020||---||Fresh cases dip to record low in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 9The state continues to report a declining trend in the number of new Covid cases. Over 829 cases were reported today, the lowest number of fresh infections reported in the state in the past one and a half months. Besides, the number of casualties stood at 35.Ludhiana, which remained the worst-affected district in August and September, is clearly showing signs of recovery with 98 new cases and one death. However, in Jalandhar the situation hasn’t improved much as the district recorded 103 cases and four deaths. Incidentally, the maximum number of Covid cases has been reported from Ludhiana with 19,040 cases and 791 fatalities. Amritsar, after showing signs of recovery, again reported 94 fresh cases. The holy city also topped the toll chart by recording five deaths.Capt tests negativeCM Capt Amarinder Singh tested negative for Covid. He had come in contact with Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu during a rally organised earlier this week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-cases-dip-to-record-low-in-punjab-153532
10-10-2020||---||Challan filed against two cops in Behbal firing case||Faridkot, October 9The Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) today submitted a supplementary challan in the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing case in the court of Judicial Magistrate here.Lawyer, car dealer named tooChallan has been filed against then Faridkot SP Bikram Singh, then Bajakhana PS SHO Amarjit Singh Kular, advocate Suhail Singh Brar and car dealer Pankaj BansalOn Sept 27, the SIT had nominated then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and then IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused. However, no challan was filed against them on FridayThe challan has been filed against Bikram Singh, then SP at Faridkot, Amarjit Singh Kular, then SHO at Bajakhana police station, Suhail Singh Brar, a Faridkot advocate, and Pankaj Bansal, owner of a car agency in Moga.Both advocate and car agency owner were nominated by the SIT as accused in the case recently, accusing them of fabricating fake bullet marks on a police Gypsy to allegedly implicate protesters at Behbal Kalan in a criminal case.On April 24, 2019, the SIT had filed a challan against former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma in the case. Two protesters, Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh, were allegedly killed in the police firing on October 14, 2015.On September 27, the SIT probing the Behbal Kalan police firing incident had nominated then Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and then IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused in the murder and attempt to murder case.However, the SIT did not file challan against Saini and Umranangal on Friday. Sources in the SIT said the challan against both would be filed later as investigation against them was under way.While nominating Saini and Umranangal as accused in the case, the SIT had claimed both officers had been found prima facie guilty on the basis of documentary evidence and the statement of witnesses.As SIT has not yet served notice on Saini and Umranangal asking them to join investigation, so both might be challaned later, said sources.The SIT has also not filed challan against Gurdeep Singh Pandher, then SHO of Kotkapura and one of the nominated accused in this case.After Pandher challenged his nomination in the Punjab and Haryana High Court accusing a senior SIT member of bias, the court had barred the SIT from submitting supplementary challan against him till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/challan-filed-against-two-cops-in-behbal-firing-case-153533
