10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 28 more COVID deaths, 635 new cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 28 more deaths due to COVID-19, as the toll crossed the 5,000-mark, while 635 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,58,556, according to a medical bulletin.Six new fatalities were reported from Mohali; four each from Amritsar and Hoshiarpur; three each from Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala; two from Sangrur and one each from Barnala, Mansa and Moga, the bulletin said.The new fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,007 in Punjab.The state has 7,423 active COVID-19 cases, according to the bulletin.Among the fresh COVID-19 cases, Jalandhar reported 134, followed by 69 each in Mohali and Amritsar and 63 in Patiala.A total of 503 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 1,46,126, according to the bulletin.Twenty critical patients are on ventilator support while 136 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 34,42,386 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-28-more-covid-deaths-635-new-cases-182468
10-12-2020||New Delhi||Group of sportspersons, farmers provide laundry services at Singhu border protest site||A group of sportspersons and farmers have started a laundry service using multiple washing machines at Delhi’s Singhu border to help protesters there avoid trips back home to bring back clean clothes.The 12 sportspersons from Punjab and Haryana as well as four young farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said the laundry service was started simply to make things easier for the farmers who are protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border against the Centre’s three farm laws.The washing machines run 8-10 hours every day, they said, adding that farmers’ phone numbers and details of their camping location are taken and washed clothes are delivered to them daily.Jagjit Singh, who hails from Ludhiana and is one of the four BKU farmers, said he came up with the idea of offering the laundry service after he made multiple rounds between Singhu and his city just to get fresh sets of clothes.       So when he went back to Ludhiana two days back, he and three of his friends not only got sets of clean clothes, but also bought two washing machines with them.          “Since the last two days, all the farmers here have been coming and depositing their dirty clothes, which we wash and dry,” Jagjit said.          Using water from the tankers that the farmers have brought along with them and washing powder donated by various people, the machines has been running 10 hours a day since Sunday.    A similar service is being provided by a group of sportspersons since the November 28.The group has set up two washing machines in the open space around the Kessel Grand Mall in Kundli, and has been washing clothes of farmers from 8 am to 7 pm.“There are about 12 of us and we take turns to do the washing. After that we clean up the space here.                “We take the farmers’ phone numbers and the details of their camping location and deliver the washed clothes,” Nishant Singh, a Kabaddi player from Punjab, said.          He added that they started this service simply to make things easier for their farmer brothers. “When we saw that the farmers had to travel back to their homes repeatedly just to get clean clothes, we decided to get the entire cleaning system here. We might be from the field of sports, but all of us come from families of farmers and we know the difficulties that the community has been facing.          “Farming is their bread and butter and these laws are threatening that, and we want to help them in their fight in any way we can,” Nishant said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/group-of-sportspersons-farmers-provide-laundry-services-at-singhu-border-protest-site-182435
10-12-2020||Sangrur||Three arrested in Sangrur, Rs 10 lakhs stolen garments seized||Sangrur police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang involved in thefts in garment shops in various districts of the state and arrested three members of the gang.Police have also confiscated stolen garments worth Rs 10 lakhs along with two vehicles.While sharing details, Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni informed that on a secret information, a police team of Sangrur city under the supervision of DSP Rural Satpal Sharma has arrested three accused, Mandeep Singh, Shamsher Singh and Baldev Singh, from Ludhiana last evening. From the accused, police have seized stolen garments worth Rs 10 lakhs, one Bolero car and one canter.During investigations, it has come to light that the Bolero car was stolen from Morinda while the canter from Jalandhar.“During the intervening night of November 26-27, the accused had stolen garments from the shop of Hemant Kumar from Sangrur city. We have registered a case and during investigations, the involvement of arrested accused has come to light and we have arrested them,” said SSP Soni.The SSP informed that during preliminary investigations, it has come to light that arrested accused have been facing various FIRs in other districts also, including Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Moga.“Mainly they targeted garment shops as they had some purchasers. We have procured their two days police remand and further investigations are on to arrest their other members,” said SSP Soni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-arrested-in-sangrur-rs-10-lakhs-stolen-garments-seized-182420
10-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjabi singer Ammy Virk joins farmers' protest; sings for them at Singhu Border||After Diljit Dosanjh, Amninderpal Singh Virk, better known as Ammy Virk, joined the farmers' agitation against the new farm bills.  The Punjabi singer-actor was spotted at Singhu Border. He extended his support to farmers. While addressing the farmers, the Punjabi singer sang for them. This was to lighten the mood of the farmers.   Watch the clip here:A post shared by AMMY VIRK FANS CLUB (@ammyvirkfansclub)  A post shared by Ammy Virk (ਐਮੀ ਵਿਰਕ) (@ammyvirk_myworld)  A post shared by AMMY VIRK FANS CLUB (@ammyvirkfansclub)  A post shared by AMMY VIRK FANS CLUB (@ammyvirkfansclub)  A post shared by Ammy Virk (ਐਮੀ ਵਿਰਕ) (@ammyvirk_myworld)  In his speech, he said, that we (farmers) are not asking for anything. We are just refusing to take what the government is offering. Not only this, several singers have been composing new songs on the current agitation. Kisan Anthem, sung by 10 popular Punjabi singers, was released recently. The song had garnered about 3 million in just two days."Bik Geya Bhaven India Da Media, BBC De Utte Jhote Jhote Chhaye Hoye Ne", say the lyrics.The Kisan Anthem !बिक गया चाहे इंडिया दा मीडिया#BBC ते उत्ते जट्ट छाए होए ने !#FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/Cs3EOx2y3K  Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana have gathered at various border points of Delhi since November 26 as part of their protest against the Centre's farm laws.Dosanjh, who was last week involved in a Twitter spat with actor Kangana Ranaut, shared a black-and-white picture of farmers sitting on roads protesting, ‘Bharat Bandh' written atop in bold."Today is Bharat Bandh #FarmersProtest" he wrote in the caption.Sharing the same photo on his Twitter account, singer-actor Ammy Virk wrote, “#Today Bharat Bandh #ModiYesOrNo."The picture of “Bharat Bandh” was also shared by actor Neeru Bajwa and Gippy Grewal on their respective Twitter handle.Maan said that he will always stand with the farmers."I have a lot to express but will only say this - I'm always with you and will always stand with you. Long live the farmers," he wrote alongside a photo in which he is hugging a farmer.Singer-actor Harbhajan Mann shared a picture of a farmland with ‘Jai Kisaan' written over it and a map of India with a lock."Today WE make history!! Today Bharat Bandh," Mann tweeted. Singer Mika asked the agitating farmers to remain peaceful in their protest. "I request all the #farmer brothers please keep calm and protest, I don't want some one else do the mistake and then we face the repercussions as a class of farmers ... I'm sure #government will give us the solution.. but please sare shanti hi bana ke rakho (please all of you maintain peace)... sat sri Akal.." he tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-ammy-virk-joins-farmers-protest-sings-for-them-at-singhu-border-182409
10-12-2020||---||Tragedy averted as fracture spotted in railway track in Punjab's Mansa||Bathinda, December 10A major railway mishap was averted as a rail fracture was spotted on a track near Narinderpura railway station in Mansa district of Punjab late on Wednesday night. The Awadh Assam Express was halted there for around two hours and given a safe passage later after the track was repaired.The railway authorities have termed the incident as a technical issue. Railway area traffic manager Harmeet Singh said technical issues were quite common in winter due to drop in temperature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tragedy-averted-as-fracture-spotted-in-railway-track-in-punjabs-mansa-182351
10-12-2020||---||Amid online classes, children’s zeal to protest continues||Rohtak, December 9A Class X student from Ratia (Fatehabad), Arshdeep Singh, is sitting atop a mini-truck waving a flag at the Tikri border, where thousands of farmers are protesting against the three controversial farm laws at the Tikri border for more than 10 days.He has come with his father to, what he says, “strengthen the protest”. “Come what may, we will force the Modi government to repeal the three laws,” Arshdeep says.Sitting beside him is 15-year-old Ramandeep, a native of Fatehabad. He says, “Farmers are providers of food. If anyone thinks that they can survive without farmers, they are mistaken.”Like Arshdeep and Ramandeep, hundreds of schoolchildren are participating in the protest. They raise slogans, distribute langar and chop vegetables without losing sight of their studies. They are carrying their books along with them and take out time to attend online classes.Harmandeep Singh, a 14-year-old Class IX student from Sangrur (Punjab), says, “I study for two to three hours every day and devote rest of the time in distributing langar. I have been here for the past one week.”Harshdeep Singh (13), a Class IX student from Sahuwala village in Sirsa district, has been at the Tikri border for the past four days. “My uncle and I are supporting Punjab farmers wholeheartedly. It is a fight for our rights and we will force the Centre to cancel the three black laws.”These students have only one message for the Centre: “Stop testing our patience, we will not bow down”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-online-classes-childrens-zeal-to-protest-continues-182281
10-12-2020||---||Selja, Abhay Chautala join farmers at Tikri; not invited to dais||Jhajjar, December 9State Congress president Kumari Selja and senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala joined the farmers’ dharna at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Wednesday. They were, however, not invited to the dais to address the protesters. They sat on the ground among farmers and went back as soon as the dharna concluded at 3.30 pm.“No political leader is allowed to speak from the dais. So, neither Selja nor Abhay were invited to address the dharna. However, we are grateful to them for extending their support,” said a farmer leader.Later, Selja told the media the Centre must repeal the three “black laws”. “It is unfortunate that the food provider of our country is compelled to agitate in chilly conditions.”“History bears testimony to the fact that farmers have brought revolution with their unshakable determination. The BJP government is suppressing their rights. Today, the entire nation stands with them against the three ‘black laws’. The Centre is making every effort to thwart the protest, but the farmers are prudent enough to protest peacefully, she added.Abhay told the media he came to Tikri as a farmer and to express his solidarity with the protesters, who “have been carrying out the agitation in peacefully”.“The INLD has been opposing the farm laws from the beginning by terming these as death warrants for farmers. The INLD is the only party which not only flagged the matter in the Vidhan Sabha, but also submitted memorandums in every district demanding a review of the ordinances,” he said, adding party workers had been helping the protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/selja-abhay-chautala-join-farmers-at-tikri-not-invited-to-dais-182282
10-12-2020||Jalandhar||Sportsmen again write to President, want to return awards in solidarity with farmers||The contingent of former sportspersons from Punjab, including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees, who had left for Delhi on Saturday to return their awards in support of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three agricultural laws, and stopped by the Delhi Police, have again written a letter to the President of India.“When we marched towards Rashtrapati Bhawan on December 7, we were halted in our tracks by the cops, we were not allowed to go there and had to return disappointed. With deep pain and anguish, we the undersigned sportspersons wish to approach showing our solidarity with the farmers of this country, who are there on the roads asking the government to not be harsh on their livelihood. The issue of farm Bills has been in the limelight for almost four months now. The farmers have been protesting in an unprecedented peaceful manner. But unfortunately, the government has been very insensitive to their demands and did not even bother to engage them in any meaningful consultation,” the letter reads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sportsmen-again-write-to-president-want-to-return-awards-in-solidarity-with-farmers-182109
10-12-2020||Mahesh Sharma||‘Pizza langar’ for protesting farmers attracts crowd||Raikot, December 9Activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) from Barmi and Boparai Kalan villages have started langar of pizzas for protestes and enthusiasts at Singhu border to boost the morale of struggling farmers.The langar that was started during Bharat bandh on Tuesday would continue till the laws are repealed, claimed the organisers.Tirlochan Singh, one of the organisers, said enthusiasts had decided to do something different to extend support to the protesters. Pizza stalls were set up at Singhu Border as a large number of activists of various unions from the region visit the venue. “Though we have been providing raw material and ration for traditional langar already running at various places, we decided to organize pizza langar in addition to community kittens,” said Tirlochan Singh maintaining that people of all ages appreciated the dish.Prabhdeep Singh Narangwal, a zila parishad member, appreciated the initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pizza-langar-for-protesting-farmers-attracts-crowd-182089
10-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||15 farmers die during two-week stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9The farmers’ struggle is not a picnic with lavish langars or macho songs, it is a battle being waged at a high cost. In the past two weeks, on an average, one dead body is coming back every day to Punjab from the Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi, but the government is lingering on the issue.Four of these farmers have died due to accidents, 10 due to heart attack and one due to cold. The casualties started with the onset of the preparation for the Delhi march of November 26 and 27. The first such casualty took place on November 24 when a large group of farmers was covering tractor-trailers with waterproof sheets in Mehalkalan town of Barnala district. Kahan Singh, an activist of the BKU (Dakaunda) from Dhaner village, was hit by a car and he died on the spot. “Kahan Singh was the first martyr of the Delhi morcha,” says Manjit Dhaner, BKU leader.He was followed by Dhanna Singh, who died in an accident near Hisar when after breaking barricades, they were speeding the tractor towards Delhi.Since then, on an average, one name is being added to the list every day, which is getting longer by the day. As per the list compiled from various sources, at least 15 farmers have lost their lives ever since the Delhi stir began.Not just men, even women have lost their lives during the ongoing stir. Like Gurmail Kaur of Chand Patti village near Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda district, who died due to a heart attack while sitting in a protest at a toll barrier in Sangrur’s Kalajhar village. Similarly, Rajinder Kaur of Gangohar village died at the Mehal Kalan toll barrier due to a heart attack.A large number of protesters have suffered serious injuries while marching to Delhi. BKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri fractured his arm. Similarly, a photo of Mahinder Kaur, a protester from Alorakh village in Sangrur district, had gone viral when her leg was fractured in an accident but she refused to return without winning the battle in Delhi.“This shows how insensitive the Union Government is towards the demands of farmers. The Prime Minister did not utter a word about the harsh coldwave the farmers are braving,” says Dhaner.Though farmers have suffered severe losses, they are determined to take the struggle to its logical conclusion. “Earlier, we lost 10 of our comrades. We may lose more, but won’t return till the government bends,” says Rajinder Singh of the Kirti Kisan Union. Till November 20, 15 farmers had died while protesting at various sites in Punjab.Protesters who passed away during agitation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-farmers-die-during-two-week-stir-182044
10-12-2020||---||Union Govt trying to sabotage stir: Channi||Chandigarh, December 9 Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said instead of resolving the issues of farmers, the Centre was trying to intimidate Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh by filing ED and CBI cases against him. Channi alleged the Centre had been trying to sabotage the farmers’ protest and the Union Ministers were adamant and insensitive to peasants. The minister said the Punjab Government had passed four Bills in the Assembly to nullify the Centre’s farm laws and the Union Government was not able to digest this. He said Capt Amarinder had always stood behind people of Punjab and even resigned from the Lok Sabha for safeguarding rights of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/union-govt-trying-to-sabotage-stir-channi-182045
10-12-2020||---||Farmer cremated with ‘honours’ in Bathinda||Bathinda, December 9Lakhbir Singh, a farmer who had died during the ongoing agitation at the Tikri border, was cremated at his native Laleana village, Talwandi Sabo, today.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) members termed his demise a “sacrifice” for the just demands of farmers and vouched that they would not let it go waste and continue to protest against the Central Government’s farm laws in Delhi.Farm union members and residents of many villages gathered for the cremation of the deceased farmer.Bhinder Singh, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) block president, said, “The body of Lakhbir was brought to Laleana village from Rohtak on Wednesday evening and cremated with honours. Lakhbir had died on December 3 but his cremation got delayed as the administration was not agreeing with the family members over their demand of compensation and a government job to the next of the kin of the deceased. On Monday evening, the administration gave a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the deceased as compensation. On Tuesday, owingto a bandh call, the body could not be shifted to Bathinda.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-cremated-with-honours-in-bathinda-182046
10-12-2020||Amritsar||More US lawmakers extend support to protesting Indian farmers, write to Ambassador||Backing the protesting Indian farmers, three US lawmakers — John Garamendi, Jim Costa, Sheila Jackson Lee — have expressed concern over the agrarian crisis erupted due to newly enacted farm laws.In a joint letter addressed to Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Embassy of India to the United States, the US Congressmen wrote that they were distressed to see the actions of the Indian government that had restricted the rights for many Indians; not only for farmers, but also for religious minorities and the human rights organisations.Dr Pritpal Singh and Jaswant Singh Hothi from the American Gurdwara Parbhandhak Committee showed gratitude towards the US lawmakers for raking up the ongoing farmers’ agitation and told the Indian Ambassador that the country should demonstrate a model of democratic values while dealing with the farmers, who were peacefully demonstrating for their rights.“The US Congressmen, who are also the members of the American Sikh Congressional Caucus, told Ambassador Sandhu that many of these farmers have children, relatives and friends, who are US citizens and have reached out to them to share their concerns about these developments. They demanded from the Indian government to refrain from suppressing the farmers’ rights,” said Dr Pritpal Singh. Harpreet Singh Sandhu, a member of the American Sikh Congressional Caucus Committee, said, “We are indebted to the US Congressmen for becoming the voice of the farmers from Punjab who are demonstrating peacefully and trying to save their land and lives from the clutches of corporate houses, who would become more powerful after the newfarm laws.” Meanwhile, the Sikh Coordination Committee East Coast also thanked the Congressmen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-us-lawmakers-extend-support-to-protesting-indian-farmers-write-to-ambassador-182047
10-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Plea seeks FIR against Kangana for posting ‘defamatory’ tweet||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 9An application under Section 156 (3) of the CrPC has been filed against actress Kangana Ranaut for posting a ‘defamatory tweet’ and mocking a woman protester on the Delhi border.The application was filed in the court of Ilaqa Magistrate, Fatehgarh Sahib, by the former president of District Bar Association and advocate AS Dharni after the expiry of the legal notice that he served to the actress seeking an ‘unconditional apology’ for her remark.In the application, he said necessary direction may be issued to SHO, Police Station, Bassi Pathana, to register a case against the actress and to take appropriate action in accordance with law after verifying the facts.In the legal notice, Dharni has sought an apology from Kangana and has also mentioned that if she failed to do so, legal action will be initiated against her.The actress had mistaken Mahinder Kaur, an elderly Sikh woman who participated in the farmers’ protests, for Bilkis Bano, one of the prominent faces of the Shaheen Bagh protests. The Tanu Weds Manu star had alleged that the woman was ‘available for Rs 100’ to participate in protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plea-seeks-fir-against-kangana-for-posting-defamatory-tweet-182048
10-12-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht: Bid to malign peaceful farmers' movement||Akal Takht has taken cognisance of the Centre’s “stubborn” attitude towards resolving the impasse with the farmers over the farm laws and has demanded that the newly enacted farm laws should be repealed.During a press conference, officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said that attempts were being made to malign the farmers’ peaceful protest by tagging them as “Khalistanis”.He said that the government was for the people and laws were to be formulated for people’s benefit. If the people were not ready to accept those, those should be repealed unconditionally.“The farmers’ agitation is being defamed as if it was anti-national. A major portion of the media has become a puppet of the Centre and is tagging farmers as ‘Khalistanis’ to divert attention from the farmers’ cause,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-bid-to-malign-peaceful-farmers-movement-182049
10-12-2020||Bathinda||AAP gives 3,000 sanitary pads to protesters||AAP women volunteers have come up with the idea of distributing essential items, including sanitary pads, among the women protesters at the dharna sites.They have distributed more than 3,000 sanitary pads among women protesters at the Delhi borders. The AAP women volunteers have also been taking care of the protesters by providing them with other essential items of daily use as well.AAP MLA from Bathinda Rupinder Kaur Ruby said, “The party workers will continue to provide them the items of daily use as long as the agitation continues.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-gives-3-000-sanitary-pads-to-protesters-182050
10-12-2020||Archit Watts||Family refuses ‘shagun’, urges guests to donate for stir||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 9In a heart-warming gesture, a farmer’s family at Sheikhu village of Muktsar district recently placed a donation box at a wedding reception, asking guests not to give shagun to them and instead donate for the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi borders.Jasdeep Singh Jassi Brar, sarpanch, Sheikhu village, said, “It was my nephew Abhijeet’s wedding reception at our village on December 7. We placed a donation box near the dance floor to collect money for the farmers’ protest rather than receiving ‘shagun’. We have collected around Rs 1 lakh and will soon send it to the farmers.”“Many people have been calling us and appreciating the move. Punjabi singer Kanwar Grewal also shared a video on his Facebook page,” he added.Rs 1 lakh collectedWe placed a donation box near the dance floor to collect money for the ongoingfarmers’ protest. We have collected around Rs1 lakh. —Jasdeep Singh, sarpanch, Sheikhu villageJasdeep said, “We are God-fearing people and don’t believe in dowry. On the wedding day too, we did not accept ‘shagun’. However, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who attended the marriage gave us ‘shagun’, which we have put in the donation box.” A video of the reception is being shared on social media, wherein the DJ is appealing to the gathering to put the ‘shagun’ amount in the donation box.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/family-refuses-shagun-urges-guests-to-donate-for-stir-182051
10-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Farmers in Delhi, sanitation union irrigates their fields in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9“Tusi dilli datte raho, asi Punjab vich tuhadi fasal da khyal rakhange,” (you stay put in Delhi, we will take care of your fields) — says a slogan from the Water Supply and Sanitation Contract Workers’ Union, Punjab.In solidarity with the farm protests, members of the union are providing ‘Pani Sewa’ — watering and tending to the fields of farmers participating in the agitation at Delhi borders. Having declared to extend help to farmers on social media just a few days ago, the union has been flooded with calls from across the state. Some of the volunteers put manure and watered 14 acres of farm land of Darshan Singh at Dhaneth village today. More volunteers shall be heading to Pattran in Patiala.volunteers in every districtAt least 20 of our volunteers are just a call away in every district. The farmers are fighting for us. We deem it our job to tend to their fields in their absence. —Bhupinder Singh Kutbewal, Union MemberDarshan Singh had gone to the protests along with his father, leaving their 14-acre land back home unattended. Worried about the fields, Darshan was considering coming back to water the fields. Another elderly couple from Pattran participating in the farmers’ agitation was clouded with worries about watering their fields back home.Now, they no more have to worry about their crops as over 2,500 volunteers of the union are at their service to take care of the fields. The union also provides medicines, fodder, etc, to animals at farmers’ houses. It is also holding ‘mashaal’ marches in villages to raise awareness.Varinder Singh Momi, president of the Union, said: “Sada suneha hai – nischint hoke dilli jao. Je utthe ho tan datte raho – khet asi sambh lange. (Our message is: You go to Delhi without fear and if you are already there, don’t worry about your fields because we will tend to them.) The union has 2,500 members and messages have been sent to all district heads to keep volunteers ready whenever a call comes. The union members themselves will also head to Delhi on December 10 to participate in the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-in-delhi-sanitation-union-irrigates-their-fields-in-jalandhar-182052
10-12-2020||---||Won’t leave protest sites, more states backing us: BKU (Ekta)||Moga, December 9  Nothing less than the rollback of the controversial farm laws is acceptable to us, said Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary of the BKU (Ekta). However, farm unions are open to another round of dialogue if the Central Government’s intention is positive about repealing these laws. Sukhdev Kokri, who is undergoing medical treatment after suffering multiple fractures in his arm, said he was in touch with all the developments taking place in Delhi. Farmers were determined to intensify their stir in the coming days across the country, he said. He said farmers of West Bengal, Orissa and other eastern states had started agitations and many trade unions and students’ unions of Bengal that were active in Delhi had also extended support to the farm unions. Kokri, who is one of the brains behind the farmers’ movement, alleged that the intentions of the NDA government were not good. The party leadership may be thinking that farmers would  get tired and return to their homes after a few days, considering the cold conditions. “But now, farmers from various states are willingly coming to Delhi on their own with their own resources. It’s now becoming a people’s movement. Every section of society is supporting us. We are determined and won’t leave Delhi at any cost,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-leave-protest-sites-more-states-backing-us-bku-ekta-182053
10-12-2020||Manav Mander||It pains when farmers termed terrorists, says agri scientist who refused to accept award from Union Minister||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 9A day after refusing to accept the ‘FAI Golden Jubilee Award for Excellence’ from Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers DV Sadananda Gowda in Delhi, Dr Varinderpal Singh, principal (soil chemist), Punjab Agricultural University, said he was proud of what he had done.Dr Varinderpal handed over a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the Union Minister. He wrote that he was heartbroken to see the plight of farmers and stated that he was neither a farmer nor a terrorist, but was writing in the capacity of an Indian who had been professionally dedicated for the welfare of farmers.My Letter to Prime Minister, India denying FAI Golden Jubilee Award for Excellence for best work done in Plant Nutrition pic.twitter.com/3xJf0zPCRN  Talking to The Tribune Dr Varinderpal said he had not informed anyone about his decision as he wanted to raise farmers’ issue from a prominent stage. It was after reaching Delhi that he took the decision of not accepting the award. An interaction with auto-rickshaw driver who informed him that he was going on the protest site and moved by how Punjabis were fighting not only for their own rights, but for farmers of the entire country, changed his heart. “Our work and awards are for farmers only. Awards are meaningless if farmers are out on the streets,” he said.I am son of a farmer. Nobody can understand the pain I go through when farmers are termed terrorists. I am proud of what I have done. I wish to work for the country and the Centre should listen to farmers. I will be guilty if I receive this award. —Dr Varinderpal Singh, Principal (soil chemist), Punjab Agricultural UniversityDr Varinderpal said, “I am son of a farmer. Nobody can understand the pain I go through when farmers are termed terrorists. I am proud of what I have done.”“Farmers work in the soil while I experiment with the soil in my laboratory,” he said. “The Centre tried to break courage of farmers. It is the first agitation of its kind in independent India when protestors have not destroyed any public property and remained highly peaceful while serving food even to cops who lathicharged elderly farmers,” he said.ਜਾਗਦੀ ਜ਼ਮੀਰ ਵਾਲੇ ਵਿਦਵਾਨ ਵੀਰ ਨੂੰ ਲਾਮਿਸਾਲ ਕੁਰਬਾਨੀ ਅਤੇ ਬਹਾਦਰੀ ਲਈ ਬਹੁਤ ਬਹੁਤ ਮੁਬਾਰਕਾਂ। ਸਿਰਫ਼ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਅਤੇ ਭਾਰਤ ਦੇ ਲੋਕ ਹੀ ਨਹੀਂ, ਸਗੋਂ ਸਮੁੱਚੇ ਸੰਸਾਰ ਵਾਸੀ ਤੁਹਾਡੇ ਜਜ਼ਬੇ ਦੀ ਮਿਸਾਲ ਦੇਣਗੇ ਅਤੇ ਸੇਧ ਲੈਣਗੇ। #StandWithFarmerChallange #Farmers #Tractor2Twitter  “I wish to work for the country and the Centre should listen to farmers. The work I did is only for farmers. I will be guilty if I receive this award,” he said on the stage.Dr Varinderpal had led a team comprising Dr KS Subramanian, Dr Bijay Singh, Dr RK Gupta and OP Chaudhary from the PAU. He said he did not consult his team members before taking this step. “I am proud of what I have done. I fully support the cause of farmers,” he said.Sir/Sardarji, You have given strength to every protestor. I bow down in respect to your act. Long live the spirit of farmers. #FarmersProstests #FarmerPolitics #FarmersAct2020 #SoniaGandhi #SoniaGandhiBirthday #tractor2tweeter #FarmerBill2020 #DiljitDosanjh #BharatBandh  Dr Varinderpal developed the “PAU-Leaf Colour Chart (PAU-LCC)” technology for optimising consumption of urea in crops. The PAU-LCC technology provides a potential solution of reducing urea consumption, which saves more than Rs 750 crore (Rs 250 crore of farmers and Rs 500 crore of the Government of India) in Punjab. Transfer of this technology would provide substantial economic benefits to farmers and the Centre. Improved quality foodgrains, reduced consumption of insecticides/pesticides, prevention of air and water pollution as after-effects of the adoption of PAU-LCC technology remain priceless, he said.As per sources, Dr Varinderpal had earlier written to Dr BS Dhillon, Vice Chancellor, PAU, to return his Padma Shri award in support of farmers. The V-C could not be contacted and everyone in the university remained tight-lipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/it-pains-when-farmers-termed-terrorists-says-agri-scientist-who-refused-to-accept-award-from-union-minister-182054
10-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sunny Deol faces flak over remarks on support to farmers, Centre||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, December 9Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol’s statement that he was “with the Centre and also with farmers” has evoked laughter not only among the Congressmen, but also among his own colleagues, many of whom advised him to “think before he leaps” to avoid embarrassment for his party in the future.MP Deol’s statement, which went viral on social media, has been termed “bamboozler” by Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. “During his campaign in the 2019 General Elections, the actor came up with many side-splitting quotes while touring my segment (Dera Baba Nanak). People used to bring such gaffes to my notice, but I never believed them. I held a belief that Deol after all is a mature man. How can he stand by the government and be with farmers at the same time? Either he is with the government or he is with farmers. He cannot sail in two boats,” said Randhawa.pic.twitter.com/a9imr724lg  Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa was equally amused. “He should free his mind of all clutter before issuing statements. Else, he will continue to cut a sorry figure for himself. Actually, he has developed a knack of indulging in a comedy of errors,” he averred.A senior Pathankot-based BJP leader, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it would be better if MP Deol keeps a low profile ahead of the forthcoming Batala and Pathankot Municipal Corporation polls. “We are trying to win both the MCs. People have now started questioning us as to what our MP is talking about,” he said.BJP leaders said the problem with MP Deol was that he does not even care to rectify his mistakes.“If any leader makes a misleading quote, we ensure a corrigendum is carried the next day. But the problem with the actor is that he is seldom in touch with people who have to rectify his mistakes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-faces-flak-over-remarks-on-support-to-farmers-centre-182055
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir surrenders, gets bail in defamation case||Former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal surrendered before Chandigarh district court in a criminal defamation case today. It was filed by Akhand Kirtani Jathachief Rajinder Pal Singh in 2017. Sukhbir was later granted bail.Several bailable warrants had been issued against him earlier, but he had failed to appear before the court. During the resumed hearing of the case, Badal’s advocate Munish Dewan informed the court that the high court had stayed the warrants against him and he had sought 10 days time to appear before the court. However, the complainant’s counsel Amandeep Singh had moved the application and the court had already issued the non-bailable warrants against him.The complainant had filed the case in January 2017 over Sukhbir’s alleged controversial statement in which he described the group as a terrorist organisation. Sukhbir had allegedly issued the statement after the complainant met with Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal three years ago at his house. The summons were issued after the Chandigarh Police submitted an inquiry report in the court on November 28, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-surrenders-gets-bail-in-defamation-case-182056
10-12-2020||Aman Sood---||Liquor seizure: Rajpura SHO suspended, SP, DSP get notice||Tribune News Service Rajpura, December 9 The Excise Department has initiated a probe into whether the illegal liquor manufactured at a Rajpura factory was being sold at authorised government vends with “hand-in-glove role of liquor contractors”.  Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal has placed Rajpura City SHO Balwinder Singh under suspension, while a show-cause notice was issued to the SP (D), DSP Rajpura, DSP (D) and CIA in charge Rahul Kaushal.  A case under Sections 420, 465, 468,471 of IPC, and Sections 61, 78(2), 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against accused Dipesh and Karaj Singh. Sources said a tanker of the extra neutral alcohol (ENA) (20,000 litres), 43 cases of illegal country-made liquor (with labelling of Punjab Rasila Santra), labels, corks and sealing machine were recovered from the manufacturing-unit-cum-godown. “The arrested accused Dipesh was out on bail two months back in a similar case registered against him in June in Ghanaur,” they said. A senior police officer said Dipesh allegedly got in direct touch with truck drivers shifting ENA to and from distilleries and started producing Punjab medium liquor brands to make hefty profits. “The information that two government liquor contractors helped him sell his daily produce within no time is being verified,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-seizure-rajpura-sho-suspended-sp-dsp-get-notice-182057
10-12-2020||---||Harish Rawat to meet Capt Amarinder today||Chandigarh, December 9Ahead of the anticipated re-induction of Navjot Singh Sidhu into the Punjab Council of Ministers, AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat will be meeting the Chief Minister tomorrow.Sources said Harish Rawat, who reached the city late in the evening, is expected to discuss the new panel of office-bearers of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. The announcement regarding the new office-bearers of the PPCC has been lingering on for the past one year.A senior party leader said after the luncheon meeting between the Chief Minister and Sidhu and then, Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Sodhi calling on Sidhu at his Amritsar residence few days ago, Sidhu’s induction was just a matter of time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-to-meet-capt-amarinder-today-182058
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||117 vet officers recruited||The Punjab Government has recruited 117 veterinary officers in the Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Department under the door-to-door employment programme.  Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Minister, handed over appointment letters to veterinary officers at Live Stock Bhawan on Wednesday. He said the government was committed to providing employment to youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/117-vet-officers-recruited-182059
10-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Government polytechnics record 30% rise in enrolment this session||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9A carrot-and-stick approach to boost admissions at government polytechnics in Punjab has yielded results.Reversing the past five-year pattern of low admissions, nearly 30 per cent increase in admissions has been recorded in the new academic session in 25 government polytechnics. At least 11 of these have logged 100 per cent enrolment during the Covid pandemic. The last date of admissions was November 30, before being extended till December 5.On the other hand, the 226 private polytechnics have registered near 60 per cent fall in enrolment figures in the past three years. This year, only 3,000 of the total 29,936 seats in private polytechnics have been filled till November 30.“The past trend indicated declining admissions. After issuing a general notice to all principals to make efforts for enrolling students, notices of minor punishment were issued to some of theprincipals. Appreciation letters were issued to thosewho managed high enrolments. This will ensure proper utilisation of infrastructure in the institutions,” said Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education.Sources in the department said a mechanism to evaluate academic and administrative performance of technical institutes in the state could go a long in way in improving the quality of vocational education in the state.Of the total 5,056 sanctioned seats, 4,451 have already been filled to date. Of these, 62 per cent are SC students enrolled under the state-run SC scholarship scheme.On the other hand, Dr Anshu Kataria, chief, Punjab Unaided Colleges’ Association, said the fall in admissions was due to the pandemic and the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “On the pattern of the AICTE notification to extend the last date of admission till December 31 due to Covid, we’ve demanded that Punjab should also extend the last date of admission.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/government-polytechnics-record-30-rise-in-enrolment-this-session-182060
10-12-2020||Patiala||Day after suspending 350 MBBS students, principal revokes order||The principal of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, revoked his order of the suspension of around 350 MBBS students on Wednesday. The students were suspended on Tuesday for ‘not attending’ a Covid meeting called by him.Principal Dr Rajan Singla said the students had given a written apology due to which their suspension was revoked. He said, “They have apologized for their mistake – in writing. They can now attend their classes as earlier.”The decision is said to have come after the principal held a meeting with faculty members and Class Representatives over the issue. In the meeting, the students agreed that they would attend any meeting — including the ones related to Covid-19 — called by the management.Dr Singla was firm on his stand of holding a physical interaction with the students. He said, “I’ll again call a meeting to interact with them. It is important to have physical interaction as it’ll help have a better impact on the students.”He said in the wake of upcoming final exams in January, he had to communicate with the students to take Covid-19 precautions seriously so as not to miss the exam. “I don’t want students to miss any exam due to the disease. What is wrong in having a physical interaction in an auditorium that has the capacity of around 600?,” he added.Meanwhile, some of the professors criticised the punishment and said it was too ‘harsh’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-after-suspending-350-mbbs-students-principal-revokes-order-182061
10-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||Cadet from Ludhiana among 3 to bag top honours at IMA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9A cadet from Punjab is among three soon-to-be Lieutenants, who bagged top honours in various fields during their pre-commission training at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun.Academy Cadet Adjutant Watandeep Singh Sidhu, who hails from Threeke near Ludhiana, received three medals for excellence in physical endurance, PT and tactical ability. He had joined the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla, in November 2016 and after completing the three-year course in 2019, proceeded to the IMA.Excels in endurance, PT & tactical abilityTwo other cadets, Academy Under Officer Majji Giridhar and Battalion Under Officer Ashish Kumar also received three awards each. Of 18 individual medals and trophies awarded for top positions in various categories at the awards ceremony the ‘Autumn Term – 2020’ held today, the three bagged 50 per cent of the awards.Cadets of this term, comprising the 147th Regular Course and 130th Technical Graduate Course, will formally pass out from the academy on December 12. The courses include 325 Indian and 70 foreign cadets.Sidhu got Parachute Regiment Medal for being best in endurance and physical toughness, Maratha Light Infantry Medal for being best in PT and Rajputana Rifles Medal for being best in tactical ability.Giridhar received Brigade of The Guards Medal for being best in service subjects, Jat Regiment Silver Medal for being best in officer-like Qualities and Sikh Light Infantry Silver Medal for being best in turnout and drill.Kumar received 9 Gorkha Rifles Medal for standing first in military studies, Corps of Signals for standing first in Science and Warfare and Rajput Regiment Silver Medal for being best in academics. The Commandant’s Banner for standing overall first in inter-battalion championships went to the Bhagat Battalion.Lt Gen Harinder Singh, Commandant, IMA, said, “The country demands willing, unhesitating, unfaltering obedience and loyalty from each young officer. Leadership is composite of a number of qualities, among the most important of which are self-confidence, moral ascendancy, self-sacrifice, fairness, initiative, decision, dignity and courage.”The Commandant said it was important for an officer to maintain a competitive streak within the parameters of sportsmanship and fair play at all times. He mentioned that the urge to win and excel as a team should always be there.The training imparted at the IMA provides a comprehensive knowledge of military fundamentals and leadership, as well as proficiency in basic military skills. It aims to develop qualities of character, intellect, fitness and competence needed by future ready officers who at all times in their career must be prepared to lead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cadet-from-ludhiana-among-3-to-bag-top-honours-at-ima-182062
10-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Paddy straw gutted||Abohar, December 9Tonnes of paddy straw was gutted in a fire triggered due to firecrackers in Patti Taja village, 10 km from here on Wednesday.Sources said Hans Raj, who had come to the village with 150 heads of cattle to run a milk supply business a few months back, was staying in a rented accommodation. He had arranged three trailer-loads of paddy straw to use those as cattle feed.At a marriage function today, people were bursting firecrackers that accidentally fell on the straw stacks triggering fire. Two fire tenders were called from the Municipal Corporation and a major tragedy was averted as they timely controlled it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-straw-gutted-182063
10-12-2020||Barnala||3K health workers identified for Covid vaccine in Barnala||Preparations are in full swing to administer Covid vaccine to 3,000 health workers of private and government sector in the district under the first phase of the vaccination programme.The vaccine will be administered in the last week of December or first week of January.Some sources informed that district authorities have constituted a task force for vaccine monitoring. The Punjab Government will administer the vaccine in association with the World Health Organisation (WHO) under the national programme.Under the first phase, 3,000 health workers have been identified from the district as per the guidelines. Their data is being uploaded on an application named ‘covin’ that is run by the WHO.16 more succumb, 617 fresh cases“We have made all required preparations and data uploading is going on,” said Aaditya Dechalwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) General of Barnala. The ADC also presided over a meeting on Wednesday to review the preparations.Representative of the WHO Dr Nivedita Vasudeva said that they were taking all required steps.District Immunisation Officer Dr Bhupinder Singh said that the vaccine has to be stored at low temperature for which 17 cold chains have been identified at various health facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3k-health-workers-identified-for-covid-vaccine-in-barnala-182064
10-12-2020||---||Police party attacked in Moga, 3 held||Moga, December 9The Moga police on Monday arrested three persons who attacked a police party. SSP Harmanbir Singh revealed that they recovered a .315 bore pistol, 5 live cartridges including an AK-47 assault rifle from them.He said on December 5 at around 11.30 pm, Sub-Inspector Major Singh along with Home Guard jawan Sukhwinder Singh had gone to attend an emergency call at Jalalabad (east) village. On their way back, they saw 4-5 unidentified persons and one of them was wearing an Army uniform.On asking how he was entitled to wear the uniform, both got into an altercation, following which the latter attacked the SI with bricks. They were apparently under the influence of liquor/narcotic substance, the SSP claimed.He said the attackers fled the scene by snatching an AK-47 rifle, but left its magazines. It didn’t take long for the police to trace the culprits and recover the weapon, too.“We are making efforts to arrest 3 more persons who were involved in the crime,” the SSP added. He further said that those arrested include Inderjit Singh alias Vicky son of Balwinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi son of Jaspal Singh, Jaspreet Singh alias Jassa son of Kuldeep Singh all residents of Jalalabad (east) village. The SSP said that efforts were on to arrest the others involved in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-party-attacked-in-moga-3-held-182065
10-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Fraudulent diesel factory busted in Sriganganagar||Abohar/Sriganganagar, Dec 9The police have unearthed a factory making fake diesel in Sriganganagar and arrested the factory owner Vinod Sharma in this connection.They seized 23 drums containing over 4,500 litre of fake diesel, 1,100 litre of machinery oil and yellow powder. About 1,100 litre of MT oil in 6 drums was also found.Team in-charge Rameshwer Bishnoi said that the raid last night of the warehouse in Chak 29-GB village came following a tip-off. Accused Vinod reportedly used to buy machinery oil from an approved pump located near the Sriganganagar-Suratgarh highway.In this, some amount of engine oil and yellow powder were mixed. The same was allegedly sold as diesel at Rs 65 to 70 per litre, whereas currently the market price of diesel is about Rs 85 per litre. The fake diesel samples and MT oil are being sent to the government lab for examination.A case under the Essential Commodities Act and Section 420 of the IPC has been registered against Vinod.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fraudulent-diesel-factory-busted-in-sriganganagar-182066
10-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Cut in water supply irks paddy growers||Abohar/Sriganganagar, Dec 9Reacting over a drastic cut in canal water supply in the past three days, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS) has warned the Centre that such steps won’t help in cowing down farmers bodies in continuing their stir against the “black” laws.KSS spokesman Subhash Sehgal said in a tripartite meeting held in April, the BBMB had agreed to release 15,540 cusecs of water via the Harike barrage for the canals in Punjab and Rajasthan in December, but the receipt on Monday was reportedly reduced to 11,000 cusecs and 12,000 cusecs on Tuesday. This was affecting wheat sowing in Abohar, Fazilka, Ferozepur in Punjab and Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan.Sehgal said thousands of cusecs of canal water had allegedly been diverted during summer season to West Punjab province of Pakistan from Ferozepur headworks due to poor water management and our protest on this issue with the Jal Shakti Ministry was of no avail. To cover that loss and to harass the farmers for overwhelmingly joining the stir at Delhi borders, the Centre was now maneuvering to reduce water supply, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cut-in-water-supply-irks-paddy-growers-182067
