11-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma ||‘False alarm’, says Punjabi singer Kaur B after ‘quarantine’ sticker pasted outside house||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 11A controversy broke out after Punjabi singer Kaur B alleged that a “quarantine” sicker was pasted outside her house, even as the health department claimed it happened due to a communication gap and that the sticker has been removed.Kaur B alleged that some government officers came to her house on April 10 while she had been at her native village Navagaon for 15 days.“I came to my village from Chandigarh 15 days ago. No one came to check me or my family. I am fine healthwise and understand the gravity of Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, a team of health department came to the house. They checked me and my family and spread false news that they have quarantined me,” the singer alleged.Moonak SMO Dr Rajesh Kumar said it all happened due to a communication gap as another team of another government department pasted the sticker on her gate without taking the opinion of the health department.“When we examined her, she was fine and the sticker was removed immediately,” the SMO added.
11-04-2020||Aman Sood||PSPCL stares at over Rs 600-crore loss following Centre’s directive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 11Fund-starved Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is in for another hurdle over fixed charges payable to power generators and fixed charges receivable from industrial consumers, as in absence of clarity other state consumers can end up paying the charges against the Electricity Act.Now, the Centre has asked power utilities in all states are under obligation to pay capacity charges as per power purchase agreements (PPA).On April 2, PSPCL had invoked force majeure conditions curtailing of power from 1,980-MW Talwandi Sabo, 1,400-MW Rajpura and 540-MW Goindwal thermal stations and other generation plants following load crash in the state after the declaration of lockdown in the country to save paying fixed charges. PSPCL was expecting to save Rs 600 crore of fixed charges in the month of April as daily saving is around Rs 20 crore.V K Gupta, a spokesperson of All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said now Ministry of Power has added another dimension to this as it has written a letter on March 6 to all state governments and other stakeholders that power utilities are under obligation to pay capacity charges as per power purchase agreements (PPA). The obligation to pay for power within 45 days of presentation the bill remains unchanged.This has put a question mark on the ability of PSPCL to not to pay fixed charges under force majeure conditions. The Punjab government issued an order on March 7 exempting fixed charges for medium supply and large supply industrial consumers  for the next two months from March 23 and energy charges may be fixed to commensurate with the reduction in fixed charges.The government gave directions to Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) under Section 108 of the Electricity Act 2003.Gupta said medium and large supply industry will be saving at least Rs 180 crore during two months period on account of non-payment of fixed charges. “Under lockdown conditions as the industry will remain under shut down so there will be no energy charges and PSPCL is all set to lose more than Rs 700 crore for the month of April,” he said.As per rules, government directions to the commissions are to be implemented as long as they are not in conflict with substantive provisions of the Act.“Moreover, it violates the spirit behind fixed charges and further makes it difficult for PSPCL to meet its fixed charges like salaries, interest payments, etc. Unless the government gives subsidy for the exempted fixed charges, the fixed charges of the industry shall shift over to other consumers which will be against the provisions of the Section 65 of the Electricity Act, 2003. The default in subsidy payment by Punjab government to PSPCL as of March 31, 2020 is Rs 5,577.98 crore,” said a top PSPCL official.
11-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra believes coronavirus is the result of our sins, pleads humanity to unite; watch||Veteran actor Dharmendra opened about the deadly disease coronavirus in his latest video. The 84-year-old actor shared a video message in Hindi, that translated to ‘Lead life like an honest human being. God will bless you.”Seen sitting on an armchair, Dharmendra says in the video: “Human beings are paying their for sins these days. This coronavirus is the result of our bad deeds. Had we loved humanity and cared for it, we wouldn’t have been in a situation like this. At least today, learn your lesson. Maintain unity. Love humanity and keep it alive.”ऐक नेक इंसान होकर जिंदगी को जीयो,मालिक अपनी हर नीमत से झोली भर देगा आपकी pic.twitter.com/sF33K2UHEpDaughter Esha Deol dropped a heart emoji in reaction to the video on Twitter.Grandson Karan Deol also wrote: “Love you bade papa,” along with heart emojis. Dharmendra also showed support to Narendra Modi’s '9 pm 9 minutes' call by burning stick lamps along with few other people. He had earlier shared a message for his fans asking them to stay indoors.He wrote: “You can’t kill, CORONAVIRUS with gun. It is somewhere in the crowd. Wait and watch for another 15 days it will die it’s own death.Be at home, take it as an opportunity to get rid of some bad habits by doing yoga and exercise. Act according to Modi ji’s speech.” #9baje9mintues pic.twitter.com/N8ReFl98q8
11-04-2020||Ludhiana||Coronavirus: As harvest season approaches, Punjab farmers have hard time making arrangements||With wheat harvesting season to start from April 15, the farmers are having a tough time in making all the necessary arrangements to kickstart the harvesting process.Amidst the shortage of labour, the other problem that they are facing this year due to the virus spread is arranging sanitisation of the tractors and combines and also providing sanitisers to the workers working in the fields.The cause of concern for the farmers is that the sanitisers that are not easily available in the market these days due to huge demand and the cost factor are also bothering especially the marginal farmers.Amidst this situation, farmers are now asking the government to allow them to make alcohol so that they can prepare their own sanitisers at home by using alcohol and aloe vera.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bhartiya Kissan Union said that in first place sanitisers are not easily available in the market.“Government has asked to sanitise the tractors and combines also apart from giving the to the labour that will be working in the fields,” he said.Futher, he added that sanitisers cost between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 per litre, and are not easily available in the market. If one combine is to be sanitised it will require almost 2 litres of sanitiser per day and the harvesting process is going to last for 15 days.The combine will have to sanitised before every time it goes to the new field, he said.“Sanitising the tractor, Combine and providing it to the labour will cause of huge burden on the farmers. At the end of the harvesting season we will end up spending nearly RS 50-60,000 on the sanitisation,” he said.Giving a solution to the crisis, Lakhowal said that they are requesting the government that they should be allowed to make alcohol at their homes for three months so that the process of sanitisation can be done smoothly.“We can mix alcohol with aloe vera and prepare a sanitiser which will cost only Rs 50 per litre to us,” he said.Another farmer, Amrik Singh from village Bharthala near Samrala said that he is not aware of the sanitisation process and from where will procure the sanitisers amidst lockdown.“On the one side labour is scarce as migrants have returned and amidst this, the condition of sanitisation has caused a worrisome situation. Sanitisation of tractors and combines should be arranged by the village panchayats with the help of the agriculture department as not all the farmers are aware regarding the procedure,” he said.Meanwhile, another farmer from village Adiana near Maachiwara said that government should give Rs 100 per quintal as a bonus for keeping wheat at home as it will lessen the rush in the mandis.“Government should also make arrangements for bringing back the migrants as harvesting season is about to start and should also give permission to make alcohol for making sanitisers as being marginal farmers we cannot afford to buy costly sanitisers from the market which are also short in supply,” he said.
11-04-2020||---||Capt suggests extension of national lockdown at PM meet; lists measures for immediate relief||Chandigarh, April 11A day after Punjab extended the curfew till May 1, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday recommended extension of the national lockdown by at least a fortnight, while suggesting a slew of health and relief measures to the people in the state’s COVID-19 battle, in addition to special concessions for industry and agriculture sectors on an urgent basis.Participating in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video-conference with all Chief Ministers, Amarinder pointed out that there was huge uncertainty about the likely incidence of disease and the nation was in for a long fight.Given the trend in China and several European countries, it was necessary to continue the lockdown, he said, adding that though the restrictions were causing hardships to the people, India could not afford to take any chances. The people of Punjab have a high morale, and will continue to support government efforts to combat the pandemic, he added.Amarinder informed the meeting that the state government had already decided to go in for curfew/complete lockdown till May 1.Pointing to the excellent work being done by people in the current crisis, Amarinder sought a Special Risk Insurance for all government employees, including police personnel, sanitation workers and all other employees, who are working day and night to help ameliorate the miseries and stress of common man in these trying times. It was important for the Centre and states to keep the morale of people and frontline workers (Health staff, police, sanitation workers, etc) high, he said.Underlining the need to substantially increase the number of tests being done and go in for rapid testing, at least in the state’s hotspot areas of Nawanshahr, Dera Bassi and Mohali, the Chief Minister said the Central Government should hasten supplies of required testing kits.He also asked for early permission for testing in DMC and CMC Ludhiana, as already requested to the Union Health Minister.The Chief Minister further requested Rs 500 crore for quick upgradation of infrastructure of government hospitals in Punjab, which is currently at stage 2 of the pandemic and has a large NRI population. He also called for speedy approval, on priority basis, by the Centre to the state’s proposal for Rs 550 crore project to set up an Advanced Centre for Virology in Punjab.On the relief measures needed urgently in the light of the current crisis, the Chief Minister urged the Centre to defer recovery, and waiver of interest and penalties, on industrial loans for six months. Emphasising that the industrial establishments could not continue to look after their workers, and even pay their salaries for the period of lockdown, for a long time, he asked the Centre to think of some innovative solutions for Relief to Daily Wage Workers and Industrial Labour either through ESIC funds or under MNREGA. The CENTRE may allow village Panchayats and Municipalities to utilise the 14th Finance Commission Grants for emergency relief including food and medicines for the poor and needy, he suggested.Amarinder also asked for a one-time increase in borrowing limit from 3 per cent to 4 per cent of state's GDP by amending the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Amendment Act. His government, said Amarinder, was sending a complete proposal in this regard as desired by the Union Ministry of Finance.Referring to the massive harvesting and procurement operations set to begin in Punjab next week, the Chief Minister reiterated his demand for bonus to farmers to incentivize staggered/ delayed procurement of wheat. He also called for quicker movement of food grains lying in FCI godowns in Punjab, along with waiver of three months' interest on crop loans and deferment of recovery of crops loans by commercial banks.Thanking the Centre for releasing substantial funds since the last meeting, Amarinder stressed the need for early release of pending arrears of GST on priority to help the state.Amarinder shared with the Prime Minister the latest update on the situation in Punjab, and the state’s preparedness to deal with the spread of the pandemic. Punjab has seen 151 positive cases and 11 deaths so far, with 17 of the 22 districts affected and 15 having more than three cases each. Mohali has the maximum of 48 positive cases.The total number of samples tested is 3,461, of which 338 results are awaited and 2,971 have been found negative. There is no patient on ventilator, as of now, while 18 people have recovered from the disease.On the preparedness of the state, he said a total of 52 isolation hospitals had been set up so far and the state had developed a 3-phase model to handle the pandemic. The model proposes 2,558 beds in 20 independent COVID Isolation facilities in the first phase. For Phase 2, the state has identified 1600 beds, along with manpower, along with 1,000 additional beds in government facilities. These will be operationalized when 50% of Phase One occupancy is achieved.Phase 3 would entail creation of 20,000-bed facility in COVID Care & Isolation Centres, along with Temporary Hospitals for non-critical COVID care. Should the need arise, this will be scaled up to 1 lakh beds as CCICs in Phase 4.In terms of logistics, there are currently 76 ventilators in government hospitals and 358 in private, with 8 of another 93 ordered received so far.
11-04-2020||Mohali/Jalandhar/Patiala||Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur alone has 34 cases; Punjab tally 158||Mohali, Jalandhar, Pathankot, and Patiala reported new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the state tally to 158.  Two more people tested positive in Dera Bassi's Jawaharpur village in Mohali district, taking the vilage tally to 34 and the district tally to 50.The district has seen one death so far.The two people tested positive are associates of the families of the panch and the sarpanch who had also tested positive. They have been admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.  The first case in the village surfaced on April 4 when a 42-year-old-year panch of the village had tested positive. Since then 33 more people—30 part of his extended family—have tested positive for coronavirus.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said teams had been deputed for the village to take samples of their family members and other contacts. He said reports of all 12 samples had arrived--two had tested positive while 10 had tested negative.The district administration has already sealed Jawaharpur along with Devigarh and Mehmudpur villages, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement.None of the 34 people has any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing and added that some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.Jalandhar reported three more positive cases---all three relatives of the man who died of the infection in Mitha Bazar on Thursday.Among those who tested positive is a 34-year-old local Congress leader who is the block president of the Congress. He met Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry on March 30 and half a dozen Congress workers and councillors.All of them quarantined themselves soon after the Congress leader’s father tested positive.This takes Jalandhar cases to 15, with one death.In Patiala, a man who works as gardener at the residence of a PCS officer tested positive for coronavirus. Sources said that he worked in the houses of some other officers as well.His brother, who is employed at the house of a noted city doctor couple, has also been quarantined.Another person tested positive in Faridkot, taking the total number of cases in the district to three. Authorities said the third person who tested positive was friends with the other two already diagnosed with the infection. A student at Lovely Professional University in Phagwara tested positive on Friday evening. She was living at the university hostel.However neither of these two cases have been yet to be added to the state tally.Punjab government extended curfew restrictions in the state until May 1, and advanced school vacations in an attempt to stem the spread of the virus.The state's latest media bulletin shows that of 3,909 cases tested in Punjab, 3,249 tested negative. The state's awaited results 502. Two patients are in serious condition. The state has also revised its death tally to 12, from 10 until Friday.Here's the state's official tally
11-04-2020||---||Man tests positive for coronavirus in Patiala, has no travel history||Patiala, April 11A gardener, who is said to be working at residence of a PCS officer, has tested positive for coronavirus.The gardener, who, along with his family, has been staying in the servant quarters of the officer’s residence, has been shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.The health department has taken samples of his wife and children.Sources said he had been working at the houses of other officers as well.Sources said his brother, who is a cook at the house of a noted doctor couple in Patiala, is also being quarantined and his sample had been taken.“The man was staying with two more people--his brother and a hotel employee. They, too, have been kept under observation," sources added.However, officials are yet o isolate the doctor couple who are on emergency duty owing to the pandemic.“The brother of the patient is a cook with the couple. They are yet to report, but health officials intend to collect their samples,” sources in the administration said.Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the PCS officer and his close contacts had been quarantined and would be tested soon.He said the gardener was asymptomatic.The Civil Surgeon said rapid response teams had been pressed into service as soon as the lab reports came in on Friday evening.The gardener has no travel history and didn’t have any close contacts with suspected Covid-19 cases.Dr Malhotra said, “We are trying to figure out how he got infected. The teams have already started working. His family and close contacts will be tested in a few hours.”It is the second coronavirus positive case in the district.
11-04-2020||Bathinda||Facebook post about 'missing' Manpreet Badal prompts Punjab Police to register case||A Facebook post allegedly mocking Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal for having gone missing in the middle of the coronavirus health crisis prompted state police to register a case, police said.   The controversial post said: “Gumshuda Di Talash, Manpreet Badal hua gumshuda, labda fere Punjab, Manpreet Badal di karo talash, disda nahi ke punjab wich hai ya punjab wicho bahar” (Search for missing: Manpreet Badal is missing, Punjab looking for him, we should search for Manpreet. Is he is in Punjab or outside?).Investigation officer (IO) Senior Inspector Daljit Singh said a case had been registered on the basis of a tip they received, based on which police zeroed in three profiles---one belonging to a person named Gurjinder Singh Brar from Faridkot, another belonging to Amritpal Singh Gill from Khemkaran, and a third profile that went by the name Akali Yodha.The IDs are believed to belong to Shiromani Akali Dal’s youth workers.No arrests have been made yet.Bathinda SSP Dr Nanak Singh said “After registering cases against three Facebook IDs for the post, we have written to Facebook asking for details of the owners of these profiles”.In his post, Gurjinder Singh Brar allegedly quoted Finance Minister Manpreet Badal as having said: “I am a minister, not clerk”, and allegedly accused the minister of not having the time to review the state’s financial position for ongoing relief operations in the state.Police have registered a case for disobeying order of a public servant (Section 188); acts leading to spread of infectious diseases (Section 269 and 270); and defamation (Section 500 and 501) of the Indian Penal Code.This comes a few days after similar post on Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also did the rounds on social media, but that post saw no police action.
11-04-2020||---||Double health workers’ pay: SAD||Chandigarh, April 10 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to upgrade the infrastructure and safety measures for health workers and double their salaries besides making private hospitals active participants in the fight against Covid-19. It also advocated giving a government job to the next of kin of all victims in the state. Making these recommendations in a letter to Amarinder, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said Punjab was lagging behind as far as measures needed to combat Covid were concerned with there being an acute shortage of ventilators, testing kits and PPE kits. “There are only 123 ventilators functioning in the state in government hospitals with a number of districts not having any ventilator in the government sector. There are 270-odd ventilators available in the private sector but these are not being used optimally,” he said.
11-04-2020||Ferozepur||Ferozepur to get more ventilators||State Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said he has taken up the matter with the Chief Minister and the Health Department to provide more ventilators in this border district, which has been facing acute shortage of the same in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The minister’s move comes in the wake of absence of a functional ventilator in government hospitals. Sodhi said two ventilators had already been ordered. Earlier, Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Badal gave Rs10 lakh for ventilators. — OC
11-04-2020||---||Counselling of patients begins||Mansa, April 10With Budhlada town emerging a Covid hotspot after 11 persons, including five associated with Tablighi Jamaat, testing positive, the district police have roped in psychologists for telephonic counselling of affected people.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Mansa, Dr Narinder Bhargav, who called a few infected on Friday, said the move aimed at boosting the confidence of people and making them believe in themselves.Dr Bhargav said Budhlada town had been sealed and contact tracing was being carried out by health, police and civil administration officials.Police personnel realised that residents and people who were under home-quarantine and needed counselling, he said.He said the police had formed self-help groups comprising psychologists. The facility has been started at the police control room.
11-04-2020||---||75 PPE kits donated to Ropar administration||Ropar, April 10Several youths in association with a few social organisations and an NGO handed over 75 personal protective equipment kits to the district administration on Friday.Those who contributed for the kits include AAP leader Dinesh Chadha, Ram Pratap Sarthali, Master Rama Rana and Bablu Rana of NGO Madad, Damanjot Singh Bela, Rishi Uppal, Shiv Kumar, Yashwant Bassi and Satvir Singh Lalpura.The same set of people had earlier donated for surgical gloves for the Health Department.
11-04-2020||---||Prisons Department contributes Rs 37 Lakh||Chandigarh, April 10The state Prisons Department has donated Rs37 lakh to CM Covid Relief Fund following Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s appeal to donate generously towards the said fund. This was revealed by Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday. Randhawa thanked the officials of the Prisons Department for donating their one day’s salary voluntarily for a noble cause in this difficult time.
11-04-2020||Ferozepur||Pak-stamped gloves recovered||
11-04-2020||Moga||CM’s Adviser reviews situation in Moga district||Lieutenant General TS Shergill (retd), senior Adviser to Punjab Chief Minister, on Friday visited the district to take stock of the situation in the area amid curfew. Appreciating the efforts of the district administration in bringing relief to people during the curfew, he said the Guardians of Governance (GoG), who had been deployed at various places, would be the eyes and ears of government. He said the GoGs would help the administration in procurement process for the forthcoming wheat harvesting season. He said the state government had taken the lead in the country by controlling the infection. — TNS
11-04-2020||---||Gurpatwant Pannun, SFJ booked for sedition in 2 cases||CHANDIGARH, APRIL 10Slammed over phone callsPannun is asking the receivers to vote for SFJ if they are in agreement with the policies of the organisation by pressing ‘1’ or pressing ‘2’ if they are in agreement with the policies of the PM and the Punjab CMThe Punjab Police on Friday booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and his banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for seditious automated calls aimed at instigating the people, particularly youth, against the state government during the Covid-19 lockdown.Cases have been registered against Pannun and the US-based SFJ under Section 124A of the IPC, and Sections 10 (a) and 13 (1) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, at the State Special Operations Cell, Mohali, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.According to Varinder Pal Singh, AIG State Special Operations Cell (SSOC), Mohali, preliminary probe revealed that Pannun was involved in the commission of seditious acts of advocating secession of Punjab through automated calls as well as pre-recorded audio messages to various residents of Punjab and nearby areas in March and April 2020, with the intention to foment trouble in the state.Since the spread of the Covid pandemic in India, Pannun, his associates and his organisation were found incessantly disseminating seditious contents on social media to further frustrate and instigate the already anguished and distressed masses of Punjab.Disclosing the modus operandi, the AIG said in one such recorded audio message, sent from an International number of the North America region, Pannun alleged that the Centre and the Punjab Government were torturing the youth in the name of enforcing the ongoing curfew-lockdown in the state.The pre-recorded interactive voice response messages through telephone calls as well as audio messages to the people of Punjab belonging to various walks of life from New York (US) were being made for pushing the secessionist agenda of his self-styled organisation, said the AIG.Pannun, who claims to be calling from New York , was also heard in his pre-recorded interactive voice response messages offering monetary help of Rs 2,000 from the SFJ to each patient in Punjab.
11-04-2020||---||Two nabbed for smuggling drugs amid curfew||Bathinda, April 10 Two drug smugglers who had gone out to supply drugs in the city were arrested by the special task force (STF), Bathinda, with 110 gm of heroin on Thursday. The accused have been identified Anshul Kumar of Shakti Vihar and Khushpreet Singh of Baba Farid Nagar. They had procured the contraband from Delhi amid curfew restrictions and had even got a fake curfew pass made to avoid getting caught. The police have launched a probe to know from where they had got the pass made. Special task force  incharge Naveen Kumar said Sub-Inspector Kulwinder Singh apprehended the accused near a gurdwara in Ballaram Nagar with a white colour polythene, which had the sai d contraband in it. On Friday, the accused were presented in court, which remanded them to police custody.
11-04-2020||Moga||Three isolation wards set up in Moga: CMO||Apart from the micro-level plan prepared by the district administration at the village-level, the district’s Health Department has been making arrangements to combat the spread of Covid. Talking to The Tribune, Moga chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Andesh Kang said three isolation wards had been set up at district hospital in Moga city, at civil hospital in Baghapurana town and at a community health centre at Dhudike village. She said four patients, who hailed from Mumbai, tested Covid positive and were shifted to an isolation centre here. They were now stable and recovering. The doctors and paramedical staff attending to them had been provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits as per the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health Affairs. Due to the negligence of medical staff, one patient of asthma was taken to the isolation ward, but, luckily he did not get catch Covid infection. Following the incident, strict instructions had been given to the medical officers to be very careful, the CMO added. “We have distributed 35,500 masks among commoners in the past couple of weeks. Also, our doctors and paramedical staff are going from house to house to advise people on how to keep themselves safe,” she said. She said the Health Department had taken effective steps to sanitise ambulances. “We have so far used 450 liters of sanitiser to ensure that ambulances and hospitals are infection-free,” she said. — TNS
11-04-2020||---||Subdued Gurpurb festivities in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 10Amid the Covid threat, the SGPC has initiated ‘akhand path’ dedicated to the 400th anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal. The year-long occasion was started off in a subdued manner in the presence of a handful of officials.Earlier, it was on the agenda of the SGPC to mark the occasion that was scheduled for next year with fervour but it was cancelled in the wake of Covid.Devoid of sangat, those present on the occasion included SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Dr Roop Singh and eight other officials. Dr Roop Singh said the bhog of akhand path would be held on April 12.
11-04-2020||---||Distribution of wheat, pulses in  2 days: Ashu||Chandigarh, April 10 The distribution of wheat and pulses to the beneficiaries of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and priority households will start in  two days. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, as a proactive initiative, the Punjab Government had decided to ameliorate the hardships faced by the poor due to economic disruption. The minister said the government had decided to provide additional foodgrain allocation of 5 kg per person per month free of cost for three months — April-June — to all beneficiaries covered under the targeted public distribution system as per provisions of the National Food Security Act. He further said in addition to this, pulses around 1 kg per family per month would also be provided free of cost for three months.
11-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Bathinda jail sets up quarantine ward for new inmates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10To stay in isolation for 14 daysHeaded by Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain of the High Court, the committee has already laid down the criteria for release of convicts.For undertrials put behind bars during the Covid lockdown period in Bathinda, it is virtually a jail within a jail. A quarantine ward has been set up in Bathinda Central jail for the newly admitted inmates. They are being kept under observation for 14 days before being transferred to other wards in the prison after being certified by the jail medical officer. Information to this effect was given to Bathinda District and Sessions Judge Kamaljit Lamba through video-conferencing this afternoon. Judge Lamba was also told that no less than 151 undertrials had already been released from the jail in view of the Covid outbreak.Of the total, 79 undertrials were released on interim bail, 39 on personal bond and 33 on regular bail in accordance with the directions issued by a high-powered committee set up for the purpose. Headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain of the High Court, the committee has already laid down the criteria for release of convicts and undertrials in Punjab in pursuance to the directives issued by the apex court.The Central Jail superintendent also submitted during video-conferencing that hunger strike resorted to by some undertrial inmates on April 6 was successfully brought to an end the next day. The inmates behind the incident had already been identified. A request for their transfer to other jails had also been sent to Punjab Additional Director-General of Police (Jails) to maintain the peaceful environment inside the prison.After taking stock of the situation, Judge Lamba directed the DC concerned to spray sodium hydrochloride for disinfecting the jail. The direction came after Judge Lamba was told about the non-availability of the chemical in the jail. Fogging inside the jail was also ordered to check the spread of malaria.
11-04-2020||Faridkot||Third  testing lab starts in Faridkot||To cater to the need of Covid-19 suspect patients from the south-west Malwa region, a Covid-19 testing lab was started at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on Thursday.After Government Medical Colleges at Amritsar and Patiala, this is third lab in the state. It will provide services to the suspects of coronavirus from Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Bathinda and Muktsar districts, said Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS). Faridkot medical college is a constituent of the university.“With the support of state government and Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, we were able to start the lab for Covid-19 testing. We have installed RNA extractor, 3 RT PCR machines along with the workstations, bio-safety cabinet and deep freezer here,” said the VC.“Doctors and technicians have already been trained and they have started working on the system. We are confident that initially we will be able to take care of 40 samples everyday and eventually with the competency and manpower, we may be able to run it in three shifts,” he said. — TNS
11-04-2020||---||Punjab government clears salaries of MGNREGA workers||Chandigarh, April 10 The Rural Development and Panchayat Department has cleared the pending wages of MGNREGA workers till April 7.  Disclosing this here today, Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said that Rs 92 crore had been transferred to the accounts of the beneficiaries. The minister said with the continuous efforts of the department, Rs 226 crore was released by the Centre to the Punjab. Now the state has sufficient funds for the next two or three months to execute works under the scheme without any hindrance and wages of beneficiaries would also be cleared on time. Bajwa said instructions had been issued to the officials of the department to provide maximum work to MGNREGA workers under the scheme which could provide a huge relief for the poor during the Covid crisis. He has also asked the officials to ensure payment to the workers after every 15 days without any delay. He said 28.23 lakh active workers were registered under MGNREGA who could be provided work. The daily wages of workers has also been enhanced from Rs 241 to Rs 263. The minister also informed that the department yesterday cleared the salaries of the employees of the zila parishad and panchayat samitis from October last year to March this year. He said the outstanding pension for February and March of retired employees of zila parishad and panchayat samitis had also been cleared.  Bajwa assured timely payment of salaries and pensions to the employees.
11-04-2020||---||Banker detained for failing to enforce distancing norms||Gurdaspur, April 10‘Violations galore’At a meeting held with bank managers recently, I made it clear that the onus will be on them to ensure that social distancing norms are followed. In this particular case, I saw nearly 50 people elbowing each other to get a chance to go inside. — Mohammad Ishfaq , DC.Fed up with the growing violations, Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq decided to teach a lesson to those taking social distancing recommendations casually.On Thursday, when the DC was touring the town, he saw a large number of people gathered outside a bank branch at Kahnuwan Chowk. He asked his security personnel to send the bank manager to him, whom he asked to sit in a police vehicle following his car.The manager was taken to the DC office. After a few anxious and uneasy moments, he was curtly told that “he was under arrest for violating Section 188 IPC (disobeying government orders)”. Stunned, the manager asked for forgiveness, but the officer paid no heed to his pleas.He, however, was given the liberty to call up his lawyer. After half an hour, the DC let him go, but before that he was asked why he let customers break the social distancing rule. To which the banker replied that managing the surging crowd was beyond his control, a plea which was nonchalantly brushed aside by the DC.“At a meeting held with bank managers recently, I made it clear that the onus would be on them to ensure that social distancing norms are followed. In this particular case, I saw nearly 50 people elbowing each other to get a chance to go inside. It was as if social distancing was an alien phenomenon,” said Ishfaq. The incident had a cascading effect. Security personnel guarding numerous banks were directed by their bosses to make sure customers adhered to the rules. Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman, District Planning Board, hailed the move. “The officer’s firmness in following rules means the entire district of Gurdaspur is Covid-free. Not even a single positive case has been reported to date,” he said. “People should understand that guidelines have been laid down for their well-being,” said Manjit Singh Dala, a realtor.Government schoolteacher Sukhbir Kaur said, “The virus will vanish into thin air only and only if we follow regulations. The DC has set a good example.” The consequences were such that people have now decided to strictly stick to the norms, a development confirmed by senior police officials. “Not even a single violation has been reported since yesterday. We are breathing easy now,” said SSP Swarandeep Singh.
11-04-2020||---||Residents seek door-to-door testing||Sangrur, April 10After a 65-year-old resident of Gagadpur village tested positive for Covid-19, the administration has started testing of all contacts of the patient. The village panchayats along with the police have sealed the all entry and exit points of village.“We got to know that he tested positive. He had come to Ludhiana through air travel from New Delhi on March 24 and in same flight, another positive patient had travelled. Since then, he had been under quarantine at his house,” said Sadha Singh, sarpanch of Gagadpur village.Another resident Kulwant Singh said that since the news of positive case in their village spread, there was panic not only in their village, but in surrounding areas also.“We have requested the Health Department to conduct door-to-door tests and we are extending all required help,” he said.Congress Sunam halqa in-charge Daman Thind Bajwa said she had started sending the required ration to the village from Saturday morning.Gagadpur has a population of around 2,500 while the police have also reached to village.
11-04-2020||Our Correspondent||9 teams of health workers deployed in Ahmedgarh||Mandi Ahmedgarh, April 10Patient visited several mosquesIn a big headache for the Health Department, the man, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday night, has a long travel history to various areas and mosques as he, along with some other persons, had been on a pilgrimage. DC Ghanshayam Thori said apart from visiting various villages, the patient visited many mosques in the vicinity.With a population of 3,500 living in about 650 houses, Dehliz Kalan village was sealed by the administration after a member of Tablighi Jamaat staying at a mosque tested positive for Covid-19 today.The patient, hailing from Kardampuri in Delhi, reportedly stayed at Pohir, Ghungrana, Kilaraipur, Sarinh villages in Ludhiana besides Malerkotla and local mosques, before reaching the Dehliz mosque on March 26.As many as 16 Jamaat members were examined by a team of doctors on March 31 and they were shifted to an isolation centre near Sangrur. While other members tested negative, Kardampuri activist tested positive, necessitating the administration to proceed according to the established protocol of prevention of spread of coronavirus.Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey said the rapid response team of the Heath Department had initiated process for screening of all villagers that was cordoned off by cops led by Sadar SHO Sanjiv Kapoor early in the morning. In all, nine teams of health workers were deployed to identify any suspected patient or person showing flu-like symptoms.Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said both the patients of the district were asymptomatic.
11-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Cases from high-density areas cause of worry in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 10With the Covid-positive patient count in Jalandhar touching 12 today, the district seems to be emerging as the next hotspot for the disease. The new positive case today is a 17-year-old boy from Nijatam Nagar, whose father and mother are already undergoing treatment.As many as 86 persons from the district, who are immediate contacts of Covid patients, have been quarantined at the Civil Hospital for the past few days and their samples are being taken.The 12 patients include seven from the city, four from Virk village of Phillaur (three got cured) and daughter of deceased Bhai Nirmal Singh from Lohian.The biggest worry for the administration so far is that the seven positive cases that have emerged so far from the city are from the old city areas where the density of population is very high. In all such localities, including Anand Nagar (of Maqsudan), Old Sabzi Mandi, Mitha Bazaar, Bhairon Bazaar and Nijatam Nagar (three from a family), the police have ensured there was only one entry and exit point.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet S Bhullar said, “Policemen are standing guard at all sealed areas and ensuring there is no movement. Restricted entry, that too only of a few vendors for the supply of vegetables and milk, has been allowed in these areas. The best part is that youth volunteers from such areas have themselves taken to sealing of their lanes by tying ropes at the entrances and standing guard 24X7 by rotation. This will further ensure containment.”To ensure early diagnosis, Deputy Commissioner Varinder K Sharma says, “I have directed the health teams to do more testing. I have also asked them to quarantine the immediate contacts of the positive patients at the Civil Hospital.”He said he had roped in several officials and delegated them different tasks. SDM Jai Inder Singh said, “We have declared 1 sq km area in Mitha Bazaar (from where a positive patient died on Thursday) as a containment area. All curfew passes that were issued in the area have been cancelled as a blanket order. The area ACP and his police team are ensuring that no one steps out of the house.”In another locality Purani Sabzi Mandi, from where a woman tested positive for Covid yesterday, the health officials have taken samples of 11 members of her joint family and also the domestic help. Dr Harish Bhardwaj from the Civil Hospital and his team of health workers have been assigned the task to visit 227 houses in the area.As many as 72 contacts of an operation theatre assistant from Sacred Heart Hospital of Maqsudan, whose report came yesterday, have been quarantined. His wife was a receptionist at the hospital whereas he had been doing physiotherapy for two patients and had also gone to Police Lines recently for treating a patient.DC Sharma said, “I have been holding flag march daily and urging residents to stay indoors. It is for the first time today that I can see some compliance. As far as the infrastructure is concerned, we don’t have any shortage. We have the required equipment and we are expecting delivery of some more orders shortly.”
11-04-2020||---||6-month-old boy among 10 more infected in Dera Bassi||Chandigarh, April 10With 21 fresh cases, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases reported in Punjab has reached 151.After Dera Bassi and Banga, Pathankot district has seen a surge in Covid-positive cases As per the state’s media bulletin, 11 cases have been reported from SAS Nagar, eight from Pathankot and one each from Sangrur and Jalandhar.Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block in Mohali district has turned into a hotspot as 10 more Covid-19 patients, including a six-month-old boy, have tested positive, taking the count to 32 in the village. A 78-year-old woman with comorbidities had also tested positive, taking the count to 48 in Mohali. The 10 persons, including seven males and three females, who had tested positive, are family members of the panch and sarpanch of Jawaharpur village.After the village became the new disease hotspot, the district administration has sealed it along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur, deploying 75 policemen with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement. Besides, a 78-year-old woman from Kharar who had died on April 7, had tested positive of Covid.Besides Mohali, eight new cases were reported from Pathankot district. This takes the total to 15 in the district. Of the eight fresh cases, seven are being linked to the family of Raj Rani (75), who died a few days ago in an Amritsar hospital. However, Raj Rani or her family members didn’t have any links with the eighth case. This seems to be a case of ‘community spread.’ She was working as a maid in Pathankot, whereas Raj Rani’s family is based in Sujanpur.A 17-year-old boy, who is the grandson of the Nijatam Nagar woman in Jalandhar, also tested positive today. Contrary to preliminary reports that they were visited by Italian relatives, the family has expressed apprehensions that someone at a langar, which the elderly woman attended on March 10 to 12, might be the cause of the infection since NRIs, ashram sadhvis, godmen and other dignitaries had come there. Many of them have returned now. In Sangrur, a man has tested positive and has been placed under isolation.As per the department, so far, samples of 3,461 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 2,972 samples were found negative and reports of 338 were awaited.
11-04-2020||---||NRIs lend a helping hand to villagers in Jalandhar area||Jalandhar, April 10At Jajjan Kalan village, four elderly NRIs have taken it upon themselves to ensure the villagers get proper food supply. NRI sarpanch Amrik Singh (76) serves tea at midnight to 12 men on guard duty at various nakas of the village. At Virk village in Phillaur, where three persons who had previously tested positive have been cured, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Club daily supplies food to over 150 families under quarantine and health employees deputed there.Panchayats of Bachowal and Dyalpur, too, are supplying food to villagers and holding “theekri pehras”. At Sangal Sohal village, over 2,000 families of migrants and needy villagers are provided langar every day.From distributing ration , holding “theekri pehras”, deploying tractor-installed pumps to sanitising villages are setting example in organising mini-social distancing movements in pockets to ensure stopping of Covid-19 pandemic.Birmingham-based NRI Amrik Singh (76), sarpanch of Jajjan Kalan village, himself is chipping in, along with three NRI friends of the village, to provide food to the men standing guard across 24 nakas in the village. After the lockdown was implemented, the NRIs were faced with the challenging task of providing ration to 146 migrant families. The England-returned NRI families pooled in money to help for the noble cause.They said with the help of the government, they planned to keep up the food supply for two months.Amrik Singh said, “It’s our resolve, as long as we NRIs are around, we just have to ensure the ration keeps flowing in. Village youth do guard duties and we encourage them with our support.”Sumit Basra from Virk village, one of the organisers, said, “Since many families were placed under quarantine after curfew was imposed, our panchayats stepped up the efforts. We have been feeding the village’s needy residents and those under quarantine after some people tested positive. The village took it upon itself to provide food to the families. Now that three patients have tested negative, it’s time to celebrate. We ensure food to whoever can’t go out during the isolation period.”Mangal Singh from Sangal Sohal village said Hoshiarpur-based Dhann Guru Ramdas Ji Langar Sewa from Pur Hiran village had been sending a vehicle daily since April 1 providing langar to over 2,000 migrant, factory workers and needy villagers daily.Mangal Singh said, “We have 1,600-1,700 migrant workers in the village alone who are being provided food daily.”
11-04-2020||---||In Moga, 242 home-quarantined||Moga, April 10Reports of at least 16 persons who came in contact with four Covid-19 patients at Cheeda village in the Moga district have come out negative, Chief Medical Officer Dr Andesh Kang said today.She said the samples of 20 persons were taken by the Health Department. The reports of at least 16 people came out negative while the samples of four had been sent again for clinical tests.Apart from this, the CMO said the department today conducted survey of 95 houses and home quarantined 242 people in Cheeda and adjoining villages. As many as 21 samples were collected testing. She reiterated that people should refrain from going outdoors. If a person goes out of house, he or she should remember to maintain social distance of at least three feet away from each other.Meanwhile, the health officials and employees today conducted door-to-door survey under District Epidemiologist Dr Manish of all the areas where four coronavirus-positive persons had ventured out while their stay at Cheeda and nearby villages.The team visited a total of 95 houses, including 19 at Sukhanand village, 40 at Cheeda village and 36 at Thathi Bhai village. A total of 242 people had been home quarantined, including 58 in Sukhanand, 146 in Cheeda and 38 at Thathi Bhai villages. At least, 21 new samples had been collected that include five from Sukhanand, 12 from Cheeda, three from Thathi Bhai and one from Bambiha Bhai village.
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab declares summer vacation in schools from today||Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla informed that the Cabinet under the chairmanship of CM Capt Amarinder Singh has decided to advance summer vacations of both government and private schools in the state to cope up the study losses due to lockdown imposed to avert Covid-19.Also readSingla said now the one-month summer vacation would be from April 11 till May 10. He said the Cabinet also decided to promote Class V and VIII students of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) based on the examinations held before the imposition of curfew in the state.Singla said the parents were worried about loss of the study of their wards during the curfew and decision of preponing the vacations would give relief to them. He added that all private schools should also have to start the vacations from April 11, but they were free to extend the period as per their requirement. — TNS
11-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Timely action saved  Bathinda district from virus spread||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 10Sealed off borderBathinda district has not seen a single case of Covid-19 so far. The district administration sealed its interstate border with Haryana after curfew was imposed on March 22 to stop the influx of persons from other states.As per information, from March 22 to April 8, samples of 100 suspected patients were taken and sent for testing at a Patiala lab, of which 98 reports tested negative, while two reports are awaited.In a major relief to residents, as many as 77 samples taken of those with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been reported negative. The remaining 23 samples were taken from NRIs who had come from Covid-affected countries and these all also have also been reported negative.Moreover, the Health Department got a list of 1,587 people with international and domestic travel history since January 1 in the district, of which 1,577 people were traced and kept in 14 days’ home quarantine. The department claims 10 persons who had not been traced had given their addresses. These had been sent to the police.The police here have been particularly strict against violators of curfew. From March 22 to April 9, the Bathinda police filed 74 cases of curfew violations at 19 police stations. As many as 245 persons were booked and 170 were arrested. The police are also keeping a tab on violations using drones.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “We understand the problems being faced by poor people due to the curfew, but the risk of Covid is far more serious than these problems. One small mistake can prove deadly for the whole district.”He said the disease only got transmitted through mutual contact and everyone should understand the meaning of social distancing and should not step out of their homes. He said the district administration was working day and night to transport goods of daily use to people.
11-04-2020||---||Plans afoot to procure 137 lakh MT wheat in Punjab amid lockdown||Chandigarh, April 10As the entire country looks to Punjab for its food security during the lockdown, the state government is set to test its efficacy in foodgrain procurement, albeit under the watchful eye of the police.Efforts on to provide sanitisers at mandisThe government is making arrangements to provide sanitisers, masks and soaps at all mandis. Every few hours, an alarm will be sounded in the mandis to indicate that all those present wash their hands and sanitise themselves. — Vishwajit Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary (Development)The exercise to allow farmers to harvest and then procure almost 137 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat, being launched by the state government from April 15, will be unprecedented.A never before seen size of government officials, cutting across multiple departments, will be ensuring that all social distancing norms are followed as this massive exercise unfolds. While 115 lakh metric tonnes are to be procured by government agencies, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will be procuring 20 lakh metric tonnes of wheat and 2 lakh metric tonnes of the grain is expected to be procured by private traders/flour mills.For this mammoth operation, which is expected to last over a month, officials of state procurement agencies, police, Health Department, Public Works Department, local government and Public Health Department among others will be involved.“The procurement operations have been planned with the minutest details, considering the extraordinary circumstances arising out of the spread of Covid. Social distancing norms will be followed right from harvesting the crop to allowing farmers in a market yard on a given day and time; and from the produce he can bring in one trolley to how his produce is to be kept in heaps of 50 quintals each,” Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Vishwajit Khanna told The Tribune.He agreed that lifting the heaps would have to be efficient so that space for the next pile/bale of grains was created instantly. Not just the farmers, labour, officials and arhtiyas in mandis will be maintaining social distance. Even the foodgrains brought by each farmer will be kept in separate heaps.The proposal to collect foodgrains from the doorsteps has been dropped, but the government has more than doubled the market yards to 3,761 purchase centres, which include rice mills notified as market yards. All Deputy Commissioners will be issuing inter-district passes to arhtiyas for movement and sourcing of labour, while the arhtiyas will be issuing token to all farmers.Only those farmers who receive the token for a particular day and time, for a specific mandi, will be allowed to bring their produce to the mandis after the police deployed outside their villages have thoroughly screened their token and allowed them to leave. Even outside each market yard, the token will be inspected, besides thermal screening of each farmer.In event of any Covid positive case coming to the mandis, the entire area will be sealed and arrangements for procurement in another market yard will be made.
11-04-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet fiscal panel to be expanded||Chandigarh, April 10The Council of Ministers on Friday authorised Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh Minister to nominate four additional members on the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Fiscal Management for broadbased discussion and decision on expenditure cuts needed to tackle the Covid-19 crisis.Reviewing the state’s fiscal situation amid the crisis, the Cabinet also asked the various departments to send their proposals for expenditure cuts by Monday and it was decided that the sub-committee would meet on Tuesday to discuss the same.The Chief Minister, who heads the sub-committee, underlined the need to generate resources for the Covid battle, and also suggested expansion of the sub-committee to make the discussions more broadbased.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal informed the meeting that Rs 30,000 crore of revenue earned through the upcoming procurement operations would be infused into the state’s economy. This would help in strengthening the Covid battle of the state, said Captain Amarinder.
11-04-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet's nod to clinical establishment ordinance||Chandigarh, April 10 The Cabinet has approved the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance-2020, to bring the state’s private hospitals under the umbrella of the Covid-19 battle. It was necessary for the private hospitals to join the battle against Covid-19, said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, while chairing a video-conference of the Council of Ministers. The Chief Minister was authorised by the Council to approve the final draft of the Bill after its legal vetting.   The ordinance will provide for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of clinical standards and protocols and transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.  It is proposed that the Punjab Health Council may be headed by an expert/ professional of national repute instead of a bureaucrat, with at least two other professionals as members.   The Council also resolved to urge upon the Government of India to establish an Advance Centre of Virology in Punjab with an anticipated investment of Rs 500 crore, with the state government to offer land free of cost for the project. The Chief Minister has written to the Prime Minister  on the issue.
11-04-2020||---||DCs authorised to declare new mandis for procurement||Chandigarh, April 10The Cabinet on Friday authorised Deputy Commissioners to declare new mandis in their respective districts to ensure social distancing during wheat procurement.Pay workers from ESIC fundsThe Centre should use ESIC, MGNREGA and other funds to provide part of wages or lump sum financial assistance to industrial workers during the lockdown. It is impossible for the industrial sector, which largely comprises MSMEs, to pay wages to workers. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterThese will be in addition to the 3,800 mandis already notified this year, said an official after a video-conference of ministers.The Cabinet took stock of the preparations for harvesting and procurement of wheat, scheduled to begin on April 15. It was decided that the procurement arrangements should be finalised and notified by April 11 so that every grain was procured in a staggered manner.The state has already decided to extend procurement till June 15 and sought incentives from the Centre for delayed transportation to mandis by farmers in view of the Covid outbreak. The Centre is yet to respond to the state’s demand.The Cabinet noted that the standard operating procedure (SOP) on procurement of wheat should be widely circulated and publicised so that all protocols, including provision of sanitisers and handwashing arrangements, could be strictly complied with. DGP Dinkar Gupta has been asked to come out with a comprehensive security plan for the mandis.The Cabinet was informed that while 73 percent of the state’s requirement for gunny bales had been met, the remaining (7.2 lakh bales) would be met with PP bags if the West Bengal government did not start production on time. As of now, West Bengal has only resumed transportation of 27,000 bales.ACS (Development) Vishwajit Khanna said rules had been amended to make payments to farmers through arhtiyas instead of direct bank transfer that was to be introduced this year. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had earlier suggested change in order to maintain continuity and stability in these difficult times.The Mandi Board has already extended the validity of licences of arhtiyas, which were to expire on March 31, till the wheat procurement is over. They will be paid within 48 hours of procurement and required to pay farmers in the next 48 hours.The ACS told the Cabinet that 3,718 purchase centres set up in the state included 153 main yards, 283 sub yards, 1,430 purchase centres and rice mills.Khanna said the Centre had fixed the MSP of wheat at Rs 1,925 per quintal for the current RMS. A farmer will be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or on different days, depending on space in order to avoid rush in the mandis. About 27 lakh coupons will be issued. Farmers will be allowed to bring one trolley having 50 quintals of wheat.
11-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||With ‘cancer train’ suspended, treatment comes to a standstill||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 10Cancer patients in the region have been hit hard with the suspension of the Abohar-Jodhpur express, also known as ‘Cancer train’. Owing to the nationwide lockdown, many patients have not been able to travel to Bikaner for further treatment.The train would leave Abohar every day carrying patients, mostly small farmers from Punjab’s cotton belt — Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka — for treatment at Acharya Tulsi Regional Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Bikaner. Although the numbers dipped with the opening of Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI), Bathinda, and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Sangrur, yet many continued taking treatment at Bikaner.Scheduled surgeries of cancer patients at the ASI have been put off, rued Gurdeep Kaur of Mahinangal village and Angrej Kaur of Maur, both undergoing treatment for breast cancer. Pawan Kumar of Fazilka, suffering from head and neck cancer, said: “I was undergoing treatment at Bikaner. But owing to the lockdown, I opted for the Bathinda institute. Now, that too has been converted into a quarantine facility.” Patients undergoing chemotherapy are hit most.Dr Parvinder Sandhu, an oncologist, admitted that with the third floor of the ACI earmarked for Covid patients, some surgeries had been postponed.“Also, there is only one X-ray test station which can’t be used for both cancer and Covid patients,” he added.
11-04-2020||---||In Punjab, 27 cases sans travel history, says Capt||New Delhi, April 10In state of preparednessPunjab has 434 operational ventilators of which 358 are in the private sector; 93 more orderedPunjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today said the state was witnessing the onset of community transmission with most of the 27 Covid cases confirmed on Thursday being that of secondary transmission, with no travel history or contact with a recent traveller.The CM cited a study by Chandigarh PGI’s Department of Community Medicine to say Covid-19 would peak in mid-September at a point when 58 per cent of India’s population could be affected. “It is likely to infect 87 per cent of Punjab’s population, says this study,” the CM said. The PGI Chandigarh dissociated from the report and said they were not aware of any such projections.The Punjab CM’s office later clarified that the projections cited were based on a mathematical modelling study by Dr Shankar Prinja, Additional Professor of Health Economics, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, and his team.“The Committee on Health Sector Response and Procurement headed by Vini Mahajan with ex-PGI Director Dr KK Talwar as professional adviser had sought an urgent assessment of Punjab’s Covid-19 scenario from Dr Prinja to plan its preparedness,” an official spokesperson said.Punjab has 651 cases related to Delhi’s Nizamuddin cluster of which 636 have been traced and 27 have been confirmed as positive.
11-04-2020||---||Punjab extends lockdown, curfew till May 1||Chandigarh, April 10STAY HOME, ADHERE TO HEALTH SAFEGUARDSGiven the seriousness of the situation... Cabinet has decided to extend the lockdown. These are difficult times & I appeal to all to stay home & strictly observe health safeguards as you have done so far.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMAmid apprehensions of the community spread of Covid-19 and the need to prevent overcrowding in mandis during the upcoming wheat harvesting and procurement season, the Punjab Government on Friday decided to extend the curfew in the state till May 1. This comes on a day global death toll crossed 1 lakh.The decision, taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Capt Amarinder Singh, will be conveyed to PM Narendra Modi at his video conference with CMs on Saturday.Punjab has become the second state after Odisha to extend the lockdown. The Odisha Government had on Thursday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown till April 30.Capt Amarinder Singh informed his Cabinet colleagues that most of the 27 positive cases reported on Thursday, the highest single-day increase in the state, were cases of secondary transmission, an indication that the state was moving into the community transmission stage. Citing grim projections about the spread of the virus in the coming weeks, the CM said the curfew restrictions were essential so that the medical infrastructure wouldn’t get overburdened. There was a consensus in the medical community that the lockdown curbs would only delay the spread of the disease, he said.The Cabinet also approved the setting up a high-powered committee to suggest a road map for the state’s economic revival in the post-Covid period.States must not allow religious gatherings: MHANew Delhi, April 10The Centre today sent an advisory to states and Union Territory administrations, asking them to ensure strict compliance with lockdown measures to fight Covid-19 and not allow any social and religious gatherings and processions.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) advisory said, “In view of the ensuing festivals in the month of April, it is directed that all states/UTs must ensure strict compliance with lockdown measures to fight Covid-19 and not allow any social/religious gathering/procession.”The advisory directed top functionaries of the state and UT governments to communicate to district authorities and field agencies the specific prohibitions as mentioned in the consolidated guidelines on lockdown measures.“Appropriate vigil on social media should also be maintained against circulation of any objectionable content,” the advisory said. — TNS15-member task force to plan exit strategyState to turn to Montek for revival plan
