11-07-2020||---||Four booked for misbehaving with medical staff in Patiala||Patiala, July 11Patiala Police booked four persons for misbehaving with frontline workers, who were on duty in a micro containment zone, in the Civil Line area here on Saturday.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said four persons – Rani, Pooja, Monu and Karan Kumar – were booked under 188, 186, 506 IPC and 51 Disaster Management Act for violation of micro-containment zone norms at Dhiru Ki Majri.Sidhu said these persons obstructed medical staff on duty at the micro-containment zone and also behaved indecently with them."Doctors are frontline warriors in this COVID-19 pandemic. They are working day and night to save humanity. Patiala Police is committed to the safety of doctors and other health staff and any misbehaviour/assault on any team of doctors will not be tolerated," said the SSP.
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab adds 8 deaths, 231 new cases to coronavirus tally||Punjab reported eight coronavirus deaths and 231 new cases, a development that takes the state’s count to 7,587 with 195 deaths.Patiala and Jalandhar both reported two deaths each, the Punjab’s COVID bulletin said. Pathankot, Ludhiana, Bathinda and Sangrur made up the rest of Saturday’s death count. Jalandhar’s COVID-19 cases, as well as its deaths, continue to rise alarmingly: the district reported 77 new coronavirus cases on Saturday---the highest of any district in Punjab.Patiala also reported a significant number of coronavirus cases---at 55, it had the second highest number of the day.The two districts accounted for 57 per cent of the day’s COVID-19 cases.Besides, Ludhiana (29), Amritsar (19), SAS Nagar (12), Sangrur (7), Ferozepur (8), Gudaspur (2), Hoshiarpur (1), SBS Nagar (1), Faridkot (3), , Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Moga (5), Bathinda (1), Fazilka (2), and Barnala (2) all reported new coronavirus cases.Besides these, six people with source of infection outside Punjab also tested positive in the state, but these have not been added to the final tally.District-wise breakup of COVID-19 cases now stands thus: Ludhiana (1316), Jalandhar (1187), Amritsar (1040),  Sangrur (629), Patiala (563), SAS Nagar (368), Gurdaspur (287), Pathankot (244), Tarn Taran (216), Hoshiarpur (194), SBS Nagar (190), Ferozepur (155), Fatehgarh Sahib (144),  Muktsar (144), Moga (143), Faridkot (152), Barnala (74), Mansa (57), Bathinda (129), Kapurthala (126)Ropar (124), and Fazilka (105).Authorities have declared Habibganj Sehnsi Mohalla and Ashok Nagar in Ludhiana, Bhargo Camp, Fatehpuri and Makhdoompura in Jalandhar, Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur, Fedral Behra in SAS Nagar’s Dera Bassi and Jain Street in SBS Nagar’s Rahon as containment zones, the medical bulletin showed.Death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (31), Jalandhar (25), Amritsar (51),  Sangrur (18), Patiala (12), Gurdaspur (8), SAS Nagar (7), Hoshiarpur (7), Pathankot (7), Tarn Taran (5), Kapurthala (6), Bathinda (4), Moga (4), Ferozepur (3), Fatehgarh Sahib (2),  Muktsar (1), Barnala (2), SBS Nagar (1),and Ropar (1).Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar account for 46 per cent of the state’s coronavirus cases and 54 per cent of its deaths.Ludhiana and Amritsar each have one patient on ventilator support, the bulletin shows. One patient is currently in the Intensive Care Unit.The state has 2,352 active COVID-19 cases currently.
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder writes to PM, seeks review of UGC guidelines on exams||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to the Prime Minister seeking permission to let the state government adhere to its July 3 decision on cancellation of university/college examinations in view of the exponentially rising Covid cases.In his letter, the Chief Minister has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to advise the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the University Grants Commission (UGC) to reconsider its decision on mandatory conduct of final term exams by September.“The UGC may be asked to reiterate its earlier issued guidelines of 29th April 2020, wherein it had been clearly mentioned that the guidelines were advisory in nature and each State/University would chart out its own plan of action taking into consideration the issues pertaining to Covid-19 pandemic,” Amarinder urged the Prime Minister.The Chief Minister noted that the state government, after due deliberation and taking into account the Covid-19 situation and attendant issues of safety of students and staff, had on July 3, 2020 decided to cancel all pending UG and PG final term examinations and to promote students on the basis of performance in previous years/semesters.“In addition, we have also allowed conduct of examinations for the purpose of improvement of grades for interested students, once the situation becomes conducive,” the CM pointed out, stressing that “This would ensure academic credibility, career opportunities, future prospects and fair and equal opportunity for students in both urban and rural areas.”The Punjab Higher Education Minister has already written to the Union HRD Minister on July 10 in this regard, the Chief Minister, who had earlier said he would approach the Prime Minister on this issue, pointed out in the letter.He further noted that the “battle against Covid-19 has entered a significant phase with number of cases increasing exponentially and various studies pointing to peaking of cases over the next few months”.“In view of this rising trend of cases, I am not sure whether the situation will be conducive for conducting offline physical examinations by September,” he said, adding that conducting physical examination will also involve huge logistical and operational challenges, especially in view of large number of college/university buildings and hostels having been taken over by the District Administration for Covid-19 management purposes.On the other hand, stressed the Chief Minister, “Conducting online examination for such large number of students, majority of whom reside in rural areas without assured access to computers/laptops and Internet, is also not possible.”It may be recalled that soon after the Ministry of Home Affairs orders and the pursuant guidelines of the UGC, issued on July 7, the Chief Minister had made it clear that he did not consider the situation to be conducive for holding exams in the state in the light of the Covid situation.
11-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Punjabi singer Gurnam Bhullar booked for flouting Covid guidelines during shoot||Tribune News Service Patiala, July 11Patiala Police have booked Punjab singer Gurnam Bhullar and others for violating social distancing and not wearing face masks. The singer was shooting in a mall in Rajpura town of the district on Saturday. It has been learnt that the entire crew of the shoot was not wearing masks. Moreover, the police said, the singer did not have required permission to shoot there.Akashdeep Singh Aulakh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Rajpura, said the singer -- along with video director and owner of the mall—have been booked under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Act, 1897.Besides Bhullar, the accused in the case are Khushpal Singh, Satish Ahuja, Ashwin Suri and 40 unidentified persons.
11-07-2020||---||75 new COVId-19 cases surface in Jalandhar, two more die||Jalandhar, July 1175 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Jalandhar on Saturday, taking the tally in the district to 1,166.Meanwhile, two deaths were also reported today. With the two more deaths, the death toll in the city has climbed to 25.Details are awaited.
11-07-2020||Balwant Garg||MCI launches online monitoring system to supervise admissions, stipend payment to MD/MS students||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 11Amidst the allegations of some private medical colleges not adhering to the Indian Medical Council Act in making the admission in the postgraduate medical courses (MD/MS) and not making adequate payment of stipend to these junior resident doctors, the Board of Governors in Supersession of the Medical Council of India (BoG MCI) has announced to launch an online Student Admission Online Monitoring System.The objective of this online monitoring system is to ensure faithful adherence to the norms of admissions laid down in the regulations and to promote transparency and accountability in the medical education, reads the letter sent by the BoG MCI to the Principals and Deans of all medical colleges in the state on Friday.Every medical college has to provide details of the admission of every candidate. These details include his/her All India Rank in NEET-PG-2020, the state rank, percentile score and the amount of the stipend being paid to the junior resident doctor.As most junior resident doctors, who are pursuing the MD/MS and Post Graduate Medical Diploma courses in private medical colleges, have grouse of them not getting the adequate stipend, the BoG MCI in its letter to all medical colleges on Friday wrote that the postgraduate students undergoing degree/diploma and super-speciality courses are to be paid at par with the stipend being paid to the postgraduate students of the state government medical colleges.This online monitoring system will start from July 24 for all Broad Specialty postgraduate courses and all medical colleges/institutions must submit the admission details of every postgraduate student by August 10 for Broad Specialty Courses. After August 10, the colleges will not be allowed to enter the details of the students into the Student Admission Online Monitoring System for the current academic year.No receipt of this information online from the medical colleges within the stipulated time will reflect on the recommendation to be made by the MCI to the Central Government for grant of permission and recognition to the medical college for that academic year and the subsequent academic years, warns the MCI.The MCI can ask for the supportive documents like caste certificate, details of the NEET-PG exam as and when these are required by the Monitoring Cell, reads the letter.The MCI has directed colleges that all admission be made only and exclusively through the NEET which was conducted by the National Board of Examination in January this year.No admission is made beyond the sanctioned intake capacity and no admission is permitted beyond the cut-off date.
11-07-2020||---||32 people test coronavirus positive in Patiala||Patiala, July 11Thirty-three people in this district tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday morning.With this, Patiala district has reported 74 cases of the virus in the last 24 hours.Of 33, the highest number of cases, 20, was reported from Samana block. Eight were reported from Patiala city while one each from Patran and Rajpura. Three cases were reported from various villages.With this the total number of infected people till now is 553.Patiala has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases. In the past week, Patiala has reported over 160 cases. Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said people were hiding their travel and contact history; therefore, cases were on the rise. He requested people to report travellers to the health department.
11-07-2020||Washington||Indian Ambassador holds virtual interaction with Sikh leaders in US||Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu has held a virtual interaction with members of the Sikh community in the United States, during which the participating diaspora leaders pledged to contribute in India's development with particular focus on Punjab.“Wonderful interaction with prominent members of the vibrant Sikh Indian-American community,” Sandhu tweeted on Friday soon after the virtual meeting, which was attended by about 100 eminent Sikh leaders.During the two-hour-long meeting, the ambassador briefed the community members on the India-US strategic ties and praised their immense contribution in the socio-economic milieu of the United States and development of India.The Sikh leaders expressed interest in helping to develop Punjab, in sectors such as education and environment.“There was a lot of enthusiasm to do something towards the overall development of Punjab,” according to a participating official.During his previous postings in the US in various capacities, Sandhu has been instrumental in engaging the Sikh diaspora.He had played a key role in the first ever meeting of the Sikh community leaders here with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the latter's visit in 2016. PTI
11-07-2020||---||Day after, Health Dept mum on contact tracing of SSP in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 10A day after the SSP Jalandhar was tested positive within 24 hours of attending a high profile wedding, attended by many big wigs of the district, the Health Department maintains a silence on the status of those present on the occasion. While the SSP who tested positive yesterday has been placed under home isolation, department officials remained mum on whether any of those present at the wedding had been tested.3 Migrants Catch Virus, Hoshiarpur Tally 197Sources said officials received calls from senior leaders on the testing status and protocol. As per sources, some of the leaders are opting for private testing as all the government tests were going to the Faridkot lab.Samples of the family members of SDM Shahkot – who tested positive yesterday – have also been taken.However, there is no official word from the health authorities on whether any of the contacts of the senior police officials were being sampled for Covid-19.Dist reports 49 new casesWith 49 more persons testing positive on Friday, the number of cases in the district has risen to 1,091. With one casualty, the death toll climbed to 23.The deceased was a 67-year-old man from Bhur Mandi. He had tested positive on Thursday. Of the 49 new cases, 10 are women. Fresh cases also included 18 defence personnel, seven residents from Makhdoompura, a hot spot which is fastly churning out new cases, and a CRPF personnel, who is a resident of Sarai Khas.
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Gurjit Singh Aujla urges CM to shift fake Covid reports probe back to Vigilance||A day after the probe into the fake Covid reports scam was shifted to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau, Amritsar’s MP Gurjit Singh Aujla on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to either transfer the probe back to the Vigilance Bureau or mark a judicial probe into the case by a sitting Punjab and Haryana High Court judge.What MP wrote in letter to CMIn a letter to the CM, MP Aujla said when the Vigilance Bureau was about to bring conclusive results in the case, the probe was shifted to the local police, which apparently happened for the first time in the history of the Punjab Police.He said this had led to a standoff between the patients’ families and the medical staff of the EMC hospital and the situation would turn ugly if the government did not reverse the decision.In a letter to the CM, he said when the Vigilance Bureau was about to bring conclusive results in this case, the probe was shifted to the local police, which apparently happened for the first time in the history of the Punjab Police. He said this had led to a standoff between the patients’ families and the medical staff of the EMC hospital and the situation would turn ugly if the government did not reverse the decision.Aujla urged the CM to transfer the probe back to the Vigilance Bureau or order a judicial probe under the supervision of a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to reach the bottom of the matter.In an interesting turn of events, the Punjab Government has shifted the fake Covid reports scam to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau. Many eyebrows were raised over the sudden development even as the accused had applied for bail in the local courts. The victims in the case had expressed their disappointment over the development.On June 24, the Vigilance Bureau had booked five doctors and a hospital owner on charges of murder bid, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption. They were accused of fleecing patients by issuing “wrong” Covid-positive reports. The VB found at least seven persons, including a pregnant woman doctor, who were issued wrong reports that they were infected with the Covid-19 disease. It also hinted at the involvement of government officials and health staff in the racket.Those booked were identified as Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Ridhum Tuli, Dr Sanjay Piplani, Dr Robin Tuli (all from Tuli Diagnostic Centre), Pawan Arora (owner of EMC Hospital) and Dr Pankaj Soni of EMC Hospital.Vicky Dutta, one of the complainants in the case, said before approaching the VB, they had met local police officials who had marked a probe to the Civil Surgeon’s office while pointing out that as per government guidelines, they could not directly act against the doctors until the Health Department asked them to do so. “If the local police did not do anything at that time, what they would do now,” he said.A political activist, Mandeep Singh Manna, alleged that the step was taken to give a clean chit to big fishes involved in the racket. “The Vigilance Bureau is an independent agency and the victims were satisfied with the probe conducted so far. There was no point shifting the probe at this juncture. This clearly indicates that the accused managed to use their influence in shifting the probe,” Manna added.
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Pingalwara Trust shifts annual social outreach activities online||The All India Pingalwara Charitable Trust for the first time will be marking the 28th death anniversary activities in memory of its founder Bhagat Puran Singh on digital platforms. With the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the charitable organisation will host the multiple social outreach activities this year mostly on its social media handles. Informing about the same, Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, All India Pingalwara Charitable Society, said, “Bhagat Puran Singh’s death anniversary falls on August 5 and every year Pingalwara will carry out philanthropic programmes”.“Every year we mark the day by hosting different social welfare activities, organising medical camps. But this year, we have to keep in mind the social distancing and safety guidelines. So, we have shifted our activities and interactions online. From July 10 to July 19, documentary films and shorts based on the life of Bhagat Puran Singh and his works, Pingalwara’s social outreach programmes will be screened on our multiple social media handles, including Facebook, Instagram and other platforms. These films will be screened at 4 pm everyday and include acclaimed film Eh Janam Tumhare Lekhe, a biographical film starring actor Pawan Malhotra on Bhagat ji’s life. Also documentaries like Shubh Karman and short films on Pingalwara’s school and organic farms will also be screened,” she said.These documentaries will also be telecast in Canada and UK. She further informed that apart from these documentaries, Pingalwara will also host online interactions with scholars and prominent personalities from Punjab associated with Pingalwara. “We also have few rare video clips featuring memoirs from Bhagat Puran Singh’s life that have never been seen before. We will also be showing them to our members and patrons through social media platforms,” said Dr Inderjit Kaur. The Pingalwara will also host blood donation camp in his memory.
11-07-2020||Moga||Foundation stone laid||
11-07-2020||Jalandhar||Manoranjan Kalia seeks inquiry into ration distribution||Probe appointment of adviser by minister: SADChandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to order registration of a criminal case and probe into the “illegal appointment” of a professional adviser by Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the professional adviser had been appointed illegally by the minister without taking the required Cabinet approval and had been given a salary of Rs 2.60 lakh per month which was unprecedented in the history of the state. TNSAsr jail head warden among 7 held for drug traffickingAmritsar: The Special Task Force (STF) of the Punjab Police have arrested seven persons, including head warden of the Amritsar Central Jail, in connection with drug trafficking. The STF recovered 277-gm heroin and around Rs 7 lakh from their possession. TNS
11-07-2020||Hyderabad case redux||Add Dubey||The killing of Dubey and some of his henchmen in a series of alleged encounters is reminiscent of the killing of four accused in the Hyderabad veterinary doctor’s rape-murder case in 2019. All four accused were then killed at one go in an exchange of fire. Police in both cases claimed the suspects “snatched” weapons and opened fire, forcing retaliatory action “in self-defence”. PTI
11-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Parents in fix over new US rule for international students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10The US Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s decision to ask international students, whose classes have shifted online, to leave the country has put parents in a dilemma.Those students who came back to India ahead of the lockdown have been searching for flights to return to the US and resume their classes. The ones who stayed back in the US are a worried lot as they do not want to get deported.Dr Monika Bawa, pediatric surgeon, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said her son Akshit had joined Brown University last year. “As Covid spread in the US, we called him back. He continued his online classes and even gave exams from home. His F-1 visa will expire by mid-August.”She said, “The bigger worry is to get the flight booked so that my son can get his visa extended. We are in a fix.”Amritsar-based Sarabjit Singh stays with his son, who studies at University of California. He said, “My son has completed his bachelor’s degree. The US government wants to save universities as international students are demanding slashing of fee as classes are being held online.”He said, “Things are likely to get normal as universities will adopt hybrid format of education wherein students will attend practical classes and theory part will be held online.”Aarti Raina whose son studies in Chicago, said, “My son had joined bachelor’s course in 2018. He is doing major in physics and mathematics. His classes were held online from March to May. Later, his institute gave them a break. His university is yet to decide whether classes will be held hybrid or online. In case his classes are held online, he may be deported.”
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Complete all tourism projects on time: Channi||Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister Charnajit Singh Channi has directed the officials of the department to complete all projects on time. During a meeting, he reviewed the work on development of Medal Gallery and  Coin Museum being developed at Mohindra Kothi, Patiala, at an approximate cost of Rs 8.95 crore under an ADB- assisted IDIPT Project, conservation of Ranbaas at Qila Mubarak in Patiala (Rs 7.50 crore) and the conservation work of Moti Mahal at Qila Mubarak, Patiala (Rs 9 crore). During the meeting, the beautification works of Sher Shah Suri Chowk on the Sirhind- Morinda road, the road near Gurdwara Sri Jyoti Swaroop, samadhi of Shaheed Udham Singh and development of tourism infrastructure at Jahaj Haweli of DiwanTodar Mal, Dera Mir Mian Tomb and Sadna Kasai Tomb were also reviewed. —TNS
11-07-2020||---||Cyprus returnees await resumption of flights||Jalandhar, July 10Over 60 persons from Punjab and Haryana, who are either studying or doing a job in Cyprus, had come to India in the wake of the Covid outbreak. They’re now in a fix, as they want to return to Cyprus, but there are no flights available.About 20 of them from Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Bathinda gathered here to share their plight and decide the future course of action. Of them, a few said their visas had expired, but the Cyprus government officials had assured them of reinstating these after the resumption of flights. Despite repeated requests to the government officials, they were in complete dark as to when the flights would resume.Gurpreet Kaur (35) from Sangal Sohal village of Jalandhar said: “Being just a matriculate, I had no means to earn in India. To feed my three children, I had left my house and started working in Cyprus as a domestic maid to ensure that my children could get a decent education. Now that I am stuck here, with no job in hand, I intend to return to Cyprus as soon as possible”.Manpreet Singh of Jalandhar said he was pursuing a course in hotel management in Cyprus and was doing a part-time job there, but his visa had now expired. “I have been told by the consulate that I will be reinstated and allowed to continue with my studies and job, if I manage to get a flight from India,” he said.A resident of Rampura Phull in Bathinda, Harpreet Kaur (22) said she was pursuing a course in hotel management and her spouse Rajwinder Singh was doing a course in business management. “We are stranded here as there are no flights. Our college does not allow us to go about our studies online. We are required to physically attend the classes,” shared Harpreet.
11-07-2020||---||Hike in fuel prices sends vegetable prices soaring||Bathinda, July 10Disruptions in supply chain and a continuous rise in fuel prices have sent vegetable prices soaring in the state. The high prices are burning a hole in the common man’s pocket as rates of almost all vegetables have gone up by 20-30 per cent in the market.The price of onions, tomatoes, peas, cauliflower, bottle gourd and bitter gourd has sky-rocketed. Residents are finding it difficult to manage the kitchen.A visit to the vegetable market revealed that the price of tomatoes is presently Rs 65-70 per kg, which was Rs 40 per kg earlier. Peas, which was selling at Rs 45 per kg, is now being sold at Rs 70 per kg.Similarly, bottle gourd is now being sold at Rs 40 per kg, which was earlier available at Rs 15 per kg. The price of capsicum has also increased from Rs 25 per kg to Rs 45-50 per kg.The price of brinjal and lady finger has increased from Rs 20 to Rs 40 per kg. Cauliflower, which was earlier available at Rs 25 per kg, is now being sold at Rs 40 per kg.During the lockdown, the prices of vegetables were quite low as locally grown vegetables were coming to the market, but now, farmers have planted paddy due to which vegetables are coming from other states. The hike in fuel price has added to the problem. Moreover, the demand is high but the supply is short.The prices are expected to rise in the coming days as heavy rains can further disrupt supply chain of vegetables.Subhash Kumar, a vegetable seller, said “We are getting vegetables at high rates. Then there are transportation and labour charges, which add to the prices of vegetables. Customers need to bear with us as we, too, are helpless.”
11-07-2020||---||Muslim families of Malerkotla donate wheat to keep Golden Temple langar going||Sangrur, July 10In what can be viewed as a gesture to maintain communal harmony, Muslim families of Malerkotla have started sending tonnes of wheat to the Golden temple in Amritsar to help the authorities, who are grappling with the problem of ration to run the community kitchen.On Thursday evening, the families sent two trucks carrying 330 quintals of wheat to the Harmandir Sahib. In the coming days, more such consignments are expected to be delivered.“Given that lakhs of devotees come go the gurdwara every day, our contribution is very small. We want to contribute as much as we can to help the authorities in running the community kitchen. After we came to know that the authorities are facing trouble due to lack of ration supply, we decided to help,” Dr Naseer Akhtar, president, Sikh Muslim Sanjha foundation, told The Tribune.Members of the foundation had started collecting wheat around 22 days ago, and got an overwhelming response. Every house they visited donated wheat.“We purchased wheat from the money that some families had donated, which had amounted to Rs 1.50 lakh. Dubai-based businessman and philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi, along with Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Ranjit Singh, flagged off the trucks carrying wheat. We are planning to send more wheat in the coming days with the help of area residents,” said Mohd Parvez, another member of the foundation.SP Manjit Singh Brar, who was also present, said Malerkotla had always set an example of communal harmony for country. “Muslim families have done a great work. We all should help one another to defeat the virus,” said the SP.
11-07-2020||---||Sidhu Moosewala fails to join probe||Sangrur, July 10 While granting interim bail to Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu Moosewala on June 30, a local court had directed him to join the police investigation within seven days in the Arms Act case registered at Dhuri Sadar police station, but the singer has failed to join the probe till date. The court has fixed July 15 as the next date of hearing. On May 4, a video surfaced showing Moosewala firing at a shooting range in Badbar of Barnala district. The Dhanauala police, on the directions of DGP Dinkar Gupta, had then registered a case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against him and eight others. Within 24 hours another FIR was registered against all the accused under similar Sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after a new video showing Moosewala firing from his pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced. Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg, said: “When we asked the singer to join investigation, he said that he was unwell. If he fails, we will inform the court on July 15.”
11-07-2020||Faridkot||MCI to monitor admissions of MD/MS students||Amidst allegations that a few private medical colleges were not adhering to the Indian Medical Council Act regarding admission to MD/MS courses and not making adequate payment of stipend to these students, the Board of Governors of Medical Council of India (BoG MCI) on Friday launched an online monitoring system. This system will start from July 24 for all broad specialty postgraduate courses. —TNS
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||After officers test +ve, govt readies second line of command||With several frontline administrative officers testing positive for Covid-19, including an IAS couple who tested positive late last night, the government has quickly moved to create its second line of command in case any key officer is impacted by the pandemic.The instructions have been issued by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and a set procedure has been laid in place by the State Covid Control Room for all administrative secretaries and deputy commissioners in each district. The departmental/district heads have been asked to send details of key personnel and link-up personnel to take charge in case they are themselves affected by the virus. Details of all such personnel are to be sent to the State Covid Control Room immediately. It has been instructed that there will be no physical contact between the key personnel and his link-up personnel and all communication between them has to be either virtual or telephonic.The creation of this next line of command follows the virus spread among 15 state civil services officers, who hadattended a meeting of the PCS Officers’ Association here on last Friday.Sonali Giri, Deputy Commissioner, Ropar, who came in direct contact with one of the PCS officers who later tested positive, and her husband, Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Rural Development and Panchayats, too tested positive today. Contact tracing of all these officers has been initiated by the health authorities and almost 150 contacts have been traced so far.Ujjwal had reportedly attended a departmental meeting yesterday chaired by Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Four senior officers, too, were present in the meeting. They are now in home quarantine awaiting reports of their tests. Dr Rajiv Bhaskar, state government spokesperson for Covid, told The Tribune that the contact tracing of all these officers would take at least three more days.
11-07-2020||---||Five more succumb, 217 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 10Jalandhar has once again reported a high number of Covid cases. As many as 61 persons tested positive today, though most of them were contacts of already positive patients. Ludhiana, too, reported many cases even as Amritsar showed a definite sign of a decline in new cases and discharged as many as 17 persons. The death toll, however, continued to rise.Five of ropar DC’s family test positiveRopar: A day after Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri tested positive, five members of her family were found to be infected with Covid. The test reports of her parents, husband Vipul Ujjval, and her children were received by the authorities on Friday. TNSPatiala and Mohali, too, continued to report higher positive cases – 22 each. In Patiala, 15 new cases were reported other than seven contacts of already positive patients. Mohali reported 10 new cases besides 11 detected through contact tracing.Today, 217 cases and as many as five deaths were reported in the state. Two patients in Amritsar, and one each in Jalandhar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali, succumbed to the disease, according to the state media bulletin. The good news is that 72 patients were cured and discharged today.With a 67-year-old man succumbing to the disease in Jalandhar, the number of deaths has risen to 23 in the district. Makhdoompura continues to be a hotspot.In Ludhiana, MC Zonal Commissioner Kulpreet Singh tested positive today. He independently gave his sample for testing after he had developed symptoms. Besides him, 40 more tested positive for Covid, including three policemen.In Amritsar, the local health authorities said two patients died of Covid. A 48-year-old resident of Lahorian Wali Gali and a 72-year-old from the Vijay Nagar area lost the battle against the virus. Both were suffering from co-morbidities.COVID- 19 DISTRICT COUNT District                        +ve  Deaths
11-07-2020||Ludhiana||2 judges, 15 court staffers isolated||District and Sessions Judge Gurbir Singh has ordered two judges, a lawyer and 15 judicial employees to home quarantine themselves for 14 days. The order has sent the legal fraternity into panic. As per information, two accused were produced before the two judges. Later, the judges tested Covid-positive. Besides, the entire staff of the two courts, including reader, criminal ahlmad and others, have been asked to home quarantine. — OC
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||No public entry in Secretariat||The Punjab Government has banned the entry of all visitors (general public) in the Civil Secretariat-1 and 2 in view of the growing spread of Covid-19. The Principal Secretary, General Administration Department, has signed the order that has come into force immediately. Instructions have also been issued to hand over any urgent mail to the staff posted at the reception counter. At the same time, all citizens and officials/employees have been urged to cooperate with the government in its efforts to curb the spread of the pandemic. — TNS
11-07-2020||Patiala||Besides Covid, Health Dept battles rumours||Doctors and health officials are at the receiving end after rumours spread that the Health Department was getting Rs 3 lakh for every Covid-positive patient.Such is the situation that whenever health teams try to shift a positive patient to an isolation facility, they are being ‘insulted and booed’ by the kin of the latter.Recently, family members of a positive patient in the Top Khana Mor area of Patiala city, which has been declared a micro-containment zone, said doctors were deliberately turning reports positive to earn Rs 3 lakh. An attendant of the patient, said, “The Health Department is befooling people. They are deliberately showing test reports positive to get Rs 3 lakh.”In another incident, health officials had to show lab reports to convince a family that one their members had tested positive and needed to be shifted to an isolation centre.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said, “Rumours have started taking a toll on health of officials as they have to waste time and energy on convincing Covid patients and their family members. People should not believe in rumours. Instead, patients need to cooperate with health officials who are risking their lives.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said they were trying their best to convince people that there was no question of getting Rs 3 lakh per patient. He said, “It’s complete nonsense. My staff is facing the wrath of people just because of false information.”
11-07-2020||chit Watts---||Youth Cong holds meet, ‘flouts’ distancing norms||Tribune News Service Muktsar, July 10 Giving social distancing norms the “go-by”, Youth Congress activists on Thursday held a meeting to discuss their strategy at the hall located in the Zila Parishad Complex here. Interestingly, Prabhjot Singh Brar, president, Youth Congress, Muktsar district, admitted that the meeting was held at the Zila Parishad Complex. ADC (Development) Arun Kumar and Deputy CEO of Muktsar Zila Parishad Inderjit Singh feigned ignorance about it.  Speaking over the phone today, Prabhjot said, “Our Punjab affairs incharge Bunty Shelke and co-incharge Mukesh Kumar had come to hold the meeting, which was about the expansion of the Youth Congress.” About holding a political programme in the complex, he said, “We decided to call village panchayat members. Hence, the meeting was held at the complex. We had taken permission to hold the gathering.” When asked, the ADC (D) said, “I am out of town and unaware about the meeting.” Similarly, the Deputy CEO, Zila Parishad, Muktsar, first expressed surprise about how any political meeting was held at the complex.  He said, “I was on leave yesterday and am unaware about the meeting. I will ask my staff.”
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab challenges High Court order on school fee||The state government today challenged the judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a matter relating to the payment of school fee for the lockdown period. ‘No evidenceof hardships’In a Letter Patents Appeal (LPA), the state government has sought a stay on the operation of the single-judge order and judgment of June 30 “in the interest of justice and fair play.” In its ruling on June 30, a single-judge Bench of the High Court had given relief to private schools and allowed them to collect all types of fee irrespective of whether or not they offered online classes.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had earlier expressed concern over private schools charging fee from students even when no online/offline classes were being held in the wake of the Covid lockdown. The matter had come up for discussion at Wednesday’s Cabinet meeting and Advocate General Atul Nanda had been asked to file the LPA in the High Court.The LPA points out that private schools, despite pleading financial hardship and incapacity to meet their expenditures/charges, did not place on record any evidence or material to prove their statement. It was further noted that the High Court, in its ruling, had completely ignored the fact that the state government had been constrained to issue orders directing private schools to charge only “tuition fee” (in respect of online education provided by them), in order to mitigate the emergent hardships faced by parents due to the Covid crisis. — TNS
11-07-2020||Doraha||Army man who died in Drass cremated with military honours||A pall of gloom descended on Rampur village when the body of Sepoy Palwinder Singh arrived at his home today. He was cremated with full military honours. The entire village raised slogans of ‘Vande Mataram’ and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ as the sepoy’s body, wrapped in a Tricolour, was taken to the cremation ground. Palwinder Singh had joined the Army around 10 years ago. He was engaged to a girl from Jagraon but the wedding plans had got delayed due to the lockdown. He was posted in Ladakh and was untraceable after the vehicle he was driving fell into a river in the Drass sector on June 22. He was going from Mani Marg to Kargil in a Jeep with Lt Subhan Ali. The Army had been searching for them since then. Although the vehicle was pulled out of the river three days later, Palwinder and Ali were swept away. A day before Palwinder went missing, he had rung up his family to inform that he had to join at Pathankot in a week as he had spent two years in Ladakh. Jagpreet Singh, elder brother of Palwinder, who is a Head Constable in Ludhiana, urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to come to the aid of the family and provide a job to his younger brother, who is a graduate. — OC
11-07-2020||---||Probe missing ‘saroops’, Sekhwan urges SGPC||Amritsar, July 10After joining the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa group, ‘taksali’ leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan today approached Akal Takht and the SGPC seeking a fair probe into 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.Sekhwan, who is also one of the SGPC members, was accompanied by his colleagues Kiranjot Kaur, Amrik Singh Shahpur, Mohinder Singh Hussainpur and Gurpreet Singh Garcha. The delegation demanded that the inquiry should be conducted by a Sikh intellectuals’ panel. “How can we expect justice from a panel which consists of those SGPC members during whose tenure the lapse had occurred?” he asked.The issue came to the fore when SGPC’s assistant superviser (publication) Kanwaljit Singh, who was denied his service benefits upon retirement, claimed that at least 80 sets of the holy scripture were burnt in a fire on May 19, 2016, due to negligence at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, where the Sikh holy books are stored. On the other hand, SGPC officials had said that only 14 saroops were damaged in the fire incident, and for rest of the saroops, Kanwaljit Singh was responsible.
11-07-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal||Direct seeding a hit with Fazilka farmers||Fazilka, July 10The direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique has found favour with farmers in Fazilka district. With the shortage of migrants due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, agriculturists have sown around 40 per cent paddy by adopting the new method.Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Manjit Singh said around 40 per cent of the total area in the district has come under the DSR method. 5,000 hectares sown in Fatehgarh sahib He said this kharif season, paddy has been sown on around 66,000 hectares and of this, 26,592 hectares had been sown by the DSR method in the district. Last year, only 6,000 hectares were sown by the DSR technique by farmers.Sandeep Gulbadhar, a farmer from Shajrana village, said he had sown paddy in around 30 acres through the seeder.Kaushal Bouk, a progressive farmer of Behak Khas village, who has sown paddy on 35 acres through the DSR technique, said both germination and growth were better than the traditional method.The CAO claimed that farmers could save around Rs 6,000 per acre and 25 per cent water got less consumed by adopting the DSR technique. Moreover, paddy matures a week earlier than the traditional method, which gives more time for the management of paddy straw. Meanwhile, some farmers have ploughed paddy sown by the DSR method. The CAO said direct seeding failed to work on poor and sandy soil, but it had happened only in a few cases. He said if the growth remained slow for 20-25 days, farmers should contact the department instead of ploughing the crop.
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Technical advice must for building plan approval: Dept||The Local Government Department has justified the procedure of seeking technical advice from the minister-in-charge and the department secretary for completion certificates and building plans under the municipal laws.The justification comes in the wake of a controversy over the minister-in-charge and the Additional Chief Secretary “exercising” powers of the MC commissioners and regional deputy directors while giving technical advice in case of completion certificates and building plans of residential and commercial projects.Minister seeks infoLocal Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said given the fact that municipal commissioners and executive officers in a number of ULBs were still approving building plans in violation of the instructions, the officials concerned had been asked to provide details of all plans passed at their level since April 2017.Citing the past practice, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra maintained that to bring uniformity in the examination of certain categories of buildings, directions were issued in the late 1990s to all urban local bodies to send the building plans for technical advice before approval.“Under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, and the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911, the power to accord sanction to all kinds of building plans are with the MC commissioners and executive officers in case of councils and nagar panchayats,” said the Minister, adding that it had been seen that in many cases the rules were overlooked or misinterpreted while giving approval at the level of the ULBs.As a result of this, the ULBs, through instructions issued in December 2002, had directed the civic bodies to take technical clearance from the office of the Chief Town Planner, Local Government. “The technical advice is given by the town planning wing at the department headquarters and administrative approval is given by the minister-in-charge and the Additional Chief Secretary,” said Mohindra, citing a recent Zirakpur case where the EO was suspended for issuing completion certificates to some builders without approval from the government.
11-07-2020||Mohali||Notice to Punjab over ‘parallel’ probe into Bargari incident||The Special CBI Court today issued a notice to the state government on the complaint filed by the CBI over a “parallel” probe being conducted by the special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police into the Bargari sacrilege case.Keeping the CBI application seeking stay of the SIT investigation pending, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Gurkirpal Singh Sekhon, said, “In a single criminal incident, parallel investigations are being conducted by two agencies (CBI and SIT) which is not permissible under the law.”After hearing the arguments, the court directed the CBI to supply the copies of special leave petition (SLP) and review petition filed in the Supreme Court to the counsels for the state, accused and complainants. Asking the state to file reply by July 18, the court adjourned the case to July 20 for arguments on the application filed by the CBI.On July 7, the CBI had filed an application in the court for restraining the SIT to continue with the probe into the three sacrileges cases. The CBI had prayed that once an agency was already probing the case, it was not permitted under law to allow another agency to investigate the same criminal case.The reply filed by RK Handa, who appeared on the behalf of the accused, Sukhjinder Singh and SS Kler, and Gagan Pardeep Singh Bal, counsel for the complainants, made similar requests to the court seeking adjournment.After considering the arguments of the complainants, the CBI judge said, “The counsels for the accused have strongly pressed for passing any interim order in the favour of the CBI. The arguments of the CBI public prosecutor and of the counsel for the accused are mainly based on the fact that it is unprecedented on the part of the SIT to carry out a parallel investigation in the cases in which the CBI has already filed a joint closure report in this court.”The complainant’s counsel argued that nearly five years had already passed, but due to internal fight between the CBI and the Punjab Police, no relief had been granted to the complainant till date.After hearing the arguments, the CBI judge ordered that it was proper to expedite the proceedings and no party should be allowed to delay the proceedings of the case unnecessarily.On October 12, 2015, torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found in Bargari. In the protests that followed, two Sikh men died in police firing in Behbal Kalan village on October 14. Thereafter, four followers of Dera Sacha Sauda were arrested in connection with the 2015 incidents of sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages of Faridkot district.
11-07-2020||Sameer Singh---||CUP cancels exams after hackers access online question bank||Tribune News Service Bathinda, July 10 The Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, has cancelled examinations for 13 subjects after its online question bank was hacked.  In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the university has gone for online mode of examination for the current academic session. However, hackers attacked the cyber security system used by the university to conduct online examination and accessed the question bank.  Talking to The Tribune, Vice-Chancellor, CUP, Prof RK Kohli said, “As many as 13 exams had to be cancelled after the online examination system was found to be compromised. We have asked faculty members to work out modalities to reschedule dates of exams for these subjects.” Previously, the exams were conducted on the campus by using intranet. To facilitate students during the pandemic, this year the online mode was adopted by the CUP. The university had conducted two mock exams successfully to check the efficiency of the new online platform. Prof Kohli said, “I received an email from an unknown person where it was mentioned that the question bank used by the university to conduct online exams was hacked.”  He said, “We found that some students, who earlier scored less marks, scored exceptionally well. A majority of these students are from Kerala. We have registered a complaint with the police and an internal inquiry will be conducted at the university level.”
11-07-2020||---||Balwant Singh Multani case: Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini’s interim bail application dismissed||Mohali, July 10A local court on Friday dismissed the interim bail application of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, terming it pre-mature. Earlier, the bail was given to him in anticipation of adding Section 302 of the IPC to previous FIR in the disappearance of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani case.However, the court while giving relief to the former DGP, directed the police to give three-day notice to Saini in case Section 302 or any other criminal sections was to be added to the FIR.Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg pronounced the orders after the case proceedings were transferred to the said court by District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai on July 2.After today’s hearing, Narula said they were satisfied as now they would contest the anticipatory bail, if applied for, after the police adds Section 302 or any other criminal charges in the FIR against Saini.The Mohali police had constituted an SIT, headed by SP Harmandep Singh Hans, along with DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar and Mataur SHO Inspector Rajiv Kumar, to probe the case.An FIR was registered afresh against the former DGP at Mataur police station, accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani, following the complaint of his brother Palwinder on May 6, after which the DGP moved court seeking anticipatory bail.
11-07-2020||Bathinda||Teachers: Give regular jobs or face protest||Members of the TET-qualified Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union submitted a memorandum of demands to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through Finance Minister Manpreet Badal today. Among other demands, they urged the government to regularise the services of teachers on a priority basis.Yudhjit Singh, president of the union, along with other members, reached Badal village and submitted a memorandum of demands to the Finance Minister, urging him to take up the matter with the CM.The union demanded that the age limit for government jobs be increased from 37 to 42 years. Yudhjit Singh said the state government should immediately recruit 15,000 BEd teachers and 12,000 ETT teachers. He said if their demands were not considered by the government, they would gherao Education Minister’s residence on July 17. — TNS
11-07-2020||Abohar||Shiv Lal Doda, 9 others booked for ‘cheating’||Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda, his wife, daughter-in-law and seven others have been booked for allegedly cheating the wife of Satpal Thatai, a former Intelligence Bureau (IB) Officer who had died of blood cancer a few months ago.Doda has been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Bhim Tank murder case, but is now on parole following relaxations due to Covid. The persons who have been named in the case include Suresh Sharma, Manoj Kumar Golyan and Rakesh Kumar of Sirsa, Shiv Lal Doda, his wife Sunita, daughter-in-law Suhani, property agents Rajiv Chugh, Surinder Kumar Tidda, Billa Kukkar and Rajiv Ratan Dhingra.Asha Rani, widow of Satpal Thatai of Patel Nagar, in a complaint to the Ferozepur DIG, had alleged that three Sirsa-based businessmen, who ran a firm in New Delhi, executed an agreement through some agents/ brokers for sale of seven acres of agricultural land with her son Neeraj Arora in 2013 at Rs 90 lakh per acre. Accordingly, he paid Rs 90 lakh through online transfer and Rs 1.5 crore in cash as earnest money. But without cancelling the contract and returning the amount (nearly Rs 2.40 crore), the owners allegedly sold the same land to the Delhi-based realty firm of Doda family. — OC
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court takes up law varsity students’ plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion on a petition filed by students of the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, challenging the university’s decision to charge a full semester fee from them.  The notice came after the Bench was told that the students had been asked to pay Rs 1.13 lakh for the upcoming semester by July 10. Taking up the matter, Justice BS Walia made it clear that late fee would not be charged from the students.  The next date of hearing in the case is on July 17.  Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, senior advocate Chetan Mittal, Varun Issar and Sarthak Gupta submitted that approximately 50 per cent of the amount was being charged towards “allied fee”. It included amenities fee of Rs 23,000; campus development fund of Rs 10,000; moot court fees of Rs 3,000, examination fee of Rs 3,000 and library fee of Rs 2,000. — TNS
11-07-2020||Balwant Garg||Trust: Bid to take possession of Faridkot Maharaja’s palace||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 10In the dispute over the property of late Maharaja Harinder Singh of the erstwhile Faridkot estate, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the controversial Mehrawal Khewaji Trust on Friday accused some persons of making an attempt to take forcible possession of the property. The Trust is looking after the Maharaja’s movable and immovable property worth over Rs 25,000 crore for the past over 30 years.This has come days after the Punjab and Haryana High Court declared a purported “will” of the Maharaja as forged and shrouded with suspicion and the Faridkot police booked 23 persons for the offence.On the complaint of Jagir Singh Sran, the CEO of the Trust, the police rounded up some persons but released all of them later.While Sran alleged that some persons, on the behalf of Amrit Kaur, the elder daughter of the late Maharaja, attempted to take forcible possession of the Raj Mahal, some of the persons rounded up by the police alleged that after the High Court gave a verdict in favour of Amrit Kaur, the Trust members and office-bearers were trying to tamper with the records of the trust to hide many wrongs which they had committed.Swarndeep Singh, SSP, Faridkot, said the police were investigating these allegations. “Moreover, we have already constituted a SIT to investigate the allegations,” he maintained.The SIT will also investigate the FIR against 23 persons, in which the daughter of the late Maharaja had accused some advocates and the Trust members of forging the “will”. A delegation of advocates and trust members on Friday approached the district police for a fair investigation into the case.A senior functionary of the Trust said: “With this FIR, the daughter of the late Maharaja is trying to arm-twist us so that we don’t muster the courage to challenge the HC decision in the Supreme Court.”Terming the attempt to take forcible possession of the Raj Mahal as an illegal act, the Trust members claimed that in her petition in the High Court, Amrit Kaur had never sought the physical possession of the property and the Court had not granted the same to her. So, an attempt to take possession of the late Maharaja’s property was an illegal act, Sran alleged.Legacy entangled in legal web
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar train tragedy: Navjot Singh Sidhu aide among 7 named in FIR||A special investigation team (SIT) constituted by Punjab Police to probe the 2018 Dasehra train tragedy has nominated seven members of the organising committee, including former Punjab Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s aide Saurav Madaan, alias Mithu Madaan, to the FIR.The Government Railway Police (GRP) said the organisers had held the event without mandatory permissions and safety measures. The programme was held at Dhobi Ghat that lacked space to accommodate large gatherings. Interestingly, the GRP submitted a challan in a local court without any arrests, fearing a law and order situation as they enjoyed “political patronage”. The GRP had registered a case under Sections 304-A (death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt) and 338 (grievous hurt) of the IPC on October 19, 2018. — TNS
