11-09-2020||---||Ex-Punjab DGP SS Saini moves SC for anticipatory bail||New Delhi, September 11 As Punjab Police raid various hideouts in search of former Punjab Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini – an accused in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case, he has moved the Supreme Court for anticipatory bail to avoid his imminent arrest.Saini has challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court's September 7 order dismissing his anticipatory bail plea in the Multani kidnapping and murder case.The Punjab Police have also filed a caveat to pre-empt Saini from getting any ex-parte relief from the top court, which is likely to take up his plea next week.If he doesn’t get relief from the top court, he will have to surrender.Multani -- a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation -- was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh. While Vinod and Mukhtiyar were picked up by the police from the parking lot of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 15, 1994, Ashok was allegedly abducted from Ludhiana the same day.The case was registered against Saini and others by CBI on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 24, 1994. It was transferred to Delhi by the Supreme Court in 2004 after Vinod’s mother Amar Kaur expressed apprehension that Saini being a senior IPS officer might influence witnesses. The CBI has sought cancellation of exemption from personal appearance given to him in the case.
11-09-2020||Lahore||Pakistan appoints first VC of Baba Guru Nanak University||Pakistan’s Punjab government on Friday appointed the first vice-chancellor of the Baba Guru Nanak International University in Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak.Professor Asghar Zaidi, the vice-chancellor of the College University Lahore, has been given the additional charge of the post of vice chancellor of Baba Guru Nanak International University (BGNIU). He will be the first vice chancellor of the varsity located about some 80 kilometres from Lahore.A notification was issued by the Punjab Higher Education Department after the approval of Chancellor/Punjab Governor Chaudhry Muhammad Sarwar on Friday.In October 2019, Prime Minister Imran Khan had laid the foundation stone of the BGNIU in Nankana Sahib.“It is a matter of great pride for me that I will work as the first/founder Vice Chancellor of Baba Guru Nanak International University,” said Zaidi, an eminent social policy analyst and a recent recipient of Tamgha-i-Imtiaz.Zaidi, who did his Ph.D in economics from the University of Oxford, pledged to work towards making the new university an international centre of excellence for the study of Sikhism and for the promotion of Punjabi language.He said the boundary wall of the varsity has been built and hopefully some classes will begin in the BGNIU in 2021 after the construction of some portion of the campus. He said the global Sikh community was also keen to fund the project.The Punjab province government had allocated 70 acres of land for setting up the university.The government has also planned to establish police lines, a prison and National Registration Database Authority (Nadra) in Nankana Sahib.There had been a demand from the Sikhs living in Pakistan to construct a university named after the founder of their religion Guru Nanak at his birthplace in Nankana Sahib.Proposal for setting up the university first surfaced in 2003. Two years ago, in the PML-N government, the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) gave a final approval to the project. PTI
11-09-2020||---||Think 10 times before posting anything on social media: Punjab CM to youngsters||Chandigarh, September 11Expressing concern over the increasing fatalities due to Covid-19 in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged youngsters to “think 10 times” before posting or forwarding anything on social media as any “irresponsible action” could impact their future.In his #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, the Chief Minister said, “What you post on social media is your responsibility…You can’t mislead people.”Pointing out that once a case is registered their entire future could be adversely affected, he urged youth to act responsibly.Captain Amarinder pointed out so far 121 social media accounts/links had been blocked while 292 more had been identified by the Punjab Police for indulging in false propaganda on organ harvesting and testing for Covid.“We will not let anyone disturb Punjab’s peaceful atmosphere with such vicious propaganda,” said the CM.Attempts to mislead the people through fake news and posts are totally intolerable and unacceptable, he said, citing social media campaigns being driven by miscreants and even some Opposition MLAs who were asking people not to wear masks.Responding to the concern expressed by an Amritsar resident about the media continuing to name Covid positive patients despite the government decision on not identifying them, the Chief Minister said strict instructions were in place to maintain the confidentiality of the identity of Covid patients and the implementation of these would be ensured.He also appealed to the people to refrain from discriminating against any Covid patient, whether undergoing treatment or recovered.This is a disease like many others, and attaching any social stigma to it is completely unjustified, he said.To a question about media reports suggesting that rumours around Covid-19 have impacted the recovery rate in Punjab, the Chief Minister said Covid tests had indeed gone down because of the vicious misleading propaganda on social media, which was causing people not to get treated in time.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||No curfew in Punjab this Sunday to facilitate free movement of students appearing for NEET||To facilitate the free movement of students appearing for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced that there will be no curfew in the state this Sunday, September 13.Non-essential shops will, however, remain closed, he clarified.Though the state government has imposed Sunday curfew in all urban cities/towns, an exemption would be made this Sunday with free movement to be allowed, the chief minister said.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records highest single-day spike of 2,526 Covid-19 cases, tally jumps to 74,616||Punjab reported the highest single-day spike of 2,526 coronavirus cases, pushing the state’s infection tally to 74,616 on Friday, according to an official bulletin.The previous record number of cases in a day was 2,464 that was reported on Thursday. The state had seen a spike of 2,137 coronavirus cases on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,212 with 63 more fatalities, according to the bulletin.Twelve deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Jalandhar, seven each from Bathinda and Patiala, five from Hoshiarpur, four each from Tarn Taran and Sangrur, three each from Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Muktsar and one each from Faridkot, Mohali, Moga and Ferozepur, it said.The places that reported new cases include Jalandhar (326), Patiala (315), Mohali (262), Gurdaspur (237), Ludhiana (186), Amritsar (181), Kapurthala (166), Hoshiarpur (161), Bathinda (116) and Ferozepur (72), the bulletin said.A total of 1,402 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection. So far 53,308 people have recovered from the disease, it said.There are 19,096 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.Seventy-nine critical patients are on ventilator support while 529 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 13,32,564 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||AAP indulging in ‘petty politics’ over COVID-19, alleges Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday accused the Aam Aadmi Party of indulging in “petty politics” over the coronavirus crisis while pitching for united efforts to tackle the pandemic.Pointing to the coronavirus situation in Delhi, where the AAP is at the helm, the chief minister said the party was involved in a “negative propaganda” against his government, which was “irresponsible”.At a virtual meeting with Congress MLAs to discuss the coronavirus crisis in the state, Amarinder Singh said India is facing a war-like situation just like the world and a united fight alone can tackle the problem, he said. But AAP is busy in petty politics amidst the crisis, he alleged in a statement.The Punjab CM also claimed that the Congress was helping governments in all states in tackling the pandemic, even where it was not in power. The chief minister said he was also ready to help any state that asks for it, be it Delhi, Himachal Pradesh or Haryana. “That is the only way to fight the crisis. If tomorrow Delhi needs my help, I will willingly offer it,” he said. Amarinder Singh claimed that contrary to what AAP was projecting, Delhi’s situation was much worse than Punjab.With around 2.90 crore population, Punjab has 18,000 active cases while Delhi with 1.80 crore has 25,000 plus active cases, he said in the statement.Even Haryana has a lesser population than Punjab but an equal number of active cases, he noted.The Punjab CM said to encourage poor people to get themselves tested, his government has started distributing free food packets to those in isolation and with no source of livelihood.He asked the MLAs to work with district administrations to ensure that food packets reach the needy and they do not hold back from getting themselves tested for the fear of being left without livelihood during the isolation period. According to the Punjab authorities, the state had recorded 72,143 cases till Thursday with a total of 2,149 deaths. PTI
11-09-2020||New Delhi||87-yr-old running around for 50 years for legitimate dues; HC imposes cost on Defence Department||The Delhi High Court has imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the Directorate General of Defence Estates (DGDE) which failed to compensate an 87-year-old man whose land in Pathankot was taken by the authorities five decades ago.The High Court said the DGDE certainly cannot take the property of a citizen without paying the due compensation on the “specious ground” of some sanction to be obtained from within the Department.“The petitioner (Mohinder Lal) has clearly been wronged and in fact, needs to be compensated for the same,” Justice Navin Chawla said in the September 7 order.The court also said that Lal had been forced to file this petition and pursue it due to complete apathy shown by the authorities and their inaction.“The petitioner is aged 87 years and even at this age he is being made to run around for his legal and legitimate dues,” it said.The man, represented through advocate Tarun Rana, said that his agricultural land in Punjab's Pathankot area was requisitioned by the DGDE for defence purposes under the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 through a March 1970 notification.The advocate said the first order to pay compensation was passed by a trial court in Punjab in 1987, then by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and also the Supreme Court. However, no amount was paid to Lal till date.Rana said Lal, a social worker, even at this age was regularly helping needy patients coming to hospitals here. He also helps them financially for their treatment.The man approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the authorities to comply with the 2011 order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and make payment of the compensation due to him along with interest.The amount of compensation to be paid to the man is not yet clear.The DGDE submitted before the High Court that the matter was pending before the Delhi Cantonment office for grant of sanction to make payment of the awarded amount to Lal.It said in the status report that all efforts were being made for making payment to the man and it would be made as and when the sanction was received from the Union Ministry of Defence.The DGDE also raised objection over jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court to hear the matter, which was rejected by the court.“As far as the objection on the jurisdiction is concerned, the same is only stated to be rejected inasmuch as the respondent no. 2 (DGDE) itself admits that the compensation amount has not been paid to the petitioner only because of the want of sanction from the Authorities in Delhi to whom the proposal has been forwarded way back on December 21, 2017 followed with various reminders of the Principal Director, Defence Estates, Western Command, Chandigarh. Therefore, the cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this court,” said Justice Chawla.Regarding the authorities' submission that the payment shall be made as and when sanction is received from the Defence Ministry, the court said it was “a totally unacceptable justification” of the DGDE as the Supreme Court by its October 2010 order had enhanced the compensation amount to be paid to Lal and the decision of the apex court should have been complied with.“The land of the petitioner was acquired in 1970 and the Supreme Court judgment deciding the quantum of compensation payable to the petitioner was passed on October 26, 2010. The petitioner has been forced to file the present petition and pursue the same due to complete apathy shown by the respondents and their inaction...“The respondent no. 2 shall also pay costs of Rs 1(one) lakh to the petitioner for the present petition,” the court said.It also directed the DGDE to pay compensation to the man in accordance with the apex court's verdict within four weeks. PTI
11-09-2020||---||Punjab receives Rs 638 crore from Centre as post-devolution revenue deficit grant||Chandigarh, September 11Punjab on Friday received Rs 638 crore from the Centre as post-devolution Revenue Deficit Grant.This is the first grant from Centre received by the cash strapped state during this fiscal.The Union Finance Ministry on Wednesday had announced release of third monthly installment of Rs 6,195 crore to 14 states including Punjab to provide additional resources during COVID-19 crisis.The Ministry had released similar amount on April 3 and May 11 as the first and second installments of the post devolution revenue deficit grant to 14 states—Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.15ਵੇਂ ਵਿੱਤ ਕਮਿਸ਼ਨ ਦੀਆਂ ਸਿਫ਼ਾਰਿਸ਼ਾਂ ਤਹਿਤ ਕੇਂਦਰ ਸਰਕਾਰ ਵੱਲੋਂ 14 ਸੂਬਿਆਂ ਨੂੰ ਜਾਰੀ ਕੀਤੀ ਵਿੱਤੀ ਘਾਟਾ ਮਾਲੀਆ ਗਰਾਂਟ ਤਹਿਤ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਨੂੰ 6ਵੀਂ ਕਿਸ਼ਤ ਦੇ ਰੂਪ 'ਚ 638 ਕਰੋੜ ਰੁਪਏ ਹੋਰ ਮਿਲੇ ਹਨ। ਪੰਜਾਬ ਸਰਕਾਰ ਹੁਣ ਇਸ ਰਕਮ ਰਾਹੀਂ ਸਿਹਤ ਢਾਂਚੇ ਨੂੰ ਸੁਧਾਰੇ ਅਤੇ ਕੋਰੋਨਾ ਮਹਾਮਾਰੀ ਤੋਂ ਰਾਹਤ ਦੇਣ ਵੱਲ੍ਹ ਧਿਆਨ ਦੇਵੇ।#COVID19 https://t.co/yBymGvczWF
11-09-2020||Chennai||Harbhajan Singh 'duped' of Rs 4 crore by Chennai partnership firm, files complaint||The Greater Chennai Police are looking into a complaint filed by former India cricketer Harbhajan Singh against a partnership firm for non repayment of loan amounting to Rs 4 crore."An FIR has not been registered yet. The case is being handled by senior officials," a police officer told IANS on Thursday.The issue came to light on Wednesday when one of the partners of the firm, G. Mahesh, a realtor, approached the Madras High Court seeking anticipatory bail after he was summoned by the police for an enquiry.On August 26, Harbhajan Singh had filed a complaint that he had loaned Rs 4 crore in 2015 to the firm Auraa Mega Investments, which was into real estate business.One of the cheques issued by the firm towards loan interest bounced.On his part, Mahesh said that he had got the loan after giving Harbhajan Singh the title deeds of a property located near here as security and all dues have been paid. IANS
11-09-2020||---||SIT, Punjab police raid 3 more places to nab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini; Saini moves SC||Chandigarh, September 11The SIT and Punjab police on Friday morning raided three more places to nab former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini — a house in Sector 10-A, Chandigarh, and his native village Khuda Krala in Hoshiarpur.The Chandigarh police, along with the SIT, also raided a house in Sector-20, Chandigarh.  Saini was not found at any of the residences.Meanwhile, Saini has moved the Supreme Court on Friday after the Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissed his bail petition.
11-09-2020||Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780-1839)||Experience the legacy of Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjit Singh||Maharaja’s PanoramaThe Panorama, a visual depiction of the important stages of the Maharaja was set up in 2006 at a cost of Rs5 crore by the then Chief Minister Parkash Sigh Badal with his personal interest. A two-storeyed circular building features paintings depicting the six major battles of the Mahraja. It is accompanied by a multimedia representation of the sights and sounds of war.Acquisition of Koh-i-Noor (1814): Right from his childhood, Ranjit Singh had an ambition to acquire the Koh-i-Noor diamond. It was at that time in possession of Shah Shuja, the Durrani monarch, who was later defeated and captured by Ata Md. Khan, the Governor of Kashmir. Ranjit Singh provided asylum to his wife and got Shah Shuja released from Kashmir in lieu of Koh-i-Noor.Victory at Lahore (1798): At a young age (18 years), Ranjit Singh challenged Afghan invader Shah Zaman, the grandson of Ahmad Shah Abdali, with a handful of soldiers and peasants from Musamman Burj on a foggy early January morning in 1798. With the courage and diplomacy of Ranjit Singh, Shah Zaman was driven out of Punjab in January 1799.The Capture of Kangra (1809): Gurkhas, considered as outsiders by Ranjit Singh, had captured the Kangra fort in 1806. Ranjit Singh accompanied by some hilly chiefs and their contingent defeated them in a fierce battle at Ganesh Ghati of Kangra Valley. The total defeat took place in September 1809. Use of small khukries by the Gurkhas compared to long swords, guns and canons by the Sikh army, was the reason behind the failure of the Gurkhas.Victory at Hazro (1813): The fort of Attock traditionally regarded as the sentinel of India on the border with Afghanistan, was recaptured in 1813 from Wazir Fateh Khan and his army marking the liberation of Northern India from Afghans. The battle was won under the overall command of Ranjit Singh with Diwan Mokham Chand in operation accompanied by Hari Singh Nalwa, Mian Gausha and Sardar Dal Singh with a strong Punjabi force.Summer Palace (1819): The summer palace of the legendary Sikh king was built in 1819. The Maharaja used to stay here during his visit to the Golden Temple. It is located in the Chahar Bagh, a quadrilateral garden on the Mughal pattern. The British ruined the garden. It has been under renovation for the past 13 years, but is still incomplete. It has been out of bounds for tourists for years owing to its prolonged conservation work. Started in 2007, the conservation work is still not over.Capture of the Zamzama (1802): The Maharaja acquired the giant cannon ‘Zamzama’ from Mai Sukhan, widow of Bhangi chief, Gulab Singh Bhangi in 1802. Three small cannons were also acquired from them, which are near the giant Zamzama. A big gun — Zamzama — is being hauled up by a good number of Maharaja’s soldiers in front of the Govindgarh Fort of Amritsar.Ranjit Singh’s marriage (1795): The marriage of Maharaja Ranjit Singh with Mehtab Kaur, granddaughter of Kanhaiya Misl chief, is being solemnised in a large decorated Baradari. The matrimonial alliance became a major event in the history of Punjab.The Fall of Multan (1818): Ranjit Singh captured the fort of Multan situated between the Sutlej and Ravi in 1818 from Nawab Muzaffar Khan. The 16-year-old Prince Kharak Singh participated as one of the commanders along with Misr Dewan Chand and 20,000 men. The artillery under the command of Illahi Baksh and big Bhangi gun ‘Zamzama’ played a major role in capturing the fort. The conquest of Multan by Maharaja Ranjit Singh ended the Afghan influence in Punjab.The Ropar Treaty (1831): Maharaja Ranjit Singh, riding an elephant, met William Bentinck, the Governor General of India, at Ropar on the banks of the Sutlej on October 26, 1831. Maharaja is followed by a battery of armed men with artilleries at the far end. A good number of royal canopies and tents of the British camp with senior armed officers can be found on duty. The Maharaja took this opportunity to display the prosperity and power of the kingdom of Lahore.The Conquest of Kashmir (1819): In a fierce fighting on the plain of Shopian, the Sikh army defeated Zabbar Khan, the Afghan ruler and his army, who later fled to Afghanistan, thus leading to the liberation of Kashmir. Prince Kharak Singh, Misr Diwan Chand, Akali Phula Singh with his Nihang troops participated in the battle. The paradise-like Kashmir came under the possession of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in July 1819.Modernisation of Army by the maharaja (1830)Maharaja Ranjit Singh was a great general, who wanted to modernise his army after seeing the superiority of the British troops. He inducted several Europeans to facilitate this. JF Allard and JB Venture, the two French officers, who were inducted by Maharaja Ranjit Singh for modernising his army, had served Napoleon in his campaigns. In the painting, they are seen inspecting an organised infantry on the one side and cavalry on the other. All personnel are in right army outfit. Many of them are carrying long arm guns.Gold plating service at Darbar Sahib (1830): The Maharaja used to go to Harmandir Sahib on every special occasion, especially Diwali and Baisakhi, and present gifts before prayers and the holy dip. The most important offering was the laying of gold plates on the Golden Temple in 1830. Under the supervision of Ranjit Singh, the work of laying gold on the Darbar Sahib is in progress (in the painting).
11-09-2020||---||Director transfers official, minister stays order||Chandigarh, September 10Even as Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot has disassociated himself from the alleged anomalies in the disbursal of the SC post-matric scholarship scam, he “continues to give patronage” to a senior assistant in the department, Rakesh Arora, one of the suspects in the scam.The minister has written for staying the transfer order of Arora, who was transferred out from Ambedkar Institute, Mohali, to Fazilka, on August 31 by the Director, Social Welfare, Devinder Singh. The minister issued orders cancelling the transfer on September 4. However, the Director did not respond to calls.In report on serious irregularities in disbursal of SC post-matric scholarship funds submitted to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, Deputy Director Parminder Gill, Deputy Controller Finance and Audit Charanjit Singh, section officer Mukesh Bhatia, senior assistants Rakesh Arora and Baldev Singh are suspected to be involved in the scam.Sources in the government said since the last date of transfers ended on August 31, the minister’s orders could not be implemented. A fresh approval has to be sought from the Chief Minister after August 31.
11-09-2020||Manav Mander ---||Breaking barriers during tough times||Tribune News Service  Ludhiana, September 10  Amidst the Covid-induced lockdown, many lost their jobs and others reached a point where they could have taken the extreme step, but for some it was an opportunity to present an exemplary spirit of courage. During these testing times, many women from the city have broken into male bastions for survival. From running an ice-cream cart to delivering online orders and working at petrol pump, these women are doing it all with elan.  Maninder Kaur, a graduate in bachelor of computer applications and resident of Sunet village, has bought an ice-cream cart to make the both ends meet.  “All job options were closed when the pandemic struck. I wanted to earn something and support my family. So after much thinking, I bought an ice-cream cart,” she said.  Maninder’s mother Nirmala Devi said, “I am blessed to have such a compassionate and helpful daughter.” Maninder, who has four sisters and two brothers, says as soon as the Covid situation improves she would find a suitable job for herself and pursue her MCA.  Another inspiring story is that of 19-year-old Charu, who worked as a salesgirl at a local garment store and lost her job during the lockdown.  “I was looking for employment and found the delivery girl’s job a suitable option as increasing number of people are opting for online shopping,” said Charu. She has long working hours and after dispatching all the orders she studies at night.  Like Charu, Parminder and Santosh too are delivering happiness at the doorstep. The three can be found on Ludhiana streets with online orders.  Another city-based girl, Pooja started working at a petrol pump. “I was working at a salon but it shut down during the lockdown. I was in need of a job so I opted for working at a petrol pump,” she says.
11-09-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University papers from September 25||Universities in Patiala have started the process of holding examinations for the current session to be concluded by October 15. While the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law already conducted the examinations for the final year LLB and LLM students in early July, Punjabi University, Patiala, will hold the exams through blended online-offline mode.Punjabi University, Patiala, will begin holding exams for exit classes from September 25 in a blended online-offline mode. Officials on the campus said coping with internet connectivity issues would remain a challenge for conducting the examinations. The university has over 70,000 final year students on its campus, in neighbourhood campuses, constituent colleges and others. As such it has ruled out the possibility of conducting offline examinations at its centres. — TNS
11-09-2020||Legal Correspondent||Lawyers’ body online poll on September 30||Ludhiana, September 10In a first, the much-awaited annual elections of all District Bar Associations (DBA) of Punjab and Chandigarh will be held online on September 30. Their term will end on December 21, 2021, meaning thereby that these newly elected executives willget three months more than the usual time. Thereafter, the term will be from December to December in future elections.The announcement was made by Karanjit Singh, chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. With this, the Bar Council has reverted to its tradition of holding annual elections in December, before the winter vacations. The elections to all Bar Associations of Haryana will be held on October 1. In all, elections will be held for around 140 Bar Associations in both states involving over 50,000 lawyers.The notification issued in this regard states that the aspiring candidates may file nomination on September 16.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||J&K language row: SAD to approach Prime Minister||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will take up the issue of restoration of Punjabi as an official language in Jammu and Kashmir with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, besides highlighting the issue in Parliament.A decision to this effect was taken at a party meeting presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. It was decided that the party would seek a change in the draft legislation seeking to make Urdu, Kashmiri, Dogri, Hindi and English official languages of J&K by seeking inclusion of Punjabi in the list.Badal said there was widespread resentment among Sikhs and Punjabis living in J&K and elsewhere over the J&K administration’s move. — TNS
11-09-2020||---||Exit class exams underway in Bathinda universities||Bathinda, September 10The examination of exit classes is underway in most of the universities in Bathinda district. While Akal University has already conducted exit exams for all online courses, Adesh University is conducting physical exams by ensuring all precautionary measures in the wake of Covid-19. The Central University of Punjab Bathinda (CUPB) has already conducted exit exams through online mode from July 22 to August 2 and exams at Guru Kashi University (GKU) are on which will end on September 27.Kulwant Singh, deputy registrar, Adesh University, said, “The exit classes’ exams started at the university on August 14 and likely to be complete by September 15. Since the exams were conducted at physical examination centres on the university campus, we have made elaborate arrangements in the wake of Covid. Wearing of masks, sanitisation of the examination centres and placing of sanitisers at the entrance of the centre among other precautionary measures were duly followed.”Harjinder Singh Rose, Vice-Chancellor, GKU, said, “We are conducting exit exams via online mode. We have managed to successfully conduct exams till now, but for some students hailing from remote locations, internet connectivity issues had cropped up. However, we have managed to conduct their exams later. The exams will be complete by September 27 and results are likely to be declared by September 30.”IKGPTU may go for 30-mark online paperJalandhar: Even as the Department of Higher Education, Punjab, has issued a notification directing 20 universities under it to conduct examination for the exit classes by October 15, the two technical universities are still awaiting for a formal notification from the Technical Education Department. Expecting a notification on the same lines, IKGPTU has plans to conduct 30-mark online assessment of its students. TNSLudhiana colleges gear up for examsLudhiana: Colleges in the district are all geared up to conduct online examination of exit semester class starting from September 17. “We are trying to streamline the process. We are posting all exam-related information to students. Moreover, they have been asked to rely only on the official information received from the college,” said Dr Inderjeet Kaur, Principal, Ramgarhia Girls College, Ludhiana. TNS
11-09-2020||---||Reopen corridor, Centre urged||Amritsar, September 10 Ahead of “jyoti jot” (death anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev, the SGPC has urged the Centre to reopen the Kartarpur corridor.  For the first time since the inception of Kartarpur corridor from Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) had announced to celebrate the occasion that falls on September 22. Satwant Singh, president, PSGPC, also took an opportunity to urge the Indian Government to open the Kartarpur corridor from Dera Baba Nanak side for the Indian pilgrims between September 20 and 22. Due to Covid-19 threat, the movement of pilgrims was restricted temporarily. Though Pakistan had reopened the shrine since June 29, the Indian Government had continuously suspended the pilgrimage registration to Kartarpur gurdwara since March 16 in view of the pandemic.
11-09-2020||---||Private schools’ registration goes online||Chandigarh, September 10To further smoothen its functioning and make it more transparent, the School Education Department has simplified the procedure for issuance of accreditation/registration certificates to private schools and institutions.As per a letter issued in this regard by department secretary Krishan Kumar on Thursday, private schools / institutions would now have to apply online to get certificate of recognition or registration. The registration fee would also be paid online. The applications received would go directly to the District Education Officer (DEO) and they would send the documents online to the committee concerned for scrutiny. The DEO may reject the received documents in case of any deficiency.According to a spokesperson, after the scrutiny and approval of documents by the committee, the DEO would send the case to a committee for inspection of the school/ institution concerned. After the inspection, a report would be sent back online within seven days to the District Education Officer. Once everything is found to be correct, the recognition/registration certificate of that institution would be automatically generated and displayed on the login ID of the school/institution concerned. It can be downloaded by the schools.
11-09-2020||---||Health employees not joining Covid duties to face action||Chandigarh, September 10 Alleged indiscipline by Health Department staff seems to have emerged as a new challenge for the authorities amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Acting tough against doctors and other employees who are not joining Covid duties, the Health Department has ordered action against them under the Epidemic Act, 1897. In a communication sent to all civil surgeons, the Director, Health Services, has said that medical and paramedical employees deployed for level-2 Covid duties should be asked to join work by Saturday. She said the list of employees not joining duties by Saturday should be compiled and sent to the Director by Monday morning. “So that action can be taken against them under the Epidemic Act, 1897,” she said. As per the latest bulletin, Thursday proved to be worst day as the state reported 2,464 fresh cases and 88 deaths. With this, the total number of cases has reached 72,143 and with 88 fresh casualities, the number of deaths has reached 2,149. The recovery count stands at 51,906, while the number of active cases is 18,088.  SAS Nagar topped the chart with 307 cases, followed by Amritsar with 295 cases, Jalandhar 277, Bathinda 202, Pathankot 195, Gurdaspur 156, Patiala 144,  Hoshiarpur 141 and Ludhiana 120. As far as deaths are concerned, Amritsar was  the worst hit with 16 deaths, followed by SAS Nagar (14), Ludhiana (11), Jalandhar (nine), Ferozepur (seven), Ropar (five), Kapurthala, Patiala and Moga (four each), Fatehgarh Sahib and Gurdaspur (three each), Hoshiarpur and Sangrur (two each), Tarn Taran, Mansa, Muktsar and Faridkot (one each).
11-09-2020||---||Centre urged to block 45 social media links||Chandigarh, September 10 Intensifying crackdown against people spreading misinformation on Covid on social media, the state police today approached the Centre with a request to block access to 45 links after the social media authorities concerned failed to act against rumour-mongers within the mandated 36 hours after notices were issued to them by the state. With 13 more accounts/links blocked by the various platforms, the total number of URLs/links blocked in the state for spreading false propaganda on Covid has gone up to 121.  So far, Facebook has blocked 47 accounts/links, Twitter (52), YouTube (21) and Instagram (1). In addition, 292 more such accounts/links carrying malicious content were reported to the authorities of respective social media platforms, said the DGP.
11-09-2020||---||Local Government Department's online approvals caught in red-tape||Chandigarh, September 10In a classic case of red-tape, the Director, Department of Local Government, has created another level of clearance in granting online approval for change of land use and cases of regularisation of illegal colonies.Bhupinder Singh, Director, who hasn’t been not well for the past one week, said there was no anomaly in the orders. The work of giving online approvals had been divided amongsenior town planners.In orders issued yesterday, Singh has designated three senior town planners at the departmental headquarters as competent authority for all categories of approvals for building plans, change of land use and regularisation of illegal colonies.“There was no need to create another level of clearance as the cases were already coming to Senior Town Planner Kamaljeet Kaur, who was officiating as Chief Town Planner (CTP),” pointed out a senior functionary in the department.Quoting April 2013 and June 2013 orders, the Director, in his orders, has stated that as per the government instructions, the senior town planners have to give approval for the technical advice in all cases. Three STPs — Gautam Kumar, Tejpreet Singh and Kamaljeet Kaur — have been allocated the urban local bodies divided into three zones.If one goes by the order, STP Kamaljeet Kaur would deal with same files twice, one in capacity of STP and then in the capacity of CTP. Same is the case with Gautam and Tejpreet, who have been looking after the charge of other urban local bodies.
11-09-2020||Kuldip Bhatia||PSPCL detects Rs18.40-cr loss||Ludhiana, September 10In its ongoing drive against power theft and other irregularities, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has unearthed a revenue loss of Rs 18.40 crore arising out of 1,24,535 connections from August 11 to September 4. Of the amount, Rs 5.09 crore has already been recovered as penalty from the erring consumers.PSPCL Director (Distribution) Daljit Inder Pal Singh Grewal said as many as 10,412 cases of revenue loss through power theft, tampering with meters, illegal use of electricity, unauthorised load and faulty meters in five distribution zones — border, central, north, south and west — had been detected.Grewal said the highest number of connections was checked in the border zone (37,234), followed by north (25,759), west (22,405), south (20,036) and central (19,101) zones. The border zone also topped the list of defaulters with 2,813 cases, followed by west (2,321), south (2,016), north (2,000) and central (1,262) zones.In terms of penalty imposed on defaulting consumers, the west zone led with Rs 480.68 lakh, followed by the border zone with Rs 446.46 lakh, south zone Rs 372.72 lakh, central zone Rs 289.25 lakh and north zone Rs 251.81 lakh.Grewal said the west zone was also ahead in recovery of penalty with Rs 135.91 lakh, while the lowest amount recovered was in north zone at Rs 53.63 lakh. In south zone, the recovery was Rs 135.40 lakh, border zone Rs 117.76 lakh and central zone Rs 66.76 lakh.He lauded the efforts made by the staff towards recovery of arrears to the tune of Rs 129 crore from non-government consumers and Rs 22 crore from government departments in August alone.
11-09-2020||Faridkot||IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh seeks pardon for Behbal Kalan ‘approver’||Inspector General of Police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh today appeared in the court of District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, to seek pardon for Inspector Pardeep Singh, a prime accused in the Behbal Kalan firing case, to make him an approver.The move reportedly aims at strengthening the prosecution case against the main culprits.Resham Singh, brother of one of the deceased in the firing, and former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, one of the key accused, are opposing the SIT move. The SIT claimed in the court that allowing an accused turn approver in a criminal case was a decision to be taken by the investigating agency, prosecution and the court so as to strengthen the case. So, neither Resham Singh nor the other accused in the case has the right to raise any objection. A day after the SIT moved the court seeking pardon for Pardeep Singh, the duty magistrate had recorded his statement.Pardeep has named a DGP-rank officer and a senior Akali leader who allegedly played role in the police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. — TNS
11-09-2020||---||Why case pending against politician for 36 yrs, asks Supreme Court||New Delhi, September 10Shocked over a criminal case against a Punjab politician pending for 36 years, the Supreme Court today asked the state to explain why it had been hanging fire for such a long time.“Why is a case regarding life imprisonment pending for 36 years?” asked a three-judge Bench led by Justice NV Ramana during hearing of a PIL against criminalisation of politics.As the Bench took up an affidavit filed by senior advocate and Amicus Curiae Vijay Hansaria, Justice Ramana asked which was the oldest pending case. “The oldest case is from 1983... It’s from Punjab,” Hansaria said. “This is shocking! Who is the counsel for the state of Punjab?... No one is visible,” the Bench said.As an advocate appeared on the screen, the Bench sought to know why a case involving life imprisonment was pending for 36 years. “Are you not responsible for prosecuting criminal cases?” Justice Ramana asked.“Yes we are, I will seek information and file a report,” the lawyer said.Thirty-five sitting and former MPs and MLAs in Punjab are facing criminal cases, Hansaria said in an affidavit filed in the court. “There are 35 cases (in Punjab), out of which in 21 cases sitting MPs/MLAs are accused,” he said.
11-09-2020||Sangrur||Water supply department axes trees, locals lodge DDR||In an alleged contempt of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department today axed fully grown trees, including the ones more than 150 years old, on its land here.“On the petition of area residents last week, the NGT had passed the order that no tree along the Telephone Exchange road should be axed. However, five trees have been axed in contempt of the NGT’s order. We have got a DDR registered,” said Jasinder Sekhon, an area resident, who had moved the NGT.The department has axed the trees to construct the office of district executive engineer.Superintending Engineer Sukhminder Singh Pandher said he was not in his office when the incident happened, adding that he was oblivious to the axing of trees.“I have joined work here recently, and I am not aware about the NGT’s order. All paperwork to construct the office was completed by my predecessor. I will look into the matter and take appropriate action,” said executive engineer Jaspreet Kaur Mann.“We are conducting an inquiry into the matter,” said SDM Babbandeep Walia. — TNS
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rs1.92-crore ex gratia  for Galwan martyrs||Recognising the supreme sacrifice made by martyrs of the Galwan valley, the Punjab Government on Thursday released an amount of Rs 1.92 crore as ex gratia, additional relief to parents and cash in lieu of plots for payment to the next of kin.A spokesperson said the amount would be credited into the accounts of the next of kin of the martyrs.Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, Naib Subedar Satnaam Singh, Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, and Sepoy Gurtej Singh, were among the 20 soldiers, who had attained martyrdom during a confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers at the Line of Actual Control on June 15 in the Galwan valley. — TNS
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||State to launch smart ration cards tomorrow||The Punjab Government is all set to launch its ‘Smart Ration Card Scheme’ under the National Food Security Act on September 12.While Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would launch the scheme from Chandigarh, ministers and MLAs would be launching the scheme at the district and block level. Around 35 lakh smart ration cards are to be issued.The scheme would cover 1.41 crore beneficiaries, enrolled with the Department of Food and Civil Supplies. Instead of ‘Atta Dal’ Scheme, it has been renamed as ‘Smart Ration Card Scheme’. — TNS
11-09-2020||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Two Pak intruders’ bodies given burial||Two suspected Pakistani smugglers, who had intruded into the Indian territory in Sriganganagar on Wednesday and were subsequently killed by the Border Security Force, were given burial today after Pakistan Rangers refused to accept their bodies contesting their nationality. — TNS
11-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||No bail for parents who married their daughter four times||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10A man ties the knot only to find that his wife has been married “multiple times” earlier. She even “misappropriates” his cash and gold ornaments, compelling him to lodge a complaint with the police.The alleged story, somewhat on the lines of Sonam Kapoor starrer “Dolly Ki Doli”, was brought to the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s notice after the complainant-husband’s parents-in-law sought anticipatory bail in a cheating case registered at a police station in Ludhiana in January last year.Turning down the bail plea, Justice Arun Monga asserted: “Taking into consideration the allegations made in the FIR as well as in the inquiry report, I am of the opinion that petitioners are in the habit of playing fraud on innocent persons. They took active part in solemnising of four marriages of their daughter and were, thus, fully aware of the previous marriages, which took place at short interregnums...”Justice Monga added it was stated in the report that the petitioners’ daughter had not obtained decree of divorce from any court of law from any of her earlier husbands.Justice Monga also observed she misappropriated cash and gold ornaments of the complainant. The counsel for the petitioners, on the other hand, submitted that they had been implicated. The arguments, however, did not find favour with the Bench as Justice Monga asserted: “In the premise, no ground for grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioners is made out”.
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Exporters not  to buy basmati from state||Rice exporters in Punjab will not make any basmati purchase from the state. They will instead buy it from neighbouring Haryana.A decision to this effect was taken by the Punjab Rice Exporters Association after talks with the state government over withdrawal of market fee and rural development fund remained inconclusive today.“We have asked the government to withdraw 4.35 per cent rural development fee, market fee and cancer cess on basmati to help us remain competitive in the market. Besides this, we also have to bear 2.5 per cent commission of arhtiyas and transportation cost. This works out to be almost 8 per cent additional cost,” said Ashok Sethi, Director, Punjab Rice Millers Export Association. — TNS
11-09-2020||Bathinda||Regularise workers: Assciation||8 held for peddling opiumAbohar: Eight persons, hailing from Jodhpur, were nabbed on Thursday for peddling drugs in Peelibanga. DSP Rashi Dogra said 5 kg of opium had been recovered from the gang of eight. The accused were travelling in two vehicles, both of which have been impounded. Booked under the NDPS Act, the accused have been remanded in police custody for three days. OCHeroin worth Rs 30 cr seizedFazilka: The BSF has claimed to have seized 6 kg heroin from near the India-Pakistan border on Thursday. The drug is worth around Rs 30 crore in the international market. One packet of heroin was found near the Samaske border outpost in the morning. Later, searches were launched and another five packets of the drug were seized. The packets were recovered from the paddy fields of farmer Gurdeep Singh. OCPatient booked for lyingMuktsar: The police have booked a person for allegedly concealing the facts and lying to a nodal officer. The man tested Covid positive and told the Health Department that he had come into contact with just three other persons, but the staff found that four more people were living in the same house. Further, his wife and kid had not given their samples, reads the FIR. Besides he allegedly misbehaved with the Covid team. TNSRestart pension: Teachers Sangrur: Members of the Government Teachers’ Union met Punjab Aam Aadmi Party chief Bhagwant Mann on Thursday and sought his help to raise the issue of restarting old pension scheme. “Our leaders met Bhagwant Mann and requested him to raise our demand in the Parliament related to restarting of old pension scheme,” said Devi Dayal of the Government Teachers’ Union. TNSGovt extends timeline for unitsChandigarh: Keeping in view the stress being faced by industry due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government has decided to further extend the timeline for units to migrate from Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Promotion (Revised) - 2013 to Industrial and Business Development Policy, 2017, till December 31. Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora said units can avail of this last time extension as per prescribed procedure under the Detailed Schemes and Operational Guidelines, 2018. TNS
11-09-2020||---||For Golden Temple ‘langar’, overseas funds allowed||New Delhi, September 10With the government granting Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration to an Amritsar association to receive overseas funds to serve “langar” to devotees at the Golden Temple, Union Home Minister Amit Shah today said, “PM Narendra Modi is blessed that ‘Waheguru ji’ has taken ‘seva’ from him.”Set up in 1925, the organisation so far has been taking donations within the country. It can now take foreign contributions.
11-09-2020||Aman Sood||Punjab prepares to check stubble-burning||Tribune News SevicePatiala, September 10With less than a week left for harvesting to begin in Majha where paddy was sown early, Punjab has appointed nodal officers at the village level to check stubble burning. They will report farm fires and take action on the spot.These officials will have a mobile app that will send live reports for on-the-spot action. The deputy commissioners of Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Patiala, Tarn Taran, Muktsar and Ferozepur have been briefed in this regard, says Punjab Pollution Control Board member-secretary Karunesh Garg.Experts warn that farm fires may begin by mid-September, aggravating the Covid-19 situation. Sources say a penalty of Rs 6 crore is yet to be realised from erring farmers. Backed by unions, they refuse to deposit the fine. The government had last year announced an incentive of Rs 2,500 per acre for not burning stubble. The scheme was dropped after several panchayats reported it was being ‘misused.’
