11-10-2020||---||One more fatality due to Covid-19 in Mohali, 97 fresh cases||Mohali, October 11The Mohali district witnessed one more fatality due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours taking the toll to 208 while 97 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the district.Out of the total 97 positive cases, 82 cases were reported from Mohali Urban, 3 from Dera Bassi, 7 from Dhakoli, one each from Kharar and Kurali and 3 from Lalru. Meanwhile 124 persons had been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the district.As of now there are 11,415 positive Covid cases and out of these 10,190 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 1,047 active cases with 208 deaths in the district.
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Over 23 lakh tonnes paddy arrives in Punjab mandis, 22.6 lakh tonnes procured||A total 23.38 lakh tonnes of paddy has arrived so far in mandis in Punjab in the ongoing procurement season, the state’s Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said on Sunday.Out of this, 22.62 lakh tonnes paddy has been procured by government agencies, the minister was quoted as saying in a statement here.With 27.36 lakh hectares of area under paddy cultivation, Punjab is targeting procurement of 171 lakh tonnes in the ongoing season.Elaborate arrangements have been made by the government to ensure hassle-free and safe procurement amid the COVID-19 pandemic.The Punjab Mandi Board has already notified nearly 4,000 purchase centres for seamless procurement of paddy. — PTI
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab witnesses a decline in COVID-19 cases; infection tally 1.2 lakh||Thirty-five more fatalities due to coronavirus in Punjab pushed the death toll to 3,833, while 669 fresh cases took the state's infection tally to over 1.2 lakh on Sunday.Five deaths were reported from Ludhiana, four each from Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, three each from Amritsar, Kapurthala and Patiala, and two each from Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Rupnagar.Faridkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Muktsar, Pathankot and Tarn Taran registered one death each, according to a medical bulletin.Punjab has been witnessing a decline in the number of daily coronavirus cases for the past several days.This month, the state has been adding less than 1,000 cases per day as against around 2,000 a day in September, as per available data.The places which reported new coronavirus cases include Mohali (114), Ludhiana (91) and Amritsar (65).The state's COVID-19 caseload has reached 1,23,973, of which 9,275 are active cases, the bulletin said.A total of 1,098 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection on Sunday, taking the number of cured persons to 1,10,865.Thirty-five critical patients are on ventilator, while 180 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.The state has so far tested 21,45,369 samples for COVID-19. PTI
11-10-2020||New Delhi||Centre invites agitating farmers’ organisations for talks on October 14||Amid escalating agitation in Punjab against the three agriculture Acts, the Centre has invited farmers’ organisations for talks with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Aggarwal in New Delhi on October 14, top officials have confirmed.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar may also attend the meeting “depending upon the response (of the organisations) to the invitation,” they added.“We are waiting for a formal confirmation (from farmers’ organisations) before making the announcement. The central government has sent an invitation to members of all 29 farmer organisations for another meeting in New Delhi at 11.30 am on October 14,” they said. With farmers’ agitation gaining momentum with every passing day, official sources said the Centre was “keen to hear the side and put forth its views on the matter”. At a meeting with union ministers Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar last week, one of the key concerns expressed by leading farmers’ leaders was regarding the MSP. While they demanded that the MSP be factored in legislation, they also wanted purchase below the support price to be made a punishable offence.While asserting that MSP was there to stay, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said making purchase below MSP a punishable offence will hamper the functioning of the market  and adversely affect the farmers. “If the quality of grains is not good the buyer will turn him back. But today the farmer is at least able to sell on negotiated price,” he also told the farmers leaders. Regarding apprehensions that the MSP will be done away with the government has been categorical that it will continue in future.
11-10-2020||Sangrur||Farmers lay siege to trucks of paddy from other districts; Sangrur farmers 'struggle to sell their crops'||Farmers from Dhadriyan village, under the banner of Kriti Kisan Union, have laid siege to three trucks of paddy, that were purchased from Tartarn by local rice millers.Farmers have alleged, that millers were purchasing paddy from other districts while Sangrur farmers would struggle to sell their crops.They have announced to intensify their agitation in the coming days."Rice millers of our area, are bringing paddy from other districts, but they would refuse to purchase our crop, which would come after 10-15 days because till then they would purchase their all quota. We would not allow the sale of other districts' paddy in our area, and our protest would continue till the authorities do not send these trucks back to Tartan," said a union leader, Bhajan Singh.He alleged, that even though many trucks had come from Tartarn, and other border districts last night, they could only capture three trucks."Every year the farmers of our area face problems because millers purchase paddy from other areas," alleged another union leader, Tejinder Singh.Punsup inspector, Kuldeep Goyal, and Markfed inspector, Pushpinder Singh, said that they had been trying to convince farmers to release trucks as legally could not stop rice millers from purchasing paddy from any part of the state.“We have deputed cops, and trying to convince farmers. Meetings are going on,” said the SHO Longowal, Harchetan Singh.
11-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Wrong transfusion: NGO to move HC after Bathinda cops book one blood bank employee||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 11The Bathinda police have registered a case against one employee of the blood bank in the wrong blood transfusion incident at Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital, whereas the probe committee had indicted three employees for negligence in the incident.Local NGO Naujawan Welfare Society has alleged that in this incident of gross negligence no police action has been taken against two blood bank employees and there is no reference of a woman who was given HIV positive blood in May. It also announced that to provide justice to the victims, the NGO through its counsel HC Arora would file a case in Punjab and Haryana High Court.The case has been registered against Baldev Singh Romana, Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT) Grade-1 at Blood Bank at Civil Hospital under Sections 269, 270 of IPC at Kotwali police station on the complaint of Civil Surgeon. In the complaint, it is stated that on October 3, a seven-year-old thalassaemia patient was given blood from a donor who was HIV positive and accused Baldev knew about it.In front of probe committee, Baldev Singh had claimed that he did not call HIV positive person to donate blood. However, the committee during the probe found out that Baldev Singh was not having cordial working relations with Blood Transfusion Officer and his colleague MLT Richa Goyal. To allegedly settle personal score with them, on October 1, Baldev dialled the HIV positive donor from his mobile phone and called him to civil hospital for blood donation, the probe claimed.   Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “We have acted as per the complaint we have received from Civil Surgeon. Police will probe in the matter and if required more sections or persons will be added to the FIR.”Civil Surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said, “Different departments have to initiate action against them. We have taken action against whom we can take action, now it is up to other departments to act.”In gross negligence, a seven-year-old girl and a woman were given blood of an HIV positive person in two separate incidents at Civil Hospital.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had ordered formation of a probe committee. A three-member inquiry committee was constituted by the Health Department, which in its report found the employees guilty of gross negligence.Acting on the report of an inquiry committee in connection with the wrong blood transfusion incident at a hospital here, the Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, has issued orders suspending three employees’ blood transfusion officer Dr Krishma Goyal, and medical lab technicians Baldev Singh Romana and Richa Goyal for the negligence.The Civil Surgeon has written to the SSP seeking an FIR in this incident and also asked for necessary legal action.
11-10-2020||New Delhi||BJP leader Tajinder Pal Bagga files complaint with minorities panel over assault, removal of Sikh man's turban||The National Commission for Minorities has taken note of a complaint filed by a Delhi BJP leader who has sought action into an incident where a Sikh man was attacked and his turban allegedly removed by the police during a rally in West Bengal's Howrah.A controversy had erupted on Thursday after the West Bengal police allegedly assaulted a Sikh man, identified as Balwinder Singh, and pulled his turban during a BJP rally in Howrah.The police, however, argued that the man was carrying a firearm and that his headgear "had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued".Delhi BJP spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga on Sunday wrote a letter to Minorities Commission member Atif Rasheed, demanding "strictest possible" action in this regard.In a tweet, Rasheed said: "As a member of Minorities Commission I have immediately taken cognizance of your complaint and the Commission will take the required action in the matter by tomorrow."In the letter, Bagga said: "What is happening in Bengal is really unforgivable. Brutal attack on security officer Balwinder Singh and disrespect of his turban by West Bengal Police is really shameful and condemnable act."Bagga further said: "I have really lost my sleep over this. This is really unforgettable. I urge you to take action against erring police officers as soon as possible." Singh, a resident of Bhatinda, is a former Indian Army soldier and currently works as a private security officer of a BJP leader, the party leadership claimed.The BJP, whose protest march to the state secretariat Nabanna on October 8 witnessed clashes with police, has accused the Trinamool Congress government of hurting the sentiments of Sikhs.The TMC had dubbed the allegations as "baseless" and said accused the BJP of "trying to communalise the issue". PTI
11-10-2020||London||UK Sikh activist breaks COVID rules for 'Kissan Rally' to 'support Punjab farmers'; fined||A British Sikh man has been handed a 10,000 pound fine for breach of the COVID-19 restrictions on large gatherings following a "Kisaan Rally” organised in west London “in solidarity” with farmers in Punjab.Deepa Singh, of Sikh Activists UK, was seen on social media soon after being handed the fixed penalty notice by police on October 4.“The fine was for arranging a gathering under COVID restrictions. We are standing in solidarity with our farmers in Punjab,” Singh said.The group, however, went on to thank its many supporters who turned out in large numbers for the rally.“Thousands attended and Southall was gridlocked, we cannot thank you all enough for taking that time out to make an effort to attend,” said Sikh Activists UK.“Everyone who attended stood shoulder to shoulder with our families in Punjab, it is at times like this we unite and structure ourselves on political issues to help educate the sangata (community),” they said.Southall in west London is home to the UK capital's largest Sikh population and witnessed a gathering of cars, trucks and motorbikes during the rally on October 4 to protest against India's new agricultural laws.The Metropolitan Police officers were on patrol to try and control crowds as protests fall within the purview of the coronavirus laws, brought in to control the spread of infections in all parts of the UK.“A man has been reported for consideration of a 10,000 pound fixed penalty notice for breaching the Health Protection Relations 2020 in relation to a protest that took place in Southall on October 4,” a Met Police statement said.“Protests are not exempt under coronavirus legislation. Organisers must carry out a full risk assessment and take all steps to limit the transmission of the virus; they must make sure this is adhered to,” the statement said.Similar fines have been handed out to organisers of anti-lockdown protests in London in the past few weeks and months. PTI
11-10-2020||Vijay Mohan||Mohali centre develops technology for eco-friendly, economic farming method||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, has developed the technology for aquaponic cultivation of plants, which is not only environment-friendly but also has high socio-economic benefits for the farming community.Aquaponics is an emerging technique in which both fish as well as plants complement each other to sustain and grow. The fish waste provides organic food for plants and the plants naturally filter the water which is used to replenish the fish tank. There is no requirement for the use of soil and fertilisers.“The process is completely organic, increases the productivity of the given land, saves water and also augments the farmers’ income,” Dr PK Khosla, director C-DAC, said, adding: “The technology has been developed and suitable protocols have been evolved for scientists and farmers,” he added.A pilot project to develop the technology was awarded to C-DAC by the Ministry of Information and Technology and a budget of Rs 1.60 crore sanctioned for it. A plant has been set up at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, which is scheduled to be inaugurated tomorrow.Scientists from GADVASU as well as Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, are also being associated with the project.Water from the fish tanks is made to flow through horizontal pipes that are fixed on a framework one on top of the other with the required gap to accommodate the plants. Holes are made in the pipes into which small perforated cups, containing plants, are laid. The roots of the plants draw the nutrients from water flowing through the pipes. The pipes can be stacked up to a reasonable height, thereby drastically reducing the area required for the same number of plants to be cultivated.Aquaponics is suitable to cultivate lettuce, spinach, capsicum, coriander, broccoli and some other leafy plants without the use of soil, pesticides and fertilizers. The area where plants grow is enclosed in a glasshouse-like structure.According to a scientist at C-DAC, three water tanks with a combined capacity of 54,000 litres, containing three kg of fish, have been installed at the pilot project. The fish would further multiply. This quantity is sufficient to sustain 2,000 plants.Though aquaponics is a relatively new field in India, it is being used in many parts of the world as it offers a diverse and stable poly-culture system that allows farmers to grow vegetables and raise fish at the same time. While it is ecologically sustainable, aquaponics also reduces pressure on land and cuts down operational costs.
11-10-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar drops 'hints' of marriage in her 'Punjabi kudi' look on Instagram; Rohanpreet Singh has the sweetest reply||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh have become the talk-of-the-town. Fans can't seem to get enough of NehuPreet's relationship.On Sunday, Neha dropped another major hint; at least the singer's fans seem to think so. The 32-year-old singer posted another picture on her Instagram handle, that 'hinted' about her wedding. Rumours around Neha and Rohanpreet's wedding has left social media buzzing for quite some time.In the post, Neha talks about 'Nehu Da Vyah,' and fans are eagerly waiting to see her walk down the aisle soon with Rohanpreet.Flaunting a 'desi girl' avatar, Neha captioned her latest post: "Aaja Chal Vyah Karwaiye Lockdown Wich Katt Hone Kharche, this is my favourite line from Diamond Da Challa Song.' Well, she did talk about her a song but what caught everyone's attention was the hashtag she used, '#NehuDaVyah,' which indicates about marriage.Rohanpreet was quick to comment: "Chalo chalo karwaiye vyah'.“Aaja Chal Vyah Karwaiye Lock Down Wich Katt Hone Kharche” This is my favourite line from #DiamondDaChalla Song 🥰 Which line is Your fav? #NehuDaVyah My Beautiful Outfit 💖 by @rivaajclothing @viralmantra Styled by: @ritzsony @styledose1 Jewellery: @sonisapphire Make Up: @ritikavatsmakeupandhair Hair: @kimberlymakeupnhair 📸 @piyushmehraofficialA post shared by  Neha Kakkar (@nehakakkar) on Oct 10, 2020 at 9:16pm PDT  However, Neha has not openly confirmed or denied the rumours of her tying the knot with her long-time friend Rohanpreet.You’re Mine @rohanpreetsingh ♥️😇 #NehuPreet 👫🏻A post shared by  Neha Kakkar (@nehakakkar) on Oct 8, 2020 at 7:58pm PDT  This post has left fans more curious than ever.Not to miss, Neha was seen wearing a beautiful pink and golden salwar suit, and she is giving all the 'Punjabi Kudi' feels as she roams around the farms in the photos.
11-10-2020||Neha Saini||Guru Nanak Sacred Forest at GNDU will be a self-sustaining ecosystem: Expert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10As each passing day raises alarm bells for the planet’s health, the concept of creating tiny urban forests seems to be picking up, thanks to the Japanese Miyawaki Technique of creating dense, small forests within small spaces. GNDU, city’s most green belt, too has dedicated two acres of land for creating a sacred forest that will, according to the horticulture consultant and environmentalist JS Bilga, become a solution to increasing air pollution around the GT Road.“The project to create the Guru Nanak Sacred Forest inside the campus was an initiative taken by VC Jaspal Sandhu, who was concerned about the increasing air pollution around the GT Road. The BRTS project had sacrificed green cover along the GT Road and surrounding areas. With the sacred forest, we are trying to create a healthy green cover to saturate and regulate the air pollution levels,” said Bilga, who is heading the project. The Sacred Forest project was launched last year to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. The forest space is being created not exactly on the similar pattern of Miyawaki technique.“Miyawaki technique limits to creating green belt in small urban spaces, where trees grow in height and not breadth. We are trying to create forest based on traditional methods here, planting indigenous species that create a self-sustaining eco-system around them. Like the banyan tree that can spread up to one acre of land or the peepal tree that supports the life of shrubs and insect species around it. The forest will also have water bodies and birds and insect species to complete the forest ecosystem,” said Bilga.He has been working as a consultant with Baba Sewa Singh, a Padam Shree environment activist, who is providing support to create the Sacred Forest. His foundation has planted 2,450 trees of native varieties for the forest and will contribute more. The District Forest Department too has announced its support to the development of the forest inside the GNDU campus.The forest will have a combination of shady trees, fruit trees, flower trees and medicinal plants. Bilga said the forest would have native varieties of trees, including trivaini (bohar, peepal and neem), sandalwood, jand, tahli, desi kicker, shahitut, arjun, gullar, dharek, mango, jamun. “The idea is not just to create a green space, but also to preserve and nurture our green wealth and heritage. The forest will be one-of-its-kind in the region,” he said.
11-10-2020||---||Website preserves World War Sikh soldiers’ history||Amritsar, October 10Dedicated to the contribution of Sikh soldiers who laid their lives in two World Wars, a website was launched by the members of the Shaheed Welfare Society. The website will provide vital information through videos, photographs and articles to people online regarding the martyrs’ role WWI and WWII and their contribution to the democratic values in Europe and other countries during the time.In a ceremony organised at Sultanwind village, Gurinder Singh Mahal and Harjap Singh, who is also member of the SGPC, joined several eminent historians including Bhupinder Singh Holland to launch the website. Holland is an eminent historian and author, who has written books on the history of Sikh Soldiers during WWI and WWII. He, along with Dutch historian Dr Dominic, has contributed research material for the website.Holland, who joined the launching ceremony online from Netherlands said the purpose of the website, www.vishavyudhsultanwind.org, to provide consolidated information platform to people on the role of the Sikhs in World Wars.
11-10-2020||---||Restore Bhangi Misl Baradari, say activists||Amritsar, October 10Activists working for the preservation of heritage buildings met District Tourism Officer and demanded the restoration of Baradari of Karam Singh Chhina at Ajnala. The Baradari is located at Chhina Karam Singh village on Ajnala-Chogawan RoadMichael Rahul, an activist stated that the nearly 250-year-old precious heritage Baradari of Bhangi Misl in Ajnala of District Amritsar Sahib was on the verge of extinction. “Earlier, we wrote to the Chief Minister of Punjab to save this Baradari, but no avail. Now, we have submitted a letter to Gursharan Singh, District Tourism Officer, Amritsar. We demanded restoration of great heritage of warriors of Bhangi Misl”.District Tourism officer assured to activists to make the effort to save this Baradari. “This heritage building is very beautiful and a rare example of Sikh architecture. It can be preserved and developed as a heritage site. There is great potential of tourism in the district but government should make the effort to preserve it and develop it as tourist destination”, added MichaelKaram Singh Chhina was one of the famous Bhangi Misl Commanders, who conquered Lahore. The village Chhina Karma Singh has been named after him.
11-10-2020||Almighty Motion Picture has bought the rights to the biography of the greatest Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa. He was a general in the army of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his biography is written by Vanit Nalwa||Hari Singh Nalwa’s biography to be adapted into a web series||It took Vanit almost 12 years to complete the book after painstaking research. The biography is considered to be the most authentic account of the great general’s life.Producer Prabhleen Kaur is excited about the new acquisition and says, “It’s the biggest pride for any Sikh to be a part of a project on S. Hari Singh Nalwa. Not only India but the entire world should know that there were Generals like S. Hari Singh Nalwa who never lost a single battle.”Author Vanit Nalwa says, “Sardar Hari Singh Nalwa was the commander-in-chief of the Khalsaji (Sikh army) along the frontier with the Afghan empire for 15 years before he suffered fatal injuries in the Battle of Jamrud fought at the mouth of the Khyber Pass.”
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu not among star campaigners for Bihar elections||
11-10-2020||Gurjant Pannu||Jat, gun, and song’s done||The Punjabi music scene has long been influenced by a culture of guns and invoking caste pride, and one name that has captured the imagination of the youth in recent times has been Sidhu Moosewala. He carefully nurtures the persona of being daring, unsparing — the ‘Jat who walks’. Like he did as he took the stage, along with several other artistes, during the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Jat hegemony may have emerged as a successful theme in the Punjabi music and film industry, but caste and identity assertion through songs is not the sole preserve of the ‘dominant’ community.So, if Moosewala comes up with “Jat da muqabla dass mainu kithe? (Where is the match for Jat?)”, Ranjit Bawa’s song is titled “Je mai marhe ghar jammeya te mera ki kasoor aa (What’s my fault if I was born in a ‘low’ household?)”. The latter, in fact, had to remove a song from his platforms after BJP youth leaders filed cases against him for being “anti-Hindu”.Veet Baljit, who has written songs for Diljit Dosanjh and Gippy Grewal, says songs are a reflection of society. “We are often accused of glorifying gangsters or promoting the gun culture, but these are the market demands. If I release a religious song, it hardly gets 2-3 lakh views on YouTube, whereas songs related to guns get 25 lakh views. To survive in the industry, one has to write songs which would be liked by the public.”He also dismisses concerns about glorifying Jats. “It is the dominant caste in Punjab, so it’s obvious we sing paeans.” What Moosewala has achieved, he says, is through hard work and the trend of gangster songs is not his creation.Mofusion, a music director who has worked with Diljit and Singga, agrees that songs glorifying gangsters are in vogue because of audience demand, but “even if they talk of violence, the songs do not tell them to pick up guns for crime. I think the message they give is to stand up for what is right”.Punjabi University Assistant Professor Dr Dharamjeet Singh says the fascination with singers and gangsters is because of the want of better role models.“There is an intellectual vacuum in the state as there are no contemporary youth leaders, writers or poets who have a connect with the youth. So singers like Moosewala become symbols instead of role models of the past like Gursharan Singh, a stalwart of theatre, or Pash, one of the major poets of the Naxalite movement in Punjab in the 1970s, or Shiv Kumar Batalvi,” he says.He feels it is important to understand that there are singers like Satinder Sartaj, who sings about Punjabi culture and has a dedicated following, “but their influence isn’t as wide, and their voice gets lost in the commotion of loud lyrics”.Lyricist Manish Singh Dhanjal says youngsters see gangsters as influential and “you can’t make high tempo and beat songs without such lyrics, so this trend will continue”.National award-winning Punjabi film director Rajeev Kumar has an interesting contrary take. “Punjabi singers have created a caste hegemony by only talking about Jats. Their coming out in support of farmers is also part of that ecosystem,” he says, “as they want to keep their Jat audience, that is the farmers, intact and their support is a mere eyewash.”People like Master Ram Kumar, who has a singing mandli in Bhadour village, Barnala, or Swarn Singh, a Kavishar from Rasulpur village, Jagraon, “have been raising farmer issues through their songs. Such people should be the real role models,” feels Rajiv.But trust Moosewala — who is first and foremost an artiste with creative impulses — to see a song here too. As he came up with one after being booked for firing an AK-47: “O gabru te case jehra Sanjay Dutt te, Jat utte case jehra Sanjay Dutt te (They came up with a case against the strapping young me, the Jat, like they did against Sanjay Dutt).”
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, active Covid-19 cases fall below 10,000 after weeks||After several weeks, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Punjab has come down to less than 10,000.Graph ImprovingLast month, the average number of active cases on any given day was about 20,000. The graph started witnessing a decline in the beginning of October with a dip in the number of fresh cases and a higher recovery rate. In the first 10 days of October, the average number of active cases stood at 12,000.This number declined to 9,752 on Saturday.The positivity rate too fell drastically (to 4 per cent) in the first week of October with a further decline in the past three days.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “With norms for home isolation made simpler, people are now coming forward to get themselves tested. The number of patients undergoing treatment in hospitals has come down considerably.” — TNS
11-10-2020||Balwant Garg||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini named accused in Kotkapura case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 10A special investigation team (SIT) probing police firing incidents has named former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini as an accused in the Kotkapura case. It sent a letter in this regard to the Kotkapura police today. On September 27, the Bajakhana police in Faridkot had named Saini as an accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing incident.The SIT has already filed three charge-sheets in the Kotkapura case. The first one against IGP. PS Umranangal and former SSP Charanjit Sharma was filed in May last year and the second in June 2019 in which six persons, including former Akali MLA Mantar Brar, were named as accused. In the third charge-sheet, the SIT named then SHO and DSP, Kotkapura.He was accused of tampering with evidence. As per the charge-sheet, the police action on protesters was the result of a conspiracy hatched by politicians and senior police officers in connivance with the dera chief.
11-10-2020||Bathinda||Three suspended for wrong blood transfusion in Bathinda||Acting on the report of an inquiry committee in connection with the wrong blood transfusion incident at a hospital here, the Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, has issued orders suspending three employees for the negligence.As per the orders, blood transfusion officer Dr Krishma Goyal, and medical lab technicians Baldev Singh Romana and Richa Goyal have been suspended with immediate effect.Meanwhile, the Civil Surgeon has written to the SSP seeking an FIR against the erring staff and also asked for necessary legal action.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, taking a serious note of the incident, had ordered formation of a probe committee. A three-member inquiry committee was constituted by the Health Department, which in its report found the employees guilty of gross negligence.A seven-year-old thalassaemia patient was given blood of an HIV positive patient at the Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital here a few days ago. — TNS
11-10-2020||Lalit Mohan||Veggies fetch high prices in Punjab, farmers in Himachal rejoice||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 10High prices of vegetables in the plains have benefited the farmers of Chotta Bhangal, a remote tribal area in Kangra district. The farmers of the area grow off season vegetables in their fields located in the foothills of Dhauladhar mountains. Though the area is very remote, having poor roads, traders from Chandigarh, Pathankot and other cities of Punjab are making a beeline here these days to buy the vegetables.Rakesh Prajapati, Kangra DC‘Veggies worth Rs 5 cr sold in Multhan market’Farmers of Chotta Bhangal are progressive. Some of them are also growing exotic vegetables, such as broccoli and peas, which are fetching a good price this year. As per the initial estimate, the farmers of Bara Bhangal valley have sold vegetables ranging from Rs5 to Rs6 crore in the Multhan market.Tilak Raj, a farmer from Multhan, the last village connected with road in Chotta Bhangal area, also the Tehsil headquarters, said he had grown cabbage this year and was getting price of about Rs 40 per kg for his crop. “This is the highest price I have got for my crop in the past one decade,” he said.Jagveer Kumar, another farmer from the area, said this year the potato crop was also fetching a wholesale price of Rs 40 per kg. Potato grown in Chotta Bhangal valley is famous as ‘barot’ potato. It is sold at a price higher than the potato grown in plains. The farmers in their area were getting up to Rs 40 per kg, which was much higher than the price of Rs 20 to Rs 25 they got last year, he added.The farmers told The Tribune that daily about 8 to 10 trucks of vegetables were being taken away by traders from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.Rakesh Prajapati, Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, said the farmers of Chotta Bhangal area were progressive. Some of them were also growing exotic vegetables, such as broccoli. This year, they were getting up to Rs 145 per kg for broccoli crop. Farmers of the area were also growing offseason vegetables, such as peas, which was also fetching a good price this year. As per the initial estimate, the farmers of Bara Bhangal valley had sold vegetables ranging from Rs 5 to 6 crore in the Multhan market, he said.The vegetables grown in Bara Bhangal valley were as good as organic vegetables and were popular in the plains of adjoining states. The government was trying to help the farmers get better price of their vegetable crop in order to maximise their profit, Prajapati added.
11-10-2020||Muktsar||2 ASIs, three others booked||
11-10-2020||---||Bathinda varsity looks for alternative to farm fires||Bathinda, October 10Extensive research on the presence of heavy metallic content in groundwater in Malwa region and to find out a viable alternative to stubble-burning will be the two key research areas of the Central University of Punjab in the coming years, said prof RP Tiwari, Vice Chancellor of the university, during a media interaction here. Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will be virtually inaugurating the new campus of the university in Bathinda on October 12.Professor Tiwari said, “Our research projects will primarily be focused on ensuring that they provide a solution and be of utility to people of the region and state. The university has already tied-up with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre to map the uranium concentration in the drinking water in region. We will be laying more emphasis on experiential learning for our students and research scholars. Agriculture is not considered as a lucrative profession by many today, we will also conduct research to that effect as well. Moreover, we will introduce botanical garden and medicinal plants in the university campus, where plants from the region will be grown for research purposes.”
11-10-2020||---||Ensure strict vigil to stop stubble-burning, depts told||Chandigarh, October 10Almost 200 incidents of stubble burning were reported within two weeks of the start of paddy procurement.The details were presented at a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan. Total 1,791 cases of stubble burning have been reported till October 8. Environment compensation has been imposed in 499 cases, red entries have been made in land record in 320 cases, six cases have been registered under the Air Act, 1981, and three FIRs have also been filed against violators.The Chief Secretary today asked the departments concerned to ensure strict monitoring to eradicate the stubble burning menace.She stressed that no combine harvester should be allowed to run without the Super SMS and legal action should be initiated immediately in case of any violation as this trend would further exacerbate the Covid-19 situations.She said many panchayats had already joined hands with the state by passing resolutions against stubble burning, but the target of zero stubble burning would only be achieved when all panchayats would pledge to shun this practice.The Chief Secretary asked Deputy Commissioners to impress upon the remaining panchayats to come forward to end the menace.
11-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||Nobody to look after at home, kids join kin at farmers' protest venues||Tribune News Service Sangrur, October 10 The number of children in protests against the farm Acts has been increasing by the day. Singing self-composed songs against the laws and waving banners, children can be seen mobilising support at several places. At Kalajhar, six-year-old Randeep Kaur from Sanghreri village is the youngest at the protest site. Though she doesn’t much knowledge about the protest, she is excited to wave a small banner to catch the attention of passers-by.  Whenever their parents and grandparents raise slogans, the children try to mimic them and start waving flags and banners. There are many teenagers such as 15-year-old Mehakpreet Kaur and 14-year-old Kamalpreet Kaur, who understand the gravity of situation. “Our grandfather and father have been working hard in fields, but they are not able to earn the required money and debt has been mounting every year. The latest Acts are against the farming community. Therefore, we all are with them in their fight against the Acts,” said both of them.  Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan), said though there were multiple reasons for the increasing number of children at protest sties, the main is that there is nobody at home to look after them in the wake of ongoing protests. They, therefore, accompany their family members to the sites.
11-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Centre ignored farmers’ concerns, burdened agri sector: Kisan union||Mandi Ahmedgarh, October 10Activists of various organisations protesting for the withdrawal of farm laws continued with their dharnas at various places in the region.Protesters led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) Ahmedgarh block senior vice-president Amarjit Singh continued with their dharna at Lehra village on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla highway near here today.Up in arms Addressing the gathering, Amarjit Singh alleged that the Union Government had ignored the concerns of farmers of the border state by bringing in the farm laws, thus burdening the already ailing agriculture sector.“Though members of all sections of society are convinced that these laws will shatter the economy of the nation in general and Punjab in particular, the Prime Minister wants to appease the corporate houses,” he said.The protesters continued to lay siege to a fuel station near the Jagera Bridge for the 10th day today. Condemning the role of leaders of various parties for their alleged attempt to harness political mileage by pretending to organise protest marches, the organisers announced that they would not allow political leaders to participate in their protest.Meanwhile, activists of the BSP unit of the Fatehgarh Sahib Lok Sabha segment organised protest marches at Payal and nearby localities and demanded ouster of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged involvement in the scholarship scam.Speakers condemned the UP Government and the Centre for “inaction” against perpetrators of the Hathras gangrape and murder case. They also supported the ensuing struggle launched by various organisations for the withdrawal of the farm laws.
11-10-2020||Fazilka||Ensure procurement of cotton at MSP, Sukhbir urges Modi||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that cotton was procured at the minimum support price (MSP) in Punjab, saying farmers were being exploited at the hands of private traders because the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) was “hesitant” in procuring cotton in the state. While talking to the media, he alleged that cotton farmers were suffering because the CCI had “deliberately delayed” entry into the market due to which farmers were forced to sell their crop at Rs 4,800 per quintal to private traders against the MSP of Rs 5,725 per quintal. While interacting with farmers in the cotton yard, the SAD president assured them that the party would launch an agitation to force the CCI to procure cotton at MSP from October 12. He said he would not let the farmers be exploited under any cost. He said 1.25 lakh quintals of cotton had arrived in the mandis in Punjab, but the CCI had purchased a minuscule amount of 12,000 quintals. “We demand constitutional guarantees for MSP and no farm produce will be procured at prices less than the MSP,” he said. — OC
11-10-2020||Amritsar||Punish officials who pulled cop’s turban in WB:  Gobind Singh Longowal||Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC president, has sought strict action against guilty West Bengal police officials for “pulling” the turban and disrespecting the ‘kesh’ and religious symbols of Balwinder Singh, a Sikh policeman, during a BJP march at Howrah in Kolkata yesterday.Expressing displeasure at the incident, Longowal said such incidents were recurring in the country.He asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue guidelines to all state governments to ensure respect to all religious symbols of the Sikh community. In a strongly worded statement, he said pulling off the turban and holding a Sikh man from hair amounted to desecration of his religious symbols. — TNS
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bar defaulting sugar mills from running units, PM urged||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring in legislation that bars private sugar mill operators from running their units if they default on payment to cane growers.  Quoting the data submitted in the Lok Sabha, Bajwa said Rs 15,683 crore was still owed from the 2016-17 season, Rs 242 crore from 2017-18, Rs 548 crore from 2018-19 and Rs 12,994 crore from 2019-20. As a result, farmers had been waiting for their payments for years together. Due to the policies of the Centre, sugar prices were allowed to increase to make the mills viable. There had been a 35 per cent increase in the sugarcane price from Rs 230 per quintal in 2011-12 to Rs 310 per quintal in 2019-20, Bajwa said.  A sudden drop of sugar price during 2017-18 led to financial crisis for both farmers and mill operators. The government declared the SMP of sugar in 2017-18 at Rs 2,900 per quintal, which was further enhanced to Rs 3,100 per quintal for 2018-19 and to Rs 3,300 per quintal for 2019-20. These measures were not sufficient in ensuring that mill operators cleared their dues to farmers, he said.  — TNS
11-10-2020||Ropar||Letter to Sonia Gandhi still relevant, says Manish Tewari||Local MP Manish Tewari has asserted the letter written by senior Congress leaders, including him, two months ago to party chief Sonia Gandhi for organisational reforms was still relevant. He said the signatories were hopeful that their constructive suggestions for strengthening the party would be implemented.In August, 23 senior party leaders, including former chief ministers, Congress Working Committee members, MPs and former Union ministers, wrote to Gandhi seeking drastic changes, including devolution of power to state units, revamping the CWC, and having a “full-time, active and visible” leadership. In political circles, the letter was seen as a challenge to the party leadership.Tewari, who was here to visit grain markets, said a majority of the signatories to the letter had devoted over four decades of their life to the party. Their only aim was to strengthen the party so that the Congress could form a government by winning more than 272 seats in the 2024 parliamentary elections, he said.“These suggestions are still relevant now,” he said, adding it was unfortunate the letter came out in public domain though it was not for public consumption. — TNS
11-10-2020||Aman Sood||Situation critical, power plants low on coal stock in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 10With nearly all major rail routes in the state blocked in the face of farmers’ protest against the agriculture laws, state’s thermal plants have curtailed power generation, limiting supply to the farm sector, as their coal stocks have dwindled.Since the farmers are blocking over three dozen major rail routes, coal stocks from the mines are not reaching the thermal plants. “If the situation continues, power supply to various sectors will be hit badly, given the state’s dependence on thermal power,” said a senior official.The three thermal plants in the state are trying to save on coal by limiting power generation. In the private sector, Rajpura-based Nabha Thermal Plant is left with only 5.5 days of coal, while Talwandi Sabo Power Limited has stock for only 2.4 days. The situation is critical at Goindwal Sahib Power Plant in Tarn Taran, which has only half a day of coal stock left.A Venu Prasad, chairman-cum-MD, PSPCLKeeping close watch: PSPCLWe are keeping an eye on the coal situation and as of now we are managingWith seven days of coal left, state-owned Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant, Lehra Mohabbat, has stopped power generation, while Guru Gobind Singh Thermal Plant in Ropar has 11 days of stock.“We are meeting our present demand in all sectors through hydel and thermal generation from private plants. State-owned units will be put to use once we feel the need,” said a top official.“A majority of our plants are running at less than half their capacity, as shutting and then restarting a unit costs lakhs of rupees,” said a PSPCL officer.“Industry has finally started operating after the Covid-induced lockdown and any power pangs now will hit it and the state’s economy hard,” he said, adding the government had been apprised of the matter.Senior PSPCL officials said the total power supply in the state was 1,570 lakh units (LUs), of which Nabha Thermal plant accounted for 350 LUs and Talwandi Sabo 158 LUs, in addition to solar and hydel power. The maximum demand in the state was 7,700 MW with an evening peak at 6,242 MW.In March 2020, the coal stock at thermal power plants in the country had risen to its highest-ever level of 39.48 million tonne. As per the mandate of Central Electricity Authority (CEA), thermal plants have to maintain 22 days of fuel stock.Farmers alleged tube-wells were getting only two to three hours of supply a day, while certain domestic consumers were facing outages during peak hours. However, PSPCL denied any power cuts as of now. “Power supply has been hit at certain places only due to snags or repairs. As of now, we are not resorting to power cuts,” said an official.
11-10-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||BJP lines up eight ministers to counter farmers’ protests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10With farmers continuing with their agitation against the new farm legislations, the BJP has lined up its Cabinet ministers to address farmers, arhtiyas, agriculture experts, educationists and media over eight consecutive days in a bid to counter the protests.Tomar not in teamUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who introduced the farm Bills in Parliament and gave assurance in writing that the MSP system would continue, is not listed among the BJP speakersBeginning October 13, the Cabinet ministers, including Hardeep Singh Puri, Kailash Chowdhary, Smriti Irani, Anurag Thakur, Dr Sanjiv Kumar Balia, Som Parkash, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Dr Jatinder Singh, will address and answer queries over the farm laws in district-specific video conferences.To host video-conferencesUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who introduced the farm Bills in Parliament and gave assurance in writing that the MSP system would continue, is, however, not listed among the BJP speakers.The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance is facing flak even from some of its allies besides the Opposition and farmer organisations across the country over the new Acts. The protests are worst in Punjab where the Congress government led by Capt Amarinder Singh is also opposing the new laws. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi recently led a three-day tractor march in the state in support of farmers.Many farmer organisaitons have been laying siege to petrol pumps and godowns of corporate houses, besides blocking rail and road traffic.While those protesting the “black laws” claim these are aimed at helping the corporate houses and damaging to the federal structure, the BJP insists the much-needed reforms will give farmers the best price for their produce.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said the Cabinet ministers would address various stakeholders under the leadership state BJP president Ashwani Sharma. “Vested interests have spread misinformation on the farm reforms brought in by the BJP in consultation with the alliance partners,” he said.Already, BJP leaders from the state have urged the party leadership to clear the ‘misgivings’ on the farm Acts. Senior BJP leader Avinash Rai Khanna has in a letter to Tomar urged him to release a Punjabi version of the Acts for clear understanding among farmers, who are not well-versed with English and Hindi.
11-10-2020||---||Doaba shuts over ‘atrocities’ against Dalits||Jalandhar, October 10All markets in the Doaba region remained shut throughout the day as various Dalit organisations held a protest against the Hathras rape and murder case and the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scam in Punjab.Roads and highways leading to Phagwara, Pathankot, Nakodar and Hoshiarpur were blocked. Even as the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) did not organise any protest today, the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Sant Samaj, Bhim Army, BSP (A), Valmiki Tiger Force and Bahujan Samaj Front took up the issue of atrocities committed against the Dalit girl and her family in Uttar Pradesh.Bhim Army chief joins protestsBhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan took part in the protests held in Jalandhar, Phagwara, Phillaur and Ludhiana. He also paid obeisance at a prominent dera in Doaba. At the dharnas, he condemned the Hathras incident and demanded a government job for the family of the victim.While ex-Congress minister Joginder Mann led the protests in Phagwara, Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan took part in the protests held in Jalandhar, Phagwara, Phillaur and Ludhiana. He also paid obeisance at a prominent dera in Doaba. At the dharnas, he condemned the Hathras incident and demanded a government job for the family of the victim.Meanwhile, BJP leaders, including Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari and Mohinder Bhagat, organised a parallel dharna at BSF Chowk over the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scam.In Bathinda too, various organisations held a protest against the Hathras incident. The protesters were seen holding placards demanding justice for the victim.The Bathinda Social Group, Democratic Right Sabha, Punjabi Sahit Sabha, Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, Bhim Army, Bathinda, Suchet Punjabi, Bathinda, and Istri Sabha, Punjab, were among the organisations which took out a march in Bathinda city against the incident.The members said all the proof was buried as the victim’s body was cremated in the middle of the night. They demanded justice for the victim’s family.
11-10-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar couple, man kill self; blame police in suicide notes||Three persons, including a couple, took their lives here today. Interestingly, the victims in their suicide notes blamed police officials for taking the extreme step.The deceased have been identified as Rajinder Kumar, his wife Sunita Mannan, both residents of the Sundar Nagar area, and Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky. Kumar and his wife were upset over alleged police inaction in arresting their son-in-law Nitin Dutta, who allegedly killed their daughter Sarika Mannan in 2015. In a suicide note, the couple alleged the police had failed to nab Dutta over the past five years. Besides, the note read the latter’s parents, who were arrested on the charge of dowry death, had come out on bail after serving three-and-a-half years in prison.The Mohkampura police had done a “shoddy” probe into the matter, read the note, adding that Nitin’s family knew about his whereabouts, but the police weren’t questioning them.The deceased’s son, Sandeep Kumar, has demanded the arrest of Dutta, his parents and other suspects involved in the crime. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said it was wrong to blame the police, as following their probe, Nitin’s parents were sentenced to seven years of imprisonment by the court. Nitin was declared a proclaimed offender in the case and efforts were on to nab him, he added.In another incident, Vicky of Nawapind village on the Mehta road took his life in a hotel room located on the Batala road here. A suicide note recovered from the scene held a woman sub-inspector responsible for driving him to suicide.The note read he was perturbed as the cop was blackmailing him. Besides, she had taken Rs 18 lakh from him in the past. The family of the deceased alleged SI Sandeep Kaur had been harassing him for some time. The police said a case of abetment to suicide had been filed against the SI. — TNS
11-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Rahul Gandhi banner at DC meetings stokes row||Fazilka, October 10A banner bearing the photograph of Congress Member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi at a series of meetings chaired by the Deputy Commissioner here has raised eyebrows.Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu conducted the meetings with officials over Covid-19, stubble-burning, student issues and free tool kits for the youth at his office on Friday.A ‘Ghar-ghar rozgar’ banner bearing the photographs of Gandhi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was seen in the background at the meetings.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal condemned the display of Gandhi’s photograph at government meetings. “I strongly condemned this as it is against the Constitution. Rahul Gandhi doesn’t hold a constitutional post,” Badal said during a visit to the district today.On his part, DC Sandhu said similar banners were released by the government in each district and the meetings were conducted regarding the welfare schemes for the people.
11-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Courts can extend OTS scheme period, rules High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and economic slump, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that courts have the jurisdiction to extend one-time settlement (OTS) scheme period for repayment of settlement amount.The judgment comes as a relief to borrowers who had settled their accounts under the OTS schemes before the situation was adversely affected by the pandemic.Borrower be given flexibilityA deserving borrower, who has deposited substantial amounts within the originally stipulated period of settlement… should be considered with some flexibility to achieve the ultimate aim of such settlements. HC BenchThe issue was raised before the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash after a petition was filed against the Pathankot District Magistrate and another respondent by the founder members of a foundation that had set up educational institutions.The question for determination before the Bench was whether the HC under Article 226 of the Constitution had the jurisdiction to extend the OTS scheme period.Referring to Supreme Court and High Court Division Bench judgments, the Bench asserted the courts had taken a view that a borrower in deserving cases was entitled to extension in time for payment of balance settlement amount if he had already made substantial payments, but could not make remaining payment within the schedule prescribed under an OTS scheme for reasons beyond his control.Justice Jaswant Singh asserted the court was informed that several banks had already provided for extension under their settlement schemes. The court was also informed that even the State Bank of India had granted extension to all borrowers who had settled their accounts under the schemes “keeping in view the current situation where the entire country has been adversely affected by Covid-19 pandemic”.Justice Jaswant Singh added it was clear the banks had the discretion to extend OTS period keeping in view attending and demanding circumstances to ensure achievement of the ultimate purpose of settlement.The court was conscious that each institution had its own set of settlement policies. But reference to the settlement schemes by nationalised banks was only for illustrative purpose to bring home the point that OTS was not cloaked with rigorous principles which might not permit extension.“If the settlement policies of the banks itself provide for an extension, subject to payment of interest, there is no reason to hold that the courts in exercise of their equitable jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot extend such time period of settlement,” Justice Jaswant Singh added.
11-10-2020||Moga||Woman delivers in hospital parking||In a case of alleged gross negligence on part of the authorities, a woman today gave birth to a child at the district hospital parking lot without any assistance from doctors or paramedical staff.The woman, who works at a brick-kiln, walked to the hospital with her husband, but the doctors referred her to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, claiming she had acute anemia. As the family came out of the maternity ward after a check-up, the woman went into labour and gave birth to a child on the ground. Shakuntala Devi, patient’s mother, alleged the doctors who attended to her advised her to go for Cesarean section at the Faridkot hospital, even as the facility was available at the district hospital.Ravinder Kumar, patient’s brother, alleged the doctors did not attend to his sister properly. “It was a normal delivery, that too without medical assistance. How come C-section was advised by the doctors?” he said, while urging the Punjab Government to take legal action against the erring doctors. Senior Medical Officer Rajesh Attri said the doctors had referred her to the Faridkot hospital due to high risk, but the family desired to take her to a private hospital. “They wasted time,” he added. The authorities later claimed they had admitted the woman and her child to the hospital and both were doing fine. — TNS
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ministers  Brahm Mohindra seek action against Cong dissidents||Days after Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa upped the ante against his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu over the latter’s “conduct” at a rally in Moga, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra today demanded action on the repeated acts of “indiscipline” by party leaders, be it utterances by Sidhu or other dissidents speaking against the Chief Minister.Mohindra said it was not about what happened in Moga or Patiala in the presence of Rahul Gandhi and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat. Sidhu, he said, had shown indiscipline before resigning from the Cabinet as well. “As a sensible leader, one has to apologise for any act of indiscipline. Still, the Chief Minister was magnanimous enough to share the stage with Sidhu and other dissidents to give a message of unity when Rahul Gandhi visited Punjab,” he said.Joining the issue with Mohindra, Randhawa said this was a serious matter. “The indiscipline stemmed from the very fact that party leaders were acknowledging Sidhu’s utterances in the Moga rally as ‘Sidhu’s style’. Rawat should have snubbed Sidhu on the stage as the slip to conclude the speech was sent by the AICC general secretary,” he said. Reacting to reports quoting him expressing concern over the delay in the reconstitution of the PPCC, Rawat, on his Facebook page, wrote that he had only said there was a need to focus on the reconstitution of the PPCC. He categorically denied having mentioned the name of PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar. Terming Jakhar as an important pillar of the party, Rawat said if there was any issue, he would have directly talked to him instead going to the media. — TNS
11-10-2020||Abohar||Six cars gutted in Abohar||
