11-12-2020||Chandigarh||549 new COVID-19 cases, 29 more deaths recorded in a day in Punjab||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 5,036 on Friday with 29 more fatalities, while 549 fresh cases pushed the infection tally in the state to 1,59,099.Five deaths were reported from Amritsar, four each from Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar, three from Ludhiana and one each from Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Mohali, Pathankot, Patiala, Rupnagar and Tarn Taran, according to a medical bulletin.There are 7,286 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to it.Jalandhar reported 97 new cases, followed by 76 each in Mohali and Amritsar and 67 in Ludhiana, among fresh cases witnessed in the state.A total of 651 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,46,777, as per bulletin.Fourteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 133 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 34,68,629 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
11-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s election as Punjab Badminton Association president stayed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday stayed the election of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu as the president of the Punjab Badminton Association.Ashu was on Thursday elected unopposed for the top post.  The order by Justice GS Sandhawalia followed a petition filed by Tejinder Singh Walia and another petitioner against State of Punjab and other respondents.“This Court is of the opinion that since elections have taken place during the pendency of proceedings which were pending before this Court, the election result which was declared on December 10 is liable to be stayed,” Justice Sandhawalia asserted, while fixing the case for further hearing on January 25, 2021.Four vice-presidents, along with other office bearers, were also declared elected.The petitioners had moved the High Court claiming that election scheduled for February  27 could not be held. Further activity could not take place, thereafter, due to Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting/elections were now to be held on December 27, as per decision dated November 19.The impugned order thereafter was passed on October 30 without issuing notice to the petitioners, keeping in view that another writ petition was pending with prayer for issuance of direction to the government to form an ad hoc committee to administer the association’s affairs and functioning, and for conducting the elections.Resultantly, a committee of three deputy commissioners was set up to ensure the holding of  elections. In pursuance of the impugned order, a new schedule was fixed by the committee, whereby the election was to take place on December 13.Accepting notice issued by the Bench, the State counsel on December 9 prayed for time to seek instructions “as to why the elections be not held as per the association’s proposal on December 27, the date already fixed”.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Sandhawalia observed: “It has already been brought to this Court’s notice that the order passed on October 30 is without issuing notice to the petitioner/association, which had already set in motion the election process. It was rather slated for December 27. The election schedule was thus, drawn up, in which the date of withdrawal was December 10. On account of withdrawals, the persons had been declared elected”.
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Congress, AAP to hold protests in Punjab on Dec 14 in solidarity with farmers||To express solidarity with farmers agitating against the newly enacted farm laws, the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab will hold separate state-level protests on December 14.Both parties have said they stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the protesting farmers and will leave no stone unturned in getting their voices heard.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said on Friday that his party would hold a large demonstration at Shambu (inter-state) border on December 14 in support of the farmers.Talking to reporters here on the sidelines of a meeting with the Cabinet Ministers and party MLAs here, he said the Congress would also participate in the district level protest called by the farmers on the same day.He said the demonstration would be organised so that the “insensitive and adamant” central government can hear the voice of the farmers.Jakhar said the protests would be staged from 11 am to 3 pm.“The Central Government must leave its arrogant behaviour and must accept the demands of the farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should immediately listen to the farmers and respect their demands and repeal the three black laws,” he added.AAP state unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann also announced his party’s whole-hearted support to the call given by the protesting farmers to intensify their agitation and escalate it to a nationwide protest on December 14.He said the party would hold protests at district headquarters across Punjab on December 14 against the new farm laws.State Congress chief Jakhar said his party would soon hold a big rally on the farmers’ issue.“Had the Centre consulted farmers before framing these laws, no one would have had to go through this. Neither the farmers would have been forced to sit and protest far away from their homes in cold weather nor the common people would have faced inconvenience,” Jakhar said.He said the Punjab government had strongly presented the real picture of the Centre’s “black laws” before the people of the state.“These black farm laws would prove just as detrimental for the country’s economy as demonetisation,” Jakhar claimed.Echoing a similar sentiment, AAP leader Mann said the farmers had been forced to take to streets to protest against the contentious agriculture laws pushed by the Modi government to “give a free run to its favourite corporate houses”.He claimed that the Centre was adopting repressive measures to crush the farmers’ agitation instead of acceding to their demands.“The Aam Aadmi Party has been opposing the black laws since the day the ordinances were issued and will stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers till these were revoked,” he said.Mann said the Arvind Kejriwal government in the national capital had fielded its ministers, MLAs and volunteers to help the farmers protesting on the Delhi borders in every possible way.Farmer unions, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system under which government agencies buy their crop at an assured price.In its proposal to farmers on Wednesday, the Centre said it would give a written assurance that the MSP system will remain and also redress their other key concerns.The unions, however, demand the complete rollback of the central laws and are continuing their agitation. PTI
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM restricts indoor gatherings to 100, outdoor to 250; extends night curfew till Jan 1||Amid complaints of mass violations of COVID-19 curbs at weddings and parties, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered restriction of 100 people in indoor and 250 in outdoor gatherings, with extension of night curfew in all cities and towns till January 1.He also directed Director-General of Police Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce the restrictions at marriage palaces and other places, with penalties to be imposed on the hosts in case of any deviance.Taking cognisance of the high case fatality rate in the state, he also extended curfew restrictions (10 pm to 5 am) till January 1.Chairing a high-level review meeting, the chief minister also ordered an end to home quarantine for those above the age of 70 with co-morbidities, unless adequate medical facilities can be made available at home.Health Secretary Hussan Lal pointed out during the virtual meeting that a large number of coronavirus deaths were also being reported from home isolation cases.To further check fatality, the chief minister also ordered a thorough check of all private hospitals to ensure that only those with adequate Level III infrastructure and manpower be allowed to admit COVID-19 patients.Hospitals lacking such facilities should refer patients to other hospitals, he said.Though the declining positivity trend in Punjab over the past three weeks was welcome, the fatality rate remained a matter of concern, said Amarinder Singh, directing the DGP to ensure strict compliance to safety protocols, including wearing of masks and social distancing.He also asked the Health Department to maintain the 30,000 per day RT-PCR sampling and testing limit, with more smart and targeted sampling to include potential super spreaders.The chief minister also asked the Health Department to monitor the health of the farmers who are returning from Delhi in view of the risk to them due to the high case load there.The health secretary said so far close to 35 lakh samples had been tested in the state, of which 1.5 lakh were found positive.Though the second wave in Punjab had so far been mild, the health authorities were fully geared to tackle any eventuality, he said.He noted that 87 per cent of the deaths had been over the age of 45, with about 50 per cent of the deaths taking place at private tertiary care centres. — IANS
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||SAD condemns Kejriwal for ‘creating grounds’ for summary use of force against protesting farmers||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday condemned Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for creating the grounds for summary use of force against peacefully protesting farmers at the Singhu border by getting an FIR registered against one thousand farmers through Delhi State’s health department.Condemning this “cowardly” act, the SAD president said the shameful action had again proved that Kejriwal was a stooge who always acted as per the orders of the central government and only shed crocodile tears for the cause of the farming community, a press note said. “Earlier also Kejriwal had proved that he was a wolf in sheep’s clothing by notifying the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 even though he had publicly supported the demand of farmers that it be repealed forthwith,” the press note quoted Badal as saying.Stating that the Delhi chief minister had taken another anti-farmer step immediately after a sham visit to the farmers who were protesting on the borders with Delhi, Badal said: “These two steps show where Kejriwal’s sympathies lie. He is not only anti-farmer but has allowed himself to be used as a tool to suppress the peaceful Kisan movement by use of force”.“The SAD condemns this kind of immoral and despicable politics. We will forcefully protest any attempt by the Delhi government to get the farmers evicted forcefully from the ‘dharna’ site,” Badal said. Stating that this was not the first time that the AAP Convener had indulged in such deceitful acts, Badal said even now the AAP Delhi and Punjab units were continuing with their attempts to befool the farmers.He said even as the Delhi government had notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Act, the Punjab unit of AAP had written to the President to urge him to call a special session of parliament to repeal the three agricultural laws. Stating that this was the height of hypocrisy, the SAD president demanded that the Delhi government not only annul the notification of the farm law but also direct its Health department to take back the police complaint it has filed against farmers.Badal said in case Kejriwal did not act immediately in this matter, he and he alone would be responsible for any harm coming to farmers due to the complaint filed against them by his government. He also asserted that it would have been better if the Delhi chief minister had created necessary facilities at the dharna site to take care of health safety issues instead of using coercive tactics against the ‘annadaata’.
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 24.19% seroprevalence found in Punjab's 12 districts, finds serosurvey||A serosurvey conducted in Punjab's 12 districts has found 24.19 per cent seroprevalence among the population in view of the COVID-19 outbreak, an official statement said on Friday.The recent survey involving a sample of 4,678 people was conducted among randomly selected districts and population of the state, Health Secretary Hussan Lal said in a statement.Nearly 96 per cent of the people were found asymptomatic.According to the statement, 24.19 percent of Punjab's population has been infected by coronavirus, as per the second serosurvey conducted in 12 districts of the state.In the urban areas, seroprevalence was found among 30.5 per cent of the population, while in rural areas, the percentage was 21 per cent. In Ludhiana, the seroprevalence was found in 54.6 per cent of those surveyed with 71.7 per cent in urban pockets alone.The survey was also conducted in districts like Ferozepur, Jalandhar and SAS Nagar (Mohali).“Female positivity was found to be higher in both urban and rural areas in the survey,” the statement said.Each district was assigned the task of completing a sample size of 400, with 200 samples each from rural and urban areas, it said.A serosurvey involves testing the blood serum of a group of individuals for the presence of antibodies against the infection to know who has been infected in the past and has now recovered.Last month, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh gave the go-ahead for the second serosurvey to be conducted across a larger sampling area to assess the spread of coronavirus in the state.At a virtual COVID-19 review meeting last month, the chief minister had agreed with health experts on the need to find the extent of spread of SARS CoV-2 outside the containment zones, in contrast with the first serosurvey that was conducted in August in five containment zones across five districts.The first survey conducted in one containment zone each in Patiala, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar had found 27.8 per cent seroprevalence. — PTI
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab has 729 cold chain points for Covid vaccine||As the state gears up for the mega exercise with a total of 729 cold chain points, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the Health Department to incorporate the results of the second sero survey in the strategy for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out so that the high-risk population is covered first.At a high-level virtual meeting to review the coronavirus situation, the Chief Minister noted the state's readiness for the vaccine roll-out in terms of database of priority lists; infrastructure for cold chain management; identification and training of vaccinators, etc.Apart from vaccine safety and vaccination site safety, correct and timely information communication was critical to the successful roll-out of the vaccination, which is expected to be available soon in India, Amarinder Singh said.Besides one state-level vaccine store, 22 district vaccine stores and 127 block level vaccine stories are being prepared for the roll-out of the vaccine in Punjab, which will also have 570 cold chain points.Besides one walk-in freezer at Ferozepur, the government of India has decided to provide one more in Chandigarh. In addition, the state will have one walk-in cooler each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur towns, with more to be received from the Centre.In addition, the state has 1,165 ice lined refrigerators and 1,079 deep freezers.In line with the central government's guidelines, data of about 1.25 lakh healthcare workers—government and private—has been compiled by the state government for the first phase vaccination.Other steps being taken as part of the vaccine roll-out preparedness in the state include mapping of vaccinators, digital platform training in districts, trained manpower for vaccine inventory management and coordination at various levels. IANS
11-12-2020||New Delhi||LPU researchers get patent for process of desalinating sea water using waste food||A team of researchers from Punjab-based Lovely Professional University (LPU) have bagged a patent from Indian Patent Office for a novel and eco-friendly process to desalinate sea water using waste food.The varsity, in a statement said, is now looking for commercialisation of the process and once used by an industry player at large scale, it would cost just Rs 2 to desalinate one litre of seawater.The existing methods of desalination generate enormous amounts of harmful chemical waste, whereas this new process invented by LPU researchers uses starch from corn, rice or any other food item and generates ‘zero waste’, it said.The novel process has been successfully lab tested and found to be 75-80 per cent efficient, making the sea water fit for regular household chores like----mopping, washing clothes and dishes, bathing and even irrigation.The research was conducted by Tanay Pramanik and Runjhun Tandon, professors at the Lovely Professional University, and Mandeep Singh and Stanzin Lzaod, B Sc students of LPU. --- PTI
11-12-2020||New Delhi||Doing most of cleaning at Singhu border, claim protesting farmers||Garbage has been piling up at the Singhu border in Delhi where the farmers have been staying put for over a fortnight protesting the farm reform laws, with many complaining there has been little help from the authorities in keeping the site clean.Clusters of piled up paper and plastic glasses, bottles, fruit peels, waste generated from the food being cooked and dirty toilets combined with stagnant water generating a stench, the conditions at the site is worsening."Officials from the municipal corporations have been coming to clean the site once in a while, but it is the farmers who are doing most of the cleaning," said Malkar Singh, a farmer from Karnal, who has been camping at the site since November 25.On both the Delhi and Haryana sides of the border, a handful employees from the municipal corporations can be seen sweeping on the periphery of the protest sites, but farmers say that is not enough for maintaining the hygiene of the site which is seeing such a massive congregation."The toilets haven't been cleaned for days. There is no help from the government," said an agitated Gurvinder Singh whoc hails from Ramgarh in Punjab.Camping at the border since November 30, the farmer said whatever little cleaning is happening is because of the "safai pasand" farmers, who have taken it upon themselves to keep the area clean.The mobile toilets provided by the Delhi government are visibly not enough for all farmers at the site, leaving them with no option but to urinate in the open."There are so many of us here and not enough bathrooms. We urinate wherever we can. What else can we do?” said Bhajan Singh from Ferozepur in Punjab.A small group of Bharat Kisan Union farmers from Punjab have recently installed a laundry facility with washing machines running for eight to 10 hours a day to ensure that the farmers get to clean their clothes."We use water from the tankers that we have brought along and use the batteries of tractors to run the machines. The washing powder is donated by various people," Jagjit Singh, one of the men running the service, said.Thousands of farmers agitating against the centre's new agri laws have been camping at multiple border points for two weeks. On Thursday, they threatened to intensify their agitation with a plan to block railway tracks if their demands are not met soon.The announcement came on a day Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was not proper to announce the next stage of agitation when talks were continuing and urged the unions to return to the discussion table.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. — PTI
11-12-2020||Mumbai||Dharmendra tweets haggard look, 'pained to see suffering of farmers'||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Friday said he was pained to see farmers suffering and urged the central government to find a solution to their protests over the farm laws.The tweet comes a week after the 84-year-old actor put out a similar post on Twitter."I am extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. Government should do something fast," Dharmendra wrote.   I am extremely in pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers . Government should do something fast . pic.twitter.com/WtaxdTZRg7  Last week, the actor had urged the government to resolve the protests soon, citing the growing number of coronavirus cases in Delhi."I request the government... please quickly find a solution the farmers' problems... the number of corona cases are on a rise in Delhi... it is painful," Dharmendra had written in a post.  The veteran actor, however, soon deleted the post, without any explanation. When a user posted the screenshot of the tweet, wondering what prompted the actor to delete the tweet, Dharmendra said, "I deleted the tweet because I felt saddened by comments like these. You can abuse me to your heart's content, I am happy that you are happy. "Yes, I am sad for my farmer brothers... The government should find a solution fast, nobody is listening to us," he wrote. Farmers from different states have been camping at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla (Delhi-Noida) border points for nearly two weeks now to demand a repeal of the farm laws enacted in September. On Thursday, farmer unions threatened to block railway tracks across the country and all highways leading to Delhi if their demands are not met.The announcement came a day after farmers' leaders rejected the government's offer to amend the new agri laws and give a "written assurance" on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of MSP and do away with mandis that ensure earning.But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. — PTI
11-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kangana Ranaut calls Diljit Dosanjh 'local krantikari'; accuses Punjabi singer, Priyanka Chopra of 'misleading' farmers||Pictures of protesting farmers demanding the release of a few activists arrested for allegedly inciting violence have taken social media by the storm. Sharing these pictures, Kangana Ranaut has once again targetted Diljit Dosanjh and Priyanka Chopra. Dosanjh and Chopra have extended support to the farmers protesting against the new farm bills. In a series of tweets, Kangana wrote: “Problem is not just them but each and every individual who supports them and opposes #FarmersBill_2020 they are all aware how important this bill is for farmers still they provoke innocent farmers to incite violence, hatred and Bharat Band for their petty gains.”Besides this, Kangana also accused Diljit and Priyanka of "misleading and encouraging" farmers' protests, but would be "hailed by the left media and given awards".  In multiple tweets, she wrote: “People like @diljitdosanjh and @priyankachopra will be hailed by the left media for misleading and encouraging farmers protests, pro Islamists and anti India film industry and brands will flood them with offers and English/living in colonial hangover media houses will felicitate them with awards, the problem is whole system is designed to make anti nationals flourish and grow and we are too less in numbers against a corrupt system, but I am sure magic will happen in every fight of GOOD versus EVIL, evil has been much stronger, JAI SHRI RAM.”Problem is not just them but each and every individual who supports them and opposes #FarmersBill_2020 they are all aware how important this bill is for farmers still they provoke innocent farmers to incite violence, hatred and Bharat Band for their petty gains ( cont) https://t.co/JW2qU1LM0H  Sharing another tweet on the farmers’ protest supposedly being hijacked, Kangana wrote, “When I see such disturbing images I tell myself to take deep breaths and remind myself the world was doing fine before me it will continue to do so after me,world was never fair it will never be,at times all we need is acceptance, everyone who feels pangs of helplessness,BREATHE.”Problem is not just them but each and every individual who supports them and opposes #FarmersBill_2020 they are all aware how important this bill is for farmers still they provoke innocent farmers to incite violence, hatred and Bharat Band for their petty gains ( cont) https://t.co/JW2qU1LM0H  Problem is not just them but each and every individual who supports them and opposes #FarmersBill_2020 they are all aware how important this bill is for farmers still they provoke innocent farmers to incite violence, hatred and Bharat Band for their petty gains ( cont) https://t.co/JW2qU1LM0H  People like @diljitdosanjh and @priyankachopra will be hailed by the left media for misleading and encouraging farmers protests,pro Islamists and anti India film industry and brands will flood them with offers and English/living in colonial hangover media houses will (cont)  When I see such disturbing images I tell myself to take deep breaths and remind myself the world was doing fine before me it will continue to do so after me,world was never fair it will never be,at times all we need is acceptance, everyone who feels pangs of helplessness,BREATHE https://t.co/xBrrGOskci  Tweet by Manjeet Bagga: Besides all this, Kangana responded to another tweet on farmers' protest by Manjeet Bagga. Kangana urged the Twitter user to explain it to “local krantikari (local revolutionary)” Diljit Dosanjh in the Punjabi language.“Mujhse bahut gussa ho gaye the woh jab maine samjhane ki koshish ki (He got infuriated when I tried to explain last time),” further tweeted Kangana Ranaut.Manjeet Bagga had posted a handwritten note, trying to explain the stance of protesting farmers and that of the Centre as regards the farm laws.“Is this truly a farmers’ protest? Take a look and decide for yourself,” captioned Bagga.Thank you paji local krantikari @diljitdosanjh ji ko punjabi mein samjhado please 🙏Mujhse bahut gussa ho gaye the woh jab maine samjhane ki koshish ki 🙏 https://t.co/KOe1QljxcmResponding to Bagga’s post, Kangana took a sarcastic jibe at Diljit.Earlier this month, the Twitter war between Diljit Dosanjh and Kangana Ranaut became a trending topic on the microblogging site. Hashtags #DiljitDestroysKangana and #DiljitVsKangana trended on Twitter.It all began when Diljit slammed Kangana for misidentifying an elderly Sikh woman, who had participated in the farmers' protest, as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh. The Punjabi actor-singer had also shared a video of the elderly lady in question, saying that she was Mahinder Kaur.
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana doctors wear black ribbons in support of IMA protest call||Doctors of the state-run hospitals in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on Friday extended support to the protest call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) by wearing black ribbons.The IMA has given a nationwide protest call against the Centre's move that allows Ayurvedic doctors to perform various general surgeries.However, the medical services in the out-patient departments (OPDs) were not affected.Medical services also operated normally in Chandigarh's Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) which caters to patients from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Chandigarh.The doctors will be wearing the black ribbons throughout their working hours as a mark of protest.--IANS
11-12-2020||Patiala||Patiala doctors protest against govt allowing ayurvedic experts to perform surgeries||Doctors at the Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala on Friday held a protest against the Union Government’s notification allowing ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries.The doctors said Ayurvedic medicos did not have the competency to carry out surgeries.Protesting doctors called it "mixo-pathy"—an attempt by the government to mix modern medicine with Ayurveda. They said Allopathy and Ayurveda were two different disciplines and mixing both would have detrimental effects on patients.The protest has been called by the Indian Medical Association.
11-12-2020||New Delhi||With 27 more fatalities, Covid deaths in Punjab cross 5,000||With 27 more deaths in Punjab, the total number of Covid fatalities in the state has crossed the 5,000 mark.The nation recorded less than 30,000 fresh Covid infections on Friday, the second time this month, which pushed its caseload to 97.96 lakh, while the total recoveries surged to 92.9 lakh, according to the Union health ministry data.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 97,96,769 with 29,398 fresh infections, while the death toll rose to 1,42,186 with 414 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,90,834, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.84 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent.The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the fifth consecutive day.There are 3,63,749 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 3.71 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20. The 414 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 61 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 27 from Punjab, 26 each from Haryana and Kerala, and 24 from Uttar Pradesh.The total 1,42,186 deaths reported so far in the country include 47,972 from Maharashtra, 11,912 from Karnataka, 11,853 from Tamil Nadu, 9,874 from Delhi, 8,916 from West Bengal, 8,011 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,047 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,007 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI
11-12-2020||Jalandhar||Sportspersons to march to Rashtrapati Bhavan again to return awards||Upset over the treatment being meted out to farmers by the government, nation’s renowned sportspersons, who have won prestigious awards such as Padma Shri, have announced to return their awards. They had also gone to Delhi for the same but were stopped by the police.They have written a letter to the President for the third time to return their award and have announced to march again to the Rashtrapati Bhavan on December 12. They have written that they are anguished by what is happening with the farmers and wanted to hear from the President of the country.“We marched towards Rashtrapati Bhavan on December 7 and were stopped by the Delhi Police,” the letter reads. Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh said, “I belong to a family of farmers too, so, I stand by them in these testing times. “The farmers provide food to us while water cannons and teargas is what they deserve in return?” he asked. — TNS
11-12-2020||---||Talks deadlocked, more farmers head to Delhi||Jalandhar, December 10A day after the Centre refused to alter the contentious farm laws, a wave of discontentment seems to have erupted among the farm bodies. While the agitators at Singhu and Tikri borders have already announced to ‘block’ Jaipur-Delhi and Delhi-Agra expressways, farmers from the region today left in large numbers to provide more manpower at the protest site.The farmers from across the villages today gathered at the Ladhowal toll plaza and chalked up the plans for the next 10 days. More such jathas (groups) of farmers are also likely to leave for Delhi-Haryana borders for the next four-five days. From bikes and tractors to lavish cars, the youngsters in the villages are making arrangements for more and more vehicles to ferry all farmers.Tirath Singh (62), a farmer from Phillaur, has been deployed at the toll plaza for the past 10 days by the Bhartiya Kisan Union to lift the spirits of farmers leaving for the protest site. He says, he arrives at the toll plaza everyday and puts flags and posters on vehicles of the farmers’ convoy. “With slogans such as, ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ and others, I try to keep their morale high. Today, around 50 vehicles left from the district in the morning and 30 in the evening. Though the union leaders have already stocked the ration, we also send some essential supplies to them,” added Tirath, who does farming on nearly 20 fields in Phillaur.Similarly, Harpreet Singh (40), a Lohian-based farmer, today decked up his tractor with tarpaulin and mattresses. Associated with the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, he said, he would leave for the border early in the morning on Friday. Along with him, 20 other farmers from his village will also join him. We are heading to the protest site leaving our fields behind and are also not aware that for how long we might have to stay there. We will ensure that our voices do get heard,” he added.Terming the meetings between the farmers and the government ‘unfruitful’, Shahkot president of the committee, Gurmail Singh said, “Apart from ration and snacks, pinnis and sweets, dry fruits are being contributed from all the households. To brave the cold weather, blankets and beds have been collected and the farmers will leave tomorrow for Singhu border. Our members, who have already been staying put at the border, have asked us to come fully prepared as we might have to spend at least a month here.”Nearly, 150 tractor-trailers will leave for Delhi tomorrow. The locals are coming forward with their share of wheat grains to be used for protest.
11-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Ex-serviceman-turned farmer to return award||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10Perturbed over the indifferent attitude of the PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government towards farmers who had been protesting in Delhi against the three agri laws, national award winning farmer, Major Manmohan Singh Verka (retd), threatened to return his award.Verka had been conferred three awards in horticulture. He is the only person from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand to get three awards. An ex-serviceman-turned-farmer, Verka said, he along with several other national award winners would soon return the award to the Union Agriculture Minister.“It is very disturbing that the farming community has to hit the roads for their survival while the Centre has adopted an adamant attitude towards their demand of scrapping the three agri laws,” he said. Verka said the government should immediately announce withdrawal of these newly enacted laws, which would help the corporate houses.“I talked to the national award winning farmers in the region. We have decided to return the awards,” he said.After a service of 21 years in the Indian Army, Verka took premature retirement in 1990, but started full-time farming only in 1998.Right from the beginning, he was been inclined towards horticulture. He grew orchard on 25 acres and since then there has been no looking back for him.
11-12-2020||Senior Journalist||Centre-state rift visible in stir against farm laws||In the last month of the most devastating year in recent human history, the protesting farmers have taken on the most powerful in the land: the strongest Central regime in three decades and the biggest corporates of the country. But will the ongoing farmers’ agitation actually impact electoral fortunes in 2021, first in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu that have elections by April-May and then by early 2022 in Punjab that is the epicentre of the protests?How the Centre proceeds in the ongoing talks will also be determined by its own risk assessment and the calculation of profit and loss in the political and financial spheres. The new farm laws are currently not just a lightning rod for protests against the dismantling of existing structures in agricultural markets or against the “selling of the farm sector to big corporate interests” as the agitators say. It’s also about the fundamental structure of federalism itself. Agriculture has essentially been understood to be a state subject according to the Constitution, although there are provisions in the Union and Concurrent lists that can be used as a pretext for the Centre to intrude into that space.That’s precisely what is happening with the far-reaching farm laws. They are in keeping with the stated philosophy of the current BJP that promotes ‘One Nation One Poll’ and ‘One Nation One Market’. As it is, notions of fair play in the sharing of resources with the states have been given short shrift during the lockdown and the pandemic. Non-BJP-ruled states have been complaining about the Centre taking various steps that threaten their fiscal autonomy.Unlike the BJP-led government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee (1998-2004), a coalition with a stated commitment to federalism, the current BJP is openly committed to centralising political power in one party, one supreme leader and the cadres loyal to that project. A close scrutiny of the fine print of the farm laws also shows that the balance of power between the judiciary and the executive is disturbed as the laws virtually take away the possibility of prosecution of civil servants and big corporates at the top of the chain, if the legislation comes into effect.The opposition to the new farm laws, therefore, will not vanish but could take different shapes in different parts of the country. For instance, in Tamil Nadu, the DMK will certainly raise the red flag of the Centre and BJP threatening state autonomy and dismantling federal structures. It is one of the country’s most industrialised states; the AIADMK regime there has stated that the farm laws do not harm farmers and those who did not wish to be part of contract farming could continue with regulated markets. The BJP, meanwhile, has made concerted efforts to mark its presence in a state that has mostly eluded it. A tie-up with the ruling AIADMK, divided since the death of another supreme leader, J Jayalalithaa, in December 2016, had been announced, but it is also likely that superstar Rajinikanth, who recently announced the launch of a political party, may be the preferred front for the BJP’s ambitions. The electoral impact of the farmers’ agitation would also depend on how the Centre deals with it. Crushing protest brutally will go down badly in regions such as Tamil Nadu that value their autonomy.In West Bengal, meanwhile, the ruling TMC already faces an aggressive BJP in the run-up to the state election. But it’s important to remember that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee rose to power after the strong campaign against the brutal methods used by the Left Front regime to acquire agricultural land for a special economic zone. (Subsequently, after coming to power in 2011, Mamata had to make statements about not being anti-industry). The TMC has consistently opposed policies that touch on land acquisition or encroach on state domains and agricultural incomes have indeed gone up in the state since 2011 (state government data shows a tripling of the income). The TMC says it opposes the farm laws on four grounds — federalism, MSP (minimum support price), PDS (public distribution system) and procurement.But after a decade in power, there is anti-incumbency and a vacuum in the opposition space that the BJP has filled after the disintegration of the Left. Still, the farm agitation does not really give the BJP any rhetorical advantage in Bengal. The party, therefore, continues to focus on law and order and strong-arm tactics of TMC cadres even as it energetically tries to procure leaders from other political parties, besides the usual Hindu vs Muslim issues.But it is Punjab where it is hardest to predict what will land ashore after the tsunami. Elections in this border state are a year away, but there are a few strands that are visible at the 15-km-long protest caravan at the Singhu border. It’s an organic protest where there is an interesting intermingling of trade union and long-standing kisan union activists from Punjab along with a very visible presence of leaders of gurdwara committees. Although the media narrative has focused on Punjab being a Congress-ruled state, and on the Left unions, one can also see the support base of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the protest. This suggests the possibility of the Akalis regaining credibility with their voter base after their decision to leave the NDA over the farm laws. Also, dropping by at the protest site is the leadership of Delhi’s ruling party, AAP, which has stakes in Punjab but is not really rooted in the state unless it finds a charismatic leader.In the 2017 Assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Akalis and the BJP fought as an alliance, but now the national party would be on its own. The rhetoric being raised by the BJP support base (particularly their loyal media) about the protests being triggered by those who support the idea of Khalistan is worrying as it treads on a sensitive fault-line.The national BJP could, for starters, instruct its social media bots to stop presenting every protest as an anti-national activity. Democracy, after all, is supposed to be of the people, by the people and for the people. The people, protesting or sitting at home, should never be profiled as the enemy. And contrary to the commentators that say the farm laws are good for the people (but the people just don’t know it as yet), those bracing themselves for a long-drawn protest are firm that the laws are not in their interest.
11-12-2020||National President||Farmers' protest: At times, we must not seek the middle path||A bizarre logic is being deployed by the Narendra Modi government and a section of the media in the current standoff with the farmers: the recipient of an unwanted gift is being asked to be reasonable, not reject the gift, and find a ‘beech ka rasta’, or middle ground. The Modi government’s latest ‘proposal’ to the protesting farmers is being touted as just that middle ground. The government that put every possible obstacle to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi is being lauded for its sensitivity. When farm leaders stick to what they always said was non-negotiable, they are accused of moving the goalpost. The government frames not just its own response, but also what the farmers should be saying. Intransigence of the Modi government is presented as the rigidity of the protesters. Power has an amazing capacity to twist logic, to invent facts, to define what is reasonable.Let’s not forget that the present protest began with what PM Modi described as a saugaat, a gift to the farmers, nothing short of a ‘historic’ bonanza. Now, accepting or not accepting a gift should normally be a voluntary affair. The gift givers either already know what the recipients want, or check with them. Otherwise, it should be reasonable for the recipient to say “No, thank you”, in case they don’t like the gift. Unless, of course, the gift is not a gift at all, unless it is a sugar-coated pill that must be administered to an unwilling patient. (Incidentally, that is how pro-government economists present these farm laws, a bitter pill that could only be administered under the cover of a pandemic).A bounty farmers don’t wantThis straightforward reasoning has been given the go-by in this instance. It is clear that the government did not bother to check with the farmers or farmers’ organisations, not even with their in-house Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, before offering this ‘bounty’. By now, it is also clear that this gift has no takers, at least none among the multitude of farm organisations in the country.As for the farmers themselves, a Gaon Connection survey carried out a couple of months ago, much before the agitation hit its peak, found them apprehensive, if not hostile. The farmers are simply saying: “Thanks, please take your gift back. Instead, give us what we want, namely legal guarantee of remunerative price for our produce.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the joint banner for the current protest, has consistently asked for the repeal of the three farm laws. They have repeatedly clarified that this demand is non-negotiable. Yet, the Modi government and a section of the media feigns surprise when the farmers insist upon it.The government’s latest ‘proposal’ to the farmers invited a straightforward rejection. The 20-page document, printout of a PPT, sent by the government repeated the platitudes and propaganda that the ruling dispensation has been using for the past few months. Besides, there is a too-clever-by-half attempt to mention some previous committees involving Congress leaders, so as to implicate the Opposition parties in the government’s action. No wonder the government forgot to mention the 2011 report of the Chief Ministers’ committee headed by then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi that recommended legal status for Minimum Support Price (MSP). The ‘new’ proposal is just a rehash of what the ministers said to the farmers’ delegation on December 5.The nine-point proposal contains nothing about the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act that the farmers had objected to because it would encourage hoarding and price manipulation. Presumably, the government is determined not to make any changes in this law that would help the agri-business plans of large corporates. Similarly, it has little to offer on the proposed punishment for the farmers under the air pollution ordinance, except a vague promise of redressing farmers’ objections. On the Electricity Amendment Bill, the government assures that farmers’ bills won’t be affected, without specifying how. The farmers are not amused.On MSP, no legal guarantee comingThe much-publicised ‘concession’ on the issue of MSP is most disappointing. The government proposes to “give written assurance regarding the present MSP-based procurement system”. It is clear that the government is not going to offer a legal guarantee that the farmers had asked for. There is no mention of accepting the comprehensive cost-based formula (C2+50 per cent) recommended by the Swaminathan Commission for calculating the MSP. It is also clear that the government does not want to commit to going beyond the existing levels of meagre procurement. The farmers feel insulted.The proposed amendments appear more substantial in the APMC bypass law [Farmers’ Produce Trade & Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act] and the contract farming law [The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act]. The media reports that the private mandis will be charged the same fees and put under similar regulation as the APMCs, but the government proposal merely says that the state governments will be given the power to do so. The proposal does not address the real need of most of the farmers for more and better functioning APMCs, nor does it address their apprehension about the possible collapse of APMCs. Similarly, the government proposes to address the fears about alienation of land under contract farming, but offers nothing to correct the unequal bargaining position of the farmers in a contractual arrangement with corporates. The farmers feel they are being taken for a ride.Yet the media seeks to shift the onus on to the farmers: now that the government is willing to amend these laws, why do you insist on repealing these? The farmers can only repeat what they have been saying all along: We never asked for amendments. Since we do not agree with the intent and the basic framework of these laws, we cannot possibly agree to amendments, major or minor. Can’t we say NO to your gift? Is it about us and our wellbeing, or about the PM’s prestige, his ego?Or they could quote famous Punjabi revolutionary poet Avtar Singh Pash, incidentally someone who was killed by Khalistani militants: “Beech ka rasta nahin hota”. At least on some matters, at least at some points in history, we must not look for the middle path.Views are personal
11-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Undeterred, farmers ready for long haul||tribune news serviceSonepat, December 10It is the 15th day of their protest at the Singhu border, but farmers are full of enthusiasm. They are prepared for the long haul over the three farm laws passed by the Union Government. Making the NH-44 their battleground, the farmers are not ready to step back and are going to intensify their battle.“We don’t know how long it will last, but we are ready for a long battle and will go back only after rollback of these laws,” said Amandeep Singh Mann of Bathinda.Sukhwinder Singh Khalsa of Sirsa said they had rejected the Centre’s proposal and would not move back till the laws were rolled back. “We want a rollback of these laws. Minimum support price should be ensured and a law enacted to this effect. We are ready for any long protest.”“Farmers across the country are against these laws, but the government is adamant on implementing these only to please some capitalists,” said Jagdeep Singh of Karnal.Youths had been passing their time by playing cards, smoking hookah, doing sewa in langar or distributing food to people. Sukhdayal Mehla said they passed their time discussing the plans of their leaders. Amit Kumar, involved in traffic management, said they did not want those coming to the protest site to face any difficulty.Haryanvi and Punjabi singers entertained the crowds. “We have come here after cultivating the wheat crop and have left the responsibility to irrigate our fields to family members and friends,” said Yashbir Singh. Gurparsad Hooda of Rohtak said it was not the protest of Punjab farmers alone, but of farmers from across the country.SIDELIGHTSZP member resignsKarnal: Zila Parishad (ZP) member from Ward No. 22 and JJP leader Kuljeet Kaur has resigned from the post in protest against the farm laws. “I have resigned as I belong to a farmer family,” she said, adding that she had tendered her resignation to DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. Kuljeet also announced to donate the allowances given to her by the government for the stir.Murder FIR cancelledAmbala: The police have cancelled the FIR against farmers over the death of Bharat Singh (72), who died on October 14, the day he participated in the BJP’s tractor yatra in Naraingarh. The farmers booked were associated with the BKU (Charuni). The case was cancelled on the basis of forensic and viscera reports from Madhuban and Khanpur Kalan, respectively. Sources said doctors had given the opinion that Bharat died of heart attack.Gul Panag backs stirSonepat: Actress Gul Panag on Thursday extended support to the farmers’ stir and urged the Centre to rollback these laws. “I stand by the farmers in their protest against the laws that were passed without taking them into confidence. I urge the Centre to hear out what the farmers are saying and speak only in one tune.” Panag said there was a trust deficit, which was the result of the passing of the laws when Covid was at its peak.
11-12-2020||Singhu (Sonepat)||Farmers threaten to block rail tracks again||Farmer leaders spearheading the protests against the agriculture laws at various points on the Haryana-Delhi border today said they would take their agitation to railway tracks if the Centre failed to meet their demands.“We had served an ultimatum till December 10 to repeal the three black laws. If the government doesn’t act fast, farmers will block railway tracks across the country,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union president Balbir Singh Rajewal while interacting with the media. The ‘Sanyukt Kisan Manch’ (joint forum of farmers) would soon announce the date for protest on rail tracks, he said.Reiterating their demand for a rollback of the laws, the farmer leaders claimed the Union ministers had admitted on several occasions that the legislations “would boost commerce”. “The laws will benefit traders, not farmers. They have been enacted to encourage private mandis and abolish the government-run APMC mandis,” said Rajewal.Dr Darshan Pal, Krantikari Kisan Union president, maintained the unions had kept the option of dialogue open, but would talk only if the government came forward with a “concrete proposal”. “When agriculture is a state subject, why is the Centre framing laws on it?” he quipped.Dr Pal claimed all toll plazas in the region would be shut on December 12. The Delhi-Jaipur highway would be blocked too, he said, adding the farmers would gherao the houses of BJP leaders on December 14 and hold dharnas at district headquarters across the country. The farmers had earlier blocked tracks for weeks in Punjab.
11-12-2020||Jalandhar||Arhtiyas lend weight to farmers' stir with provisions||Towels, blankets, milk, flour, mattress and toothbrushes. Arhtiyas are providing all this and more to the farmers protesting at the Delhi border. In hordes, arhtiyas (commission agents) from Punjab are coming out in support of the stir against the new farm laws.Well-stocked tent at SinghuBesides taking supplies to the protest sites, the arhtiyas have put up a waterproof tent at the Singhu border with a stock of 300 mattresses and 500 blankets. Vijay Kalra, president of Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab, says: “I was with the protesting farmers for five days and came back yesterday. I will be going again tomorrow with another batch of arhtiyas.” The arhtiyas are going to the protest sites in batches to replenish the stocks.Teams of arhtiyas from Moga, Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa and Bathinda districts are already at the protest sites to lend support. Teams from Patiala and Barnala left for Delhi today, while those from Ferozepur, Fazilka and Kapurthala will be moving to the Capital tomorrow and agents from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr will leave in the next two days.“The Centre wants to close the mandis, which will remove arhtiyas from the system. The government does not understand that doing away with arhtiyas will severely affect farmers with small and marginal holdings,” says Kalra.The association takes provisions for the protesters after discussing the requirements with farmer leaders. Naresh Bhardwaj, secretary of the association, says, “Whenever a group of arhtiyas leaves to join the farmers, we call them up and seek information about the daily requirements like towels, slippers and medicines.”
11-12-2020||---||30,000 more farmers to leave for Capital today||Amritsar, December 10With farmers rejecting the Centre’s draft proposal to amend the contentious agriculture laws, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee members have said the protest would be intensified.A contingent of around 30,000 farmers and labourers on over 700 tractor-trailers and other vehicles will leave for the national capital on December 11 under the leadership of state president Satnam Singh Pannu and general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher.Pandher said the Centre’s proposal was vague. “A group of 25,000 to 30,000 farmers from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Moga will leave for Delhi on December 11 to join the protesters at the Kundli border from here. The core committee of the KMSC has been conducting meetings to decide the next course of action.”Pannu said the Narendra Modi government was ‘insensitive’ and trying to divide the farm organisations by extending an invitation for talks to select farmer unions.“We reject the suggestions of amendments put forward by the Central Government. We were not invited for the meeting scheduled with the Home Minister. We demand the enactment of a law guaranteeing government procurement of all crops,” he said. The farmer unions’ have been very clear and said they wouldn’t settle anything less than annulment of farm laws.
11-12-2020||---||Don’t repeat Cong follies: SAD to NDA||Chandigarh December 10The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee today urged the NDA government at the Centre not to take any reckless or repressive steps that might deepen the “festering emotional wounds” in the farmers’ minds.“Do not repeat Congress blunders of divide and rule. Do nothing that weakens the national unity or disturbs peace and communal harmony for which Punjabis, specially the SAD, have made supreme sacrifices,” says a resolution of the core committee of the party that met here today.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal told mediapersons after the meeting that they would observe the centenary of the party as ‘Sangharsh Samarpan Divas’ for Sarbat da Bhala, with a focus on farmer interests and justice. He said, “The SAD will fully safeguard peace and communal harmony in Punjab and the rest of the country at all costs and will expose and defeat every conspiracy against these ideals. The party is convinced that no progress in the country is possible without peace, communal harmony and national unity.”Asking the government not to be stubborn against the ‘annadata’ of the country, the SAD resolution asked, “If the government is willing to change every clause of the old Acts, why it can’t revoke them? After all, if you are conceding all demands of the farmers, why not put it all in a new Act and end the debate once and for all?”
11-12-2020||---||Sidhu’s Cabinet return likely after protest ends||Chandigarh, December 10AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat today met Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to discuss important issues related to the state Congress.In the wake of the much-awaited re-induction of Navjot Singh Sidhu into the Punjab Cabinet, the meeting holds significance as Rawat reached Chandigarh last evening to meet Capt Amarinder Singh.Though there’s no official statement on the meeting between the two leaders, sources said Rawat met the CM last evening and today to work out the contours of Sidhu’s induction and department to be allocated to him. In wake of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the re-induction could be delayed as party leaders want to wait for the agitation to end.Rawat confirmed meeting with the Chief Minister, but refused to share details of the meeting. The former Uttarakhand Chief Minister had played a criticial role in breaking the ice between Sidhu and Captain Amarinder. Rawat has been on the job to bring warring factions in the state Congress on board. He had also met senior party leader Partap Singh Bajwa recently.Party sources said the two leaders met to also discuss the way forward for the party in the changed political scenario in the run up to the 2022 Assembly elections.
11-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Centre’s attempt at backdoor talks fails as unions stay together||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The Union Government’s bid to initiate backdoor talks with a ‘select group’ of farm leaders failed terribly in front of the unity of Punjab farmers’ unions.The Bhartiya Janta Party government’s hallmark style of splitting the leaders started in the very beginning on October 27 when Union Home Minister Amit Shah called Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of BKU (Ugrahan). Ugrahan snubbed Shah by asking him to invite all the leaders collectively.Since then, the Union Government is leaving no stone unturned to reach out to the leaders for “informal” talks.According to sources in the BJP, a district president of the party in Malwa region was assigned to approach Ugrahan through his “known” circle. “Last week, through certain people, we approached Ugrahan with the offer that Amit Shah wants to talk to you but he did not entertain any informal talks.”Even former Punjab minister Surjit Jyani and Harjit Grewal also made several attempts to lure farmer leaders through various private players.Similar attempts were made with the group of 32 farmer organisations. Since last week, there was a buzz among various organisations that some leaders were being privately approached to meet Shah and Rajnath Singh.Finally, they asked three leaders to meet for an “informal” discussion. The proposal was placed before the 32-member committee where there was strong opposition for any such talks. A group, which was instrumental in taking the decision to sit on the Kundli border instead of going Burari grounds, opposed the move on the ground that when the idea of a select committee given by Union Agriculture Minister was already rejected, then there is no rationale behind sending a select group for talks.Ultimately, the decision was taken with voice vote and as per the majority decision, instead of accepting the proposal of three, six leaders from various organisations were sent for meeting Shah, but they were not given any right to take any decision.Even some leaders who are taking bold positions in the agitation are being approached by two Punjab officials, including one retired from the Agriculture Department and another police officer. They are continuously camping in Delhi and trying to pursue the leaders.A farmer leader who wished not to be quoted said the government is continuously looking for pliable farmer leaders of the group and operating through them.
11-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||BKU’s patrol panels keep miscreants at bay||Tribune News Service Sangrur, December 10 After foiling attempts of miscreants to create unrest at the protesting sites on the national capital borders, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), the largest outfit of farmers, has formed special committees to conduct round-the-clock patrolling and divided all areas into small sections for better management.  On a strict vigil, members of the committees check each trailer and let people enter in their respective demarcated areas only after a thorough verification. “Every group has four to five members and they carry the flags of our organisations. We are doing it not to cause any panic, but to keep miscreants away. Recently after some miscreants entered in our area under the guise of our members, we caught them and handed over them to the police,” says Satwinder Singh, a young member of the BKU (Ugrahan). For night, there are two committees for each section and the shift of first committee ends around 1 am. Apart from patrolling committees, the BKU has assigned the task of keeping their record to senior members of organisations. The senior members have details of each member of all committees. The elders ensure whether the committees are undertaking their duty properly or not.  Apart from staying in touch with their elders, the members of each committee have details of majority of members of other committees. The WhatsApp has been helping all to stay in touch and share real-time information with each other. “Our langar committee members keep serving tea to patrolling members as remaining awake at nights is a challenge,” said Jagtar Kalajhar, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader of Sangrur district.
11-12-2020||Patiala||Flex boards of PM Modi torn in Patiala, case filed||Protesters in Patiala today tore flex boards featuring names and photographs of PM Narendra Modi and BJP workers put up at Khanda Chowk and other places.MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said she had not received any complaint in this regard. BJP Patiala president Harinder Kohli said some posters of the party had been defaced earlier on which a complaint had been submitted to the police.DSP (City 1) Yogesh Sharma said the police had received information that some youth were creating ruckus in the city. He said, “The police have registered an FIR against two identified and other unidentified persons under various Sections of the IPC and the Punjab Police Act. — TNS
11-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna---||188 farmers have ended life in 205 days: Unions||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 10 Jagraj Singh Jagga, 25, of Bhutal Kalan village near Lehra Gagga died by suicide today. He had reportedly taken a loan which he could not repay. In frustration, he hanged himself in his fields. He is now among the 188 farmers who have ended their lives by suicide in 205 days — from June 1 till date. This was the time from when the Farm Ordinances were first proposed (promulgated on June 5 and enacted on September 17) to now when the agitation against the farm laws is at its peak. Between October 19, when the rail roko campaign was at its peak to December 10 — 53 days — as many as 95 farmers and labourers have ended their lives by suicide. This data has been recorded and compiled by the farm unions who have been recording each farmer suicide caused because of indebtedness for the past many years now. Dharminder Singh, who has been entrusted the job by the farmer unions to compile the data of all suicides by farmers and farm labourers, says that this high rate of suicide by farmers will only peak if the new laws are not repealed. “Either we keep losing our demographic dividend as youngsters move to foreign lands or those who are left here will commit suicide because they cannot sustain themselves,” he rues. The government may continue to preach that the three agriculture laws will ameliorate the sufferings of poor farmers, but in Punjab, where the agrarian economy is dependent on the MSP-based regime and government procurement of crops, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 will undermine the established system, hitting at the farmers’ economic interests as it intends to promote privatisation in mandis and procurement. Gian Singh, an eminent economist who has been studying and analysing farm suicides in Punjab since year 2000, says that the new laws would definitely lead farmers to penury and push more towards desperation, including suicides. “If more than 100 suicides are being reported since the laws came into force in September, one can believe that this number will rise. As many as 16,606 farmer and farm labourer suicides were recorded in Punjab during 2000-16. Of these, 60 per cent were suicides by farmers and 40 per cent were agriculture labourers.
11-12-2020||---||SGPC may not invite PM to centenary event||Anandpur Sahib, December 10In case Prime Minister Narendra Modi fails to reddress the grievances of protesting farmers, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will prefer not to invite him to the upcoming centenary celebrations of Nankana Sahib Shaheedi Saka and 400th Prakash Purb celebrations of ninth Sikh Guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur. This was stated by newly elected SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur here today.Jagir Kaur, who visited Takht Kesgarh Sahib for the first time after taking over as the SGPC chief, said the SGPC would not honour those who were responsible for the sad state of the farming community in the state.She alleged the Centre’s anti-people policies had hit everyone hard in the country and now, the new agricultural laws had brought the farmers on the streets. She declared that the SGPC would give a grant of Rs 1 lakh to the families of farmers who had died during the dharna in Delhi.The SGPC president said she had issued directions to curb avoidable expenditure as the financial condition of the SGPC had taken a hit due to less footfall in gurdwaras during the past nine months because of the Covid pandemic.
11-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||For 2022 Assembly poll, BJP mulls projecting a Dalit as CM candidate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10Amid the standoff between the BJP-led NDA government and farmers at the Delhi borders over the farm laws, BJP leaders have stirred a debate on a Hindu or Dalit face as the Chief Minister of Punjab in the 2022 Assembly poll.The caste and religion card has been played at a time when the state’s peasantry is angry at the BJP for not repealing the farm laws. Punjab’s peasantry joined by fellow farmers from Haryana and other states are staying put at the Delhi borders with a clear demand for getting the laws repealed.In Punjab’s poll arena, the Hindu population with over 40 per cent vote share and Dalits with 33 per cent vote share hold sway over the poll results.Harish Rawat, Punjab affairs in charge, CongressPlan won’t succeed, says Rawat We are ready to counter the divisive political move of the BJP. As the Narendra Modi-led BJP government has hit at the heart of Punjabiyat, it will not succeed. After parting ways with SAD, the BJP is readying to throw its hat in the political arena in Punjab and is eyeing the BSP vote bank to strengthen its base in the state. Political analysts say the BJP could use multiple party strategy to neutralise the main political parties in the rural hinterland. It could also throw the bait to Dalit leaders, pointing out that Jats with 19 per vote share have been dominating the political arena, pushing aside the Dalits and other backward class leaders. The same card could be used for polarisation of the Hindu vote bank, they opined.AICC general secretary Harish Rawat said the BJP’s trick would not work in Punjab. Dalit BJP leader Vijay Sampla said the BJP had always been pro-Dalit. “It is the Congress that has deceived the Dalits, be it giving political representation or fraud in distribution of funds under the post-matric SC scholarship scheme.” Dalit leader from Doaba Dr Ram Lal Jassi said the farmers’ agitation had created a political vacuum that the BJP would try to fill by playing the caste and religion card. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said the saffron party was trying to polarise voters. “Right-minded people can see through the evil designs of the BJP and its intent to disturb the peace. The ‘kisan andolan’ has brought people on a common platform…above caste, creed and colour,” said Jakhar.
11-12-2020||---||Retd police inspector ends life in Bathinda||Bathinda, December 10 A retired police inspector allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his pistol in the Basant Vihar area of Bathinda on Thursday.  The deceased has been identified as Hardev Singh (75), who had retired from the police department in 2006. He left behind a suicide note that stated that he was suffering from a chronic disease and his wife had also died in 2019.  He stated that he knew it was against his religious beliefs to commit suicide but he had to taken the extreme step out of compulsion.  After registering a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, officials from the Civil Lines police station have started an investigation into the matter.
11-12-2020||---||Magisterial probe begins in Hoshiarpur encounter case||Amritsar, December 10A magisterial probe has begun into an alleged fake encounter in which a Hoshiarpur resident, identified as Inderjit Singh, a carjacking suspect, was gunned down by the police near the Manawala toll plaza on Tuesday night.Subdivisional Magistrate Vikas Hira has been entrusted with the probe even as the family members of the deceased have demanded investigation by an independent agency.The family has requested that the entire post-mortem examination be videographed. They said the CCTV footage of the toll plaza and other places near the site, besides the SUV, which was allegedly snatched by Inderjit Singh from Ambala, be preserved.The SDM visited the spot and met the family members regarding the case. “As far as videography of the autopsy is concerned, it is a normal procedure and we have got it videographed,” he said, while adding that the authorities concerned had been asked to preserve the vehicle and the CCTV footage of the cameras near the spot. He said the statements of the family members and police personnel would be taken for further probe.Police sources said Inderjit suffered two bullet injuries — one in his chest and the second one in his leg. The bullet in the chest pierced his lungs and hit the heart which proved fatal for him, they said.Maninderpal, brother of the deceased, said Inderjit had lost his job during the lockdown and had started working as a driver. He had taken a family to Lucknow for a marriage function. From there, he was returning in a bus, said Maninderpal. He added that Inderjit had told them that the battery of his mobile phone was on the verge of being exhausted. He said thereafter, they just got a call from the Hoshiarpur police that he was killed in an encounter in Jandiala. The family members sought a probe from an independent agency.Inderjit was shot dead by the CIA staff of the Amritsar city police near Manawala toll plaza on Tuesday while he succumbed to bullet injuries on Wednesday.Following the encounter, a case was registered against him on the charge of a murder bid.
11-12-2020||Patiala||Two accused sent to 7-day police remand||Excise officials have started interrogating the two accused caught in the illegal liquor factory case which was sealed two days back in Rajpura. The role of the two main accused is being probed to ascertain as to who was buying the liquor from them.A case had been registered against accused Dipesh Grover of Rajpura and Karaj Singh of Shamaspur. “We have procured seven-day police remand of both accused and it would be established whether they sold the liquor to government contractors,” said a top official privy to investigations.“The role of at least two liquor contractors is under scrutiny for their proximity with the main accused. If these fake liquor bottles were sold at authorised vends, the profits were much higher than anticipated. However, the two accused are yet to reveal this,” the official said. — TNS
11-12-2020||---||Gang of thieves busted, 3 held||Sangrur, December 10The Sangrur police busted a gang involved in thefts from garment shops in various districts of the state and arrested three of its members. The police also confiscated stolen garments worth Rs 10 lakh along with two vehicles.Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said based on a tip-off, a police team of Sangrur city under the supervision of DSP (Rural) Satpal Sharma arrested three accused, identified as Mandeep Singh, Shamsher Singh and Baldev Singh, from Ludhiana last evening. The police seized stolen garments worth Rs10 lakh, and two vehicles. During investigation, it came to light that one vehicle was stolen from Morinda while the other from Jalandhar. “During the intervening night of November 26 and 27, the accused had stolen garments from the shop of Hemant Kumar of Sangrur city. We have registered a case and during investigations, the involvement of the accused came to light,” said SSP Soni.“They mainly targeted garment shops. We have procured their two-day police remand. Further investigation is on to arrest other members of the gang,” the SSP said.
11-12-2020||Mansa||Alert loco pilot averts train tragedy in Mansa||An alert loco pilot averted a possible accident when he applied emergency brakes to stop the Awadh Assam Express after noticing a rail fracture in the railway track near the Narinderpura railway station in Mansa district on Wednesday night. The incident took place around 11 pm near the Narinderpura railway station when the train was coming from Dibrugarh (in Assam) to the Lalgarh station in Rajasthan via Mansa and Bathinda. The driver said he felt unusual jerks when the train engine passed through the fractured point. He immediately applied emergency brakes and informed the Railways authorities about it. When it was checked, a big gap in the railway track was found due to a fracture. Railways officials will conduct a probe into the matter to ascertain the exact reason behind it. — TNS
11-12-2020||Washington||Sikh cop’s legacy will inspire generations, says US Senator||Slain Sikh police officer Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, who was gunned down in the line of duty during a routine traffic stop in Houston a year ago, was a hero and a trailblazer, whose commitment to his faith would inspire generations of Sikhs and other religious minorities to serve in law enforcement, US Senator Ted Cruz said.Cruz’s remarks came after the US Senate unanimously passed a legislation to name a post office in Houston after him.Cruz, the US Senator for Texas, said Dhaliwal had left a profound legacy on the law-enforcement community. “Deputy Dhaliwal was a hero. He was deeply committed to his faith, family, and to serving others with compassion,” Cruz said on the Senate floor on Tuesday.“When he was first recruited by the sheriff’s office, Deputy Dhaliwal petitioned the office to allow him to wear his turban and beard while in uniform, becoming the first to be allowed to do so,” he said. “Dhaliwal’s commitment to his faith will inspire generations of Sikhs and other religious minorities to serve in law enforcement and protect our communities,” he said.On September 27, 2019, Deputy Dhaliwal (42) was killed in the line of duty in service of his community. In his remarks, Cruz also remembered Dhaliwal’s commitment to love and peace.The US House of Representatives and Senate have passed the bipartisan legislation to rename the post office at 315 Addicks Howell Road in Houston as Deputy Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal Post Office Building. The Bill is now headed to the White House for it to sign into a law by outgoing President Donald Trump.The post office named after Dhaliwal in Houston is the second US post office to be named after an Indian American. The first one was named after the first Indian American Congressman Dalip Singh Saund in Southern California in 2006. — PTI
11-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Alternative house no ground to challenge summons: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10A second house in another city is no ground for an accused to attack summoning orders in a complaint case on the pretext that he resides outside the area of jurisdiction of the Magistrate concerned, the Punjab and Haryana High Court stated today.The ruling by Justice Sanjay Kumar came on a petition by Parmeshwari Devi and her son, who contested the Assembly elections from Sunam in 2007 as a Congress party candidate.Trespass caseThe two were seeking the quashing of a complaint filed against them and some other persons for house trespass and other offences under Sections 307, 452, 323, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code.They had also challenged an order dated March 19, 2012, passed by Sunam Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate summoning accused to face trial for offences punishable under Sections 452, 323, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code.Among other things, their counsel had contended that an FIR dated March 3, 2008, was registered upon Parmeshwari Devi’s complaint against a respondent, who was complainant in the case in which the summons were issued, and other persons regarding the very same incident.It culminated in acquittal judgment and, therefore, there could not be two trials for the same incident. It was added that the petitioner-son was a Chandigarh resident as evident from his passport.As such, the Magistrate ought to have followed mandatory procedure posited by Section 202 of the CrPC, dealing with the summoning of an accused residing beyond the Magistrate’s jurisdiction.Justice Kumar asserted the petitioner’s political base was Sunam and he admittedly owned a house there. He was a registered voter there.He contested, and continues to contest, elections from there.Justice Kumar asserted: “Merely because he also owns a house at Chandigarh would not mean that he resides beyond the area of jurisdiction of the Magistrate at Sunam, for the purposes of Section 202 CrPC...”He added, “The objective of making an inquiry/investigation mandatory in the case of an accused who resides beyond the area of jurisdiction of the Magistrate concerned was to see that frivolous complaints were not filed against such persons who reside far away, so as to cause inconvenience to them.”Dismissing the petition after dealing with other contentions also, Justice Sanjay Kumar added the same would not be the situation in the case of an accused having a residence within the area of Magistrate’s jurisdiction and another residence elsewhere.
11-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Scholarship fund delay hits colleges||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 10Dipping admissions and delay in reimbursement of scholarship schemes has started showing impact on the four state government-run engineering colleges.While Hira Singh Bhattal Institute of Engineering and Technology, Lehragaga, has already been closed, the financial position of the other three engineering colleges too is a big mess.The staff of Beant College of Engineering and Technology, Gurdaspur, has not been paid salaries for the past five months while the faculty of Shaheed Bhagat Singh College of Engineering and Technology, Ferozepur, and Malout Institute of Management and Information Technology has not been paid for four months. The staff of Lehragaga college has not been paid for over 18-19 months now.The four engineering colleges were established in 1995 by the state government. However, the government converted their status to autonomous, self-financing institutes later.The number of admissions has also fallen as compared to previous years. The scholarship schemes which they had to offer without any reimbursement had further affected their financial health. Almost all four colleges have Rs 4 crore to Rs 5 crore dues pending from the government on account of Post Matric Scholarship Scheme. They were also offering fee cuts as part of the Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme for meritorious students. There had been no refund from the government for either scheme, they alleged. The professors said they had jointly written to the Technical Education Minister, Finance Minister and other officials concerned but to no avail.Dr TS Sidhu, Director, SBS College of Engineering and Technology, said: “It is very difficult to get work done from the staff when they are not being paid for months.”
11-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||2 die in mishaps due to fog||Abohar, December 10 Two persons were killed and two sustained injuries in road mishaps due to fog today, the police said.  Geeta (22) of Balluana village, who was going to attend a marriage ceremony in Ghallu village today morning was killed and her maternal brother Jashan (20), who was driving the motorcycle, received injuries as a vehicle hit them near the Panchayat Samiti office on the outskirts of Abohar town. Jashan was admitted to the Civil Hospital here.  In another mishap, Mohit Saraswat (26) of Jaitsar was killed, and his friend Akashdeep (23) of Sirsa was hurt as the car, in which they were travelling after attending a marriage function in Srivijaynagar, overturned after it hit the boundary wall of a canal-bridge. Akashdeep could not notice the canal-bridge due to fog near Chak 5 GB. He has been hospitalised in Sriganganagar.  Meanwhile, four persons escaped unhurt as the car, in which they were travelling, skidded into Sadulshehar minor (sub-canal), 27 km from here on the Abohar-Hanumangarh highway, as the driver lost control while negotiating a turn due to dense fog. Dr Lakhwinder Singh, a private practitioner in Ladhuka, Fazilka, Harpreet Singh of Santpura and two others climbed on electricity poles, near the rail track and escaped as the water level in the canal was low. Some people came to their rescue by arranging wood fire near the site.
11-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Release political prisoners, says Dal Khalsa||The Dal Khalsa dedicated this year’s World Human Rights Day to farmers and political prisoners.  To commemorate the 72nd anniversary of the World Human Rights Day, the Dal Khalsa leaders released a poster in this regard during a press conference held today. They demanded the release of prisoners who were framed in “false cases” due to their political beliefs and ideology besides those who had completed their jail term.  President Harpal Singh Cheema said, “Taking undue advantage of the countrywide lockdown, the government targeted all those sections which are politically and ideologically opposed to its policies and framed them in fake cases.” — OC
11-12-2020||---||MCC reverts 33 MBBS, 14 BDS seats to state||Faridkot, December 10The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has declared 33 out of the 90 All-India Quota (AIQ) MBBS seats in three government medical colleges in Punjab as vacant.These vacant seats — 14 at Government Medical College, Amritsar, 11 at Patiala and eight seats at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot — were reverted by the MCC to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) today.BFUHS begins second round of counsellingThe Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has started its second round of counselling to fill 474 out of the total 1,425 MBBS seats and 924 out of the total 1,230 BDS seats in nine medical and 15 dental colleges. These seats include the All-India Quota vacant seats.Three government medical colleges in the state offer 90 AIQ MBBS seats and these seats are filled by the MCC, for which candidates from across the country are eligible.Besides these MBBS seats, the MCC has also reverted 14 AIQ BDS seats to the BFUHS. Two government dental colleges at Amritsar and Patiala offer 14 BDS seats under AIQ.Many All-India Quota seats fall vacant due to non-joining or resignation by chosen candidates after the conclusion of second round of all-India counselling and these vacant seats are reverted to the state quota.Now, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences has started its second round of counselling to fill 474 out of the total 1,425 MBBS seats and 924 out of the total 1,230 BDS seats in nine medical and 15 dental colleges. These seats include the AIQ vacant seats.The total number of available seats for the second round of counselling at government medical colleges at Patiala, Amritsar, Faridkot is 54, 49 and 32, respectively.At six private medical colleges — Sri Guru Ram Das medical college at Amritsar, the DMC and the CMC at Ludhiana, Adesh medical college at Bathinda, PIMS at Jalandhar and Gian Sagar at Banur — the vacant seats are 79, 24, 18, 111, 52 and 55, respectively.
11-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Scooter falls into pothole, rider dies||A fruit and vegetable commission agent, Sat Pal, died today after his scooter fell into a deep pothole on the main road of Bassi Pathana town. Passersby, who witnessed the accident, took him to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries.  Residents protested against PWD officials as the main road has lots of deep potholes which result in accidents on a daily basis. Senior Citizens’ Association president Purshotam Bansal said the rider’s head had hit the road.  Bansal said the main road from ITI to the Market Committee office is full of potholes for the past two years. — OC
11-12-2020||Bathinda||Bir Talab zoo to open on Dec 17||Bir Talab zoo in Bathinda will be opened to the public after a long gap of nine months on December 17. The zoo was closed as a precautionary measure in the wake of Covid spread in March. Zoo officials said that they have been directed by the central zoo authority to open the zoo for public and preparations are in full swing for it. Talking to The Tribune, Pawan Sridhar, Forest Range Officer, said, “After remaining closed for nine months due to the pandemic, the Bir Talab zoo will be opened from December 17. We have revised entry ticket rates slightly with Rs 20 for children and Rs 30 for adults.” Sridhar added, “The zoo will be opened soon but we have to make sure that all visitors take precautionary measures.” — TNS
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||PPCC ropes in HC advocates||Two senior advocates of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Sanjay Kaushal and Kuljeet Singh Sidhu have been appointed patrons of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) legal department. While DS Randhawa has been appointed PPCC legal department president for the Punjab and Haryana HC, Ishan Gupta has been appointed its general secretary. In all, 45 appointments have been made. — TNS
11-12-2020||---||Plastic bags seized in Fazilka||Fazilka: The Municipal Council authorities confiscated 250 kg of plastic carry bags from various wholesale dealers and users in the town and issued challans to 13 persons in this regard.  The administrator of the council, Keshav Goyal, said the campaign against the offenders of Solid Waste Management Rules-2016 would continue to make the town free of polythene. OC
11-12-2020||---||2 more held for attacking cops||Moga, December 10 The Moga police have arrested two more persons who attacked a police party On December 5. SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said Jagjit Singh and Gurdeep Singh, both residents of Jalalabad (east) village had been arrested for their involvement in attack on the police party.  Yesterday, three persons — Inderjit Singh, alias Vicky, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, and Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassa, all residents of Jalalabad (east) village were arrested by the police and an FIR under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act was registered against them. The cops recovered a .315 bore pistol, five live cartridges and an AK-47 assault rifle from them. The AK-47 assault rifle was snatched by them from the police personnel.  He said the names of the two persons arrested by the cops had also been added to the FIR during the course of investigations.   On December 5 around 11.30 pm, Sub-Inspector Major Singh and Home Guard Sukhwinder Singh were attacked by the accused when they had gone to Jalalabad (east) village to attend an emergency call.
