12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 76 more COVID-19 deaths, 2,441 new cases||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,288 with 76 more fatalities in Punjab, while the infection tally climbed to 77,057 with 2,441 fresh cases on Saturday, according to a medical bulletin.Fourteen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 11 from Amritsar, 10 from Jalandhar, seven from Gurdaspur, five each from Hoshiarpur and Rupnagar, and four each from Barnala, Patiala and Kapurthala, it said.Three fatalities were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, two each from Bathinda and Sangrur and one each from Muktsar, Mohali, Moga, Pathankot and Tarn Taran.The fresh coronavirus cases were reported from Mohali (331), Jalandhar (313), Patiala (268), Ludhiana (267), Amritsar (257), Bathinda (137), Gurdaspur (118), Hoshiarpur (110), Pathankot (100) and Muktsar (72), among others.At present, there are 19,384 active cases in the state, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,077 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection. So far, 55,385 people have been cured of the contagion.Eighty-two critical patients are on ventilator support, while 521 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 13,64,940 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
12-09-2020||---||Amarinder trashes AAP’s claim of scam in procurement of Covid care kits||Chandigarh, September 12Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday ridiculed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for seeing a scam in the procurement of Covid care kits even before the kits were procured by the state government.Reacting to AAP MLA Aman Arora’s allegation of a scam in the kit procurement, the Chief Minister said: “In their desperation to attack the government in Punjab they seem to have lost all sense of proportion.”Arora’s scam accusation came even before the tender for the procurement of the kits was finalised by the Health Department, Captain Amarinder Singh pointed out as he disclosed that the state government had eventually finalised the cost at Rs 748 per kit with Rs 360 (+GST) for Pulse Oxymeter. The AAP MLA had based his allegation on a rate list – which he had also sent to the Health Department – that actually listed only 13 items as against the 16 being procured for the government kit, said the CM.Arora’s list made no mention of Vitamin D capsule, betadine gargles, and balloons, while the sanitiser he listed out was of 100 ml in comparison to the 500 ml sanitiser that is being included in the government kit, said Captain Amarinder.Further, no liquid kadha (concoction) is available in the market at Rs 10, said the Chief Minister, adding that AAP was perhaps making some kadha of their own and marketing in Delhi.Terming Arora’s scam allegation “preposterous”, the CM said by alleging a scam in a procurement that had not even taken place, the AAP MLA had exposed the party’s strategy of unleashing baseless negative propaganda against his government.“You have shown that you will stoop to any level to further your political agenda in Punjab, going to the extent of making totally unsubstantiated and false allegations against my government,” he remarked, adding that the people of Punjab will not be taken in by these theatrics and false campaigns of AAP.At the time of announcing the free kits for people in home and hospital isolation, the Chief Minister said he had merely given an estimated price based on the market costs of various items.The market prices, however, keep fluctuating, which Arora seems to be either oblivious of, or chose to deliberately ignore in order to mislead the people, he added. The Rs 1,700 estimate announced earlier by him was based on the cost at which the Punjab Police had been procuring such kits in small numbers from local markets, as per their requirement, against the market price of Rs 4,000, per kit, Captain Amarinder disclosed.The CM said that the procurement process was tender-based, which he had clearly mentioned in his announcement, and pointed out that the final price which the state government eventually got for the kit turned out to be much lower.As already announced, these will be distributed free of cost to all Covid patients in hospital and home quarantine, said Captain Amarinder.The Chief Minister said Arora was in such a hurry to “spread misinformation” that he did not bother to wait for the government to finalise the tender.False propaganda seems to have become AAP’s political strategy. The arrest of an AAP activist recently for spreading a fake video on Covid organ harvesting shows the extent to which these people will go to promote their petty political interests in Punjab, he said.In fact, said the Chief Minister, given the low price of bulk procurement that the government had managed to get for the kits, even the Oxymeters his government had decided to make available through approved vendors on no-profit-no-loss basis would probably be sold at a cost lower than the Rs 514.
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali court issues arrest warrant against Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||Mohali court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case.The court has directed the police to produce Saini by September 25, according to the order.Saini, the former Punjab director-general of police, continues to remain elusive despite the special investigation team of the Punjab Police conducting raids at several places to nab him.Saini, whose whereabouts were still unknown, was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani in 1991 when he was working as a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday had dismissed Saini’s anticipatory bail plea in this matter.The high court had also dismissed Saini’s second petition that sought quashing of an FIR in the case or the transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).A Mohali court had dismissed his bail plea on September 1.Last month, the police had added murder charge under Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR in Multani disappearance case after two former Chandigarh Police personnel — former UT police Inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh who are also co-accused —turned approver in the disappearance case.The Punjab Police on September 3 had claimed that Saini “absconded” while leaving behind the Z plus security allotted to him.Saini had left his Chandigarh residence without Punjab Police security personnel and security vehicles, including a jammer vehicle.Balwant Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991.However, the police had later claimed that Balwant Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian Police in Gurdaspur.Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar.The case was registered against them under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali. PTI
12-09-2020||---||Capt Amarinder rolls out state-wide Smart Ration Card scheme to cover 1.41 cr NFSA beneficiaries||Chandigarh, September 12Even as he launched the Smart Ration Card scheme to cover 1.41 crore beneficiaries across the state, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a separate state-funded scheme to provide subsidised rations to the 9 lakh beneficiaries not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), a press release by the state government read.With this, the total number of beneficiaries in the state will go up to 1.50 crore, the Chief Minister announced while rolling out the Smart Card Scheme under which 37.5 lakh cards will be distributed to the eligible beneficiaries this month.Captain Amarinder said: “The Centre had capped the maximum number of beneficiaries to 1.41 crore and despite repeated requests, had not agreed to provide subsidised rations to the deserving 9 lakh people not covered under the NFSA. His government had therefore decided to cover all such left out eligible persons under a state-funded scheme, details of which will be announced shortly.”[Live]: Launch of Smart Ration Card Scheme from Punjab Secretariat. #SmartRationCard https://t.co/g57o8Ug5LdLaunching the Smart Ration Card scheme virtually, with connection to 100 places across the state, the Chief Minister said the scheme would help curb corruption and give freedom to the beneficiaries to buy from any depot.Describing it as a major step towards empowering the beneficiary, he said it would end the exploitation of beneficiaries by unscrupulous ration depot holders.The Smart Ration Card empowers the beneficiary to get his entitled quota of foodgrain from any Ration Depot in Punjab.The Chief Minister lashed out at the Central Government for attempting to destroy the spirit of Punjab’s farmers, who have toiled for the country and fed the nation, through the farm ordinances. “These ordinances are aimed at ending the MSP regime and will hit the farmers hard,” he said.Referring to the SYL issue, Captain Amarinder said that was another problem that Punjab was facing and while he had recently had one meeting with the Union Water Resources Minister and his Haryana counterpart, the problem continues to haunt the state. Pointing to the melting glaciers and the receding groundwater level in the state, he said the situation was critical and the state simply could not afford to give any water to other states.In a symbolic gesture, the Chief Minister handed over the smart ration cards to four beneficiaries here at the Secretariat, after which all ministers and MLAs distributed cards in their respective districts and constituencies.Earlier, Punjab Minister of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu pointed out that the state government, in line with its promise to make the system transparent, had already introduced e-POS system to check pilferage.“The Captain Amarinder government had also weeded out ghost beneficiaries and undeserving people who were being provided subsidies by the erstwhile SAD- BJP regime at the cost of genuine beneficiaries,” he added.“The Smart Cards,” said Ashu, “will enable the beneficiaries to take ration from any shop, thus ending the monopoly of the ration depots. Bio-metrics of the cardholder will be matched with the data stored in a chip on the smart ration card to prevent any fraudulent transfer of food grains. One card will suffice for the entire family.”Ashu hailed the Chief Minister’s rejection of the anti-farmer ordinances of the Central Government, which he said had made him ‘kisaanon da rakha’ also, in addition to being ‘paaniyan da rakha’.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal termed the launch of the cards as the fulfilment of another promise and responsibility of the state government despite the financial crunch and the external as well as Internal problems faced by Punjab. “From the SYL to the farm ordinances and the GST problems, the state had been suffering a host of problems but development works under the Captain Amarinder continued uninterrupted,” he added.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said the journey to implement a transparent system of public food distribution had been an arduous one, as the previous government had put in place a corrupt and monopolistic system.“Due to the step-motherly treatment of the Centre towards Punjab, the Rs 31000 crore CCL debt burden imposed by the SAD-BJP on the state was yet to be resolved,” he said, calling for the protection of farmers at all costs. “We have to ensure that all deserving people get the benefit of the scheme, irrespective of their political affiliations,” he added.Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Birender Dhillion demanded an inquiry into the previous government, which misused welfare schemes to benefit undeserving beneficiaries.
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||BSF seizes cache of arms near Indo-Pak border in Punjab's Ferozepur||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday seized a cache of arms and ammunition, including three AK-47 and two M-16 rifles, from a field along the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab's Ferozepur district.During search operation, the BSF troops seized the arms and ammunition from a bag which was found lying on a field near the border at around 7 am, a BSF official said.Six magazines of AK-47 and 91 rounds, four magazines of M-16 rifles and 57 rounds, two pistols with four magazines and 20 rounds were also seized, he said.The arms and ammunition were sent by elements inimical to the country from Pakistan through Abohar in Ferozepur district in Punjab, along the International Border, officials said. PTI
12-09-2020||Vijay C Roy||Academic institutes take lead in filing patents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 11Three Punjab-based academic institutes were among the top five across the country in filing patents last year. Though filing of the patent doesn’t mean it will be granted, however, it indicates the growing awareness about Intellectual Property Rights among the students.According to Patseer — a patent search and analysis software — Lovely Professional University (LPU) filed 334 patents in 2019. The university claims it has set a record for filing the highest number of patents by any single educational institute in a year. The break-up of the patents reveals that almost half of them were related to industrial IoT 4.0, and the rest were across sectors such as green energy, agriculture, environment and pharma. Chandigarh Group of Colleges filed 68 applications while Chandigarh University filed 60 applications.LPU chancellor Ashok Mittal said, “We have tried to offer the best possible facilities and infrastructure to our students and faculty. We recently started filing international patents under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), administered by World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), to get our research work acknowledged globally. We hope to make a sizeable contribution to India’s innovation capital in the years to come.”He said the university has invested over Rs 100 million in the past five years to build high quality research capabilities and world-class labs to facilitate research.The others in top-five list are Amity University with 99 applications and GH Raisoni College of Engineering with 55 applications.Among the leading corporate houses, Tatas top the list with 347 applications, followed by BHEL (202) and Robert Bosch GmbH (174).Every year, around 50,000 patents are filed in the country and the process takes at least three years to grant a patent.
12-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Meet Kuldip Kaur, the first woman chowkidar of Punjab||Jalandhar, September 11As the night deepens, she picks up the khunda (a long, wooden stick) and a torch and sets out to guard the alleys of her village every day. Kuldip Kaur (55) has been working as the village chowkidar at Bangiwal, a remote setting here since 2008. Shredding to pieces gender stereotypes, she is one of only two women among the 13,500 chowkidars appointed by the government to guard 13,000 villages of Punjab. The other is Razia Begum, who guards Bir, 15 km away from Bangiwal, who came into profession a year or two after her.Dressed up in a simple salwar-kameez, head covered with a dupatta, the moment she steps out, her first priority is to take a quick check of the several lanes in the village before coming around to the main street by 9.30 pm. “After that, I go and sit for at least 20 minutes at a chabutra (platform) built around an old banyan tree, where the men play cards during the day. I sit there and call out villagers’ names and shout ‘Jagde raho’ (keep awake),” Kuldip says, adding, “Then I move to the other corner of the village.”With a population of around 1,500 and around 500-600 houses at stake spread over three or four sq km, long breaks are off the table as she has to take a round of entire lanes. “Earlier, I used to work for seven to eight hours ie till 3:30-4:00am, but since the last two or three years, I have been working for four to five hours only and return home between 12:30-1am,” she shares.The reason for this is that she has been diagnosed with a cataract recently, which has been making it difficult for her night duty. Though she comes home early, one of her two sons take the mantle from her. “At times people even make fun of me when I say Jagde raho as I pass by their homes, but all these things don’t affect me anymore as I have become used to it,” she says.Walking down memory laneTalking about her journey as a single mother to eight children and how it feels to be a woman chowkidar, Kuldip says she was offered the job as relief after her husband Avtar Singh, who was the village night guard before her, suffered a heart attack and died in 2008.She says there was no other option back then and had to take up the job as three of her daughters and two sons were studying. She was in a dire need of money to stitch her ends.“This job over the time has given me an identity, and is my only source of income beside widow pension which is just Rs700 per month”, she says, adding at times she is also responsible to summon people for this official gathering and on some days, she is even asked to guard the gurudwara as well.However, the earnings from the job are not enough she feels. “I earlier used to get Rs800 and now I earn Rs1,250, which is very less to manage a family of six.” Besides, she hasn’t been receiving pay on time and it is after three or four months, the government deposits her pay in the account.‘Superwoman’ for kidsWhen asked about the fears of guarding the village all alone at night, Kuldip laughs and says she has been into this job for 12 years and even the dogs recognise her voice and wag their tails as she passes by. “I wasn’t scared of this job when I first accepted it. But yes, my kids were a little scared and even used to visit me late at night to check if I am okay,” she says, adding that over the years the fear of her kids regarding her safety has vanished. “They now call me a superwoman!” she quips.Breaking gender stereotypesEven as she is suffering from a cataract and has no money for surgery, she is all dedicated towards her job and says can’t compromise with the duty as it is with this chowkidari income that the expenses of her family are taken care of. Meanwhile, amid the pandemic, she has had two jobs. Along with guarding, she also sensitised people to the safety guidelines. “During Covid, keeping vigilance in and around the village became quite stringent and I was asked to ensure that no one steps out during odd hours. So, instead of shouting my pet phrase ‘jagde raho’, I would call out ‘ghar vich hi raho’, she says.
12-09-2020||New Delhi||Sumedh Saini moves Supreme Court as Punjab police raid hideouts||As the Punjab Police raided hideouts in search of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, an accused in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case, he has moved the Supreme Court for anticipatory bail to avoid his arrest.The Punjab Police too have filed a caveat to pre-empt Saini from getting any ex-parte relief from the top court which is likely to take up his plea next week. Multani, a JE with with CITCO, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini.In May this year, the former DGP and six others were booked by the Mohali police for Multani’s ‘kidnapping’. The murder charge was added in August after two of the accused cops spilled the beans.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI court in Delhi for the alleged abduction of businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver. — TNS
12-09-2020||Muktsar||Covid shadow: Punjab effigy-makers yet to get orders for Dasehra||Having kept all festivals since March a low-key affair, the Covid pandemic now casts a dark shadow over the forthcoming festive season comprising Navratras, Dasehra and Diwali.With the virus showing no signs of ebbing, associated artisans fear loss of livelihood. Effigy-makers say it is for the first time they haven’t received any orders for Dasehra. “I am into this trade for the past four decades. In normal times, orders would come around two months in advance. But, none so far this time,” says Pawan of Malout.Boasting of customers from almost all parts of Punjab and even neighbouring Haryana, Himachal and Rajasthan, Pawan and his team would charge around Rs 90,000 for the effigies of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna. “In Punjab, religious and social organisations celebrate Dasehra. The scenario is different in Rajasthan where municipalities invite tenders for the festival. The tenders, however, are yet to be floated this year,” adds Pawan, pinning hopes on an unconfirmed order of 10 small effigies from Abohar.Delhi-based Naveen, who supplies effigies across Punjab and Haryana, too appears pessimistic about business prospects this year. “Our main earnings used to come from effigies. At least 20 orders would come by now. Dasehra is on October 25, but not even a single order has come our way,” he maintains. Those looking to earn through Navratras and Diwali too are a worried lot saying celebrations, and thus earnings, wouldn’t be the same amid Covid restrictions.
12-09-2020||---||Partition Museum curates online events to allow visitors to sneak a peek into the pages of history||Amritsar, September 11The Partition Museum has remained shut since lockdown was announced in March this year, but it has opened its virtual space for visitors who want to sneak a peek into the pages of history. The one-of-its kind museum in the world has been running several educational programmes since its inception and its archives had only been accessed through visits to the heritage place, until the pandemic stuck. Its virtual galleries and tours have made an attempt to find audience across the globe amid restrictions.The museum had recently hosted first online art exhibition in collaboration with Art Alive Gallery, New Delhi. It showcased 26 exclusive works by 16 eminent and upcoming artists of India. The exhibition was received well and it featured several prominent artists from the time when partition happened.Rajwinder Kaur, curator of the museum, said they had been receiving a great response from visitors on their online platforms, accessing their virtual archives and gallery. “We have been consistently uploading significant audio-visual archives on our Facebook and Instagram pages. We share links to access the virtual tours, specifically curated to focus on individual event or otherwise,” she said. Most of the links to these virtual tours or access to archives is specific in nature and is free for all. The visitors can access its oral history library and artefacts and art work through its official website. It also has videos of eyewitnesses’ accounts.As a long term measure, the museum is also creating a permanent virtual gallery, work on which is under progress, that will have archived images from Partition, train massacre stories, videos, arts, paintings, real oral accounts of eyewitnesses and survivors.
12-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Fake receipts issued for registration of sale deeds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 11The Revenue Department has asked deputy commissioners in all districts across the state to look into any financial embezzlement by officials while submitting online registration fee.Online fee fraud — Modus operandiThe instructions have been issued following instances of embezzlement in two sub-registrar offices in Ludhiana district. It is learnt that fake receipts were issued to people who had come to get the registration of their sale deeds and the original receipts of these registries were re-used.‘Embezzled money recovered’We have recovered the amount embezzled by the accused in Dakha, and initiated disciplinary action against him. We suspect same modus operandi could have been used at other places. — Senior Revenue Dept OfficerOfficials in the department have told The Tribune contract workers were hired as the regular staff was not well-versed with the online method of registering of deeds.“Some persons were recruited through the Punjab Land Records Society on a contract basis at the offices of sub-registrar and joint sub-registrar for the work. We have now detected that though their job was only to record registry in computers and insert pictures of the buyer and seller in the system, they started collecting the registration fee,” a senior officer in the department said.Once they had access to the fee collection system, they started collecting receipts of registries, instead of locking each receipt with the corresponding registry.The receipts collected were then reused with other registries of sale deeds, while fake receipts were given to the buyer and/or seller.“Deputy commissioners, sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars have been asked to check all registries affected since the online registration was allowed, and immediately get FIRs registered against accused officials,” said the officer who has initiated the inquiry across the state.It is learnt the department is ready to go fully online in registering documents and getting details of each registry in tehsil or sub-tehsil office.“We are now in the process of refining the system so that no one can tinker with the online fee being collected,” said the officer.
12-09-2020||---||Mumbai firm all set to get GNDTP dismantling work||Bathinda, September 11The state government is all set to award the contract for dismantling Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda to a Mumbai-based firm, making way for a mega industrial park coming on 1,320 acres.Jatinder Goyal, director/finance, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), said: “A Mumbai-based firm has made the highest bid of Rs 164.6 crore, which is Rs 32 crore more than the fixed reserve price of Rs 132 crore.”“The official orders will be released in two to three weeks. The firm will start dismantling the thermal power plant after depositing security and fulfilling other requirements,” he added.However, the state government has decided to keep the four mega cooling towers intact, as the structure has enormous heritage value. Even three lakes spread on 164 acres will be kept as it is, but the district administration residence and the police lines will be shifted from Civil Lines to Thermal Colony. The structures, including chimneys and machinery used in power generation, besides cables and pipes will be disposed of.Earlier, the state government had given a nod for redevelopment of land. As per the government’s decision, the land, which belongs to PSPCL, will be handed over to the Punjab Urban Development Authority through a 80:20 revenue sharing scheme.
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||AAP flags  price of Covid kits||AAP Sunam MLA Aman Arora today alleged that embezzlement to the tune of Rs 4 crore may take place in the proposed distribution of 50,000 Covid-19 care kits.He wrote to CM Capt Amarinder Singh and highlighted that market value of each kit was Rs 943 while the government claimed that the kit would cost Rs 1,700.“The kit costs Rs 943 in the market. The government can purchase it at much lower rate if transparency is maintained,” said Arora. “If things go as per your plan, misappropriation of Rs 4 crores will take place in the distribution of kits,” he said. — TNS
12-09-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Saragarhi Memorial cries for facelift||Ferozepur, September 11Umpteen promises notwithstanding, the state government has failed to make any effort to beautify or develop the historic Saragarhi Memorial here. The monument was raised to pay homage to 22 valiant 36 Sikh Regiment soldiers of the British Indian Army who died fighting 10,000 Afridis during the Battle of Saragarhi on September 12, 1897, in North-West Frontier Province, now in Pakistan.After The Tribune last year highlighted the failure of successive regimes to develop the memorial, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh sanctioned Rs 1 crore to develop the memorial, depicting the saga of unparalleled chivalry in the history of military warfare. However, due to procedural wrangles, development work never took off.“For the past several years, promises have been made and statements issued by visiting dignitaries on giving a facelift to the memorial, but little has been done to develop this place into an international tourist attraction,” says Charan Singh, a Kirti Chakra awardee. Top political leaders, including the CM, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, former Minister for Tourism and Cultural Affairs Navjot Singh Sidhu, Cabinet ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and others, have claimed in the past of chalking out a comprehensive plan to develop the monument, but to no avail.Two years ago, the CM had announced several projects to commemorate the memory of the martyrs. Navjot Singh Sidhu, too, had announced Rs 4 crore for its development. The previous SAD-BJP regime had made similar announcements but nothing concrete ever came out.
12-09-2020||Amritsar||Publish ‘saroops’ judiciously, Takht tells SGPC||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh today emphasised that to prevent the misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’, the SGPC should gauge the demand and publish the holy scriptures judiciously.He was here at Diwan Hall on the Golden Temple complex to attend a two-day katha programme. Talking about the deficiencies in the records of the publications department, Giani Harpreet Singh said the investigation report had been handed over to the SGPC and it would be its own prerogative to initiate criminal or departmental action against indicted officials.The Jathedar said arrangements should be made to send the ‘saroops’ abroad in a dignified manner and no violation of ‘maryada’ should be there. “Rather, the SGPC should make arrangements to print the ‘saroops’ abroad,” he maintained. — TNS
12-09-2020||---||GNDU to hold online exams from Sept 21||Amritsar, September 11Acting on the instructions of the state government to conduct examinations of final year (exit) classes, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has released standard operating procedure (SOPs) for the conduct of exams, which it proposes to hold online from September 21 to October 8.No Sunday curfew for NEET aspirantsTo facilitate free movement of NEET aspirants, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced there would be no curfew in the state this Sunday i.e. on September 13. Non-essential shops would, however, remain closed, clarified the CM.In detailed instructions issued to several department heads and principals of affiliated colleges, a list of registered emails of students will be prepared and a test mail will be the students four days before the exam. These test mails will have sample of answer sheet to familiarise students about the format. The practical examinations are also to be held within the dates mentioned above through online viva-voce or presentation.On the day of the exam, students will be able to access the question paper only when the respective head of college or institution sends them through the university generated email, download the question paper within 30 minute time frame, while the whole process of taking exam will be of 2 hours 45 minutes. Similarly, afterwards the students will upload the answer sheets within given time frame. The invigilators will prepare WhatsApp groups for emergency queries and situation for students.GDNU has over 40,000 students, who will be appearing for exams for exit classes.
12-09-2020||---||Institutional quarantine for foreign returnees may go||Jalandhar, September 11With just 0.98 per cent of foreign returnees having been found to be Covid-19 positive in the past few months, the authorities across the state have sought a review for the need to have seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine for them.The authorities are of the view that there is no need to send only the returnees to institutional quarantine at a time now when the positive, mildly symptomatic patients in Punjab are being allowed home quarantine. Also they feel that the step is no longer required when the sero-surveys in Punjab are currently showing more than 27 per cent of the population to be infected.As per the health authorities, only 200 of the 20,600 foreign returnees alighting at Mohali have been found to be coronavirus positive. Also, since Karnataka, Odisha and Kerala have changed the SOPs allowing foreign returnees to do away with institutional quarantine, even Punjab is mulling a change that will relieve the authorities as well as the returnees to a large extent.DC Mohali Girish Dayalan said, “In light of the present situation, there is no need of making foreign returnees to undergo institutional quarantine. I have submitted my opinion on the matter to the government.”
12-09-2020||---||Punjab record spike of 2,526 cases in a day||Chandigarh, September 11The state witnessed highest single-day spike of 2,526 Covid-19 cases today. As many as 63 people succumbed to the virus.The Health Department linked the surge to increased testing of patients. From an average of 16,000 samples being collected by the end of August, one-day testing today reached 33,595.Jalandhar reported the highest number of positive cases at 326 and reported eight deaths.The highest fatalities (12) continued to be reported from Ludhiana. Two prominent industrialists — DL Sharma of Vardhman Group and Tarsem Kumar Jain of Jain Uday Group— are learnt to have succumbed to the virus.Patiala and Mohali reported (315 and 262 cases, respectively) while Gurdaspur (237), Ludhiana (186), Amritsar (181), Kapurthala (166) and Hoshiarpur (161) new cases.Amritsar civil surgeon positiveAmritsar: Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh has become the senior-most official of the Health department to have tested positive here. As many as 123 staff members of his office were sampled today, of whom one was found infected. Like Dr Singh, roughly 125 Covid warriors have been infected and two of them had succumbed to the virus. TNSMeanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced that oximeters would be made available to all citizens at an affordable cost of Rs 514 each via approved vendors in every district.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the state government has made elaborate arrangements for manufacturing and refilling of oxygen cylinders to tackle the emerging situation.
12-09-2020||---||Harish Rawat’s appointment signals more changes in Congress||Chandigarh, September 11By appointing Uttarakhand former Chief Minister Harish Rawat as the general secretary in-charge in place of Asha Kumari, the Congress party high command has given a clear signal of the changes in the state organisational structure in the coming days.Likely to placate disgruntled lotUttarakhand former CM Harish Rawat is likely to play a crucial role in roping in annoyed leaders like Navjot Singh Sidhu and Partap Singh BajwaThe appointment has also paved the way for the announcement of the much-delayed new body of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). In the present set up, Sunil Jakhar is expected to continue as PPCC chief.The replacement of the general secretary in-charge is being seen as a signal to senior party leadership in the state and the Congress government led by Capt Amarinder Singh. Sources in the party said outgoing general secretary Asha Kumari enjoyed a good equation with the Chief Minister, who would now have to deal with Rawat, a seasoned leaders who is close to the Gandhis.The party leadership had been planning to replace Asha Kumari in the wake of various complaints against her from state party leaders. Rawat is likely to play a crucial role in roping in annoyed leaders like Navjot Singh Sidhu and Partap Singh Bajwa.
12-09-2020||---||After SC nudge, focus back on former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha||Amritsar, September 11After the Supreme Court expressed shock over long pendency of criminal cases against politicians on September 10, the focus has turned again on over a three-decade-old murder of Dr Sudarshan Trehan in Patti (Tarn Taran).Dr Trehan was gunned down by three persons at his clinic in September 1983 and former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha was among the accused. Valtoha was never arrested in the case while a challan was presented in the court last year and charges were framed against him in January. At present, the case is under trial in a Tarn Taran court. In February, when summons to witnesses returned unserved, the court ordered Tarn Taran SSP to submit a report regarding the witnesses. However, the proceedings got delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Ex-SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha fined Rs 1.9 lakh for power theftInitially, the police had registered an FIR against unknown persons. A year after the incident, the police had nabbed Hardev Singh. During interrogation, Hardev had revealed that he along with Baldev Singh and Virsa Singh Valtoha had killed Dr Trehan. As a result, the police had named Valtoha as the accused. Hardev Singh and Baldev Singh were acquitted by the court in 1990 and Valtoha was declared proclaimed offender.Valtoha claimed that he was discharged in 1991 as charges were not framed against him.
12-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC bans mining near highways, bridges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court today banned mining activities a kilometre from national highways and major bridges across the state. Directions prohibiting mining activities half-a-kilometre from state highways and small bridges were also issued.Ruling that “rivers have an inherent right to flow without hindrance,” the Bench of Justices Rajiv Sharma and Harinder Singh Sidhu also directed the Deputy Commissioners and the Senior Superintendents of Police to constitute special flying squads, comprising officers and officials from mining, revenue and police department. For the purpose, the Bench set a two-week deadline.The deployment of heavy machinery was prohibited for extraction of sand and gravel from river beds. “The mining depth should be restricted up to three meters in river beds,” the Bench asserted.Directions were issued for deployment of drones to check illegal mining and undertaking river audit, including replenishment study within six months. The state was asked to evolve a procedure to monitor sale and purchase of sand.The state government was directed to take stern action against erring officials for their failure to check illegal mining in areas under their jurisdiction. The Bench ruled that sand mining would be strictly carried out in the state in accordance with the environmental law and the guidelines laid down by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change from time to time.The directions came on a petition filed by Bakhsish Singh and other petitioners against the state of Punjab and other respondents alleging large scale illegal mining activities in their villages and the Sutlej riverbed. The Bench was told that heavy mining had changed the course of the river at few places resulting in flooding. The case will now come up for hearing on September 30.
12-09-2020||---||Evading arrest, Sumedh Saini may be declared PO||Chandigarh, September 11From a top cop for almost two decades, former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini is the state’s top fugitive now. The state is preparing to get him declared a proclaimed offender in the 1991 Multani murder case as he continues to evade arrest despite his bail plea rejected by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Punjab Police have conducted raids in Hoshiarpur, Chandigarh, Delhi and some other locations in Punjab in the past 24 hours, but Saini remains untraceable. Notably, Z-security officials posted by the Central Government and Punjab Police have failed to explain how the former DGP was roaming around without the mandatory security.Police sources said those on his security duty might face action as they were supposed to be with him. Sources disclosed that the police were preparing to get him declared a proclaimed offender from a Mohali court. Once declared, the government can attach his movable and immovable assets.The raids come amid ministers, including Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, questioning the role of senior police officers with the former DGP running away from law. Opposition parties too have criticised the state government and the Punjab Police for its failure to arrest Saini.In 1991, Balwant Singh Multani, son of an IAS officer, was allegedly picked up by a Chandigarh Police team on allegation of planting a bomb in the car of then SSP Sumedh Singh Saini. He was allegedly tortured in presence of Saini. He allegedly died in police custody, but was shown to have escaped from custody.His brother approached the Mohali police two months ago praying reopening of the case, citing a new evidence in form of a revelation made by a police cat turned Punjab Police cop on being witness to the incident. Later, two of the six other cops booked by the Mohali police turned approver. They stated in the court that Saini had ordered Multani’s detention and custodial interrogation after which he died in custody. The court added Section 302 of the IPC against the former DGP. He has been on the run since then.
12-09-2020||---||Rajesh Bhardwaj named HC judge||Chandigarh, September 11 The President has appointed Rajesh Bhardwaj as an Additional Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, taking the total number of judges to 55 against the sanctioned strength of 85. Belonging to Barauli village in Panipat district, Bhardwaj’s name was approved by the Supreme Court collegium at a meeting on August 17. The High Court is currently facing a shortage of 30 judges and a pendency of nearly six lakh cases. The problem is expected to worsen as two senior judges heading Division Benches are scheduled to retire in the next couple of months, followed by more next year.
12-09-2020||Mohali||One death, 275 new cases of COVID-19 in Mohali district||One COVID-19 death and 275 new cases were reported from Mohali district on Thursday.As many as 293 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours. A 64-year-old male from Phase-VII, Industrial Area, Mohali, died in PGI today. He was a diabetic and suffering from a kidney disease. Most of the cases reported today were from Mohali urban (92), Kharar (40), Gharuan (43), Dhakoli (59), Dera Bassi (31), Boothgarh (9) and Lalru (1). For the third consecutive day, the number of patients discharged from the hospitals is more than the new positive cases reported.The total number of cured cases too has gone significantly higher than the active cases but doctors warn that the number of new cases may rise in the coming days. As of now, there are a total of 5,856 cases, of which 2,135 are active. As many as 3,596 patients have been discharged from various hospitals till now.With one death today, the toll in the district has touched 125. Yesterday, eight deaths and 307 new cases were reported. Total cases 5,856Active-2,135Cured-3,596Deaths-125
12-09-2020||Panchkula||Gangster Sukhpreet Budha tests positive||Gangster Sukhpreet Budha, who is in the custody of the local crime branch, tested positive for Covid today. He underwent the Covid test at the Civil Hospital on Tuesday.Inspector Karambir, in-charge, CIA-II, said, “The gangster has been isolated at the crime branch office in Sector 19. Cops exposed to the gangster have isolated themselves and will undergo the Covid test.”The gangster was brought on a production warrant from the Sangrur jail in connection with the 2018 Bhupesh Rana muder case. He was produced in a court, which sent him to three-day police remand. A police official said a separate Covid care centre for infected prisoners would come up in Sector 12 soon. — TNS
12-09-2020||---||Panjab University releases final instructions for exams||Chandigarh, September 9Panjab University (PU) today released final instructions to the students appearing for the blended (online/offline) examinations starting on September 17.The students of regular college/department/regional centres will get their admit card from their respective colleges/departments/regional centres from September 12 onwards. Private students or those of University School of Open Learning (USOL) will be able to download their admit card from examination website after login from September 12 onwards. The candidates are required to send an email to ugexam@pu.ac.in or pgexam@pu.ac.in, if they unable to download their admit cards.Question paperThe students of regular college/department/regional centres will receive the question paper as per date sheet for a particular day from their respective college/department/regional centres using different electronic modes. If any student does not remember his/her password, the same can also be downloaded from the home page the examination website by entering details. Private/USOL students will be able to download question paper as per date sheet for a particular day in similar manner.
12-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Coaches unhappy with Punjab Sports Department’s decision||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 9Punjab Sports Department’s decision to conduct refresher courses in various disciplines has not gone down well with many state coaches amid Covid-19 scare in the state.The department will conduct refresher courses from September 15 to October 9 at the Sector 63 Sports Complex.As per the schedule, coaches of judo, swimming, gymnastics and hockey will attend this course from September 15 to 19. Kabaddi, volleyball, athletics and table tennis coaches will attend the course from September 21 to 25. In the third phase, coaches of volleyball, football, handball and shooting will be trained from September 28 to October 2. In the last phase, coaches of wrestling, weightlifting and badminton will go through this detailed programme from October 5 to 9. The course is organised for regular, outsourced and Punjab State Institute (PIS) coaches.Earlier, a workshop was organised at the Sector 78 Sports Complex wherein coaches from various districts of the state participated. “It’s a good initiative, but what is the need for conducting such courses amid the pandemic,” said a coach from Jalandhar. Meanwhile, sources in the Sports Department said five-day course for each game would be organised following social distancing norms.Seven-day camp beginsThe department is conducting a refresher course for state boxing coaches under the guidance of Cuba’s Blas Iglesias Fernandez, the first foreign coach to be given Dronacharya Award. The seven-day camp started at the PIS centre in Mohali today. Coaches from Mohali, Patiala, Roopnagar, Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda are participating in the event.
