12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister bans leave, transfers of health dept employees||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday put a complete ban with immediate effect on leave and transfers of Health Department employees in the state till September 30.The decision was taken in the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state.All officials, including medical and para-medical staffers, have to remain present at their stations, the minister said in a statement.No leave will be given to any officer or employee during this period, he said.He said only maternity and child care leave, however, would be allowed.Sidhu said apart from the regular employees, this order would be applicable to all those who are working on contract in various wings of the Health Department.Punjab on Wednesday reported a record 39 fatalities due to COVID-19, pushing the death toll to 675, while 1,020 cases took the state’s infection tally to 26,909. — PTI
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Not begging from Punjab, demanding only rightful space in assembly building: Haryana speaker||Reiterating that Punjab is yet to give Haryana its rightful share of space in the common assembly building for the two states, Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday asserted that he is not begging but claiming the state’s right.Gupta made the claim citing provisions of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, which, he said, provides for 40 per cent of the space in the assembly building to the Haryana, which, however, has got only 27 per cent of the space till now.At least 20 rooms of the Haryana share in assembly building is in the possession of Punjab, he added.“We are not begging, but demanding only our rightful share. We are asking for what is our rightful share in the assembly building,” Gupta said.Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana K P Singh, however, had earlier claimed that “not an inch was due” to Haryana in the assembly building.Gupta, however, reiterated that Haryana has not been given its rightful share in the assembly building after the creation of the state following the reorganisation of Punjab nearly 54 years ago.He said earlier when he had met the Punjab assembly Speaker, he had agreed to have a meeting arranged between the secretaries of the two assemblies on the issue.“He had said the two secretaries would meet and discuss the issue. Later, I do not know what happened and he went back on his word. The meeting never took place. Now, without the two sides having any meeting or discussion, the Punjab Speaker has been saying that not an inch is due (to Haryana),” Gupta told reporters here.He said he has also raised the issue with Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, who is also the Administrator of Chandigarh Union Territory.Gupta said he would urge Badnore to intervene in the issue.“Fifty-three years have passed since Haryana was carved out of Punjab. We are only asking for our due share in the assembly building in Chandigarh (which serves as the common capital of both the states),” he said.Since Haryana came into existence on November 1, 1966, both states are having common buildings for their secretariats and assemblies besides having a common high court.Gupta had also said if given their share, Haryana officials would get enough space for work, further improving the functioning of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.Punjab Speaker Singh, however, had earlier said the issue has already been sorted out.“I have examined it, I have checked it, if there was even one inch of space, we would have definitely given it. But there is nothing that we have to give,” he had told PTI recently. — PTI
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab adds 1,020 more coronavirus cases, 39 deaths to tally||Punjab reported 39 deaths from coronavirus and 1,020 new cases, the state’s COVID bulletin showed---the highest single-day rise in fatalities the state has seen yet.The development takes the state’s case tally to 26,909 cases with 675 deaths.Twelve of 22 districts reported deaths, the bulletin showed. At 13, Ludhiana led in death count---a trend the district has been seeing since the beginning of this month.Besides, Hoshiarpur (6) Amritsar (3), Barnala (1), Bathinda (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (1), Gurdaspur (2), Jalandhar (3), Pathankot (2), SAS Nagar (2), Patiala (4), and Sangrur (1) all reported deaths, the bulletin shows.Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases in the state at 229. The district, along with Jalandhar (130) and SAS Nagar (104), accounted for 45 per cent of Wednesday’s cases. Amritsar (85), Patiala (70), Barnala (62), Gurdaspur (39) and Faridkot (36) also reported alarmingly high cases on Wednesday.Punjab’s cases have been rising steadily all of August---about 40 per cent (10,790) of the state’s 26,909 cases were added in just this month. In fact, the state has added over 7,000 new coronavirus cases to its tally in a week since August 6.The state’s death toll has also risen significantly, almost doubling this month. The state’s coronavirus fatality count has risen from 386 at the end of July to 675 on August 12.Just over 33 per cent of Punjab’s cases are still active.
12-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 84 new coronavirus cases, two fatalities||Mohali reported 84 new coronavirus cases and two deaths, officials said on Wednesday---developments that take the district’s tally past 1,500 with 25 deaths.Both of Wednesday's fatalities had pre-existing health problems. The deceased were both men---a 45-year-old from Sector 74 and a 62-year-old from Phase 6. The former had uncontrolled diabetes and died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 32, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur said.The second patient tested positive after he underwent a major surgery at Command Hospital in Panchkula and his health declined soon after.Meanwhile, 35 patients were released from hospitals after recovery.  Over half of the district’s 1,536 cases are still active, officials said.Mohali has been seeing significant rise in both coronavirus cases as well as deaths this month---the district has reported 686 new coronavirus cases since the beginning of the month. A significant proportion of these cases---over 500---have been reported since Wednesday.Death toll has risen from 14 at the end of July to 25 now.
12-08-2020||Aman Sood||Lone Punjab cop to get home minister’s medal has led many high-profile cases||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 12The lone decorated cop from Punjab, whose father was assassinated during militancy, Bikramjit Singh Brar has been awarded the prestigious ‘Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation’ for 2020.He is among the 121 police personnel across the country chosen for the award. The Ministry of Home Affairs shortlisted Brar’s name from a panel of many officers sent by Punjab.The award comes following Brar’s role in investigations leading to the arrest of gangster Sukhpreet Budha, busting of illegal nexus of gun house owners and gangsters in which more than 150 weapons were recovered. Further investigation led to the arrest of Harman Bhullar and six other accused from Rajasthan, who were involved in sensational crimes in Punjab, and recovery of sophisticated automatic arms from terrorist Billa.Early this year, DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar was awarded President’s Police Medal for gallantry on Republic Day for encounter against gangster Vicky Gounder.He had joined the force as ASI but was promoted for his role in solving many heinous crimes, including terrorism-related cases.An alumnus of Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, Brar has been in the limelight ever since he joined the police force following his tirade against gangsters and his ability to solve many heinous crimes, including a kidnapping bid wherein he led the team to recover the child within 24 hours.The recent award includes 15 officials from the Central Bureau of Investigation, 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Police, eight from Uttar Pradesh Police, seven each from Kerala and West Bengal Police, and the remaining from other states and Union Territories. Punjab has just one name in the list.Bikramjit Brar is posted Mohali DSP, and has been instrumental in the past in arresting or eliminating several dreaded criminals, including drug lord Jagdish Bhola facing cases related to Rs 6,000 crore synthetic drugs trade.A daredevil police officer, Brar can be called the real hero of the Vicky Gounder operation as he was the first to enter the gangster hideout. Gounder was shot dead by a Punjab Police team two years back after three-month chase following the Nabha jailbreak.Due to operational skills and integrity, Brar is counted among the blue-eyed ‘boys’ of senior Punjab Police officials. Brar’s father Baldev Singh Brar was posted as SP (Detective), Patiala, when he was shot dead during a morning walk in 1988.A national-level boxer, Brar is credited with arresting most of the gangsters who planned the sensational Nabha jailbreak.“I am honoured to get this award and I do not have words to thank my seniors and colleagues in my team who have always been my strength,” says Brar who is also one of the highly protected cops owing threat perception. “The price you pay for doing your job is sometimes high, but then being a cop is no easy task. Country and state come first,” he adds.
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder hands over smart phones to 6 Class XII students during launch of ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday launched the Rs 92 crore ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ and personally handed over smart phones to six Class XII students in a symbolic gesture.Simultaneous distribution of phones was done at 26 places by various ministers, MLAs and others across the state to kickstart the scheme.Each minister today personally handed over 20 phones each in various districts to mark the launch of the scheme, which marked the fulfilment of another poll promise of the Congress government in the state.The scheme, for which Rs 100 crore was allocated in the state budget for 2017-18, is benefitting a total of 1,74,015 Class XII students of government schools in the first phase, to be completed by November 2020.Of these, 87,395 are boys and 86,620 girls, with majority in the OBC and SC/ST categories – thus bridging a major divide that was obstructing these students from affordable access to online/digital education.While 36,555 beneficiaries are OBC students, 94,832 are SC and 13 ST students.The bulk of the students – 1,11,857 -- are from rural areas, and the remaining in urban government schools.Capt Amarinder Singh, who launched the scheme on the auspicious occasion of Janmashtami and International Youth Day through video conferencing at the Secretariat this afternoon, said people believe in the promises listed in the election manifesto and it was, thus, his duty to ensure the implementation of each one of them.When the Congress listed smart phones as a poll promise, it was to provide global connectivity and empower the poor youth who could not afford them, said Capt Amarinder, adding that in the present pandemic situation, these phones had assumed a bigger importance as they had become a necessity for education continuity.It was the money of the people of Punjab which his government was spending on advancement of the youth, he said, adding that the phones were planned to be distribute in March but the process got delayed due to the COVID-19 crisis.The chief minister said he wanted Punjab’s students to be abreast with the latest technology which they can use effectively for their education, which leverages technology in a big way today.Gone are the days of chalks and boards, he said, adding that the government schools, which had seen a major transformation over the past couple of years, needed to be supported through technological initiatives by the state government.The smart phones being distributed under the scheme were good functional phones, which also look smart, he said, adding that it will become a major tool for the education of the students.Capt Amarinder congratulated the students on this occasion and also greeted them on the occasion of the International Youth Day and Janmashtami.Arshdeep Kaur, Satinder Kaur, Sukhbir Kaur, Amanjot Singh, Ram Singh and Amanveer Singh from various Government Senior Secondary Schools of Mohali district said the smart phones they received from the chief minister today would provide them with the much-needed access to online education in these difficult Covid times.Gagandeep, a girl student and a labourer’s daughter from Hoshiarpur, told the chief minister on video that though she had got 85% in Class XI she had lost out severely in studies over the past few months due to lack of smart phone.With this phone, she said she would now be able to fulfil her dreams. The chief minister assured her of all help to pursue her dreams.Pointing out that the Smart Connect scheme was in line with the vision of the chief minister, as manifested in the party’s poll manifesto, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said it would help government school students to download course material and old papers etc to prepare for their board exams.Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora said his department, which was entrusted with the task of purchase, had bought one of the best smart phones in the market.The scheme would prove to be a boon to the needy students, in particular, in government schools which were at a disadvantage viz a viz private schools in terms of access to technology, specially amid the Covid pandemic, which had necessitated a shift to online education.
12-08-2020||The Partition Museum||Renowned artists to participate in Amritsar Partition Museum’s online exhibition||The Partition Museum with the support of Art Alive Gallery will bring a selection of works by 15 eminent as well as upcoming artists, including Krishen Khanna, Anjolie Ela Menon, Jogen Chowdhury, Jatin Das, Paresh Maity, Arpana Caur, Jayasri Burman, Atul Bhalla, Viren Tanwar, Manisha Gera Baswani, Seema Kohli, Ayesha Singh, Purvai Rai, Ekta Singha and Divya Singh.The exhibition, Memories Unlocked: Partition, Migration, Identity will showcase works revolving around the themes of loss, identity and migration, both contemporary and historical. It will provide a perfect opportunity for art connoisseurs to buy works at affordable prices. — TNS
12-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Open sale of ‘lethal’ liquor goes on, but who cares?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11The government has failed to take note of illicit liquor mixed with banned medicines being sold in the market, which ensures slow but certain death of addicts, according to experts. Methanol (methyl alcohol), which causes instant death and blindness according to experts, has gained wide attention after over 100 people lost their lives due to consuming methanol-based alcohol recently. Usually, unscrupulous elements prepare this variety of liquor at their home and then sell it among consumers in plastic pouches for Rs 20 per pouch.Cheap prices of this form of illicit liquor entice addicts, who are short of funds. Once hooked to this type of liquor, addicts gradually lose appetite. Despite it being so lethal in consumption, the successive governments have never focused on eradicating it from society.Earlier, unscrupulous elements used to add dexavon and proxyvon in the illicit liquor, which are banned now and these drugs have been replaced with tramadol to increase intoxication.Tony, a resident of the walled city, said some youngsters of his area, including two cousins, addicted to drinking alcohol laced with banned capsules and tablets, lost their lives.“They preferred its peg to liquor available on vends, as it is cheaper and gives more kick. Gradually, all of them slimmed down. Within a couple of years they physically reduced to half of what they used to be. Not only their weight halved, but their arms, legs, face and chest shrunk. Literally, they turned into a miniature version of their previous physique. Eventually, they died,” he said.Similarly, Sunil, a resident of Nawa Kot, said: “My neighbour is also addicted to the same form of liquor for the past over one year. His entire body has shrunken.”A close observant of the impact of this form of liquor consumption, he shared that once addicted, its consumers can no longer digest the food. They feel a kind of burning sensation as soon as a morsel of cooked meal goes down in their stomach. So, they abhor eating and prefer only drinking alcohol with prohibited drugs in it.Dr PD Garg, in-charge of state’s first Swami Vivekananda Drug Rehabilitation Centre, accepted that addicts consume illicit liquor packed with banned drugs to enhance the punch. He said its addicts lose appetite after some time of its consumption, which causes severe damage to their body.
12-08-2020||---||Vendor tests +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib, -ve in Karnal||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, August 11No new positive case was reported in Fathegarh Sahib today while 385 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital.The administration and cops were ensuring that residents follow health guidelines.Test report of a vegetable vendor in Bassi Pathana has created confusion. After his arrival from Bihar, the vendor underwent test at the Bassi Pathana Civil Hospital.Authorities informed the vendor that he tested positive and an ambulance was on the way to admit him, however, he left for Karnal in a car of his brother-in-law. The vendor again got himself tested at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal, Haryana.His reports turned out to be negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh said the vendor had violated guidelines by fleeing from the town. He said if he had any doubt regarding veracity of the test, he can get himself tested again.
12-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Funds for repair of Ghaggar banks pilfered, claims Parminder Dhindsa||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 11The utilisation of Rs 40 lakh by the Panchayat Department to strengthen the embankments of the Ghaggar in Moonak subdivision has come under the scanner as locals claimed they had got the work done by contributing Rs 200 per acre.Former state Finance Minister and Lehra MLA Parminder Dhindsa today, during a meeting of the Committee on Local Bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions of the Vidhan Sabha, raised the issue of alleged misappropriation of Rs 40 lakh.“Residents have spent lakhs of rupees by contributing Rs 200 per acre while we have not seen any required action from the Panchayat Department to strengthen the Ghaggar banks. I have raised the issue of misappropriation of Rs 40 lakh during the meeting. Committee chairman Harpartap Singh has assured me appropriate action in the matter. The state government should also take strict action against the officers concerned immediately,” Dhindsa told The Tribune.On July 12 this year, there was a 50-ft breach in Ghaggar’s embankment, around one kilometre from Moonak. Last year also, a breach near Phullad had caused damaged to thousands of acres of standing crop. Locals have been alleging that funds meant for cleaning and strengthening the Ghaggar banks were never utilised properly, causing repeated breaches and erosion in its embankments.“Residents of Moonak, Surjan Bhaini, Bhundan Bhaini, Hamirgarh and Salemgarh have pooled in Rs 200 per acre this year and strengthened the embankments of the Ghaggar from Makraud Sahib till the university college of Moonak. We do not know how the government’s funds are being utilised?” said Kabul Singh, a member of the committee of area residents. The panel was formed to arrange money to strengthen embankments after the government failed to undertake the much-needed repairs.Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Moonak Savinder Singh denied all allegations.“Of the Rs 40 lakh, we have released Rs 20 lakh while the remaining amount will be given after the reviewing the work, which is near completion. We got the work done with transparency and also videographed it,” he said.
12-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Years on, farm insurance policy awaits approval||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Even as the Gujarat Government has quit the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and announced its own agriculture insurance scheme, Punjab, the first state to reject the PMFBY after it was announced in 2016, has still not brought out its own policy for the farmers.The policy was made in 2018 by the Punjab State Farmers’ and Farm Workers Commission, which had participatory and social equity as its determining factors. For almost two years now, the scheme is still “in the discussion stage”.Gujarat’s Mukhya Mantri Kisan Sahay Yojana has an outgo of Rs 1,700-Rs 1,800 crore and a maximum compensation of Rs 10,000 per acre. Punjab’s proposed farm insurance scheme has an outgo of just Rs 100 crore and farmers are to contribute another Rs 100 crore. In case of loss of more than 33 per cent, it is proposed that farmers will get a compensation of up to Rs 15,400 per acre (for loss of over 33 per cent) from a special crop compensation fund that was proposed to be set up.As of now, in case of any crop damage, farmers get anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 12,000 per acre as compensation based on extent of damage and if loss is more than 33 per cent. While Rs 2,000-Rs 5,400 per acre is granted from the State Disaster Relief Fund, the remaining amount is granted from the funds released by the Centre.“Our scheme is based on state specific situation and proposes less financial burden on the state and high claims to farmers. We had proposed that each farmer contribute just 0.2 per cent of the market value of his produce as premium, which would help create a corpus of Rs 100 crore each year. The state was to contribute another Rs 100 crore per annum, while the Centre can be urged to contribute another Rs 100 crore. From this fund farmers can be compensated for crop loss,” said BS Sidhu, member secretary, Punjab State Farmers’ and Farm Workers Commission.
12-08-2020||Ropar||No water for five days, Ropar residents protest||Irked over no supply of drinking water for five days, residents staged a dharna today on the market road near Kalyan Cinema. Former municipal councillors of the SAD, led by former council president Paramjit Singh Makkar, also staged a dharna in front of the office of the Executive Officer, demanding immediate restoration of water supply. The MC on August 6 had issued a notice stating that the drinking water supply would remain suspended on August 7 and 8, as a portion of the main water supply pipeline was to be replaced. Residents were asked to store water for two days. However, the repair work could not be completed till August 9, and water could not be supplied to residents for three days.  The residents ran out of patience when after getting water supply for one day on August 10, they did not get a single drop of water again today morning.  Denying any lapse on his part, EO Bhajan Chand said the civic body bore the expenditure for laying a new pipeline, while the work was being executed by the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Rahul Kaushal, XEN, said the siphon in the Bhakra canal was not lifting sufficient quantity of water, due to which there was a problem in water supply. — TNS
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Now, residents can lodge civic complaints via WhatsApp||Social distancing norms and other restrictions on public dealing in government offices due to Covid-19 has come as a blessing in disguise for residents of 167 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state.Instead of going to the office of respective civic body, residents of the ULBs can now seek redress of their grievances via WhatsApp. On August 15, the Local Bodies Department is all set to launch mSeva WhataApp Chatbot, a software programme which runs on encrypted WhatsApp platform.The new grievance redress mechanism has been successfully tested on pilot basis in five ULBs, Amritsar, Phagwara, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Zirakpur. On August 15, the Chief Minister would be launching the facility that would initially cover civic issues. — TNS
12-08-2020||---||Over 1K cases, 32 more deaths||Chandigarh, August 11There seems to be no relief in sight as Covid cases continued to spike on Tuesday as well. The state reported 1,002 cases and 32 deaths.Ludhiana remained the worst-affected district with 11 deaths, followed by Sangrur (4), Amritsar, Jalandhar, SAS Nagar and Patiala (3) and Bathinda and Gurdaspur (1).All those who lost their lives in Ludhiana had co-morbid conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cancer, obesity and neurological issues. All the deceased were between the age group of 60-80.Of 252 new cases in Ludhiana, 48 were reported from flu corner and 75 were contacts of previously positive persons. The positive cases also included seven cops and six healthcare workers.Apart from that, at present 139 patients are on oxygen support and 21 are critical and are on ventilator support.After Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala reported the maximum of 118 cases each, followed by SAS Nagar (83), Hoshiarpur (77), Pathankot (64), Jalandhar (54), Bathinda (38), Kapurthala (36) and Mansa (34).
12-08-2020||Archit Watts---||Leaders continue to violate norms||Tribune News Service Muktsar, August 11 Despite the fact that numerous people have been booked for violating Covid-19 related guidelines in the district, politicians affiliated to major parties still don’t seem to bother much about the norms. On Sunday, SAD’s ex-MLA from Malout visited Rathrian village, where a number of people joined the party in his presence. Surprisingly, none of them was wearing a mask. Earlier, too, he had held a gathering while starting repair work of Bathinda Chowk in Malout. SAD’s Muktsar MLA and district chief Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi on Monday visited Sangrana village to inaugurate a volleyball ground and participated in a programme attended by a large number of people.  AAP’s Muktsar incharge Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar visited some villages on Monday for a recruitment drive. In the photos uploaded by him on Facebook, people could be seen without masks. Similarly, Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring recently visited Badian village, where a large number of people had gathered to welcome him. Earlier, too, on a number of occasions, politicians have violated the guidelines. “It seems the district administration and the police have turned a blind eye towards violations by politicians while poor people are being booked,” said a local resident. A senior official of the district administration said they were regularly holding meetings with the police and asking them to take stern action against the violators. “If any politician has violated safety norms in the district, he/she will be booked as per the law,” he said.
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, govt to release another 4,000 inmates from state prisons||The state will soon release 3,500 to 4,000 prisoners in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Earlier, 9,500 jail inmates were released.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the decision had been taken to bring down the number of prisoners to 50 per cent of the authorised capacity to maintain social distancing in jails.The minister said on an average, around 3,000 inmates were getting lodged in jails every month. The present population in jails stood was around 17,500, 73 per cent of the total capacity.In all, 449 prisoners and 77 prison officials had tested Covid positive till date. Most of the cases had been detected in the last few weeks, though the 2-levels of testing of all prisoners had started from mid-May, said the minister. — TNS
12-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Illegal checkpoints exist near quarries, HC told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11Less than six months after the state government denied the existence of illegal checkpoints or barriers near some mining sites in Ropar, a damning report on their presence has been submitted by a judicial officer before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“After carrying out spot/site inspection and upon making overt and covert inquiries regarding this matter, the undersigned found that illegal and unauthorised checkpoints very much exist..,” CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Ropar, Harsimranjit Singh, has asserted in his report.‘Royalty’ sought, says judicial officerThe report, placed before the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar, added that the judicial officer, without disclosing his identity, interacted with the local residents, passersby and truck drivers. They unanimously confirmed that no truck carrying sand and gravel was allowed to cross the points without paying royalty.The judicial officer was asked to step in on a previous date of hearing after the state counsel’s claim regarding the absence of illegal check points and barriers near the mining sites was “vehemently controverted” by counsel Mansur Ali on behalf of petitioner Bachittar Singh.As the stand of the petitioner and the state was at variance, another Bench headed by Justice Rajan Gupta had earlier made it clear that an additional report by an independent authority was required to be submitted. Another Bench, on the previous date of hearing, directed the handing over of the report to all counsels.The report added royalty was charged/collected by the crusher owners from the trucks/tippers carrying sand and gravel at the start of their journey and a slip issued to the vehicles was crosschecked at the illegal check points. It was to ensure that no vehicle passed through the routes without paying royalty. “The undersigned visited the sites on three different dates and ever time, these illegal check points were found existing and fully operational,” the officer added.
12-08-2020||---||Deputy Commissioners all set to launch cellphone scheme||Faridkot, August 11The deputy commissioners concerned will launch the distribution of smartphones among Class XII girl students of government schools from Wednesday. They will hand over the phones to a selected number of students due to Covid-related restrictions. The smartphones among other students will be distributed by their school heads.The Education Department has conveyed to all principals of government senior secondary schools to keep ready two identity documents (school ID card and Aadhaar card) of the students to whom phones are being given. Principals along with the drawing and disbursing authorities of schools will be responsible for the distribution.It is the responsibility of the principal concerned that mobilephones reach the genuine beneficiary.There are a total of 1.73 lakh Class XII students in 1,877 government senior secondary schools in the state. All students whose names have been uploaded by their schools by August 7 on the education department portal will be eligible to receive the phones.Last week, the department had planned to distribute these phones among all Class XII Dalit girl students in the first phase. Later, it decided to cover all girl students of Class XII.Aimed at providing digital access to the students, these smartphones are equipped with cameras and pre-loaded government applications like e-sewa app with e-content related to Class XI and XII as approved by the education department.
12-08-2020||---||Shamsher Dullo slams own govt over ‘thriving’ illicit liquor mafia||Amritsar, August 11Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo today blamed his party’s government led by Capt Amarinder Singh for its failure to curb the illicit liquor mafia in the state.Meeting family members of victims at Muchhal village, Dullo alleged that the real culprits were still enjoying immunity under the patronage of party big-wigs of the area.Dullo, a former excise and taxation minister, said there were 16 legal distilleries operating in the state.“Now, nine illegal distilleries have surfaced. Of these, five are in the Chief Minister’s home constituency. These supplied illegal liquor to Haryana, J&K, Rajasthan and Punjab. These carried on operations with the connivance of politicians and the police,” he said.He said many arrests had been made after the illicit liquor tragedy, but most of the arrested persons were just the couriers.“The persons who manufactured illicit liquor and supplied it are still out of reach and being sheltered by local politicians in connivance with the police,” Dullo said.“In three years, the government suffered a revenue loss of Rs 2,700 crore in auction of liquor vends. The residents of the affected areas said cheap illicit liquor trade prospered under the nose of the police. This was also highlighted umpteen times,” he said.
12-08-2020||Mohali||Sukhpal Khaira : Probe into spurious liquor tragedy just an eyewash||Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira said the committee constituted by the state to hold an inquiry into the spurious liquor tragedy was merely an eyewash.Alleging that the various mafias started operating in the state during the regime of Badals, Khaira claimed that these were still operating.He said the Excise Department was suffering a loss of over Rs 2,000 crore due to the illegal liquor trade.He said with the Ministry of Home Affairs allowing the opening of religious places, the Kartarpur corridor should also be reopened so that Sikh devotees could visit the historic shrine in Pakistan. — TNS
12-08-2020||Amritsar||SAD: Book Tarn Taran SSP for negligence||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday alleged that the illicit liquor trade thrived under the patronage of the Tarn Taran SSP. “He should be booked and investigated by the CBI to ravel negligence on his part that led to the spurious liquor tragedy,” he said. Addressing a press conference, the former minister along with party leader Virsa Singh Valtoha said the officer had refused to take action against the liquor mafia in Tarn Taran even after “evidence” was provided to him. Majithia claimed locals had submitted many complaints to him along with the address of spurious liquor manufacturers, but he chose to ignore it. — TNS
12-08-2020||---||Punjab Chief Minister seeks liberal fiscal package from Centre||Chandigarh, August 11Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide a liberal financial package to the state to fill the revenue collection gap caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.Captain Amarinder raised the demand during a video-conference of the Prime Minister with chief ministers to review the Covid situation. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan also participated in the meeting.‘Will turn state into industrial hub’Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday invited industry stalwarts to gauge the conducive industrial ecosystem in Punjab. Claiming the state would soon become an industrial hub, he said there was a lot of interest by industrial community to invest with various incentives and policies. TNSCaptain Amarinder said the current cap of 35 per cent in the State Disaster Relief Fund for Covid-related expenditure, as per the MHA guidelines, was not sufficient to meet the current requirements.Citing the state’s rising Covid cases, which have gone up to 24,891 with 604 deaths, the Chief Minister urged the Prime Minister to review the UGC decision on mandatory exams for exit classes to be held by September 30.He said Punjab may not be in a position to conduct exams in September as it may be facing its peak at that time. The CM suggested promoting these students on the basis of past performance and internal assessment, with the option to take exams later for those wanting to improve their performance.Seeking Central government’s assistance for online school education, he said more money was needed for creating the infrastructure for it.Though Punjab was conducting 23,000 tests per million for Covid (higher than the national average), and planned to increase RT-PCR tests from 12,000 to 20,000 in the next 15 days, it needed to scale up its capacity further, he said. He requested the Prime Minister to direct Central institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase the testing capacity.Expressing concern over the state’s mortality rate of 2.4 per cent, Captain Amarinder said though it was lower than the all-India deaths per million and 91 per cent of the fatalities were patients with comorbidities, it was still higher than neighbouring Haryana. Patients were coming to hospitals late and 86 per cent of deaths were occurring in tertiary hospitals, he added.Requesting early operationalisation of Covid testing and treatment at AIIMS, Bathinda, Captain Amarinder said it would be useful for residents of southern Punjab. Notably, OPDs are already functional at AIIMS, Bathinda. He also sought increase in the bed capacity at the PGI, Chandigarh, which was a premier tertiary care facility for the state.
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder lashes out at Partap Singh Bajwa||Taking strong exception to Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s attack on integrity and fairness of the DGP, Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked the parliamentarian to write to him, or to the party high command, if he had any complaint against the state government.Reacting to Bajwa’s letter to the DGP, the CM said it reflected the Rajya Sabha MP’s “total frustration and desperation”. He said withdrawal of the state security was his decision as Home Minister, based on the intel inputs from the police. — TNS
12-08-2020||Sangrur||Will disrupt I-Day events, say freedom fighters’ kin||Despite claims of various governments of providing ample help to family members of freedom fighters, many are still living in penury. They plan to disrupt Independence Day functions across Punjab, if their demands are not fulfilled.Harinder Khalsa, president of Freedom Fighters’ Successors Organisation Punjab, said they planned to disrupt Independence Day functions across the state, if the Punjab Government failed to fulfil their demands before August 15,On Monday, family members of freedom fighters gathered at Sunam to start an indefinite protest against the state government. Their main demands include houses for the families, free electricity, exemption from toll at plazas, free medical and education facilities and jobs.Later, the protesters met Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir.“I had called them to know about their demands. The protesters said they wanted to meet senior authorities in the CM’s office. I have conveyed this to the CMO,” he said. — TNS
12-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chemical units, distilleries shut in Dera Bassi||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, August 11With the Excise and Taxation Department acting tough after the Majha spurious liquor tragedy, most of the smalltime chemical units, distilleries and breweries in Dera Bassi belt went into a self-imposed lockdown mode. Unit owners who used to buy pharma waste and distill it to make products for the paint and thinner industry have either fled the scene or have shutdown their units, fearing more such raids and seizures.“The officials are playing this ethanol and methanol game to save their skin. The chemicals they have seized from the three units is almost available with every unit in one form or the other. In this way, they can virtually arrest anyone and put them in jail,” said an owner of a chemical unit in the Focal Point area. The Patiala and Dera Bassi belt is the hub of distilleries in the state with close to five big distilleries and 12 breweries, bottling plants located here. Among them are international names and big players in the country. Besides this, there are scores of chemical and allied units which provide raw material to the paint and thinner industry. The units provide employment to a large number of local population in manual and semi-skilled categories.“Instead of nabbing the real culprits, the officials are making survival difficult for us and the labour class,” said another trader.4 accused in judicial custodyThe four accused in the 27,600 litres of chemical seizure from Dera Bassi units have been remanded to14-day judicial custody after their two-day police remand ended here today.The joint teams of excise department and police have been investigating the channels through which the chemical was being produced and supplied to the bootleggers. The Excise and Taxation Department had, on Sunday, raided three chemical units and seized 27, 600 litres of illicit chemical containing alcohol.The department claimed it to be the biggest haul ever. Those named in the FIR are KP Singh and AK Chaudhary, Allychem Chemicals directors, Gaurav Chaudhary, the proprietor of Om Solvi Trading Co, and Jagmohan Arora, the proprietor of Pure Chemicals.
12-08-2020||---||Night curfew eased for Janmashtami||Chandigarh, August 11The Punjab Government on Tuesday decided to relax night curfew across the state on the intervening night of August 12 and 13 on account of Janmashtami. According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, the partial relaxation will be only for one night. While the entire state, barring the cities of Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala, were under night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am, the curfew timings were advanced to 9 pm for the three cities last week in view of the spike in the number of Covid cases. The spokesperson said on account of Janmashtami, curfew would now be imposed between 1 am and 5 am on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Special Chief Secretary (Home) Satish Chandra has issued detailed instructions in this regard and directed all District Magistrates to issue orders accordingly.
12-08-2020||Moga||Man killed as he tries to resolve brawl||A man (66) died when a brick hit his head during a clash between two neighbours at Burj Dunna village in Nihalsinghwala subdivision of Moga, the police confirmed here on Tuesday. Identified as Shinder Singh, a farmer, he died during treatment. The two brothers, Jaswinder Singh and Harpinder Singh, their father Gurdeep Singh, and Lakhwinder Kaur have been booked under the IPC. TNSMogaSpouse booked for abetting man's suicideA 34-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree on the outskirts of Badhni Kalan village in the Nihalsinghwala subdivision of the district on Tueaday. Identified as Hardeep Singh, he was allegedly depressed over wife's allegation that he was having an extramarital relationship with his brother's wife. An abetment to suicide case has been registered against his wife, her mother, brother and a few members of her parental family. TNSAboharRailways, Punbus workers protest for regularisationThe Punjab Roadways and the Punjab State Bus Stand Management Company (Punbus) Contract Workers' Union staged a demonstration at the bus stand here today to protest for the regularisation of the jobs contractual workers. Union's vice-president Surjit Singh said, "Even in such difficult times, we took up the challenge of bringing back people stuck in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and UP. Despite that, the government decided to cut our salary by 25 per cent." TNS
12-08-2020||---||Baba Farid University honours plasma donors||Faridkot, August 11To encourage people to donate their plasma for the treatment of Covid patients, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) and the district administration today honoured the donors with trophies.Dr Avon and Dr Akrambir Singh Brar, two such donors were honoured today at the opening of third plasma bank in the state at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here.Keeping in view the increasing number of Covid-19 patients in the state, three plasma banks have been established at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala. However, these plasma banks are facing acute shortage of donors. The reason cited behind it is the hesitance of recovered patients.Any person who has recovered from Covid-19, and who is aged between 18 and 65, with a body weight more than 55 kg can donate plasma after 28 days of recovery, said Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, BFUHS.Convalescent plasma therapy was given for the first time in the state at Faridkot as part of national clinical trial under the ICMR, said Dr Bahadur. Two patients had already recovered completely after they were given plasma therapy here, he said.
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to blame if my family harmed: Partap Bajwa||The tussle in the Punjab Congress over the withdrawal of state security cover to Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa intensified on Tuesday as he wrote to DGP, Chandigarh, Sanjay Baniwal that in case of any harm to his family, the Punjab Chief Minister and Punjab DGP would be solely responsible.Capt Amarinder Singh, CMLack of maturityBy looking at the whole affair with a myopic vision, Bajwa has once again shown lack of political maturity.The former PPCC chief’s statement comes a day after Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh denied that the government was being vindictive. The CM said the withdrawal of the state security cover was after a periodic review of the threat assessment carried out by the state police.In his communication to the Chandigarh DGP, Bajwa said his family has been under threat since the days of terrorism in Punjab. His father Satnam Singh Bajwa, a former minister, was killed in a terrorist attack in Amritsar in 1987 and he himself survived a bomb attack in Batala in 1990.“Given the high threat perception, the Government of India under Dr Manmohan Singh in 2013 had provided me with security in addition to the protection given by the Punjab Police. The Central cover was withdrawn in July 2019 by the Union Government. But on the recommendation of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of Opposition, Rajya Sabha, the Ministry of Home Affairs re-evaluated my threat perception and restored the additional security in March 2020,” said Bajwa.Bajwa has alleged that the withdrawal of security cover was politically motivated. He said he had been repeatedly highlighting the politico-police-drug nexus, production and distribution of illicit liquor and rampant illegal mining in Punjab.In a separate communication to the Punjab DGP, Bajwa said he was concerned about the “politicisation” of threat assessment reports. “I would like to point out that Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Badal and Bikramjit Singh Majithia have been provided security by the Centre as well as the state government. Why have you not withdrawn their security on the same grounds?” he added.
