12-10-2020||Chandigarh||27 more Covid deaths, 581 new cases in Punjab||Twenty-seven more fatalities due to coronavirus pushed the death toll to 3,860 while 581 cases raised the infection count to 1,24,535 in Punjab on Monday.The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Jalandhar (82), Ludhiana (62), Mohali (58) and Bathinda (54), as per a health department bulletin.There are now 8,258 active COVID-19 cases in the state, it stated.A total of 1,552 coronavirus patients were discharged on Monday after recovering from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 1,12,417.Thirty-two critical patients are on ventilator support while 202 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 21,67,731 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
12-10-2020||Jalandhar||BJP Punjab president Ashwani Sharma manhandled, car damaged at toll plaza||BJP state president Ashwani Sharma was manhandled and his car damaged while he was crossing Cholang toll plaza in Hoshiarpur district on Monday.He was returning to Pathankot after addressing a meeting at Jalandhar. Subsequently, BJP workers blocked national highway by parking vehicles on road.Windowpanes of his car were damaged in this incident, though Sharma was safe, they said.When his vehicle reached the Cholang toll plaza near Tanda, a group of protesting farmers shouted slogans and threw punches at the car’s windowpanes, Station House Officer (Tanda) Bikram Singh said.Farmers had laid siege to the toll plaza on October 5, he added.Ashwani Sharma claimed that baseball bats and stones were used to damage his vehicle and his gunmen took it to safety.Sharma said attackers were not farmers and alleged that it was a planned attack.“The attack was only to defame the farmers’ ongoing agitation,” he said.Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said the Punjab BJP chief was “perfectly alright”.BJP workers and his supporters staged a dharna and blocked vehicular traffic for about 45 minutes at Dasuya on the Jalandhar-Pathankot GT road, demanding action against the culprits.Ashwani Sharma lodged a complaint at the Dasuya police station in this connection.Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh condemned the incident and alleged that it was “engineered” by the ruling Congress.“Those who attacked Ashwani Sharma are goons of the Congress-led government and wanted to give a wrong direction to the farmers’ protest,” said Chugh.“Farmers do not resort to such attacks and there has been no such incident ever since their protest began,” said Chugh.He said it was a “security lapse” on part of the Punjab Police. Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too condemned the attack and asserted that there was no question of involvement of any Congressman in it.           Amarinder Singh said he has asked the Punjab DGP to take immediate action in this incident.“Strongly condemn attack on @BJP4Punjab  chief @AshwaniSBJP  & have asked @DGPPunjabPolice to identify culprits and take immediate action. Won’t let anyone disturb the state’s peace or take law into their hands’,” said Amarinder Singh in a tweet.“There is no question of @INCPunjab  involvement in attack on @BJP4Punjab chief @AshwaniSBJP  & @BJP4India should refrain from making frivolous & politically motivated allegations. This is highly irresponsible as @PunjabPoliceInd are investigating the case,” he said. — With PTI
12-10-2020||Aditi Tandon||Resume trade with Pakistan, Cong MP Aujla writes to PM Modi||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 12Congress MP from Amritsar Gurjit Singh Aujla on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding resumption of bilateral trade with Pakistan and consideration of a new trade policy that is more acceptable in a post-COVID pandemic world.“Bilateral trade between India and Pakistan is today languishing at around USD 2.5 billion annually while the potential, according to the World Bank, is USD 37 billion. Therefore, in order to give a fresh start to agriculture and economic rejuvenation of the region, I request your good office to consider opening of diplomatic channels for the resumption of trade and also for a fresh trade policy more acceptable in the post pandemic world,” Aujla said in a letter to PM.He said the issue of resumption of trade between India and Pakistan and other Central Asian nations is worth considering and noted, “The border district of Amritsar has suffered manifold due to imposition of 200 per cent customs duty on imports from Pakistan in February 2019, reckless termination of trade in August 2019 by Islamabad, Covid-19 pandemic and now with the introduction of farm bills. The direct impact of a disruption in border trade is felt most in Punjab, especially among more than 20,000 families in Amritsar dependent on this trade.”Aujla said a handful of Afghan trucks crossing the border were not enough to keep porters and traders near the check posts economically engaged. “Amritsar’s local economy has suffered a net loss of nearly Rs 30 crore earned every month from this border trade. With the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, possibility of looking at bilateral relations from a different prospective had emerged. It is worth considering whether Punjab can be made center to the India-Pakistan relationship fortifying trade route running through Punjab,” said Aujla, adding that this would allow agricultural products originating in Indian Punjab to get preferential market access in Pakistan, thus benefiting the farmers of Punjab.
12-10-2020||Patiala||Sanitation worker dies of inhaling toxic fumes while cleaning sewer lines in Patiala||A sanitation worker died from inhaling toxic fumes while cleaning sewer lines in Rajpura town, officials said on Monday.Officials identified the victim as Sanjeev Kumar, and said another worker, Vicky Kumar, has been admitted to a hospital.They were cleaning sewers at Talhi Wala Chowk.Rajupra Executive Officer Ravneet Singh said that the man was employed at the municipal council but that the civic body “did not carry out sewer works (sic)”, which he said came under the sewerage board.“He could have been working privately but it is yet unclear. Our inspectors have been directed to find out how the man went into the sewer line,” he said.Manual scavenging continues to pose a massive challenge to the country despite a 2013 legislation called the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act (Manual Scavengers Act) banning it. The Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said in its reply to a question in Parliament earlier this year that 282 people had died of asphyxiation in septic tanks and sewers across the country between 2016 and November 2019.Critics have pointed out that the deaths are grossly underreported and could be much higher.
12-10-2020||---||Punjab govt issues guidelines for opening of schools, coaching institutions from Oct 15||Chandigarh, October 12The Punjab government on Monday decided to open more activities in the areas outside the containment zones after October 15.A spokesperson of the Punjab government said decision has been taken to reopen schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner after October 15 subject to some conditions such as online/distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and be encouraged.Apart from this, students of only classes 9 to 12 are permitted to attend schools/institutions with the parental consent of each student and without making attendance compulsory vis-a-vis attendance must not be enforced and must depend entirely on parental consent.He added that schools which are being allowed to open after October 15 would have to mandatorily follow the SOPs to be issued by the state school education department in consultation with the Punjab health and family welfare department.In addition, higher educational institutions only for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratories/experimental works are permitted to open after October 15. For centrally-funded higher education institutions, the head of institution would satisfy herself/himself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratories/experimental works.Moreover, he said all other higher education institutions for instance, state universities and private universities are also permitted to open from October 15 only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratories/experimental works.Sharing details, he said swimming pools to be used for sportspersons are allowed to open after October 15 as per SOPs to be issued by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Besides this, Business to Business (B2B) exhibitions are allowed to open from October 15 as per SOPs issued by the Ministry of Commerce.Furthermore, he stated that social/academic/sports/entertainment/ cultural/religious/political functions including weddings and funerals and other congregations have already been permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, outside containment zones only.Such gatherings beyond the limit of 100 persons are permitted outside containment zones from October 15 subject to certain conditions such as in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity is allowed with the ceiling of 200 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser shall be mandatory.He revealed that in case of open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/space in view, with the permission of the district magistrate and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizer. Therefore, gatherings purely for entertainment shall not be permitted in excess of 100 persons.
12-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma ||No decision on opening schools: Punjab education minister||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 12Punjab School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Monday said that the state government has not taken any decision on opening schools in the state.He said the safety of students was of utmost importance.“We have informed Additional Chief Secretary, Home Affairs, about the standard operating procedures (SOPs), which could be considered in case of the opening of the schools in the state. It includes school could begin with only students from classes 9 to 12 for three hours a day,” said minister.Singla was here to preside over a function of Homi Bhaba Cancer hospital at Sangrur. He also inaugurated breast cancer awareness programme.October month is observed as the Breast Cancer Awareness Month across the globe to promote awareness about early detection of breast cancer, education about prevention and various treatment options available. HBCH Sangrur has also been running an EDP (Early Detection Programme) since 2019 and has covered 37 rural areas and 17 urban areas.“More than 90 per cent patients have been getting free treatment at HBCH Sangrur as cashless treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. I and my government are committed to provide better healthcare services to the people of the region and Satellite Centre of PGI at Ghabdan and Unit of Tata Memorial Centre, both are the perfect examples of this commitment,” said Singla.Specialists at HBCH said the incidence of breast cancer in the world is 46.3 per lakh population and in India it’s around 24.7 per lakh population. In Punjab, it’s 20.6 per lakh population, while it’s 16.7 per lakh in Sangrur district.
12-10-2020||Ruchika M. Khanna||Centre setting wrong precedent: Manpreet Badal at GST council meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12In the sharpest attack on the Centre over the non-payment of compensation of Goods and Services Tax, Punjab has accused the Union government of setting a wrong precedent by ignoring the tenets of the Constitution of India and the Compensation Law in the GST.Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal reportedly minced no words in the meeting of the GST Council in Delhi today, as he made the state’s stand clear that it wanted the compensation of Rs 9,000 crore that the Centre owed to the state, as per the originally drawn out plan.Talking to The Tribune, Badal said he had made the state’s stand clear: if a pragmatic change is necessary, amend the law. “The Centre cannot split the compensation into two parts, as is being proposed in the GST Council meetings. There is no legal basis to apply 7 per cent growth (from the earlier proposed 10 per cent growth in compensation). It has to come from the Compensation Fund, as defined in Section 10. It cannot come through borrowings as is now being suggested. Unless the Central government first borrows and credits it to the Compensation Fund, it is not compensation. The Attorney General of India has himself given his opinion that compensation must be paid within the five years of transition period and cannot be delayed beyond these five years,” he said.Reacting to the narrative that since majority states agree to the Centre’s option of additional borrowing, they can go ahead with it, Badal countered saying that the AG has also said unless all states agree to delay receiving compensation beyond five years, it cannot be affected. “Is this what the Constitution of India and Compensation Act imagined -- to leave dissenting states to fend for themselves?” he said.In a veiled jibe, Badal said he shuddered to think of a situation where any state were to cite today’s precedence later and amend the GST laws later, imposing their own rates of GST or grant exemptions, on the grounds that the Council’s recommendations are not binding on legislature. “I hope the Council will rise above immediacy and guide itself by law rather than expediency,” he said.
12-10-2020||---||Call Assembly session in 7 days or face gherao: SAD to CM Amarinder||Chandigarh, October 12The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday gave a seven-day ultimatum to Punjab Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to convene a special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to declare the entire state a notified Mandi (Principal Market Area) and reject the Centre’s recent Acts on farm marketing as well as repeal its own amended APMC Act of 2017.The SAD declared that in the event of Amarinder Singh’s refusal to convene the session, the party would gherao his residence.A decision to this effect was taken at a special meeting of the SAD Core Committee chaired by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal here this afternoon.The Core Committee reiterated its continued firm support to the farmers’ organisations fighting for the cause of the beleaguered peasantry especially with regard to the three central Acts.Giving details of decisions taken at the Core Committee meeting, Harcharan Bains, Principal Adviser to the SAD president, said, “The ultimatum to Amarinder Singh has become necessary in view of the CM’s continued refusal to take a clear stand against the anti-farmer Acts of the Government of India as well as his stubborn refusal to declare the entire State a Principal Market Area where the center’s Acts would no longer be implementable.”Bains said that the party’s ultimatum comes in the wake of Amarinder’s daily flip flops on the calling of the session. “He has been playing hide and seek with the people and their representatives on the convening of the session, promising to call it one day and going back on it the next. The same ambivalence and evasiveness marks Amarinder’s stand on the three Acts of the Government of India on farm marketing. We call for an end to this politics of evasion. The SAD wants the center to make Assured Marketing of farmers’ crops at Minimum Support Prince (MSP) a constitutionally mandatory provision at par with the fundamental right. The party also wants the MSP be fixed as per the Swaminathan Formula of 50% profit plus the sum total of all the costs incurred by the farmers. The party wants the recommendations of the CACP to be binding on the Government of India.”The SAD Core Committee also decided to take up the issue of early reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor with the Union External Affairs minister soon to ensure Sikh pilgrims could pay obeisance at the shrine in Pakistan during the run up to the 551th Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev.A party delegation will meet the External Affairs minister in this regard.The meeting also noted that despite the fact that SC Welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had been indicted for engineering an Rs 69 crore scam involving the scholarships of scheduled caste children, the chief minister had not taken any action against him. “The core committee serves an ultimatum to the chief minister to sack Dharamsot immediately and register a criminal case against him or be ready to face a sustained agitation.”
12-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Harsimrat Badal showers praises on NDA govt over Punjab's development||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 12Former Union minister and SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal shared an online event with BJP leader and Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank during the virtual inauguration of the new building of Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, at Ghudda.This was the first time after Harsimrat Badal tendered her resignation from the Union Cabinet and SAD pulled out of the NDA over the issue of farm-related bills that the SAD leader has shared an event with the BJP leader.Addressing the function online, Harsimrat Badal showering praises on NDA said, “Whenever NDA government has come at the Centre and the state, Punjab has seen huge development.” “Our government has made the airport here, ran Shatabdi train, electrifying of railway lines has been done. At one time, there was no facility available here in Bathinda, but now it is one of the most developed areas of the Punjab,” said Harsimrat.Badal also credited her father-in-law and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal for developing this backward area of Punjab into an educational hub, where students from all across the country would come here and today his dream has been fulfilled.She said, “In 2009, when I started my political career, at that time CUP also started its journey from Bathinda and the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal provided 37 acre for its temporary site and he also acquired 500 acre land and gave for the CUP, Bathinda, at Ghudda. In 11 years, CUP has won many prestigious awards in the field of education.”Harsimrat also thanked the HRD minister for making her join in this event and she also invited him to come and see the huge building of CUP, Bathinda, which has come up here.
12-10-2020||---||Gangster Dilpreet Baba’s aides Gaggi Lahoria, Jaggu arrested||Patiala, October 12In a major breakthrough, Patiala Police have succeeded in nabbing two close associates of dreaded gangster Dilpreet Singh alias Baba. Police have recovered a Swift car, two pistols and live cartridges and magazines from these accused.Divulging the details, SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said working on a tip-off, CIA Patiala had laid a special naka near a Doraha dhaba in search of both accused who were wanted by police due to their active participation in various crimes.During the nakabandi, a Swift car (PB- 30-U-3162) intercepted and car-borne Gagandeep Singh alias Gaggi Lahoria, a resident of Thakar Abadi, in Abohar, and Kulwant Singh Jaggu of Mansa were arrested. A .32 bore pistol along with two magazines, 14 live cartridges and a .315 bore pistol along with two live cartridges were recovered from Gagandeep Singh. Besides, the car that was driven by these accused was snatched from Chheetawala on Nabha road at gunpoint on October 6, 2020 and having original registration number PB 13 A G 2136.Throwing light upon their past criminal records, Duggal said Gaggi has already been nominated in four FIRs registered at Khuia Sarvar (Fazilka), Nalagarh (Baddi), Sadar Abohar (Fazilka) and Sadar Nabha (Patiala), while Jaggu has already been named in three FIRs registered at Kotwali (Bathinda), Sadar Abohar (Fazilka) and Sadar Nabha (Patiala).SSP Duggal said both were in contact with Dilpreet Singh alias Baba who is already in Maximum Security Jail, Nabha, and recently they had fired at a scrap dealer at Baddi for extorting money and plot behind snatching a car was also related to criminal intimidation.He said though the further investigation to be done by getting their police remand but district police would also bring Dilpreet alias Baba on production warrant to get more details. He was also nominated in this case and earlier he was facing 42 criminal cases of serious nature.
12-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Farmers divided as Centre, Punjab invite them for talks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12With both the Central and Punjab governments inviting protesting farmers for talks, the first chinks in the unity of kisan unions have begun to show.The largest kisan Union—Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) is in no mood to relent on the farm laws enacted by the Centre and remain steadfast in their stand that the laws be repealed. They say they will not be going in for talks with the Centre. The other Unions are, however, are yet to decide on whether they want to go in for the meeting with the Centre, scheduled for October 14.A meeting of the farmer unions has been convened here on Tuesday morning to decide the next course of action, though BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) says it is not part of this meet. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of the largest kisan union, told The Tribune that their protest was on at 51 places, and would continue till the time the laws were revoked. “Our union is not going for the meet. We have our own protest programme charted out,” he said.Last week, another kisan Union, BKU (Lakhowal), had been asked to stay out from the joint protest, after they approached the Supreme Court against the agriculture laws, without taking other protesting unions into confidence.The consortium of farmers’ unions (other than Ugrahan and Lakhowal factions) have also been taking legal advice on whether a constitutional guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) would act as protection against corporatisation, as intended in the new laws passed by Parliament last month, confirmed Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of BKU (Dakaunda).He said a middle path would have to be found, but one where there is a complete guarantee on protesting for the economic and other interests of farmers.The Centre, through its Secretary, Agriculture, Sanjay Agarwal, had invited farmers for talks last week. The proposal was rejected by farmers’ unions. In a fresh invite for talks, sent on Sunday, the Centre has said, “...the Indian Government is serious about agriculture, this is the reason they want to talk to you....”Darshal Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union, however, said they were to take a final call on going for the meeting with the Centre on Tuesday. “We had rejected the first offer because we wanted to talk only to the Prime Minister or a group of ministers deputed by him. We are still not sure who will be talking to us,” he said.Punjab govt proposal to farmersOn Sunday, the Punjab government had sought a meeting with the protesting farmers, who have occupied rail tracks at more than 200 places in Punjab. A three-member committee of the government wanted to discuss the further course of action with the protesting farmers, who have so far not given any consent to the meeting. “We might meet the Punjab government delegation of three ministers (Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Sukhjinder Randhawa) after we decide our next course of action on Tuesday,” said Jagmohan Singh. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh said they had not been invited for the talks.
12-10-2020||---||MSP regime indispensable||PC BodhTHE ongoing debate over the farm laws is a huge opportunity for Indian polity to find out whether it is the complexity of farming problems or its own crookedness which is responsible for the sorry state of our small and marginal farmers and farm workers.Despite the stellar performance amid the pandemic, the Indian agricultural sector continues to be crisis-ridden. On an average, over 15,300 farmers and farm workers annually committed suicide from 1995 to 2015; and the trend is still going on unabated.As a director in the erstwhile Planning Commission, I witnessed a major move by the National Development Council under the leadership of the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee to reverse the suicidal downtrend in agriculture. Subsequently, with the arrival of the Manmohan Singh government, the tempo of agricultural development accelerated. The MS Swaminathan Commission was set up with the mandate of delving into the agrarian crisis and recommending policies to resolve it. Though it was the UPA government which unveiled the National Policy for Farmers (NPF)-2007, it didn’t agree to fixing the MSP at 1.5 times the cost of production. It is the NDA government which, after an initial hitch, agreed to implement this recommendation in its fifth year in 2018-19.The apprehension that allowing the sale of produce beyond the physical boundaries of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) might lead to winding up of the MSP policy is unfounded. The MSP regime is going to stay owing to its success over the decades in serving the national macro-economic objectives of food security and welfare measures for access to food and nutrition. The system remains pivotal to food security and protection of farmers against the vagaries of weather and the market. What’s more, according to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the MSP policy can be deployed to correct the crop pattern in favour of wheat, pulses and oilseeds.Allowing the free sale of farm produce beyond the physical limits of APMCs is intended to protect farmers from their exploitative functioning by exposing them to private mandi competition, as found in the field evidence of agro-economic research studies.When the NDA government took over in 2014, the 12th Five-Year Plan had been under implementation with 11 formidable National Mission Schemes, addressing all key aspects of agricultural development to achieve 4% growth rate. Since then, there have been significant modifications and improvement to overhaul these schemes to achieve the growth rate, tackle the agrarian crisis, and double farmers’ income by 2022. Green Revolution — Krishonnati Yojana was approved coterminous with the period of the 14th Finance Commission from 2017-18 to 2019-20.What necessitated the farm laws ever more was the need for making agriculture fully realise its growth potential by liberating farming from hurdles posed by archaic laws and open up ways for enabling them to adopt innovative and dynamic farm management.According to agro-economic research studies, it is critical to free agricultural markets from corruption and handicaps of exploitative functioning of APMC markets for bringing in private mandis in a big way.The farm sector reforms have immense potential and relevance in giving Indian farming and farmers a push towards self-reliance. Taking out agricultural produce from the ambit of the Essential Commodities Act would make the free flow of agricultural produce possible across state and international borders, brightening the prospects of benefits across areas to enrich all players in the chain; and provide optimal conditions for farming compatible with global competition.No policy regime evolves or survives during any one political party’s term and the overall process either evolves further or degenerates. One needs to be guided by the moral responsibility of safeguarding the interests of farmers.The author is Senior EconomicAdviser to Union Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare. Views are personal
12-10-2020||Karam Prakash||Dengue, Covid outbreaks have doctors on toes||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 11To date Covid-19 news continues to dominate headlines, and now the outbreak of dengue in the state has sent the health workers in a tizzy. Given that many people are getting infected with dengue and Covid at the same time, health experts opine that it can prove fatal. Corroborating this, many casualties have been reported where patients had both Covid and dengue.Double whammyDr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said the cases were around 1.5 times higher than last year in the corresponding period, adding that both diseases were deadly, and co-infection would prove fatal. The situation was not good in some districts, he added.It has been learned that the Health department had recently held a meeting with all stakeholders to review the preparations for dengue.Dr Manjit Singh, Director, Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, said they would do all they could to curb the spread of dengue.Portal on dengue defunctThe state Health Department has no accurate data on the number of dengue cases so far.State nodal officer Dr Gagan said many districts had not submitted the reports on the number of dengue cases. “We have to check the lab reports and district report on dengue so that there are no duplicate entries,” he said.Besides, Punjab’s “Dengue live reporting” has been lying defunct for months now. Dr Grover said, “The staff is busy performing Covid duties. Therefore, the data on dengue has not been uploaded.”
12-10-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Author Vanit Nalwa is happy that her biography on Hari Singh Nalwa will be adapted into a web series||Hari Singh Nalwa, the longest serving the great Commander-in- Chief of the Sikh Khalsa Fauj, was the right hand of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. He joined the Sikh army at a tender age of 13 and led the first victory at the age of 18. He killed a tiger in a hand-to-hand combat when he was 17. He fought 22 battles in his lifetime and lost none.But today, this warrior, who was so revered by one and all, is probably not known to the millennials. Call it lack of interest in history or the changing means of consuming content. No one can deny the reach of visual medium and author Vanit Nalwa, a direct descendent of Hari Singh Nalwa, concurs. After having written the biography of the greatest Sikh general ever, she has now given the rights to Almighty Motion Picture to turn it into a web series. “I was prompted to write the book during an interview. Towards the end of the conversation, the journalist very casually asked me about my surname and then it veered towards Hari Singh Nalwa. There were questions I had answers to but there were some to which I told him I would look up and let him know. That got me thinking that I didn’t know enough about my background.”"We are so fascinated by the concept of superheroes of the West but Hari Singh Nalwa is the real superhero. He has created history and everyone must know it." Prabhleen KaurHer quest for credibility led to a research spanning eight years. “When I went to the National Archives of India, the lady there took me to the foreign section and it startled me. I asked her why foreign section and she said because Sikh empire was a foreign country.” There has been no looking back. She got so much information from thereon that she is today working on her second book on Maharaja Ranjit Singh.From defining the maps of that time to the wars that Hari Singh Nalwa won and all the territory conquered by him, the issue with Kashmir, the book titled Hari Singh Nalwa: Champion of The Khalsa Ji has all the details. But coming back to picturising it, Vanit says, “The historic significance of the Sikh empire is not known to many. Sardar Hari Singh Nalwa dedicated his life in the service of the Almighty. What better way than Almighty Motion Pictures acquiring the rights.”After two meetings with Prabhleen, Vanit says she agreed. “She knew about Hari Singh Nalwa and she agreed to not add any Bollywood touch to it. I want it to be as close to reality as it can be.”While Vanit got what she wanted, actor-producer Prabhleen Kaur is thrilled about the opportunity. “We are so fascinated by the concept of superheroes of the West but Hari Singh Nalwa is the real superhero. His deeds are larger than life and he is not a figment of imagination. He has created history and everyone must know it.”Having begun the search for a scriptwriter and other stages of preproduction, Prabhleen thinks this will need much more work than any other series. “I am looking for the right kind of team to begin the work. It might take a year or maybe even more because I cannot treat it as just another project. It is very close to my heart and I will not compromise at any level.”
12-10-2020||Abohar||NGO holds anti-rabies drive||All eyes on Kartarpur corridor reopeningGurdaspur: All eyes are on the reopening of Kartarpur corridor, which has been lying closed to public ever since the lockdown was announced. The Pakistan Government has opened the doors of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, but the Indian government is yet not willing to lift a ban on the pilgrimage. Officials say it will be a long time before devotees will be able to use the passage again. Security agencies are also reluctant to give it a green signal. There has always been reservations about the opening of a corridor in first place, with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta also having expressed their misgivings about it. Reason: The possibility that Pakistan may use the project to further its nefarious designs. This is one of the reasons why the Ministry of Home Affairs is not too keen on reopening the corridor. Citing that Mecca had been opened after the restrictions were lifted, SAD leader Bikram Majithia in a prayer meeting near the ICP urged the Union Government to reopen the corridor.Sonu Sood vouches for hi-tech educationFazilka: After providing needy students with mobile phones for online studies in different parts of the country, actor Sonu Sood and Fazilka social activist Karan Gilhotra have turned to border areas of the district to vouch for hi-tech education. The duo launched a campaign “Padega Fazilka to badega Fazilka” in the border district on Saturday. Under the drive, 23 students of Munshi Ram Sarv Hitkari Vidya Mandir in border village of Rana were provided with smartphones. Gilhotra said no child should be deprived of online classes, particularly in far-flung border villages, for the want of smartphones.45K smartphones distributed among pupilsChandigarh: The state had targeted to distribute 1,74,015 smartphones till November-end this year. Of them, 45,058 smartphones have been distributed among class XII students studying in government schools. Giving smartphones free of cost to youth of the state was one of the key poll promises of the Congress during the 2017 Assembly elections. Ludhiana has the maximum number of 16,682 students enrolled in class XII, followed by Patiala (13,926), Amritsar (13,741), Gurdaspur (12,703), Jalandhar (11,894) and Sangrur (11,179).
12-10-2020||Shivani Bhakoo||After Covid, stir hits rice exporters hard||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 11Owing to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, more than 4,000 export containers carrying Punjab-produced items, including foodgrain such as basmati and other perishable goods, are stranded at the dry ports across the state.There are 8 dry ports in Ludhiana, one each in Jalandhar & DaparThe rice exporters are worried they may not be able to keep the timely delivery commitment made to overseas clients. Unless the produce is delivered in time, exporters will not be able to secure repeat orders for rice this season, they say.Jalandhar exporter Viney Gupta, who runs a government-recognised export house, says he ships rice to countries such as the UK, US, Australia, Canada, etc. “The procurement season is on but containers full of rice are stuck at dry ports. We can’t purchase more basmati from the farmer when the previous stock hasn’t been cleared (lifted for export). Farmers will be the ultimate sufferers if the containers remain stranded. We urge the government to declare rice an essential commodity and save both farmers and exporters,” says Gupta.Rice is exported from other states such as Haryana, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh as well. If Punjab is hit, buyers will go to these states for basmati. Pakistan too is a viable option for them, he says.Rice intermediary from Jalalabad Naresh Batra says the farmers’ agitation has come as a double whammy for them as exports had already been suffering because of Covid-19.“How can we get more orders when the previous consignments are not cleared and payments are not made? The price of basmati has already gone down since shipments are not going out on a regular basis. The problem of non-availability of containers is also there,” said Batra.The overall impact of stranded containers is expected to be significant across the rice supply chain, right from farmers, millers to exporters, they say.“The movement of containers is in the interest of farmers. We want the Punjab Government to intervene to resolve the issue and facilitate immediate movement of containers,” said Gupta.In total, there are 10 dry ports in the state, including eight in Ludhiana - ICD, Concor; Gateway Rail Freight Limited; Pristine Mega Logistics Park; Hind Terminals Private Limited; Overseas Warehousing Private Limited; Punjab State WareHousing Corporation; Adani Logistics; and Krishna Cargomovers. The other two are in Jalandhar and Mohali.
12-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Goods transport remains off track||Members of 31 farmer unions continue to block the Sirhind-Nangal railway line by staging a dharna at the Fatehgarh Sahib railway station, resulting in suspension of goods and passenger train services towards Ropar, Nangal and Una.Due to the dharna, the coal and diesel supply to the Ropar thermal plant has been affected adversely. Addressing mediapersons today, Surinder Singh Lohari, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said the ‘rail roko’ stir would continue till October 14 as decided by the core committee.He and other leaders warned the political leaders, particularly from the BJP, not to enter the villages on the pretext of educating the farmers about the good impact of the newly enacted agriculture Acts.They said if BJP leaders tried to enter villages, they would be confronted. If any untoward incident happened, they would be responsible. They advised the BJP leaders to convince the Union Government to immediately roll back the farm laws. — OC
12-10-2020||---||Sangrur farmers protest paddy purchase from other districts||Sangrur, October 11Farmers from Dhadriyan village, owing allegiance to the Kirti Kisan Union, today laid siege to three trucks of paddy purchased from Tarn Taran by local rice millers.Farmers here alleged that as rice millers were purchasing paddy from other districts, they would struggle to sell their crop once it was ready. They announced to intensify their protest in the coming days.“Rice millers of our area are bringing paddy from other districts. We fear they will refuse to purchase our crop as it would come after 10-15 days. Till then, they would have made the entire required purchase. We will not allow the sale of paddy from other districts in our area. Our protest will continue till the authorities do not send these trucks back to Tarn Taran,” said Bhajan Singh, a farmer leader.He alleged though many trucks had come from Tarn Taran and other border districts last night, they could seize only three trucks.“Every year farmers of our area face problems because millers purchase paddy from other areas,” alleged Tejinder Singh, another farmer leader.Punsup inspector Kuldeep Goyal and Markfed inspector Pushpinder Singh said they had been trying to convince farmers to release trucks as legally nobody could stop millers from purchasing paddy from any part of the state. “We have deputed police personnel and are trying to convince farmers. Meetings are on to break the impasse,” said Harchetan Singh, SHO, Longowal.
12-10-2020||---||CM trying to sabotage farmers’ protest: AAP||Muktsar, October 11 Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann while addressing a Mega Gram Sabha and Kisan Jagrukta Sabha at Bhallaiana village in the Gidderbaha Assembly segment here today claimed that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was trying to sabotage farmers’ protest by widening the divide between farmers and people of the state on the issue of electricity. Attacking the state government on the issue of shortage of coal for thermal plants, Mann said instead of appealing to the farmers to stop their “rail roko andolan” and let commodities like coal enter Punjab, the Chief Minister should appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak to the farmers of Punjab and revoke these laws.  He said, “People of Punjab know how to live without electricity. They will live with candles and lanterns, but the fight is not about electricity or coal, the fight is about survival, the fight is about ensuring that farmers do not go hungry because they are not getting a fair price for their crops.” Mann said Capt should stop playing “politics” with the people of Punjab and if he really cared about the farmers then he should take the farmers along to meet the Prime Minister. He alleged that both the SAD and the Congress were responsible for the “black laws” passed in Parliament. He urged everyone to come to Delhi on Monday to lodge a protest at the Jantar Mantar against the Centre.
12-10-2020||Ferozepur||800 villages to join Dasehra protest, claims farm union||Announcing their decision to continue the protest till October 14, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) have said they would burn the effigies of corporate houses on October 23 in Amritsar.“We will also burn the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Dashera during which farmers from 800 villages will join our protest in Amritsar,” said Satnam Singh Pannu, president, KMSC, addressing the farmers whose protest entered the 18th day in the border town.Squatting on the railway track today, farmers raised slogans against the Narendra Modi-led NDA government. They accused corporate houses of playing hand in glove with the Central Government to ruin the farming community. “It is a matter of life and death for us. We will do anything to get these farm Acts repealed,” Pannu said. — OC
12-10-2020||---||Neither PM nor CM addressing farmers’ concerns, says Sukhbir||Amritsar, October 11The SAD was inclined to join hands with all parties, except the Congress, in fighting against the farm Acts.This was stated by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal who was here to offer prayers at the Golden Temple with his family.Sukhbir said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh were never inclined to do anything concrete for the farming community’s cause, despite the fact that Punjab and Haryana farmers contribute immensely to provide food to the nation.“It is a pity that the Centre has yet not taken any initiative to address the farmers’ concerns. The Centre’s approach by deputing its ministers and officials to hold talks with farmers is wrong. It intends to build pressure on them and forcefully convince them to accept the controversial farm Acts. I appeal to the PM to himself meet the farmer organisation representatives and take steps to address their concerns,” he said.Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, too, slammed the state government on its response to the farm Acts. She said the Chief Minister had yet not announced to hold a special session. “Farmers are not getting the minimum support price on their crop; procurement is not being done. The Centre has killed its conscience, but the state government, too, has become unmindful. People will make the state government pay,” the former Union minister said.
12-10-2020||Raj Sadosh||30-yr-old graduate Abohar farmer leads by example||Abohar, October 11Kuldeep Singh, a 30-year-old farmer in Bazidpur Bhoma located near the interstate border in Abohar block, has become a role model for the young generation.He has been farming for the past 12 years, after compelting graduation.When he started farming, it was a common practice to burn paddy straw and wheat stubble. With an aim to do sommething different, two years ago, Kuldeep started participating in the camps organised by the Agriculture Department. Inspired by the experts, he formed a self-help group under the In-Situ Crop Residue Management Scheme. He procured a plough and a zero till drill. After harvesting the paddy, he drove the chopper on the ground and sowed wheat with the help of the drill by ploughing the straw back into the soil.Kuldeep says, “I use less chemical fertilisers in my fields and get a high yield of wheat. I follow the guidelines of the Agriculture Department. This year, I am keen to sow wheat with super cider.” Emphasising the hazards of burning stubble, he says, “Burning of straw will prove to be fatal for Covid patients in winter. We need to convert the straw into manure.”Officials of the Agriculture Department inspected his field yesterday and appreciated his hard work.
12-10-2020||---||12.58 LMT grain lifted so far: Govt||Chandigarh, October 11Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said paddy procurement and lifting was running smoothly in the state, and till October 10, a total of 12.58 LMT paddy was lifted from mandis.Four state procurement agencies — Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup and PSWC — and the Food Corporation of India are procuring paddy of grade A at minimum support price of Rs 1,888 per quintal as per specifications laid down by the Centre.“A total of 23.38 LMT paddy arrived till October 10 in the state mandis, of which 22.62 LMT paddy has been procured by government agencies and 0.13 LMT by private traders,” the minister said.Ashu said elaborate arrangements and efforts were being made by all agencies to ensure smooth procurement, lifting and payment so that farmers did not face any issue to sell their produce. He urged farmers to follow all protocols to contain the spread of Covid-19. He said all 4,221 mandis and procurement centres had been made operational for uninterrupted procurement.
12-10-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Scholarship scam: Erring institutes to face the music||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Private educational institutions that benefited from irregular disbursal of Rs 7.33 crore under the SC post-matric scholarship scheme will face criminal action, besides recovery with penal interest.Recovery with penal interestBased on the report of a three-member committee that probed the alleged multi-crore scam in the disbursal of the scholarship funds, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan in her report to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had held that the institutions that had taken undue benefit should be held accountable by effecting recovery with penal interest and initiating criminal/administrative action against them at the earliest.Even though the Chief Minister had asked for strict action to fix responsibility, the department is yet to initiate recovery proceeding against erring 10 institutes.The three-member committee comprising IAS officers Jaspal Singh, KAP Sinha and Vivek Partap Singh has already given a clean chit to Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.However, the committee has prima facie found the involvement of certain officials in the Social Welfare Directorate, including Deputy Director PS Gill and Deputy Controller of Finance and Audit Charanjit Singh. The file pertaining to taking action against the erring officials, based on the findings of the three-member committee, was said to be pending with Dharamsot. The committee has found evidence of misrepresentation of facts and wrongful claims of dues.However, Principal Secretary, Social Welfare, Jaspal Singh did not respond to query on action taken on the committee findings.The committee has pointed out that due to violation of the decision of the Council of Ministers on proportionate release of scholarship funds to the educational institutions, officials in the Social Welfare Directorate got re-audit without any authorisation, leading to irregular payment of Rs 7.33 crore. This happened when 92 institutions were waiting for Rs 18.40 crore to be released for 2015-2016.Meanwhile, the committee failed to bring on record tampering of signatures of the Director, Social Welfare. Under question is a re-audit carried out by the Social Welfare Department that ultimately led to “questionable” payment of Rs 16.91 crore to 14 private educational institutions.
12-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Pupil strength drops to zero in 2 govt schools in Jalandhar's Lohian block||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 11Two schools in the Lohian block in the district are without students. There is not even a single student in Government Primary School (GPS), Heran Boop Singh, and Government Middle School (GMS), Bara Jodh Singh.Sources in the department said these were the only exceptions, even as there were schools having a handful of students.In GPS, Hera Boop Singh, there were eight students in the last session. Since there was no permanent teacher and teachers would come here on deputation, the strength kept on decreasing. This year, not a single student took admission. Sources said a letter was sent to the Lohian Khas Block Primary Education Officer in which it was mentioned that parents had decided to admit their wards in a nearby school as teachers used to come on deputation in the school. A request to appoint a permanent teacher was also made in the letter so that students could be brought back to the school.Rampal, District Education Officer (Primary), said the matter was in his knowledge. “Parents have shifted their wards to other government schools,” he said.Government Middle School, Bara Jodh Singh, also has no student. In the last session, there were a total of 10 students, of which six were in Class VIII, who passed out this session. However, no new admissions took place this time. Teachers here have been shifted to other government schools now.Harinderpal Singh, District Education Officer (Secondary), said the school was not closed officially. “There were three teachers in the school. But because of low student strength last year and lockdown this time, no new admissions took place. However, once everything becomes normal, we will ask parents to admit their wards to the schools,” he said.
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sept GST collection stands at Rs 1,055 cr||The gross GST revenue collection for Punjab stands at Rs 1,055.24 crore during September against Rs 974.96 crore for the corresponding period of last year, thereby registering a rise of 8.23 per cent.Taxpayers had been provided relief in the furnishing of returns for the previous months due to Covid-19. Further, taxpayers with turnover less than Rs 5 crore in the previous year continue to enjoy relaxation in furnishing of returns till September.According to a spokesperson of the Punjab Taxation Commissioner’s Office, the gross GST revenue collection for Punjab for the period from April to September stands at Rs 4,685.72 crore in comparison to Rs 6,790.34 crore for the similar period last year, thereby denoting a fall of 31 per cent.The spokesperson said the protected revenue for September was Rs 2,403 crore against which the state had collected and received Rs 1,055.24 crore that corresponded to approximately 43.91 per cent of the protected revenue. Thus for September, the amount of compensation due is Rs 1,347.76 crore. Further, the cumulative amount of compensation due for the period from April to August is Rs 10,338 crore. Out of which Rs 838 crore is received in the first week of October and rest of Rs 9,500 crore is still awaited.In addition to GST, the state also collects tax revenue from VAT and CST regime. Major contributors to VAT and CST collection are alcohol and five petroleum products which are outside the ambit of the GST. — TNS
12-10-2020||Ropar||Missing boy reunited with parents||District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) officials reunited a boy, who was missing for the last three months, with his parents. Belonging to a poor family of Kotla Nihang village, the boy was found in Anandpur Sahib.  Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary of the DLSA Harsimranjit Singh said mother of the child had lodged a report nearly three months ago. The boy was found at a gurdwara in Anandpur Sahib. The child said he had left home following heated arguments with his maternal grandparents, said Singh. — TNS
12-10-2020||---||No bank accounts, kids fail to get money under food scheme||Jalandhar, October 11Amid the Covid pandemic, thousands of students in the state haven’t received the cooking amount under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme since March.In Jalandhar, Education Department officials are struggling to disburse the amount among a large number of students because neither the kids nor their parents have bank accounts. As schools are closed, instructions had been issued to officials to transfer the amount directly to the bank accounts.Department officials said in Jalandhar, around 15,000 students and their parents did not have bank accounts.Baljinder Singh, mid-day meal officer, said last week, some progress had been made and with the continuous efforts, accounts of several students had been opened and the mid-day meal cooking amount would be transferred in a day or two.For primary classes (I to V), Rs 4.97 is given per student per day and for upper primary classes (VI to VIII), Rs 7.45 is given per student per day.The officials said many parents didn’t have proper documents. “We have ascertained the reasons why the accounts are not opening, so steps are being taken in that direction,” an official from the department said.District Education Officer (Primary) Rampal said they had written to the higher authorities several times regarding the problem. “We will have to follow the rules and thus, we cannot give the amount in cash,” he said.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “We had written to the Centre seeking permission to distribute the cooking cost of mid-day meals to the beneficiaries in cash but the permission was not given. The department is trying its best. The problem will also be resolved soon.”
12-10-2020||GS Paul||Top poll official named, Sikh bodies gear up for SGPC battle||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 11Sikh organisations have pulled up their socks to prepare for the much-awaited SGPC polls after the appointment of Justice SS Saron (retd) as the Chief Commissioner, Gurdwara elections, by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.SAD (Democratic) leader and senior SGPC member Sewa Singh Sekhwan said the SGPC elections were long overdue. He said the polls were being pushed ahead unduly by the SAD (Badal) leadership for the fear of losing grip over the Sikh apex body.“Now that the BJP-SAD alliance has broken, the Centre has started the process to hold elections. Our aim is to root out Badal and his supporters from the SGPC. In SAD (Democratic), it was unanimously decided that the one who will fight the SGPC elections will not hold any political position,” he said.SAD (Taksali) spokesperson Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said the core committee meeting had been scheduled for October 10 to strategise about the SGPC polls. “Since the membership process is a time-consuming exercise, we hope that the elections will be held in May-June 2021,” he said.Under the leadership of former Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, many existing SGPC members have joined hands to topple the existing body.On the other hand, SGPC member Balwinder Singh Bains said, “I don’t think the SGPC elections will be held in the near future. I feel that by appointing the chief commissioner, the BJP has just given a hollow allurement to the Sikhs for its political goals in state.”
12-10-2020||---||Punjab reported 669 cases, 35 deaths in a day||Chandigarh, October 11The downswing in the number of Covid cases being reported continues, with 669 cases having been reported in the last 24 hours. The tally has climbed to 1,23,973. Besides, the toll has breached the 3,833 mark with 35 new casualties. As per the media bulletin, the number of active Covid cases has come down to 9,275 with 1.10 lakh recoveries. At present, 180 patients are on oxygen support and 35 on ventilators.Of the cases reported, SAS Nagar has recorded 114 cases, followed by Ludhiana (91), Amritsar (65), Jalandhar (53), Patiala (51) and Gurdaspur (40). In the district-wise breakup, Ludhiana topped the chart with five deaths, followed by Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar (four each), Amritsar, Kapurthala and Patiala (three each), Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Ropar (two each), and Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga, Muktsar, Pathankot and Tarn Taran (one each).
12-10-2020||Fazilka||2 kg heroin seized along IB||The BSF today recovered 2 kg heroin worth Rs 10 crore in the international market near the New Gazniwala border outpost on the International Border in the Jalalabad area of Fazilka. Official sources said personnel of BSF 124 Battalion noticed movement across the border fencing early today. A jawan fired four rounds to prevent infiltration.On search, two packets containing suspected contraband wrapped in black socks were recovered from the paddy fields. — OC
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||Stamp duty incentive refund process amended||To ensure greater ease to investors, the Punjab Government has amended the procedure of submission of online application for refund of incentive of stamp duty under IBDP 2017. Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said after receiving Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s approval to this effect, a notification had been issued. Pending cases would be cleared expeditiously giving relief to Investors, he added. Arora said the refund of stamp duty could be claimed after the start of commercial production. One of the conditions for claiming incentive was land should not have been purchased before or after three years of the application. Under the amended procedure, the date for submission of Incentive Common Application Form would be considered to check the aforesaid condition of three years, the minister added. — TNS
12-10-2020||---||Day after Amritsar man ends life, wife kills self||Amritsar, October 11A day after Nawapind village resident Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky, ended his life in a hotel room on the Batala road here, his wife Sukhbir Kaur today hanged herself at the village. In a suicide note, Vicky had held a woman sub-inspector responsible for taking the extreme step. The police have initiated action under the Code of Criminal Procedure in this regard.Sukhbir Kaur hanged herself on the upper floor of the house late last night when the family and relatives were asleep. The incident came to light when a relative woke up around 3.15 am. Sukhbir was in deep shock after her husband’s death and had sought action against SI Sandeep Kaur.Jandiala police station SHO Harchand Singh said no suicide note was found at the scene, but action had been initiated under Section 174, CrPC, on the statement of Surinder Singh, father-in-law of the deceased.Vicky, in the suicide note, had accused the SI, who also belonged to the same village, of harassment and blackmail. He had claimed she had taken Rs 18 lakh from him on different occasions and had been threatening him through her friends. The police had booked the SI on charges of abetment to suicide.“We are taking legal opinion to proceed further. Sukhbir Kaur apparently committed suicide in grief. As the evidence in both cases was same, opinion is being sought from the district attorney on how to go about in this case,” said the SHO.
12-10-2020||---||Only one of 3 indicted staffers booked so far||Bathinda, October 11The local police have so far booked only one of the three blood bank employees indicted by a probe committee for negligence in the wrong blood transfusion incident at Bhai Mani Singh Civil Hospital here.Naujawan Welfare Society, a local NGO, has alleged the police had failed to act against the remaining two employees and that there was no reference of the second patient, a woman, who was given HIV positive blood in May.In gross negligence on part of the blood bank officials, a minor girl and a woman were given HIV positive blood in two separate incidents at the hospital.The NGO, through its counsel HC Arora, has decided to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the matter.Baldev Singh Romana, medical laboratory technician at the blood bank, Civil Hospital, has been booked under Sections 269 (negligent act) and 270 (malignant act) of the IPC at Kotwali police station on the Civil Surgeon’s complaint.In the complaint, it was alleged that on October 3, seven-year-old thalassaemia patient was given blood of an HIV positive donor and accused Baldev knew about it.He had told the probe committee he never reached out to the donor, but the panel found out that the employee did not have cordial working relations with blood transfusion officer and colleague MLT Richa Goyal, due to which to settle a score, he called the HIV positive donor from his mobile phone asking him donate blood.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had ordered a probe committee to investigate into the matter. A three-member inquiry committee was constituted by the Health Department, which in its report found the employees guilty of gross negligence.Acting on the report, the Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, issued suspension orders of three employees — blood transfusion officer Dr Krishma Goyal, and medical lab technicians Baldev Singh Romana and Richa Goyal. The Civil Surgeon had written to the SSP seeking an FIR into the incident.
12-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||After protest, dept shelves works at Mastuana Sahib||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 11The decision of the Rural Development and Panchayat Department to spend Rs 1.03 crore for various development projects in Mastuana Sahib, which is managed by a private trust, has created a controversy. The department wants to undertake works under a special scheme to develop villages visited by Guru Nanak.The trust runs various colleges and also manages a local gurdwara, located on the Sangrur-Barnala road in Mastuana Sahib. The department has put the proposal on hold as the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner, area Congress leaders and panchayat concerned raised objections.As per a proposal of the department, it had prepared a detailed plan to spend Rs 49 lakh to construct a stretch from the Barnala road to Lidhran village road, Rs 40 lakh to construct rooms and other facilities at a stadium, Rs 2.50 lakh for street lights, Rs 4 lakh for installing CCTV cameras and Rs 7.40 lakh for the construction of various pathways.However, the panchayat in Bahadurpur village, which was visited by Guru Nanak and under whose jurisdiction Mastuana Sahib falls, objected to the decision of the department.Sunam Congress halqa in charge Daman Thind Bajwa said she was kept in the dark by officials while preparing the proposal.“The department cannot spend money to develop the properties of a private trust. I wrote to the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner and got the proposal stalled,” she said.“The department passed the proposal of Mastuana Sahib as a special case as lakhs of devotees visit the place. However, after area residents raised an objection that it was a private trust, we have put the proposal on hold,” said Ranjit Singh, executive engineer. Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said he had sought a clarification from the department officials.
12-10-2020||---||Bathinda pupils excel in law admission test||Bathinda, October 11Bathinda students came out with flying colours in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT).Arjun Garg, son of former president of the Bathinda District Bar Association, Rajan Garg, and grandson of former minister Chiranji Lal Garg, secured AIR-70 in CLAT and AIR-11in the All India Law Entrance Test (AILET).Arshdeep Singh secured AIR-3 in the SC category. Other students who excelled from Bathinda are Manav with AIR-125, Lipika Singla with AIR-210 and Anmol with AIR-307.The CLAT is a centralised test for admission to 19 national law universities in India.While talking to The Tribune, Arjun Garg said, “I have always been passionate about law and judicial services, like my father and grandfather. I wanted to follow in their footsteps.”Speaking about his success mantra, Arjun said “Determination and consistency in studies lead to success. There is no fixed recipe as such, but be satisfied with whatever you do. If the number of hours you put into your your studies satisfy you, you are on the right track.”
12-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Businesses shut, ‘to-let’ boards a common sight in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 11When the pandemic began in March, most house owners in Bathinda did not expect that in the months to come their regular source of income in the form of rent would get jeopardised. To-let boards have become a common sight in the district now as many businesses have closed down and there are no takers for buildings on rent these days.Around 90 per cent of the 200 centres here were operating from rented accommodation as in pre-Covid times this business was flourishing. Over the years, Ajit road in the city had become a hub of ILETS and coaching centres, but now after facing huge losses, many centre owners have vacated the buildings.Even paying guest and house rent business have seen a slump. Many houses in Jujhar Singh Nagar, Ajit road and Power House road are vacant. These PG accommodations housed a large number of students coming from the Malwa region and also from the adjoining areas of Haryana and Rajasthan, but now lying closed for the past six months. Even many people who shifted to Bathinda city from villages and were staying in rented houses there, have returned due to salary cut, job loss or facing loss in business.Even commercial complex rentals and city’s office market was on a strong footing with a robust momentum in demand till the first quarter of this year. However, as businesses faced disruptions, office space market and building rent felt the pinch and went into the decline mode. Many deals faced delays and new enquiries were put on hold.Guriqbal Singh, a property dealer, said, “Many building and house owners are approaching us because their tenants have vacated. Rents have come down because most owners are ready to take lower rates. They feel it is better than leaving the building vacant,” he said. This problem will aggravate in the coming days as more small retail and restaurant businesses may be forced to permanently vacate their commercial spaces as they can no longer afford them.
12-10-2020||Anirudh Gupta||No funds, ‘pucca’ house still distant dream for many Ferozepur villagers||Ferozepur, October 11Maya Bai (81) of Palla Megha village had lost her husband around 32 years ago. Since then, she has been working as a labourer to feed her family, comprising two daughters and a son. Somehow, she managed to get her daughters married, but living in a ‘pucca’ house has remained a distant dream for her.Funds under PMGAYIn 2015, she had applied under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awas Yojana (PMGAY). In March, she received Rs 30, 000 as the first instalment for the construction of house. “I am presently living in a ‘kutcha’ house’. With the money I received under the PMGAY scheme, I started building my house with the help of my son, who also works as a daily wager. However, now I have no funds to complete the construction. We have invested the little savings we had in laying the foundation and raising the walls,” she said. The Prime Minister should provide sufficient funds, said Maya Bai, who has been waiting for the remaining amount to complete her house.As per the sources, due to the paucity of funds, the pending instalments could not be provided to her and many others. Around 1,562 applicants are waiting for the second instalment, and the third installment is pending for 1,896 persons under the PMGAY scheme.Chiman Singh, another resident of the village, said there were around 20 families in their village who were waiting for the funds. “I am living in my brother’s house with my wife and two daughters. I have received only one instalment under the PMGAY. Red-tapism mars the schemes made by the government for the poor,” he said.Jaswant Singh, District Coordinator, PMGAY, said the department had a target to provide funds to build 1,950 houses this year, including 295 houses in Ferozepur block, 211 in Ghall Khurd, 786 in Guruharsahai, 215 in Makhu, 422 in Mamdot and 21 in Zira block.“There are cases in which people misused the government funds. Notices have been served to around 70 persons in this regard, but no FIR has been registered,” said Jaswant.
12-10-2020||ibune News Service||Navjot Sidhu ruffles feathers with Randhawa rebuke||Gurdaspur, October 11Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu’s rebuke of Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in the presence of AICC general secretary Harish Rawat, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Rahul Gandhi during a meeting has boomeranged.Randhawa, MLA from Dera Baba Nanak, is among the two tallest leaders of the area, the other being his Cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. The net effect is Randhawa’s supporters have now decided to boycott Sidhu.Congressmen point out that Sidhu’s act of censuring his colleague was akin to ‘shooting the messenger’. “Randhawa was just handing him Rawat’s message to cut short his extempore because he had taken up more time than what was allotted to him. Instead of being an obedient soldier of the party, Sidhu started venting his ire on Randhawa. Instead of abiding, he inadvertently shot the messenger. This was an unsavoury incident, which should have been avoided more so because the proceedings were telecast live,” said Bajwa. Former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri, too, castigated Sidhu. “We are public figures. We should conduct ourselves with dignity when we are among the public.”Randhawa chose to play down the incident. “In political functions, in the heat of the moment, such things happen. Let us just move on,” he said.
12-10-2020||---||Tardy pace of paddy lifting worries farmers in Muktsar||Muktsar, October 11 Though the paddy procurement started about a fortnight ago, the lifting of crop has been slow, raising concerns among farmers.The figures procured from the district mandi office today revealed that 29,241 MT paddy had arrived in the mandis in Muktsar district till Wednesday evening. Of this, 23,297 MT had been purchased, but just 4,486 MT had been lifted.The figures further showed that the lifting process was yet to begin in the Bariwala and Malout mandis. Notably, the paddy procurement season had officially started on September 26.Some farmers said the state government should make adequate arrangements to lift the crop. “The season has just started and we are already facing the problem of slow lifting. The situation will only worsen when a large number of farmers will bring their produce to the grain markets in coming days,” they said.However, Bunty Goyal, a commission agent, said, “In the Muktsar grain market, the purchase started three days ago, and the crop is being lifted.”Despite repeated attempts, Gourav Garg, District Mandi Officer, could not be contacted.
12-10-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||To negotiate or not, Punjab farm unions to decide tomorrow||Amid the escalating protests against the new farm laws, the Centre has invited 29 farm unions in Punjab for talks on October 14. A communication from the Secretary (Agriculture), Sanjay Agarwal, to representatives of these unions reads: “Farmers in Punjab are protesting regarding certain issues. The Indian Government has always been very serious about agriculture-related issues. That is why the Centre wants to have a dialogue with you.”EDITORIAL: Fighting for farmersSubsequently, these unions have decided to meet at Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall in Jalandhar on October 13, a day prior to the proposed meeting. Secretary of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) Shingara Singh Mann said: “The opinion of different groups would be sought on whether we should negotiate with the Centre or continue our agitation till the controversial farm laws are withdrawn”. Bharti Kisan Union (Qadian) president Harmeet Singh too said the meeting would decide on the next course of action.“Central government has sent another invitation to the members of all 29 farmer organisations for another meeting at New Delhi on October 14.Sources said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar might attend the October 14 meeting “depending on the response to the invitation.” At a meeting with Tomar and Rajnath Singh last week, farmer leaders’ key concern was regarding the minimum support price (MSP). They insisted that procurement below the MSP be made a punishable offence. However, Rajnath maintained that this would hamper the functioning of mandis. — TNS
