13-08-2020||---||COVID-19 cases cross 1,600-mark in Mohali with 67 fresh cases||Mohali, August 1367 fresh COVID-19 cases surfaced in Mohali on Thursday, taking the total count to 1,603.Meanwhile, five more fatalities were also reported, rising the death tally to 30 in the district. All patients with co-morbidities had tested positive after their death.The persons infected with the virus include four females and seven males from Derabassi, three males and a female from Aerocity, 22 from various sectors and phases of Mohali.The other 30 patients are from Desumajra, Zirakpur, Khizarabad, Lakbnaur, Kurali, Singhpura (Banur), Kharar, Kumbara, Khanpur, Balumajra, Lalru, Lohgarh, Dhakauli, Nayagaon, Landran, TDI City, Balongi and Mullanpur.The deaths reported on Thursday include a 71-year-old woman of Golden Avenue, 70-year-old man of Sector 71, 61-year-old man of Gulmohar City in Derabassi, 68-year-old man of Jawaharpur in Derabassi and a 59-year-old woman of Shashtri Nagar in Derabassi.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer, said the 70-year-old man of Sector-71 was admitted to Government Rajendra Hospital in Patiala while the 61-year-old man was undergoing treatment at Ivy Hospital in Mohali.She added that the rest of the three deceased were going treatment at GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where they died of COVID-19. She said all patients were suffering from co-morbidities.Meanwhile, 84 positive patients were also cured and discharged from hospitals today.As of now, there are 1,603 positive cases, of which 857 have been cured.There are 716 active cases in the district with 30 deaths reported.
13-08-2020||---||Patiala SSP tests positive forCOVID-19; contacts tracing under way||Patiala, August 13Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal on Thursday evening tested positive for COVID-19, the Health Department said. The SSP has now been isolated at home.It has been learnt that the SSP started exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms on Thursday morning. Consequently, he was tested for the disease and was found to be infected.Confirming the development, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said they had already started the contract tracing of the SSP.He said: “We have started the contract tracing and all people, who have come in contact of the SSP, will be tested for coronavirus.”The SSP has been active in the field activities, including the implementation of night curfew. He was also responsible for checking the vehicle himself during the curfew hours.Besides, he is said to have attended the launch of smartphone distribution event, wherein, Cabinet Minister and Congress MLAs were present.In the meanwhile, Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “Today, I developed mild symptoms and tested positive for COVID-19. I request all who came in contact with me during all these days to get themselves tested as well. I am sure together we are going to beat this.”
13-08-2020||---||Punjab records 1,035 coronavirus cases, 36 deaths; state tally climbs to 27,936||Chandigarh, August 13Punjab on Thursday reported 1,035 COVID-19 cases, taking the state tally to 27,936.Meanwhile, 36 deaths were also recorded in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the state now stands at 706.As many as 627 patients were also discharged today. The discharged cases include 160 from Ludhiana followed by Moga (83), Amritsar (72), Ferozepur (70), Tarn Taran (55), Ropar (36), Kapurthala (26), 23 each from Sangrur and Gurdaspur Patiala (43), 15 each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, Pathankot (11), Muktsar (14), Mansa (13), Fazilka (5), SBS Nagar (2) and Barnala (4).The 36 deaths were reported from Ludhiana (13), Amritsar (2), one each from Gurdaspur, Ropar and Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar (5), three each from Kapurthala, Sangrur and SAS Nagar, and two each from Patiala and Tarn Taran.The number of active cases in the state has climbed to 9,391 while the number of discharged patients has risen to 17,839.
13-08-2020||Kottayam||Nun rape case: Kerala court frames charges against ex-Bishop of Jalandhar diocese||A court here on Thursday framed charges against former Bishop of Jalandhar Diocese, Franco Mulakkal, in the case relating to rape of a nun in Kerala.The Additional Sessions Court Judge read out to Mulakkal, who was present in the court, the charges under various sections of the IPC, including the punishment for offence for rape, as it commenced trial proceedings in the sensational case.The accused denied the charges against him.The case was posted for September 16 for the victim’s examination.He has been charged under various sections of IPC, including 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 377 (Unnatural Sex), 376 (a) Sexual intercourse by person in authority 376(2)(k) (indulging in sexual intercourse by exhorting authority), and 506 (criminal intimidation).Last week, the Bishop was granted bail by the Court with stringent conditions and directed him to be present on the dates of hearing of the case.The Supreme Court had directed Mulakkal to face trial as it dismissed his plea seeking discharge in the rape case lodged against him by the nun belonging to a congregation under Jalandhar diocese, saying there was no merit in his petition.Mulakkal, in his plea had challenged the July 7 Kerala High Court order, dismissing his discharge plea in the rape case filed by the nun.   The High Court had asked the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese to stand for trial in the rape case.The senior priest of the Roman Catholic Church had filed the revision petition following the dismissal of his discharge plea by a trial court in March this year.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district.In her complaint to the police in June 2018, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the bishop during the period between 2014 and 2016.The bishop was arrested by the Special Investigation team. — PTI
13-08-2020||Lahore||Pak court allows Sikh girl to go with her Muslim husband or any place of her choice||A Pakistani court has ruled that a Sikh girl, who allegedly married a Muslim man against her family’s will, was not a ‘minor’ and allowed her to go with her husband or any place of her choice, sparking tension between the two communities.The Lahore High Court on Wednesday allowed Jagjit Kaur of Nankana Sahib who married Mohammad Hassan of her locality in September last against the will of her family to go with her husband or any place of her choice.Since September 2019, Kaur has been living in Darul Aman (shelter house) in Lahore following her family’s allegation that she was kidnapped by Hassan who forcibly married her.India had voiced its concern with Pakistan over the abduction and forced marriage of the Sikh girl and sought “immediate remedial action” from the Pakistan government.LHC justice Chaudhry Shehram Sarwar gave the ruling on the petition of Hassan seeking custody of ‘his wife’ Kaur whom he gave Muslim name Ayesha.Police brought the Sikh girl to the court amid tight security. Her brother and other family members were also present in the court who expressed their dismay over the decision.Representing the Sikh family, Advocate Khalil Tahir Sindhu argued that the school-leaving certificate was enough to prove that the girl is minor.He challenged the record of the National Database and Registration Authority (Nadra) regarding her age.Sindhu also informed the court that as per a settlement reached by Punjab Governor Muhammad Sarwar between the two parties, the girl is supposed to be handed over to her family.“Emotions of the Sikh community will be hurt if the girl is allowed to go with the Muslim man,” he contended.Counsel for the petitioner Advocate Sultan Sheikh told the court that as per the record of Nadra, the girl was 19.He said a medical board previously constituted by the court had already declared the girl a major.The judge rejected the arguments of Advocate Sindhu, saying only the documents of Nadra were valid to establish the age of a person.Justice Sarwar further observed that the high court had nothing to do with any decision made by the governor in a private capacity.“The Constitution of the country safeguards the rights of Kaur and she is free to live with a person of her own choice,” the judge said and directed her husband to enhance the amount of dowry (haq mehr) from Rs 50,000 to Rs1 million.The judge dismissed the petition and ruled that the girl was free to leave the shelter home and could live with her husband or go any place of her choice.The judge also ordered the police to provide “foolproof” security to Kaur.At the previous hearing, Kaur told the court that she married the petitioner with her free will, after converting to Islam, and did not want to go back to her family.The local Sikh community staged protests after she married the Muslim man against the will of her family.Tension between Sikh and Muslim communities in Nankana Sahib has risen following the court decision. Nankana police have been put on alert, officials said. — PTI
13-08-2020||---||IIT Ropar researchers develop UVGI-based room device to combat infections||Chandigarh, August 13Amid growing coronavirus scare, the IIT Ropar researchers in collaboration with Momentum India Pvt Ltd have developed a unique UVGI based room disinfection device – UV Safe.   The state-of-the-art device has been conceptualised and designed by Dr Khushboo Rakha, Assistant Professor, Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, and Dr Naresh Rakha, Senior Scientific Officer, with technical support from Dr Shahriar Reza, Design Consultant, IIT Ropar stated in a release on Thursday.The team worked under the guidance and support of Dean, ICSR, Prof Harpreet Singh and Director, IIT Ropar, Prof Sarit K Das.The state of the art design of the UV Safe ensures zero-shadow 360 degrees disinfection through its prismatic body and foldable wings, mentioned the release.The specially designed wings provide focused exposure to the most frequently touched surfaces such as doorknobs, tabletops, cupboards, room fixtures, wall corners, worktops, artifacts, furniture tops, etc., it added.The trapezoid base houses the control panel of the equipment. A removable handle and magnetic cover have been designed for comfortable storage and transit of the device. This unique and efficient design has been patented.
13-08-2020||Ferozepur||Scribe attacked in Ferozepur||Govt lauds team for COVA appChandigarh: Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the government’s COVA Punjab app kept evolving with time and during the lockdown, the technical team of Department of Governance Reforms had kept introducing new features. The app was formally launched on March 9. It aimed at providing citizens with protective care measures. TNSBody found from canalAbohar: A case has been registered against four persons after the body of a 24-year-old man was found from a canal on Tuesday. Kavita, sister of the victim, Surinder Kumar of Sherewala village here, said her brother’s friend Anuj Kumartook him out. Later, he with the help of his friends Vijay Kumar, Rakesh Kumar and Amit Kumar allegedly assaulted Surinder and threw him in the canal. OC
13-08-2020||---||Congress row: Kumar urges party top brass to intervene||Chandigarh, August 12Amid the deepening divide between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar on the one side, and two Congress MPs Partap Bajwa and Shamsher Dullo on the other side, senior party leader Ashwani Kumar has sought intervention of the party high command to urgently address the underlying causes of the intra-party conflict.At the same time, Kumar, a former Union minister, said the Chief Minister should be readily accessible to party men so that he could suitably intervene in time to prevent avoidable aggravation of conflicts.Expressing concern over the development, he said personal criticism in the media was not good and it only hardened positions. The party high command alone could bring a closure to the debilitating confrontation, he said.At a time when each member of the party is a valuable asset, suspension and expulsion should only be the last resort. “Democratic leadership is about the ability to carry everyone together in a harmonious sharing of power and responsibility. Dissatisfied workers and leaders of the party cannot add to its strength and every difference of opinion on compelling issues cannot be treated as dissidence to be quelled,” said Kumar, adding that at the same time, decorum and dignity of political discourse needs to be observed. While expressing grievances, the bureaucracy should not be involved in conflicts based on political decisions.Robust inner party structures to address discontent should be put in place to give independent assessment to the leadership, said the senior leader, adding that with less than two years left before the next Assembly elections, all efforts should be made to satisfy the aspirations of party workers and leaders in the interest of unity.
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ban on leave for health staff||Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday put a complete ban with immediate effect on leaves and transfers of Health Department employees till September 30. The decision was taken in the wake of the rising number of Covid cases in the state. All officials, including medical and paramedical staffers, have to remain present at their stations, the minister said in a statement. “No leave will be given to any officer or employee during this period,” he said, adding that only maternity and child care leave would be allowed. — PTI
13-08-2020||---||Rationalise deployment of security, says Dullo||Chandigarh, August 12Former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief and Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo today said threat perception was not the criteria being adopted to provide security cover in the state. There was a need to rationalise the deployment, he said.“Right from politicians to non-political persons, security cover has been provided by the state government more out of personal favour,” alleged the MP, without naming the beneficiaries.“At the cost of the families of traditional Congress men, who have sacrificed their lives during the militancy period, several non-political persons are enjoying security cover,” claimed Dullo. There were cases where MLAs close to the Chief Minister were enjoying extra security cover at the cost of the state and there was no threat perception to them, he alleged.Ex-minister lauds MPsMuktsar: Former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Wednesday appreciated Congress MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo for raising their voice against their own party’s government. He said all politicians should support them.
13-08-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Fitness enthusiasts opt for cycling, sales pick up||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 12The cycle sales have picked up pace across the state as there has been a substantial increase in the number of cyclists ever since the governments started easing lockdown restrictions.Cycle store owners said they were selling every model — from premium to affordable — since the lockdown was eased recently. Post Lockdown Bicycle store owners claimed they were selling around 100-150 bicycles each every month with the price ranging from Rs 3,000 to Rs 1 lakh. While 70 per cent of the bicycles being sold are normal road bikes, 30 per cent are alloy-made, fitted with multi-gear.Pankaj M Munjal, chairman-cum-managing director, Hero Cycles, had tweeted earlier that there was about a 70 per cent surge in the demand of cycles compared to the pre-Covid-19 times.Munjal today tweeted, “For the cycling community, it’s business as usual in these Covid times. Cycling demand has surged 100 per cent over the world. This is the new norm.”Local cycle trader Rajesh Kumar said, “The demand for cycles in the region has gone up post lockdown.” Many other traders claimed to have sold a high number of cycles.Shop owners said there was a rise in sale of bicycles for children too.A standard cycle cost around Rs 3,600. The hybrid range begins from Rs 4,500 and goes up to Rs 1 lakh.Though gyms opened recently, many people are not going there due to Covid-19 fears. They are rather opting for cycling.Shikhar Goyal, a city resident, said he recently bought a cycle to improve his fitness level. “With gyms and swimming pools remaining closed for a long time, I decided to opt for cycling for my fitness while mainting social distancing.”Another resident Sarabjit Singh said, “We want to stay healthy and maintain social distancing as well, so cycling is definitely a better option.”
13-08-2020||---||DSP bags medal for excellence||Patiala, August 12Bikramjit Singh Brar, the lone decorated cop from Punjab, has been awarded the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for 2020.The award comes following the DSP’s role in investigations leading to the arrest of gangster Sukhpreet Budha, busting illegal nexus of gun house owners and gangsters in which more than 150 weapons were recovered, arrest of Harman Bhullar and six others from Rajasthan, accused of being involved in sensational crimes in Punjab, and recovery of sophisticated automatic arms from terrorist Billa.Earlier this year, he was awarded the President’s Police Medal on Republic Day for his bravery during the encounter against noted gangster Vicky Gounder.A product of Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, Brar has been in the limelight ever since he joined the police force as an ASI, following his tirade against gangsters and his ability to solve many heinous crimes, including a kidnapping bid wherein he led the team to recover the kidnapped child within 24 hours.Brar is posted DSP Mohali these days. His father, Baldev Singh Brar, was posted as SP (Detective), Patiala, when he was shot dead on a morning walk in 1988. “I am honoured to get this award and I do not have enough words to thanks my seniors and colleagues who have always been my strength,” said Brar, one of the most highly protected cops following a threat to his life.
13-08-2020||---||Reverse migration behind fresh spread in Bathinda||Bathinda, August 12The Covid-19 cases in the district are on the rise, with 781 cases having been reported in the past 13 days, taking the total number of cases to 933. More than 300 migrant labourers, who returned to work at Guru Gobind Singh refinery in the district’s Rama Mandi have tested positive. Following this, the refinery authorities directed the workers to defer their plan of coming back until the situation returns to normal.A spokesperson for the refinery said the patients were not the employees of refinery, but were employed by contractors. Besides, none of the patients had entered the refinery’s premises.Meanwhile, six workers of a dhaba located on the Goniana road, and one staffer of a hotel have tested positive for Covid-19. The development has triggered panic among residents. Reportedly, the employees who have tested positive are migrant workers who had returned from their native places recently. Subsequently, the area was declared a micro-containment zone.A large number of cases have also been reported from the cantonment area, police stations, AIIMS and the special jail in the district.The biggest spike in the district was reported on August 6, when 112 patients were tested positive. Later, on Augsut 8, 104 persons were found infected.As now the large numbers of patients are admitted to isolation centers in the district. The administration is facing problems in keeping them calm and making arrangements for them.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “We are taking 1,000 samples every day as against 400 previously. Door-to-door testing with antigen kits in the micro containment zones has been started.”
13-08-2020||---||Cop, aide held for collecting ‘goonda tax’ from truckers||Moga, August 12An ASI of the Punjab Police and his associate, posing as a sales tax inspector, have been arrested for allegedly collecting “goonda tax” from truck drivers ferrying goods during the night at inter-district borders.Confirming this, a senior official of the district police said a case under Sections 384, 419 and 34 of the IPC and Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, had been registered at the Kot-ise-Khan police station against ASI Major Singh, posted at Balkhandi police post, and his accomplice Sukhmandar Singh, a resident of Galauti village.The accused cop has also been suspended from the service and a departmental inquiry has been initiated against him.Sources said the cop and his accomplice had set up a temporary police naka on the Amritsar road near Cheema village on August 10 and stopped two trucks.They asked the drivers to show the tax invoices of the goods. When the truck drivers asked Sukhmandar for his identity card, he refused to show it and instead, forcibly took Rs 800 from each of them. While he took money from the drivers, the ASI stood guard to ensure that the drivers did not create any trouble.AAP spokesman Navdeep Singh Sangha alleged that the police officials at nakas used private manpower to collect bribe so as to escape the law. “The trend has been going on for the past many years,” he alleged, while urging the government to streamline the police functioning at the grass-roots level.
13-08-2020||---||Dhindsa: Takht maryada must be restored||New Delhi, August 12Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who declared himself ‘president’ of a splinter Shiromani Akali Dal group last month, has said he aimed at bringing back the Akali Dal to its original principles and restore the ‘maryada’ of the Akal Takht.He was speaking at a party function on Wednesday where a few Delhi-based Sikh leaders joined his party. Dhindsa, who rebelled against the Sukhbir Badal-led Akali Dal, had another veteran, BS Ramoowalia, with him on the occasion.Dhindsa said the Akal Takht was held in high esteem by the Sikh community. “However, it is now under the control of the Badals. There was a time when the Akal Takht could summon Maharaja Ranjit Singh, but now, Badals have lowered it to such levels that they forced the Akal Takht chief to pardon the head of Dera Sacha Sauda” the Rajya Sabha MP alleged.Tirath Singh, president of Gurdwara Uday Vihar Singh Sabha, along with his supporters joined Dhindsa.
13-08-2020|| ---||Soldier alleges assault by police, probe marked||Ropar, August 12 A constable of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), posted in Kashmir, has alleged that he was thrashed at the Anandpur Sahib police station during the Hola Mohalla festival.   Hardeep Singh claimed that he was let off only after a local intervened and he tendered a written apology to the police. He claimed that the incident left him mentally disturbed. Incidentally, the then SHO Bharat Bhushan had been sent to the Police Lines for allegedly hushing up a rape case.   Hardeep said he had come to his home at Bajrur village on March 9, along with his friends Narinder Singh, Surjeet Singh and Tarlok Singh during. They decided to go to Anandpur Sahib to pay obeisance on the occasion of  Hola Mohalla.  After reaching Anandpur Sahib, Surjeet and Tarlok got separated due to the rush. After some time Hardeep received a call from Tarlok that they had been taken to the police station. He claimed that when he reached the police station, he saw cops thrashing Surjeet.  Hardeep said Tarlok told him that they fell in trouble when Surjeet raised objections over a police jeep blowing hooter. “The police, however, told him that they had misbehaved, so they were being punished,” he said. Hardeep alleged that even when he showed his identity card to the then SHO and requested him to leave Surjeet, he didn’t budge.  “I told him that if Surjeet had done anything wrong he could register a case against him, but thrashing him was not justified,” he added. Hardeep claimed that on this Bharat Bhushan got enraged and ordered other policemen to remove his turban and thrash him. They were let off after signing an apology, he said. Meanwhile, Bharat Bhushan said Hardeep, along with his friends, was involved in hooliganism due to which they were brought to the police station and allowed to leave after he tendered an apology.  SSP Akhil Chaudhary said he had asked the SP  to probe the complaint.
13-08-2020||---||Bathinda students protest as college ‘demands’ fee||Bathinda, August 12Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) today staged a protest outside the main gate of Baba Farid College at Deon village over the demand for fee.The protesters raised slogans against the college management. Members of farmer unions were also present at the protest. Students said the college was demanding fee from them even as physical classes were not taking place.They demanded that the college should take only tuition fee and if any student wants to leave the college, migration fee should not be charged from them.They said if their demands were not met by August 14, they would intensify their protest. Rajinder Singh Dhanoa, Assistant Director, Academics, Baba Farid College, said, “As per the guidelines of the Punjabi University, Patiala, colleges have been asked to start online classes from August 1. So, the management asked the students to take admission and pay the fee.”He said, “We have told students that if they have economic problems, they can submit an application to their class teacher or head of department, so that the management can give them time to pay or even allow them to pay fee in instalments.”
13-08-2020||---||Adopt Delhi model on crop insurance: AAP||Chandigarh, August 12The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has slammed the Punjab as well as the Union Government for “depriving” the farmers of agriculture insurance scheme, accusing the successive state governments of appeasing big corporate houses at the expense of the farmers, who were already facing deep fiscal crisis.Party leaders Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Meet Hayer and Jai Krishan Singh Rouri said both the state and Central governments had adopted an anti-farmer stance over the issue of crop insurance scheme, spelling doom for the beleaguered community.The AAP leaders said depriving the farmers of the crop insurance scheme brought in by the Centre might be a compulsion for the state, but why it had not initiated steps to this effect at its own level during its over three-year tenure?The AAP MLAs stressed that the government of Punjab should formulate a scheme on the lines of the Delhi model, where it paid Rs 20,000 per acre towards compensation to the farmers to offset the cross losses. The Congress had promised to pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 per acre to the affected farmers, but was shelling out a meagre compensation, ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 12,500 per acre, which, they claimed, was also not being paid on time.
13-08-2020||Archit Watts---||One month on, Muktsar fields remain waterlogged||Tribune News Service Muktsar, August 12 Nearly a month after the rain left fields and some places in Muktsar waterlogged, the rainwater has not been drained out yet. Many fields in Udekaran village, located next to Muktsar, are still waterlogged. The district administration has installed some water lifting pumps to drain out the rainwater, but this exercise is taking time. The farmers said if the pumps had been installed some time ago, their crops would have been saved. “The water lifting pumps were installed about five days ago. Now, our crops have decayed. The water-level is receding at a slow pace. There should be some permanent solution for the problem of waterlogging, otherwise we will have to bear losses almost every monsoon season,” said Jagmeet Singh, a farmer. Some people have migrated from the village because their houses are inundated. Jagpreet Singh of Haraj village said, “The administration has not come up with a permanent solution to resolve the problem of waterlogging in villages of the region. Some senior officers should visit the area and prepare a detailed project report.” Avtar Singh, District Revenue Officer, Muktsar, said, “The state government has given the orders for a special ‘girdawari’ within 15 days. The rainwater is being drained out from Udekaran village.” The rainfall on July 21 was recorded at 150 mm.
13-08-2020||Amritsar||Implement SC order on SYL, says Dushyant||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said their government was committed to bringing Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) water to the state.Chautala was in the city today, along with his wife Meghna and youth leader Digvijay Singh Chautala, to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. He said the Supreme Court’s two-year-old verdict on the SYL issue should be implemented. Regarding the declining ground water levels, he said water flowing from India to Pakistan should be put to good use and fulfill the needs of our states.On liquor smuggling, Chautala said the Haryana Government had been taking strong steps to curb it. Whenever a complaint is received in this regard, strict and immediate action is taken. More than 1,250 FIRs have been registered during the lockdown, he added. — TNS
13-08-2020||Bathinda||52-yr-old murdered, two booked||A 52-year-old man was allegedly murdered by a group of men in Balahar Mehma village here. After initial investigation, the Nehianwala police have registered an FIR against two persons.  As per the police, six persons entered the house of Bhola Ram during late night hours on Tuesday, and allegedly started misbehaving with his daughter. When he objected to it, they attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. Beant Kaur, daughter of the deceased, was married, but she was staying at her parents’ home for the past four years.  The son of the deceased, in his statement to the police, said two persons — Harpreet Singh from Rampura Phul and Sureet Singh — tried to kidnap his sister, and when they objected to it, six men attacked them and killed his father. Buta Singh, incharge of Nehianawala police station, said Harpreet Singh and Sureet Singh had been booked under Section 302 and other sections of the IPC and a manhunt had been launched to nab the accused. — TNS
13-08-2020||Our Correspondent||6 hurt as four vehicles collide||Abohar, August 12At least six persons were hurt after four vehicles collided near Khuyiansarwer village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway on Wednesday afternoon.Bajrang Dal activists, who rescued the injured, said a truck coming from the Kashmir valley collided with a canter (mini truck), tractor and a bike.Six persons were injured and shifted to private and government hospitals here. Their condition is stable now.
13-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court paves way for storing  foodgrain at Sangrur site||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has paved way for utilising 4 acres on the Sangrur-Ubhawal road for storing foodgrain kept “in low lying vulnerable area”. The Bench, during the course of arguments, was told that “miscreants” had not allowed the storage “due to some political reasons”.Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted it would be just and appropriate to direct the state and other respondents to ensure storage of foodgrain by Pungrain on the plinth to prevent “great financial loss” to the organisation and the petitioner-owner and also to ensure law and order situation at the site. “This arrangement, however, would be subject to final outcome of the writ petition after hearing all stakeholders...,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh added.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after a petition was filed against the state government and other respondents by owner Sanjay Garg through senior counsel Chetan Mittal, Kunal Mulwani and Sehej Sandhawalia. In his detailed order, Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed that the stand taken by the state and Pungrain appeared to be at variance to some extent. It was despite the fact that Pungrain was also a functionary of the state.Referring to stand taken by Pungrain, Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed the organisation, among other things, stated that it started “utilisation of plinth by taking over and storing foodgrain by way of unloading the trucks”. But, there was a strong protest by the inhabitants of Shiv Nagar Ram Nagar Basti.The state counsel said labour and trucks were requisitioned for the storage of wheat on the plinth on August 6. At the time of loading crates and wheat, some of the labourers were found to be unwell. They were sent to the Civil Hospital for testing samples. “Unless the report is received, the work of loading/unloading was not to be done by the labour union,” the Bench was told.Intervening on behalf of Basti residents, senior counsel Akshay Bhan, submitted the site could not be used for commercial purpose as the change of land use was not obtained by the petitioner from Sangrur Municipal Committee. Mittal submitted the site was situated in Sangrur revenue estate and the petitioner was using it for the “subject purpose” since 1996. The site, as per notified master plan, fell in the industrial area.Before parting with the order, Justice Raj Mohan Singh said the violation in terms of master plan or CLU would be dealt with by the Municipal Council, Sangrur, in accordance with law.
13-08-2020||---||32 Barnala jail inmates among 1,020 new cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 12The state on Wednesday witnessed a record 39 fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the death toll to 675, while 1,020 fresh cases took the state's infection count to 26,909.Thirteen fatalities were reported in Ludhiana, six in Hoshiarpur, four in Patiala, three each in Amritsar and Jalandhar, two each in Mohali, Gurdaspur and Pathankot and one each in Barnala, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur.Indicating another alarming situation, 32 prisoners from a Barnala jail were testive positive today.Civil Surgeon Dr GB Singh said all 32 prisoners were lodged in the same barrack. He said the Health Department was trying to ascertain the source of infection.“The jail authorities are shifting the infected prisoners to Moga. We are conducting contact tracing of all of them,” he said.Ludhiana topped the districts with 229 cases, followed by Jalandhar (130), SAS Nagar (104), Amritsar (85), Patiala (70), Barnala (62) and Gurdaspur (39).At present 142 patients are on oxygen support and 18 are on ventilator support.A total of 422 Covid patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 17,212 people have recovered from the disease.There are 9,022 active cases in the state as of now, according to the Health Department officials.A total of 7,11,260 samples have been taken for testing so far in the state, they said.
13-08-2020||---||Now, Faridkot Maharaja’s grandchildren move Supreme Court||Faridkot, July 12In what seems to be an unending dispute over the property of late Maharaja Harinder Singh of the erstwhile Faridkot estate, his grandchildren have now approached the Supreme Court, challenging the High Court verdict in which a daughter of the late Maharaja was awarded one-third share in the property worth over Rs 25,000 crore.Jai Chand Mehtab and his sister Nisha Kehr, children of late Deepinder Kaur, a daughter of the Maharaja, have challenged the High Court verdict issued about a month ago.After the High Court verdict in her favour, Amrit Kaur had got a criminal case registered against 23 persons, including Jai Chand and Nisha, for forging her father’s will to deprive her of her share in the property.In her complaint, Amrit Kaur had alleged that to plunder and misappropriate her father’s vast properties, Deepinder Kaur and 22 other persons had forged a will and used it to create a Trust. They imposed themselves as office-bearers and their family members and relatives were controlling the Trust for the past over 30 years, plundering the late Maharaja’s properties.Though a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, constituted to investigate the allegations in the FIR, is yet to make a headway, the accused have challenged the High Court verdict. This case is listed for August 13 in the Supreme Court.
13-08-2020||---||Punjab pay panel unlikely to replicate Centre’s model||Chandigarh, August 12Punjab’s sixth pay panel is unlikely to implement pay scales on par with those announced by the Seventh Pay Commission of the Centre.“The comparison between the posts in the state government and in the Central government is not possible. There are different categories of employees in the state and Centre,” Punjab Sixth Pay Commission chairman Jai Singh Gill told The Tribune. Discrepancies in salaries While Punjab employees posted as superintendents, under secretaries and above have higher salaries than Central employees on same posts, those at lower clerical posts have lesser salaries than their Central counterparts.This lays to rest speculation and allays fear among the 7.50 lakh employees and pensioners of Punjab, who were worried about the “lowering of pay scales”. The fears arose after the state government recently announced its decision to make all fresh recruitments in the government on pay scales on par with the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission.Top functionaries in the state Finance Department and government had also hinted earlier that the salaries and wages were on the higher side. Punjab spends almost 45 per cent of its annual revenue on payment of salaries and pensions.Though the pay commission was announced by the previous Akali-BJP government in November 2015, it is still not willing to give a time frame on when its recommendations will be submitted.Even as various employee organisations have launched a state-wide protest, Gill said they were still working on the recommendations.“We have finished meetings with various employee unions and representatives and are still seeking clarification from various departments regarding the posts and pay scales, after some issues had cropped up,” he said. Employees, however, are getting restive. Sukhchain Singh Khera, convener of the Sanjha Mulazzam Manch, an apex body of employee unions, said an inordinate delay in recommending new pay scales had upset employees who had no option but to launch a protest.Official sources said the commission was still not clear on what the base year should be taken for pay revision. Though the Fifth Pay Commission was announced in 2006, the Akali-BJP government had revised the pay scales in 2011, before the state elections of 2012. Enquiries by the panel are being made on why the pay scales were revised in 2011, and how many categories of employees had benefited from it.
13-08-2020||---||Punjab Chief Minister launches Rs 92 crore Smart Connect Scheme||Chandigarh, August 12The Punjab Government today took a digital leap with the statewide launch of its Rs 92 crore Punjab Smart Connect Scheme. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh personally handed over smartphones to six Class XII students in a symbolic gesture.Simultaneous distribution of phones was done at 26 places by various ministers, MLAs and others across the state. Each minister today handed over 20 phones each in various districts, which marked the fulfilment of a poll promise of the Congress.The scheme, for which Rs 100 crore was allocated in the Budget for 2017-18, proposes to benefit 1,74,015 Class XII students of government schools in the first phase, which would be completed by November.The beneficiaries comprise 87,395 boys and 86,620 girls, with majority in the OBC and SC/ST categories. The scheme will help bridge a major divide that was obstructing these students from affordable access to online/digital education.While 36,555 beneficiaries are OBC students, 94,832 are SC and 13 ST students. Most students (1,11,857) are from the rural areas.Capt Amarinder, who launched the scheme through video-conferencing at the Secretariat this afternoon, said people believed in the promises listed in the manifesto and it was his duty to fulfil these.He said in the present situation, smartphones had become a necessity for the continuity of education. He said the phones were planned to be distributed in March, but the process got delayed due to the outbreak of Covid-19.Arshdeep Kaur, Satinder Kaur, Sukhbir Kaur, Amanjot Singh, Ram Singh and Amanveer Singh from various government senior secondary schools of Mohali district said the smartphones they received would provide them with the much-needed access to online education in these difficult times.Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu handed over smartphones to 15 girl students in Mohali, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal gave phones to 39 students in Bathinda and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla distributed cellphones among pupils in Sangrur.
13-08-2020||---||Punjab to have its own scholarship scheme: Channi||Jalandhar, August 12As Dalit students are being denied free admission in colleges under the SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, owing to the prevailing Centre-state differences, Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the state would ensure the maximum benefit to the SC students in pursuing higher education.The minister said a proposal to reintroduce the scheme through the state government would be brought up in the next Cabinet meeting.“We cannot let our Dalit students suffer, owing to the wrongs of the Centre. We are in the process of issuing suitable instructions to the colleges soon, to allow free admissions to the SC students from this year itself. We will try to cover the maximum number of poor SC students in the scheme,” he said.Channi was visiting the district administrative complex here for distributing 15 mobilephones to Class XII students of Government Senior Secondary School, Kartarpur, near here.Hitting out at the SAD-BJP alliance, Channi said, “They have always been anti-Dalit and we intend to launch a protest against their decision to withdraw from the scheme and leave the SC students in a lurch.”
13-08-2020||---||Punjabi university in financial mess, Punjab govt sets up panel||Patiala, August 12The state government has constituted a high-level committee to improve the functioning of the fund-starved Punjabi University, Patiala. The panel will present its findings regarding optimisation of the university’s salary budget, increasing its revenue and rationalisation of staff salaries among other things to improve its overall financial situation.While Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Viswajeet Khanna heads the three-member committee, Secretary, Higher Education Department, Rahul Bhandari, and Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, BS Ghuman are its members. It will also suggest review of courses, rationalisation of faculty and irregular appointments.Salary bill doubled in four yearsDuring a recent meeting chaired by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the issue of mass recruitment on the campus was flagged. Due to recruitments, the salary budget had increased from Rs199 crore in 2015-16 to Rs425 crore in 2019-20.The decision has come after the university failed to take concrete steps to put a check on its financial losses and alleged administrative mismanagement. During a recent meeting chaired by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the issue of mass recruitment on the campus was flagged. Due to recruitments, the salary budget had increased from Rs 199 crore in 2015-16 to a whopping Rs 425 crore in 2019-20. In the same period, the university’s income dropped from Rs 274 crore to Rs 218 crore.The university has 935 teaching staff, 3,344 non-teaching staff and 321 daily wagers.Officials also pointed out that the university had not taken any permission for enhancing salaries of guest faculty or for taking loans from banks.Officials said information regarding the university’s finances, road map for an overhaul and probe reports of alleged previous scams on the campus were demanded from the university through the Secretary, Higher Education.Terming it as interference in the university’s functioning, employees have written to the Governor and CM’s office.However, Bhandari said the information was demanded as per the decisions taken during the meetings called by the Chief Minister and Finance Minister. “The government is funding the university; therefore, it is asking questions for its betterment. Moreover, the information being sought is in accordance with the points discussed during the meetings held by the Chief Minister and the Finance Minister with the VC and other officials,” he said.
13-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||No big fish, only small-time players in police net so far||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 12Instead of going after the big fish responsible for the spurious liquor deaths in Majha, the police and the Excise and Taxation Department have launched a drive against those manufacturing ‘desi’ alcohol, seizing drums of ‘lahan’. To date, the Batala police have arrested eight persons, all small-time players.“We are still investigating. We have been told to arrest the big players too,” a key investigator told The Tribune. Sources said local leaders worked in close liaison with the area SHO because of vote bank politics. The SHOs were well aware of the bootleggers operating in their area, most of whom held a sway over the voters, who were their clients. Significantly, the SHO of the Batala (City) police station was among the first to be suspended after the liquor deaths. Sources claimed he had been appointed to the position on the directions of a powerful minister.The police, however, blamed “archaic laws” for failure to nab the culprits, pointing out that a tanker carrying spurious liquor had been seized recently in the very area where 17 lives were lost. “Exactly 48 hours later, the accused was back in the streets with the supply,” a senior officer said. The Punjab Chief Minister has spoken of the need to revisit the Excise Act enacted in 1914. It seems to have become ineffective.Meanwhile, several persons booked in a dozen cases in Batala continue to sell spurious liquor. Triveni Chauhan and her accomplice Darshana Faujan, the prime accused in the Majha liquor deaths, have escaped punishment several times. Each time they are booked, they go into hibernation for a week or so and are subsequently back in business, “aided by local leaders”, claimed sources.
