13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM meets 5-year-old TikTok sensation Noor||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday met five-year-old TikTok sensation Noorpreet Kaur, alias Noor, along with her sister Jashanpreet Kaur and conveyed wishes to them.Exchanging pleasantries with them at his official residence here, the chief minister offered sweets to the two girls.Patiala MP Preneet Kaur also met Noor and her sister and wished happy Diwali to them.The five-year-old became a TikTok sensation during the lockdown period.Tens of thousands of netizens have come across Noor, dressed as a boy sporting a ‘patka’ who with her cheeky responses and eyerolls became a TikTok star.Happy to have met Noorpreet today with her sister Jashanpreet & her team members Sukhdeep and Varandeep. I am thankful to these kids for using the popularity of their social media profiles to spread awareness regarding #Covid19 precautions. Wishing them and you all Happy Diwali! pic.twitter.com/QFity5W8hl  Noor is actually a girl from Bhinder Kalan village in Moga district.She is known for disseminating social messages subtly, through fun and laughter.Both the sisters were accompanied by Sukhdeep Singh and Varandeep Singh from their native village. The duo records and uploads video clips of Noor on various social media platforms. IANS
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 17 more COVID-19 deaths, 388 new cases||Punjab reported 17 more COVID-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 4,428, while 738 new cases took the state’s infection tally to 1,40,605.There are 5,771 active cases of the disease in the state at present, according to an official bulletin issued here.The places that reported new cases of the infection include Mohali (124), Jalandhar (113) and Ludhiana (85).A total of 388 COVID-19 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the number of recoveries to 1,30,406.Seventeen critical patients are on ventilator support, while 153 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 28,43,699 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it added. PTI
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ talks with Centre constructive: Capt Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh welcomed the positive spirit in which the farmer unions and the Centre held discussions on Friday on the imbroglio over the farm laws and other related issues.Terming it a constructive development, the Chief Minister said the meeting had, for the first time, enabled the two sides to talk in an open environment and hoped it would pave the way for breaking the stalemate on the issue.The fact that both sides came to the table and agreed to find solutions suggests that they had come to a mutual realisation on the need to find solutions to the prolonged crisis triggered by the farm laws, he said.Citing media reports, the Chief Minister hoped the farmer unions' internal discussions on November 18, ahead of another meeting with the Central government on November 21, would help identify the concrete ways and means to thrash out the various points raised at Friday's extensive discussions.Punjab, which has suffered huge financial losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has been badly hit by the current crisis triggered by the Central agricultural laws, said Amarinder Singh, as stressed on the need for urgent resolution of the matter in the interest of the state and all sections of its populace.It is also in the interest of the entire country to settle the differences that have so far prevented the two sides from resolving the crisis, he added. IANS
13-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Man, son killed as bus hits scooter in Punjab||A man and his son were killed and three others injured when a private tourist bus hit a scooter on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway in this district of Punjab on Friday, police said.The accident occurred near Harsi Pind crossing on Jalandhar-Pathankot GT road, they said.Police said after hitting the scooter, the bus driver lost control over the vehicle and it overturned in the middle of the road.Vipan Kumar and his father Kashmiri Lal, riding on the scooter, died on the spot, they said.The father-son duo, residents of Malakpur Bodal, were going to Alampur village from Tanda, police said.Three bus passengers also sustained minor injuries in the accident, police said.After the accident, the bus driver fled leaving the vehicle behind, police said, adding over 33 passengers were travelling in the bus.The tourist bus was bound for Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir from Delhi.A case has been registered in connection with the accident, they said. PTI
13-11-2020||---||Capt writes to Vice-President seeking early polls to Panjab University Senate||Chandigarh, November 13Citing improvement in the state’s Covid situation, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Chancellor of Panjab University, seeking early elections to the university senate, since the inexplicable delay in polling is “causing resentment” among various constituents of the institution.In a DO letter to the Chancellor, the Chief Minister has urged him to advise the Panjab University Administration and the Administration of the Union Territory of Chandigarh for proper and timely conduct of elections to the Senate of the university.Stressing that failure to conduct elections to the University Senate, whose current term ended on October 31, was not only annoying but was also against the canons of any good governance and the law, the Chief Minister said, “There is a substantial resentment among the teachers, professionals, technical members, graduates of the University and representatives of various constituencies for the Senate elections.”Besides, there are legislators from the Punjab State Legislative Assembly and ex-officio members, such as Chief Minister, Education Minister, and DPI (Colleges) of the State, who represent the Government of Punjab, he pointed out, adding that it was hence strongly felt that elections should have been held without any delay.Noting that the University Administration and the Centre felt that the situation was not conducive to holding elections due to the Covid pandemic, Amarinder said the situation had improved and elections to Parliament, Legislative Assemblies, and various other urban and rural local bodies had been held across the nation. “True, there is a need to ensure compliance of the protocol that has been evolved in the last few months to contain the pandemic and there should be no reason for the University administration and even the Administration of Union Territory of Chandigarh or the State Government not to comply with these,” he added.
13-11-2020||New Delhi||Farmer bodies' meeting with Centre ends inconclusively||A meeting between farmers and union ministers to break ended inconclusively on Friday evening, leaders of farmers unions said.Farmers' union leaders met central ministers at Delhi's Krishi Bhavan in an attempt to break a impasse over the controversial farm laws that Parliament had passed in October. The meeting lasted seven hours, but saw no immediate breakthroughs. Union leaders said they will now hold a meeting in Chandigarh on November 18 to decide their next course of action.  Union leaders described the meeting as “positive” and said that the central government said it would consider setting up a committee to look into their demands.Leaders said they would take a decision on allowing passenger trains to operate in the state on November 18.BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said:  “A decision on such an important matter cannot be taken in just one meeting”.“Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar listened to all our issues,”A delegation of union leaders met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash MOS Ministry of Commerce & Industries."Agriculture Minister cordially welcomed the representatives of farmers' organisations of Punjab and briefed about the reforms made in the agriculture sector to empower the farmers. It was emphasised that agriculture is always on the top priority for Government of India to boost rural economy,” an official source said."The new Farm Acts would not only provide freedom of choice to the farmers to sell their produce at remunerative price but also safeguard the interest of farmers,” the source said. Farmers are believed to have kept five demands before the Centre, including revocation of the three Acts, the restoration of rail services in Punjab and withdrawal of the strict laws for burning ‘parali’, which include a jail term and Rs 1 crore fine.Apparently, they also told Railway Minister Piyush Goyal that farmers had vacated the rail tracks, accusing the Centre of economically blockading Punjab.Thirty farmer unions on Thursday decided to attend the meeting with the Centre today but in the same breath demanded that the three agriculture laws be revoked.Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of Krantikari Kisan Union said it had been decided that thousands of farmers from Punjab would now move to gherao Delhi in tractors on November 26-27.Farmer leaders also demanded the state government immediately release the long-pending dues of cane growers.“The neighbouring state of Haryana has increased the state advised price (SAP) of cane to Rs 350 per quintal, while the cane price has remained static in Punjab in the past three years. We demand that we be given a similar raise. The state government, too, is ignoring the farmers,” said Harmeet Singh Qadian, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Qadian).The representatives of farmer unions are also demanding a cut in diesel tax in the wake of a drop in prices of crude oil.Meanwhile, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre would hold another round of discussion with farmers.He also said that train services will resume after the state government and protesting farmer unions assure the safety of the tracks.
13-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Bhog of veteran Akali leader Major Singh Uboke held||Prem Singh Chandumajra remembered Uboke for his services to the Sikh community and general masses. Prominent among those present on the occasion were Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri (Tarn Taran) and Harminder Singh Gill (Patti), both Congress MLAs; Virsa Singh Valtoha, SAD district president; Gurchet Singh Bhullar, former Congress minister; Bhai Ranjit Singh, former Akal Takht jathedar; Bhai Manjit Singh and Khushwinder Singh Bhatia (both SGPC members); and Subeg Singh Dhunn, chairman of the local market committee. OC
13-11-2020||From being the food bowl of India to a state that is embracing ecotourism and adventure||Welcome to new Punjab!||
13-11-2020||It’s been months since Navjot Singh Sidhu was replaced on The Kapil Sharma Show by Archana Puran Singh. The cricketer-turned-politician left the show in 2019||Kapil Sharma meets Navjot Singh Sidhu in Amritsar||Kapil took to Instagram and shared a series of photos clicked at Sidhu’s home. Kapil wrote, “Meeting @navjotsinghsidhupaji n eating #pranthas after a long time #amritsar… thank you for all your love n extra-large meals paji.”Even Sidhu shared a few photos on his Instagram page and wrote, “Kapil the genius comes calling with dear friends Deepak, Rishi and Gurjot.” Sidhu and Kapil’s association goes back to the time when Sidhu was also a judge on The Great Indian Laughter Challenge, a stand-up comedy show, which was won by Kapil Sharma.
13-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Watery, itchy eyes? Blame it on farm fires||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 12It’s been quite a few days when city residents are waking up to a thick blanket of smog. Driving, especially for two-wheeler riders, has become a task. Two-wheeler riders were the worst hit on Thursday, as most of them said they faced a burning sensation in their eyes.Some said their eyes had become watery after sitting out in the open for a short while.Divya Sethi, a young city woman, said: “I was out with my two friends for some work on my scooter. We went around the city just for 30 minutes in the afternoon. When we reached home, all of us felt a lot of discomfort, with our eyes getting watery for good 5-10 minutes. We got relief only after we washed our eyes.” Experts blame it largely on allergens and pollutants.As per the data of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, farm fires have been on the rise since the past three years from September 21 to November 11 (Kharif season). As per the satellite data, there were only 1,081 farm fires in 2018 in Jalandhar district. The figure jumped to 1,512 in 2019 and 1,749 this year. The data clearly shows that the attempts of the Agriculture Department and the PPCB to raise awareness against stubble burning have fallen flat so far.In Kapurthala, there were 652 farm fires in 2018, which rose to 1,333 in 2019 and further up to 1,616 this year. Even Hoshiarpur saw a steady rise from 168 incidents in 2018 to 295 in 2019 and 399 cases this year. Nawanshahr has so far been the only district of Doaba, which has seen a fall in the number of farm fire cases. There were 207 fire incidents in 2018 in Nawanshahr, which increased to 265 in 2019 and have remained low at 190 this year.Environmentalist Balbir S Seechewal said: “I fail to understand why farmers are hell bent on destroying the soil of their own fields, killing farmer friendly organisms and affecting the health of their own family and children by continuing to set their fields on fire. I also fail to understand why families are still buying crackers from the market when our whole atmosphere is getting suffocated due to smog. Why can’t people, who think they have surplus money to waste on crackers, use it for planting trees and for the welfare of needy? We have lived in a confinement for months owing to Covid. Why do farmers and others want to go into a yet another self-inflicted confinement due to pollution that, too, in the times of a pandemic?”
13-11-2020||---||Curtailed fireworks display at Golden Temple this Diwali||Amritsar, November 12Following the guidelines to curb pollution, the SGPC has decided to reduce the span of traditional display of firecrackers and also arranged special eco-friendly crackers to celebrate “Bandi Chhor Diwas” (Diwali) at the Golden Temple.Normally, fireworks take place at four spots in the Golden Temple complex — two locations close to Ghanta Ghar and one each near Sikh Reference Library and Darshani Deodhi.Sparing a thought for the pollution aspect, the SGPC had replaced the traditional lights by introducing hi-tech lights in 2017. However, there was no substitute to traditional fireworks that were famous worldwide. Moreover, this tradition also could not be discontinued keeping in view its association with Sikh religious occasions, be it Gurpurbs or Diwali.Though a proposal was mooted to replace the firecracker show with a laser technique having identical effects, it could not kick off.Earlier, this famous show lasted for 30 minutes that was reduced to half since 2017.Golden Temple’s manager Mukhtiar Singh said the firecrackers’ show at the Golden Temple complex would only be a symbolic gesture to mark the occasion this time.“The firecracker show will be there for 5-7 minutes only to mark the occasion. We have arranged specially designed low-decibel crackers from New Delhi. These emit negligible smoke,” he said.
13-11-2020||---||16 licences, 80 cracker sellers in Bathinda!||Bathinda, November 12The district administration has issued licences to only 16 shopkeepers for setting up firecracker stalls at designated Multipurpose Sports Stadium in the city, but almost 80 stalls have been put up there in violation of norms.Not caring about the rules and regulations, most stall owners have not arranged for water, sand buckets, fire extinguishers, blankets and other material required under the safety norms.The cracker sellers seem least bothered about action by the administration or the police. However, the presence of a large number of sellers at the stadium has raised a question mark over the working of the administration and the police.Following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the administration had decided to issue the same number of licences for the sale of crackers as were issued last year, but it seems that the directions have gone up in smoke and that too directly under the nose of the district administration.The stall owners, who have got the licence through a draw, today alleged that on paper licences had been given for stalls to 16 persons only, whereas a large number of sellers without any valid licence had been given space illegally at the stadium.“This is not a new phenomenon here. Most of the cracker sellers never get a licence. You may term it an illegal business, but this is the way firecracker market is run here every year,” said a wholesale dealer of crackers running his business without a licence.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “A total of 34 licences have been issued in the district for firecrackers stall.” When asked how a large number of stalls had come up in the stadium, he said he would get it checked.
13-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to state over surveillance registers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked Directors-General of Police of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to specify whether surveillance registers, carrying names of “bad characters”, are being reviewed continuously.The direction came after Justice Amol Rattan Singh was told that the High Court had in 2005 ordered the forwarding of copies of its order to the police chiefs of the two states and the UT for further transmission to the district police chiefs, with a direction to re-examine the surveillance registers maintained in the police stations. The High Court had then expressed hope that the process would be completed within two months.Taking a note of the submissions in this regard by advocate Navkiran Singh, Justice Amol Rattan Singh also asked the DGPs to state whether the direction issued by the Division Bench 15 years ago had been complied with. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Jaswinder Singh filed a petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents. Appearing on his behalf, Navkiran Singh contended that the petitioner’s name appeared in a surveillance register maintained at the Rawalpindi police station in Kapurthala district.Navkiran Singh contended that the petitioner was acquitted more than 30 years ago in the criminal cases registered against him. As such, the entry in the surveillance register, showing him to be a bad character even today, was illegal.Issuing a notice of motion to the state and other respondents, Justice Amol Rattan Singh also directed the Kapurthala SSP to file own affidavit in response to the petition. The officer was directed to specifically state as to why the petitioner’s name continued to be in the surveillance register, in view of the contentions raised by his counsel. The case will now come up in November last week.File affidavit, SSP told
13-11-2020||Rajneesh Lakhanpal||Appear in person in fraud case, local court tells NRI woman||Ludhiana, November 12A local court has asked an NRI bride to appear in person and face prosecution in an alleged case of cheating and fraud with her Australian husband hailing from Ludhiana.According to the FIR, Sukhdeep Kaur Sharma, a resident of Perth Western, Australia, intentionally married Vaibhav Sharma, an NRI having Australian citizenship, with the motive to permanently settle in the country. After getting the permanent residency, she allegedly harassed, humiliated and blackmailed Vaibhav to extort money and extended threats for falsely implicated him in criminal cases before leaving him alone.The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Prabhjot Singh Kaleka has issued a notice for service on Sukhdeep through the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of External Affairs in an FIR lodged at the NRI police station, Ludhiana.The court held: “You (Sukhdeep) have been charged with an offence punishable under Section 420 of the IPC for committing cheating and fraud with Vaibhav Sharma, a resident of New Kitchlu Nagar, Ludhiana, at present residing in Australia, besides mental agony and trauma having been caused by you to the complainant.“Your presence is required for further investigation.”‘Deserting’ husband after getting PR
13-11-2020||---||24 ambulances flagged off||Chandigarh, November 12To ensure prompt emergency services to patients during the pandemic, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today flagged off 24 basic life support ambulances.The minister said to reduce the shortage of ambulances in government hospitals, the Punjab Government had approved the procurement of 100 more ambulances. Of these, 61 had been procured Force Motors and 20 from Tata Motors.In the first phase, 77 ambulances were procured from SML ISUZU Ltd. in keeping with the ‘Make in Punjab’ policy. Now, all 22 districts have advanced life support ambulances, equipped with life-saving equipment such as ventilator, defibrillator, multi-para patient monitor, suction machine, nebuliser, etc.The ambulances had proved to be critical in the fight against the pandemic, reducing the time required for transit of critical patients to the health facilities. At a time when the number of patients was expected to rise, the addition of new ambulances would further boost the efforts in fighting the pandemic.
13-11-2020||---||Srivastava is BBMB Chairman||Chandigarh, November 12 Sanjay Srivastava, an eminent engineer from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), has joined as the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) Chairman. The board is responsible for power generation as well as regulating water for irrigation in the region. An alumnus of JC Bose University, Faridabad, and Delhi Technical University, Srivastava is an engineering services 1987 batch officer from the Central Power Engineering Services cadre. In his 32 years of service, Srivastava has been part of many mega hydro-electric projects in India and Bhutan, including those at Nathpa Jhakri, Tehri, Koteshwar, Rampur and Tala. He has been part of several technical committees on hydropower generation, equipment failure investigation and cyber security issues.
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Status quo stays on land possession: High Court||Coming to the rescue of around 60 residents of Khant village in Khamano tehsil of Fatehgarh Sahib district, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the continuation of status quo regarding possession of their land.The interim order will remain in force at least till February 18 — the next date of hearing in the matter.Their land, on which houses, shops and other structures were constructed, was under acquisition for the widening of National Highway No. 95 on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh section. The Bench had initially ordered status quo regarding possession on October 16.As the petition filed against the arbitrator-cum-commissioner and other respondents by Raghvir Singh and 59 other petitioners through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri came up for resumed hearing, the state and another counsel sought time for filing replies to the contentions. Taking note of the submission, Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu directed the continuation of the interim order.Appearing for the petitioners through videoconferencing, Bagri had earlier contended basic amenities, one-time payment of Rs 5 lakh per affected family, jobs, subsistence allowance of Rs 3,000 per month for a year, one-time settlement allowance of Rs 50,000, transportation costs for displaced families, financial assistance for cattle shed, petty shops, schools, etc. were required to be provided.It was covered under second and third schedule of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.The respondents were also bound to pass resettlement award under second and third schedule of the Act simultaneously. But both requirements had not been complied with by the respondents. — TNSinterim Relief for Khamano villagers
13-11-2020||---||State put on notice in Balwinder murder case||Chandigarh, November 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the State of Punjab and the Union of India on notice on a petition filed by the wife of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into his murder.Directions were also issued to the Punjab DGP to protect life and liberty of the petitioner in case he found threat perception to her life.Petitioner Jagdish Kaur Sandhu through counsel Pradeep Virk contended the direction was being sought following apprehension that some Punjab Police officials were involved with anti-social elements. As such, fair investigation would not be conducted.Virk contended all activities were part of a much larger conspiracy. Otherwise, how was it possible that the security was withdrawn almost simultaneously when killers were hired to get the petitioner’s husband killed. The withdrawal of security has its own procedure, based on evaluation of threat perception, he added.Virk submitted Balwinder Singh and his family stood neck-high against militancy. Resultantly, they were attacked multiple times in 1990-91 by militants.“On some occasions, more than 200 terrorists attacked at once and the petitioner and her family fought with all their bravery and never turned their back to such attacks,” Virk added.
13-11-2020||---||692 more test +ve||Chandigarh, November 12The state reported 692 cases, including 23 deaths, in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,39,869 and number of deaths to 4,412.In the district-wise breakup of cases, SAS Nagar continued to top the chart with 132 cases, followed by Ludhiana (88), Patiala (84), Jalandhar (74) and Bathinda (53). Besides, 134 patients are on oxygen and 17 are on ventilator. Patiala topped the chart with four deaths, followed by Ferozepur (3), Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar, Pathankot, Ropar and Bathinda (2 each), and Sangrur and Muktsar (1 each).
13-11-2020||chandigarh||Punjab Government releases Rs 405 cr to clear pending payments under various schemes||The Punjab Government on Thursday released Rs 405.34 crore towards payment of various schemes and development projects, including a sum of Rs 197.46 crore for social security pensions/other financial assistance schemes.The Rs 197.46 cr will be disbursed among nearly 25.57 lakh beneficiaries, including elderly, widow and destitute women, dependent children and disabled, for October.A sum of Rs 64.19 crore has been released on account of midday meals and Rs 18.36 crore for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) schemes.Similarly, Rs 15.15 crore will be given in salary to staff under the scheme for setting up of memorials, besides Rs 15.12 crore for clearing pending bills under centrally sponsored and Nabard schemes. — TNS
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Speak for farmers: Randhawa to Sunny Deol||Taking a strong exception to the remarks made by Gurdaspur Member of Parliament Sunny Deol with regard to the farmers’ protest against the farm laws, Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today asked the filmstar-turned-politician to come out of the reel life to know the ground realities. He advised him to raise his ‘dhai kilo ka hath’ in favour of the beleaguered farmers.Randhawa said it had been five months since farmers started their protest, but the BJP MP was toeing the line of the Central Government instead of venturing out in support of the farmers.He alleged the MP had stabbed the people of his constituency, especially the farmers, labourers and arhtiyas, who had reposed faith in him by electing him. — TNS
13-11-2020||Amritsar||Observe ‘black Diwali’, protesters urge traders||Intensifying their agitation against the farm laws, farmers today approached the shopkeepers of Hall Bazar, convincing them to observe “black Diwali” tomorrow. Under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, they held protest outside the Hall Gate and distributed black flags to traders, requesting them to erect the flags on their shops and sensitise their customers also to follow the suit. Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said there was no scope of holding the talks with the Centre as the suspension of freight trains had hit the state hard. The traders and general public had been affected due to the confrontational move of the Central Government. “The way invitation was sent appeared to be not in good intention. On the invitation, it was mentioned as if only the Punjab farmers were protesting when the truth is over 100 farmer organisations have been contesting the farm laws. If the intentions were good, all farmer unions should have been invited for a dialogue and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have taken a lead in this direction. So, we have decided not to accept the proposal,” he said. — TNS
13-11-2020||Bathinda||BJP leader writes to PM, wants rail link for Damdama Sahib||BJP leader Mohan Lal Garg has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, demanding a rail link to Takht Shri Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo.He said a few years ago a survey was conducted by the Railways to connect Damdama Sahib but the project was lying abandoned for unknown reasons. He said Damdama Sahib being the fifth takht of Sikhs was of utmost important for all religions, especially Sikhs, as lakhs of devotees visited the shrine every year but due to non-connectivity of railways faced problems.He demanded a fresh survey to be conducted to connect Talwandi Sabo with Bathinda in the interest of public.In 2013, then Union Railways Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal had announced in the Budget that Damdama Sahib would be connected with the rail link but after a survey nothing further materialised due to opposition from farmers where the track was to be laid.In February 2013, during the UPA-2 regime, Bansal had sanctioned a 34-km track from Maur to Rama Mandi via Talwandi Sabo, connecting the Takht in Bathinda. After conducting a location survey in 2015, the Railways officials had handed over a report to the state government in August 2016, but since then the matter has seen no progress.Damdama Sahib is the only takht that is not connected with a rail link. All other takhts — Harmandar Sahib, Kesgarh Sahib, Hazur Sahib (Nanded) and Patna Sahib — have rail connectivity. Devotees coming here have to first reach Bathinda on train and from there they have to hire a cab or bus for 30 km to reach the gurdwara. Besides, the rail link to Talwandi Sabo is crucial due to the presence of a thermal plant in the area. — TNS
13-11-2020||---||Cong readying for poll battle: Harish Rawat||Chandigarh, November 12With reports of the BJP setting its eyes on Punjab after the Bihar Assembly elections, the state Congress is readying itself for a poll battle, keeping in mind the saffron party’s strategy to “divide the vote bank” of its opponents.AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat, who ended his three-day tour of Punjab on Thursday, said the Congress leadership in the state was well aware of the parties that could eat into its vote share among Dalits and urban Hindus.Accusing Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM of denting the vote bank of the RJD-Congress alliance in the Bihar elections, Rawat said the BJP could use similar tactics in the next Punjab Assembly elections.Denying that the Congress was in favour of midterm polls in Punjab, he said the Congress government would complete its term and was in the process of implementing many important decisions.The state-funded SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme and more focus on development work in urban areas are the part of the party’s move to address the aspirations of its voters. “But if the BJP forces midterm poll on us, Capt Amarinder Singh-led government is ready to face it,” said Rawat.In reply to a charge that the Congress by supporting farmers agitation was addressing Jat voters, Rawat said the new farm laws affected the entire state and country, not just one community. “To ensure that the urban voters do not feel neglected amid the farmers’ stir, more funds are being made available for urban development,” he said.
13-11-2020||---||Now, fine for illegal groundwater extraction||Chandigarh, November 12Unauthorised extraction of groundwater without mandatory permission in the state would now attract a penalty between Rs 8 and Rs 22 per cubic metre per day.The regulation forms part of the draft groundwater guidelines prepared by the Punjab Water Regulatory and Development Authority (PWRDA), inviting public objection by December 17 before the guidelines are notified.The guidelines say the PWRDA would give permission in over-exploited zones, subject to stringent water conservation measures or heavy charges. Earlier, the Central Ground Water Board (CGBW) had stopped permission for expansion and new units in the over-exploited zones.The extraction of groundwater for agriculture, drinking and domestic usage has been exempt from the provisions. It has been proposed for volumetric charge of groundwater extraction and based on water meters to be installed by all users.To give relief to micro, small and medium enterprises, slab rates have been proposed, with minimal rates for small volumes of groundwater extracted up to 10 cubic metres per day.The state has been divided into green, yellow and orange zones. The highest groundwater charges would apply to the orange zone, which is the most water stressed and the lowest charges would be in the green zone.Those opting for implementing water conservation measures would be eligible for a water conservation rebate in the charges.The gross charges range from a minimum of Rs 4 per cubic metre in green zone for the volume up to 10 cubic metre per day to a maximum of Rs 22 per cubic metre in the orange zone for the volume exceeding 100 cubic metre per day.
13-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna---||Short on fertilisers, Punjab stares at bigger agri crisis||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 12 Punjab could be staring at a much bigger crisis in its agrarian economy, if it does not get the much-needed fertilisers for the wheat crop immediately. As farmers stare at a severe shortage, in the wake of suspension of rail services in the state and rakes of fertilisers stuck outside, they are resorting to desperate measures to ensure a steady supply. From buying urea at much higher rates (Rs 325-350 per kg against cost of Rs 265) to rushing to neighbouring states of Haryana and Rajasthan, farmers are desperately trying to ensure that their wheat crop is cultivated successfully. The state immediately needs huge quantities of urea and diammonium phosphate (DAP) for the wheat crop, sowing of which has already started. Wheat is expected to be cultivated on almost 35 lakh hectares in the state. Punjab needs almost 19 lakh quintals of DAP and 8 lakh tonnes of urea for this wheat season. “DAP is used at the time of sowing, while urea is to be applied three weeks after sowing — from next week onwards,” says JS Mahal, Director, Extension, Punjab Agriculture University. Agriculture experts warn that the delay in the use of fertilisers for the wheat crop could adversely impact its yield. If the fertilisers are not made available immediately, the low wheat yield will have a spiraling effect on the state’s agriculture-based economy, which has already been hit hard by the Covid-induced lockdown. Anirudh Tiwari, Financial Commissioner, Development, also conducted a meeting today to assess the fertiliser situation. Agriculture Commissioner BS Sidhu told The Tribune if the train services were not resumed immediately, the state farming operations would be adversely hit. “We are holding parleys with the Railway Board, urging them to concede to the state government’s demand for allocating rakes of fertilisers at the earliest,” he said. Though over 57,000 metric tonnes of urea is available in the state — at the two plants of National Fertilizers Limited in Bathinda and Ropar — there is panic among farmers as sowing of wheat has already started. The urea from these plants is being supplied rather slowly, because of the rail services being suspended and low availability of trucks, which are currently engaged in transporting paddy from the mandis. Against a daily demand of 3,000 metric tonnes, only one-third is actually being supplied to the market.
13-11-2020||---||Operations to resume in Punjab after tracks cleared: Rlys||Moga, November 12Officials of the Railways are hopeful of running the goods and passenger trains in Punjab after the complete vacation of railway tracks and stations by farmers in the Ferozepur Division. There have been reports that groups of farmers are still protesting near tracks and railway stations at many places in the state.A deputation of the farm organisations will be meeting representatives of the Centre tomorrow after which trains are expected to run after a gap of over seven weeks. Due to the agitation started by farmers from September 24, some of the special trains running from the Ferozepur Division have been cancelled and some are being run with partial cancellation due to which passengers are facing a lot of trouble.Meanwhile, Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal said even after the resumption of the trains they would have to follow precautions in view of the pandemic as per the guidelines of the Centre.After the pandemic, the Railways started AC special train services across the country from May 12 and 200 trains from June 1. To provide convenience to passengers on the occasion of festivals, 196 pairs of “festival special” trains are being operated between October 20 and November 30. But in Punjab such special trains could not be run due to the farmers’ agitation.Aggarwal said on the commencement of normal rail operations, certain steps would be taken by the Ferozepur Division to deal with excessive passenger traffic or congestion due to the festival season and to avoid Covid-19.Regarding festival specials and special trains, there will be continuous announcements on display boards and public address system. Additional security personnel will be deployed to control the line arrangement and passengers to avoid congestion at the station.
13-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Paddy lifting affected as gunny bags in short supply||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 12The shortage of gunny bags at purchase centres has hit paddy procurement in the region, leaving both farmers and commission agents worried.With the freight train service suspended due to the farmers’ protest, the Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Department has fallen short of gunny bales (one bale has 500 bags) for the ongoing procurement. Sources said more than 1,000 containers of gunny bales were stuck on railway tracks in and around Delhi.“I have been at the mandi for the past six days. My produce is dry and within the prescribed moisture limit, but it hasn’t been procured due to lack of gunny bags,” said Makhan Singh, a farmer at Teona village in Bathinda.As most bags were sourced from West Bengal, order had to be placed in advance to ensure supplies arrived in time. Punjab is the largest purchaser of jute bags every rabi and kharif season. Krishan Kumar, a gunny bag trader, said: “There is a shortage of gunny bags as the state government has increased the quota for rice millers to use gunny bags from 50 per cent (previous season) to 70 per cent. As jute mills in West Bengal remained shut during the lockdown, the supply was low this season.”BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district president Shingara Singh Mann said: “The shortage of gunny bags is reported during the procurement season every year. Why can’t the state government place orders in advance?”
13-11-2020||---||Now, bid for fancy numbers from home||Chandigarh, November 12The Punjab Government has introduced a user-friendly e-auction policy in the Transport Department for reserved numbers (known as fancy numbers) thereby exempting people from visiting the registering authority office.Transport Minister Razia Sultana said the e-auction of fancy numbers would be done through the Vahan 4.0 web application. She said the department had introduced the e-auction process to make all reserved numbers available to the public 24X7 across the whole week. Sultana said the registration for participation in the e-auction would open on every Sunday for three days (Sunday to Tuesday).After the start of the e-auction, bidding for the numbers would take place on the subsequent two days (Wednesday and Thursday), she said, adding that the payment period for the successful bidder would be two days (till Saturday midnight) on the online e-auction platform. She said the facility would be available on gazetted holidays also.To participate in the e-auction and to further ensure transparency of the bidding process, there would be a non-refundable registration fee of Rs 1,000 for each reserved number. The results of successful as well as unsuccessful bidders would be uploaded on the Vahan website and successful bidder would be informed through SMS and email.
13-11-2020||---||Farmer unions agree to meet Centre today||Chandigarh, November 12Thirty farmer unions today decided to attend the meeting with the Centre on Friday but in the same breath demanded that the three agriculture laws be revoked.The main agenda of the meeting with Union Agriculture Minister NS Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal will be to end the “economic blockade” of Punjab by restarting the rail services. “This will be a primary meeting... we don’t think that much will come out of one meeting,” Harmeet Singh Qadian, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Qadian).Speaking on behalf of the unions that are jointly protesting against the farm laws, Qadian said the very fact that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had withdrawn from the meeting and that the Centre (using the Delhi Police) had denied farmers permission to hold a protest in Delhi on November 26-27, showed the Centre’s intent.Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of Krantikari Kisan Union said it had been decided that thousands of farmers from Punjab would now move to gherao Delhi in tractors on November 26-27.“We will light mashal (torches) on Diwali, as a sign of our sangharsh (protest),” he said, adding that the festival of lights would be celebrated, rejecting the call to observe “black Diwali”.Farmer leaders also demanded the state government immediately release the long-pending dues of cane growers. “The neighbouring state of Haryana has increased the state advised price (SAP) of cane to Rs 350 per quintal, while the cane price has remained static in Punjab in the past three years. We demand that we be given a similar raise. The state government, too, is ignoring the farmers,” said Qadian.The representatives of farmer unions will also be demanding from the Centre that taxes on diesel be reduced, in the wake of a drop in prices of crude oil to benefit the farming community.State representative to attend the meetingOn the insistence of the Central Government, the Punjab Government is sending Agriculture Commissioner BS Sidhu as its representative to take part in the meeting.
13-11-2020||Our Correspondent||2 held with illegal pistol, cartridges||Abohar, November 12Two persons were arrested for possessing an illegal pistol and cartridges near Deengarh village on the Haryana border in Sangria area of Hanumangarh late last night.SHO Inder Kumar said ASI Vijay Inder Kumar of Dhaban police outpost intercepted a car near Deengarh village.On search, Paramjeet Singh, alias Kala, (38) of Desu Malkana village in Sirsa and Jasbir Singh, alias Rinku, (30) of Bathinda were found carrying a pistol besides cartridges.Paramjeet, who is facing 15 criminal cases in Punjab and Haryana, is an accused in a double-murder case at Raman Mandi in Bathinda district. Jasbir Singh, too, is facing several cases. A court today remanded them in police custody till November 15.The police will investigate whether both had gone to Rajasthan after committing a crime in Punjab or Haryana.In another raid, Milkha Singh of Bhagatpura village was nabbed with 5 litre illicit liquor and two live cartridges.Also, the police in Abohar seized 500 gm opium from Paramjeet Singh Pamma of Chak 4B village after he was intercepted while riding a bike on the Abohar-Killianwali link road.
13-11-2020||---||Gurlal Brar Murder: ‘Bambiha group wanted to avenge Lavi Deora’s murder’||Chandigarh, November 12The Davinder Bambiha group wanted to take revenge for Lavi Deora’s murder from the Lawrence Bishnoi group following which Gurlal Brar was gunned down by assailants outside a mall in the Industrial Area, revealed the interrogation of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba.Deora was killed in July 2017 at Kotkapura, allegedly by members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.Baba revealed the names of two shooters, Neeraj, alias Chaska, and Mani, alias Maan, both residents of Jaito in Faridkot, who had shot Brar.Baba was brought on a production warrant from the Sangrur jail to interrogate his role in the Brar murder case. Baba was confronted with Sukhpreet Singh, alias Budda, who was also brought on a production warrant to probe his role in the Surjit murder case that was reported earlier this year in Sector 38 (West).The police said during confrontation, Budda also corroborated the version of Baba that Gurlal Brar was shot dead by Neeraj and Mani, on the directions of Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, and Vinay Deora, who are members the Bambiha group.“The gangsters have revealed that Lavi Deora, younger brother of Vinay Deora, was allegedly shot dead by members of the Lawrence group. They claimed that Gurlal Brar was one of the suspects. However, he was not arrested by the Punjab Police following which they took the revenge by killing Brar,” said a police official.During Baba’s interrogation, the police managed to recover three weapons on his disclosure. “Two .32 bore pistols and a country-made pistol were recovered from near a nullah in the Industrial Area following which another case under the Arms Act has been registered against him,” said DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh.The police said Baba, before getting arrested in 2018, had bought a large consignment of arms and ammunition from Madhya Pradesh to take revenge from the Bishnoi gang.According to the police, both Bambiha group and Bishnoi gang were operating an extortion racket in the tricity. “The Bishnoi gang wanted to operate alone, which had further deepened the enmity between the two gangs, which is another reason behind the attack on members of the Bishnoi gang, including Brar,” the police added.Baba had over 50 cases against himOver 50 cases of murder, attempt to murder and other heinous offences were registered against Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh.
