14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 70 more COVID-19 deaths, 2,496 new cases||Seventy-more coronavirus-related fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,424 in Punjab on Monday, while the infection tally rose to 82,113 with 2,496 fresh cases, according to a medical bulletin.Fourteen deaths were reported from Ferozepur, 11 from Ludhiana, six each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala and five each from Gurdaspur, Kapurthala and Jalandhar.Three deaths were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, two each from Mohali and Sangrur and one each from Bathinda, Faridkot, Moga, SBS Nagar and Muktsar, the medical bulletin said.The new cases have been reported from Mohali (408), Patiala (387), Ludhiana (307), Amritsar (281), Jalandhar (261), Rupnagar (100) and Pathankot (98), among others.There are 20,690 active cases in the state at present, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,463 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection. So far, 58,999 people have been cured of the contagion in the state.Eighty-five critical patients are on ventilator support, while 544 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 14,10,759 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
14-09-2020||---||Farm ordinances: Punjab CM denies Centre’s claim of state being on board||Chandigarh, September 14Categorically rejecting the Centre’s claim that Punjab was taken on board before the promulgation of the anti-farmer Ordinances presented in Parliament on Monday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday urged the Prime Minister not to go ahead with their legislation and also announced that he will lead an 11-member delegation of his party on Wednesday to submit a memorandum to the Governor against the dangerous Ordinances.Besides the Chief Minister, the delegation will include Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar along with some ministers and MLAs of the party, an official spokesperson said.The decision to meet the Governor came after the BJP-led central government presented the three controversial Ordinances in Parliament for legislation despite strong protests by farmers in various states, including Punjab. The Chief Minister also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him not to pursue the Ordinances and also to make MSP a statutory right of the farmers. He urged the Prime Minister not to disappoint the people and farmers of Punjab and favourably consider their request not to go ahead with the Ordinances, which are not in the interest of the farmers.Meanwhile, asserting that his government had been consistently opposing the so-called reforms brought in by the Ordinances, the Chief Minister said, in a statement, that at no point did Punjab endorse any such move, contrary to what was being projected by the central government. In fact, the Ordinances were not discussed even once at the sole meeting of the high-powered committee held after Punjab was made a member, he added.Reacting to the statement made in Parliament today by Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Raosaheb Patil Danve, that the high-powered committee on agriculture had decided on the Ordinances after due consideration by all member states, Amarinder termed it as irresponsible since Punjab never supported any such move, nor was it consulted before the promulgation of the Ordinances.The clandestine manner in which the Ordinances were introduced clearly showed that the central government had no intention of protecting the interests of the farmers but was bent on implementing the report of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had recommended the gradual withdrawal of MSP and dismantling of FCI, said the Chief Minister.The Ordinances are not acceptable to Punjab, said Amarinder, adding that these are also anti-federal as agriculture is a state subject.
14-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi environment minister calls crucial meeting ahead of stubble burning season||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will hold a crucial meeting with senior officials on Tuesday to discuss ways to deal with extreme levels of pollution in the city in winters, officials said.They said the minister will review progress of the annual plantation exercise. The issue of stubble burning in neighbouring states will also be taken up during the meeting.The Delhi government has set a target of planting 31 lakh saplings during the year 2020-21.Around 19 lakh saplings have already been planted in the city by various agencies since March this year, according to government data.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana contributed significantly to air pollution in Delhi last year with the share of farm fire smoke in particulate matter peaking to 44 per cent in November.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it.Haryana produced seven million tonnes of paddy residue last year, of which 1.23 million tonnes was burnt.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. PTI
14-09-2020||---||Mohali district sees 8 more deaths due to Covid, 274 fresh cases||Chandigarh, September  14Mohali district on Monday witnessed eight more deaths due to Covid and recorded 274 fresh cases.The death toll in the district has gone up to 142.Mohali urban recorded 99 new cases, Kharar-38, Gharuan-46, Dhakoli- 50, Dera Bassi-29, Lalru-8 and Banur-4.As many as 204 patients have recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours.A 75-year-old female, also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, from Kharar died in GMCH, Patiala; 52-year-old female, also diabetic, from Ghogha village, Kharar, died in Shalby; 30-year-old female from Nayagaon died in PGI; 68-year-old-male from Derabassi died in Mehar Hospital, Zirakpur; 81-year-old male from Sunny Enclave died in Fortis, Mohali; 84-year-old female from Mohali died in Shalby; 62-year-old male from Kharar died in Amar Hospital; 31-year-old male from Dharamgarh died in GMCH 32.Total positive cases to date stand at 6,937. Of these 2,289 are active and 4,506 patients have recovered.
14-09-2020||New Delhi||SC to hear ex-Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini’s plea for anticipatory bail on Tuesday||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday take up an anticipatory bail plea filed by former Punjab Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini---an accused in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case.Saini’s petition is listed for hearing before a three-judge Bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhas Reddy and Justice MR Shah as item number 27.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi is likely to appear for Saini who had moved an anticipatory bail petition in the Supreme Court last week to avoid his imminent arrest. Police have been conducting raids at various hideouts to nab him.Saini has challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s September 7 order dismissing his anticipatory bail plea in the Multani kidnapping and murder case.The Punjab Police have also filed a caveat to pre-empt Saini from getting any ex-parte relief from the top court.If he doesn’t get relief from the top court, he will have to surrender.Multani—a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation—was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that killed three policemen. Saini was injured in the attack.Saini’s troubles started in May, when he was booked at a police station in Mohali along with six others for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was added in August after two of the accused policemen spilled the beans.Saini is also facing trial in a Special CBI Court in Delhi along with three others for alleged abduction of automobile businessman Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver Mukhtiyar Singh. While Vinod and Mukhtiyar were picked up by the police from the parking lot of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 15, 1994, Ashok was allegedly abducted from Ludhiana the same day.The case was registered against Saini and others by CBI on the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 24, 1994. It was transferred to Delhi by the Supreme Court in 2004 after Vinod’s mother Amar Kaur expressed apprehension that Saini being a senior IPS officer might influence witnesses. The CBI has sought cancellation of exemption from personal appearance given to him in the case.
14-09-2020||Bathinda||Punjab technical universities, board asked to conduct exams of exit classes by October 15||Punjab's Technical Education Department has directed two technical universities and the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training to conduct exams of  exit classes by October 15, 2020.The Directorate of Technical Education and Industrial Training, Punjab has shot a letter to the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda and Secretary, Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training regarding the examination of exit classes in technical universities and engineering/polytechnic colleges in the state.The letter has been written by joint director Gurpreet Singh Thind and has asked universities and the board to complete the examination process of all exit classes at their campuses as well in the colleges affiliated to them tentatively by October 15, 2020. UGC has been requested to allow them the same.The universities/board will decide on their own about the mode of conduct of the examination. While conducting these exams, all necessary precautions like sanitization, temperature monitoring of all students and staff, and social distancing will be strictly adhered to, as per instructions/SoPs issued by the health department of state or union government.The universities have also been asked to ensure that the students are informed through all possible means about the date sheet of conduct well in time. Moreover, universities/board will also ensure timely declaration of results.It is also stated that UGU wide letter dated July 6, 2020, had issued guidelines to conduct the final exams by September 30, 2020. Further, Supreme Court while disposing of the bunch of writ petitions dated August 28, 2020, has also upheld the decision of UGC to conduct an examination of exit classes before September 30.
14-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Farmers’ Ordinances: Akalis to join hands with Haryana’s JJP, Jat Mahasabha, UP farmers for joint strategy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14Left red-faced after its coalition partner-led NDA government tabled the controversial ordinances on farmers produce in the Parliament on Monday, the Shiromani Akali Dal is seeking support for Chautalas and Cats in Haryana, and farmers from Uttar Pradesh to plan a joint opposition to the ordinances.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, along with senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, has scheduled a meeting with Dushyant Chautala-led JJP at 4 pm in New Delhi today to prepare a joint strategy against the ordinances.Another meeting is scheduled with leaders of the Jat Mahasabha of Haryana in the evening.“The two Akali leaders have scheduled another round of meetings with farmer leaders of Uttar Pradesh tomorrow morning in New Delhi,” said Chandumajra.The JJP is a coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana while the Akalis are partners in the NDA government. Farmers are the main vote-bank for these parties.Sources said the Akali leadership was under pressure to sacrifice personal interests for the sake of farmers on the issue. The Akalis have been supporting ordinances earlier but in thence of stiff opposition from farmers, it took a u-turn on Saturday and asked the NDA government to put the ordinances on hold till farmers are convinced about its benefits for them.The Punjab Congress and the AAP have been opposing the ordinances tooth and nail. They have also made potshots at the Akalis for not standing by the farmers.Farmers’ organisations say the new ordinances will end the minimum support price (MSP) system on crops produce. It will leave farmers at the mercy of the traders. They cite the market-driven prices often end in losses to farmers as happens often potato and tomato produce.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar while tabling the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, had insisted that the Bill would have no effect on the MSP.
14-09-2020||Bathinda||Former Bathinda MC president succumbs to COVID-19||Former Bathinda Municipal Council president Advocate Bhupinder Singh Bhullar (65) died on Monday due to COVID-19 at a private hospital in Bathinda.It is learnt that Bhullar's condition was serious from the last six days and he was undergoing treatment at Nivaran Hospital in Bathinda.He had served as president, MC, Bathinda from 1998-2003. He is veteran SAD leader, but ahead of the 2017 assembly polls, he had joined the Congress. However, later during Lok sabha polls in 2019, he rejoined the SAD.A few days back the oldest and renowned surgeon of the Malwa region Dr Mela Ram Bansal (93) had died due to COVID-19. He was undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital at Gurgaon.The rising cases of COVID and the high number of deaths have become a cause of concern for the residents and district administration.On August 1, Bathinda district had around 350 cases and only 3 deaths, but now the district has 4,107 cases and 73 deaths.
14-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Chinks in the armour||FOR years, the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system for crops has benefited farmers in north India through guaranteed income for their produce. No wonder the system is held sacrosanct by farmers, politicians and policy-makers in this region. Even the slightest attempt or talk of tinkering with the MSP meets with stiff resistance from the farmers and the politicians who rely on them for electoral support.The nearly five-decade-old system of MSP has contributed to the country attaining food security — at least in the staple foodgrains — besides making agriculture economically sustainable for farmers. It has helped the country come a long way from the mid-1960s, when India did not have enough foodgrains to feed its then 49 crore population, and 10 million tonnes of foodgrains were imported from the US. “The MSP regime has proved to be very beneficial because it has spurred farmers to grow crops with a guaranteed price,” says BS Sidhu, Commissioner, Agriculture, Punjab.Over the years, however, the increase in MSP announced by the Centre before each crop marketing season has been rather low. This has contributed to high rural indebtedness as input costs in agriculture keep rising and the MSP announced by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) is minimal, thus squeezing the income of farmers. Sidhu says the system of calculating the input costs while fixing the MSP requires a relook. “The farmer should be treated as a skilled worker and the capital cost of land should be included. This will make the MSP more remunerative,” he adds.Besides this inherent weakness in the MSP model of capping the income of farmers, it has also led to regional disparities as the regime is successful only in states having a well-developed agricultural marketing system. In most states, the crops are not being bought at the MSP as FCI intervention there is minimal and focused largely on Punjab and Haryana. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), says the MSP regime is often targeted for helping farmers of only a few states and those that grow only wheat and paddy. “To ensure that it benefits all farmers, it should be made legally binding on all to buy crops at the announced MSP,” he adds.Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads another faction of the BKU, says not only should crops other than wheat and paddy be bought at the MSP, but government should also encourage the processing industry for these other crops. “Earlier, pulses like moong and urad were cultivated here and we had small dal polishing units in Jagraon. Farmers stopped growing these because against the MSP of Rs 6,000, they would get just Rs 2,500 per quintal. Farmers found these non-remunerative and stopped growing pulses, which also led to the closure of these polishing units,” he laments.Umendra Dutt, executive director of Kheti Virasat Manch, says the monoculture supported by the MSP regime has led to the destruction of agricultural biodiversity and massive consumption of pesticides. “If buying of other crops at the MSP is ensured, we would become self-sufficient in all crops,” he says.Noted agro-economist MS Sidhu says though the MSP regime is sacrosanct, there is a need to increase farmers’ income by making them move to non-farm activities along with farming. Also, he says, it is time for value addition in agriculture by promoting food processing.Monoculture a roadblockWith the MSP regime being primarily restricted to wheat and paddy, this has led to monoculture, where only crops having a buy-back guarantee are being cultivated by farmers. As a result, the country has ample stocks of wheat and rice, but has to frequently import pulses and oilseeds.
14-09-2020||A Amarender Reddy||Ensure fair deal for farmers||KHARIF harvesting operations are going to begin soon. Agricultural production is likely to surpass last year’s record production by 7-8%. The higher production inevitably puts downward pressure on market prices. The problem of low harvest prices has been compounded by the steep fall in the GDP growth rate in the first quarter of 2020-21; it will reduce overall demand for the agricultural produce. Hence, ensuring the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers is a gigantic task.There are huge imbalances in the MSP operations. Various states have diverse levels of implementation capabilities. Punjab and Haryana are historically in a better position to procure at the MSP than states like Bihar and Odisha. Paddy farmers in Punjab are able to sell at the MSP, while farmers in Bihar have to settle for prices below the MSP. The focus is on paddy and wheat, with negligible procurement of pulses, oilseeds and other crops at the MSP.This discriminatory policy blocked crop diversification towards pulses and oilseeds and also led to the neglect of rain-fed areas, where pulses and oilseeds are grown. This resulted in a huge shortage of crops like oilseeds. India is importing 70% of domestic consumption of edible oils each year by spending about Rs 75,000 crore on foreign exchange. It is incurring huge losses in storing excessive stocks of paddy and wheat procured under the price support scheme.Procuring excessive stocks is a waste of resources. Procurement operations are flawed in many ways — lack of awareness among farmers; lack of working capital with procurement agencies; lack of gunny bags; delayed payments to farmers; inadequate logistical arrangements like godowns, processing mills in the procuring areas; disposal of procured stocks.NITI Aayog recently recommended to the Food Ministry to limit procurement of foodgrains to the level needed for distribution under social welfare schemes and maintenance of buffer. The FCI procured 115 million metric tonnes (MT) of foodgrains in crop year 2020, whereas the maximum buffer stock is fixed at 41.12 million MT.To overcome these problems in foodgrain operations, the Centre introduced PM-AASHA (Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan) in 2018. This is in line with the broader objective of gradually replacing physical procurement with direct money transfer to farmers, wherever required. PM-AASHA has three sub-schemes: Price Support Scheme (PSS), Price Deficiency Payment Scheme (PDPS) and Private Procurement & Stockist Scheme (PPSS).The PSS involves procurement by the government agency at the MSP from the farmers during the harvest period; it has been in operation for paddy and wheat for the past four decades. Under PM-AASHA, PSS is now broad-based to cover pulses, oilseeds and copra in addition to paddy and wheat. Under this scheme, the Centre will compensate the states for any losses in procurement operations up to 25 per cent of production.Under the PDPS, farmers are paid the difference between the MSP and the modal price, without actual procurement. It is a more market-friendly and efficient method as it eliminates the logistic costs faced under PSS. It is more practical to implement in crops like pulses and oilseeds with scattered and thinly distributed production, where actual procurement is costly and not feasible.Under the PPSS, private players can procure oilseeds at the MSP during the notified period in select markets, for which they would be paid a service charge not exceeding 15 per cent of the MSP. However, private participation has been limited so far.States are free to choose between the sub-schemes, depending on local conditions. In the long run, PDPS has an edge over others. Price deficiency payment through direct money transfer can curb inefficiency and corruption in foodgrain operations and the benefits will reach farmers through the already built JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity.The author is an agricultural economist at ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad. Views are personalSend your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Railways run special train for NEET candidates||Abohar, September 13The Indian Railways today operated a special passenger train from Sriganganagar to Bathinda to facilitate the students appearing for NEET. The railways laid emphasis on sanitisation and social distancing.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar had requested the Indian Railways to run special trains for the students as bus service was limited.On August 31, Sriganganagar MP Nihal Chand had asked Anand Prakash, General Manager, North Western Railway, to run the special train.The special train (04705) had left Sriganganagar at 7.30 am and reached Bathinda at 9.45 am. The train was fully reserved. No passenger other than the candidates was allowed to board the train. The train had a total of 12 coaches, including 10 general coaches and two SLRs.
14-09-2020||---||Pulse oximeter sales surge||Ludhiana, September 13With Covid-19 cases spiking in the district and experts advising elderly and people with co-morbidities to check the level of oxygen in their blood, the demand for pulse oximeters has increased manifolds in the city. The pandemic has caused a surge in the use of other at-home diagnostics devices as well.An oximeter is available in the range of Rs 800-Rs 1,500, depending on manufacturer. Many are placing their orders on online shopping sites as well.A salesman at a pharmacy near DMCH said the demand of oximeters had increased to a large extent. It is important to stay safe and those at risk of heart and respiratory diseases needed to be extra careful and should not ignore even a mild illness. Once a dip in the oxygen level is registered, the person should contact the doctor instead of self medication, he added.Sanjay Kumar, working at a medical store, said they were selling 800-1,000 oximeters a month. “People are buying it along with infrared thermometer. The sale of use at-home diagnostic instruments has increased,” he said.
14-09-2020||Tribune Reporters||Amid Covid protocol, 4,500 take NEET in Bathinda||Bathinda, ludhiana & Jalandhar, September 13More than 4,500 candidates from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan took NEET at 11 examination centres in Bathinda on Sunday amid strict adherence to precautions in the wake of Covid-19.The National Testing Agency (NTA) had made special arrangements. Candidates and staff on examination duty were given face masks, gloves and refreshments during the exam.The exam was scheduled to begin at 2 pm, but entry for the same started at 11 am that lasted till 1.30 pm. All candidates were thermal screened before entering the examination centre and sanitisation of centres and social distancing was followed both in and outside the centres. Hand sanitisers were placed both at the entrance of the examination centre and rooms.There was a provision for isolation rooms for candidates having mild fever. After thermal scanning at the entrance, admit cards of candidates were also sanitised before letting them enter the centres.Following social distancing norms, 12 candidates were accommodated in one room unlike 24 candidates last year. The examination centres included Kendriya Vidalaya, Army Public School, Oxford School, Saint Xavier School, DAV Public School, Saint Kabir School, Star Plus Convent School, Sri Guru Hargobind School, Lord Rama School and Police Public schools.As per an official tasked with conducting of the exam in the district, there was barely any impact on the attendance of candidates due to Covid-19 spread and like previous years, maximum candidates took the exam today. Two special trains were put to service for travelling of candidates.In Ludhiana, of the 2,566 registered students, 2,164 appeared for NEET at three centres. Three centres were Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School, Doraha; Sri Guru Nanak Dev Convent School, Andlu; and Indo-Canadian Academy, Ladian Kalan.In Jalandhar, over 5,000 candidates from the district appeared for NEET that was held in five different centres. The students showed mixed response towards the conduct of the exam. The aspirants had covered long distances to arrive at their centres.While most of the students after attending their exams said it was good that NEET was conducted despite opposition by several students, parents of the students waiting outside the venues expressed anger towards the government for holding the exam amidst the pandemic.Follow norms, parents told
14-09-2020||---||NEET centre in Patran 35 km away, students hassled||Patiala, September 13Students taking National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) at a centre in Patran of Patiala found it difficult to reach there on time as the centre was established in a village that is 35 km away from the town.The identification of NEET exam centres by the National Testing Agency came under attack as parents questioned the agency’s decision to conduct the exam at a far-flung centre. “While all government schools, colleges and universities in the district were available to be used for the purpose as they were closed due to the pandemic, the testing agency identified this particular school in a far-off village,” RPS Malhotra, parent of a candidate, said.Parents said the access road to the centre, Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Public School at Behar Sahib village, was in a bad shape. “The approach to the area was inconvenient. Most people got confused with the school in Patran town, which goes by the same name, and reached here in the nick of time. Villagers had to ferry students on their two-wheelers for them to make it to the centre on time,” Jagjit Singh, a parent, said.Parents said there was lack of management at the centre where people failed to maintain social distancing. The agency had identified two schools in Rajpura, one in Patiala city and one in Patran for the exam. The police said they made sure students faced no issues with the traffic. Palwinder Cheema, SP, Traffic, said, “The police made sure there was no traffic chaos. I have received reports on the matter from Patran DSP and Shutrana SHO.”Vishal, co-ordinator for the exam, said they had a list of 2,490 students taking the exam. “The centres are finalised by the National Testing Agency,” he added.Lack of managementProblems in Ludhiana too
14-09-2020||---||Panel to consider firm’s offer to sell Rajpura thermal power plant for Rs 9,690 cr||Chandigarh, September 13The Punjab Government is forming a committee to evaluate the offer made by Larsen & Toubro (L&T) to sell the Rajpura-based 1,400-megawatt thermal power plant project.The company has proposed to sell the plant at a cost of around Rs 10,000 crore to the state government.A committee comprising officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), state government and external technical experts is being formed to evaluate the cost. The promoters of Nabha Thermal Plant, Rajpura, had offered to sell the plant to the state government last week for Rs 9,690 crore or Rs 6.92 crore per MW. The company, in its proposal, said other than its equity of Rs 2,688 crore, they also had an outstanding debt of Rs 7,002 crore.In the recent times, the thermal plants have been allotted for cost varying between Rs 3.19 crore to Rs 4.32 crore per MW.“The per MW cost of the Rajpura plant ought to be much lower than the quoted price, as it has higher capacity units (two units of 700 MW each). It has been in operation for six years and the substantial capital cost of the plant has been recovered.“Moreover, if it were acquired at the value demanded by its promoters, at 9 per cent annual interest in loan, the estimated additional burden on the PSPCL would be anything between Rs 7,000-Rs 7,500 crore vis-à-vis fixed cost to be paid by the PSPCL as per the Power Purchase Agreement with the promoters of the company when the plant was originally commissioned,” says Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president of the PSEB Engineers’ Association. He adds as reliance on solar power increases in the coming days, the power plant’s present plant load factor (PLF) will come down from 85 per cent.Though officials in the government say the price at which the plant is being offered is too high and requires to be negotiated, they feel buying the plant will prove to be beneficial for the state. “For one, Punjab will not have to pay the huge fixed cost to the power plant that it pays now, which will help reduce power tariff. Since it is relatively new, it has super critical technology; is more energy efficient; has opportunity to install another unit of 700 MW; and has benefits for Punjab beyond the 25-year period of contract,” says a senior official. He adds they are looking at linking the state’s own coal mine at Pachchwara to this plant.
14-09-2020||
||No payment, state ends pact with private players running ITIs||Chandigarh, September 13  The Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training has terminated its agreement with private societies that had failed to pay Rs 8.47 crore for operating nine Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) from leased-out government buildings across the state. Action was also being initiated against officials responsible for not recovering the lease money from the societies. The societies had been running the ITIs for the past 12 years but had failed to pay the lease money to the department.  The action follows the office of Principal Accountant General (Audit), Punjab, pointing out failure of the department to recover Rs 8.47 crore from the private players. “Though the audit had calculated recoverable amount at Rs 8.47 crore, the defaulting amount against each society, as per the agreements, works out to nearly Rs 40 lakh each,” said a departmental official.  The societies whose agreement have been terminated and admissions stopped are Social Service Welfare Society, Shri Guru Nanak Dev Education Trust Dalewal (Bhunga), Shri Guru Angad Dev Educational Society, Shyana Shyam Education Society; Gomati Educational Trust and Balaji Education Trust. Another two societies whose bank guarantees have been forfeited are Narayan Education Trust and Saint Soldier Educational Society.  Short of funds, the then Capt Amarinder Singh government in 2004 had leased out nine government ITIs to private players for 33 years. Anurag Verma, Secretary, Technical Education Dept, "Responsibility of the officers behind the delay in recovery of the lease money was also being fixed and action would be taken accordingly".
14-09-2020||---||Include Punjabi in J&K Bill: SGPC||Amritsar, September 13Irked over exclusion of Punjabi from the J&K Language Bill 2020, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to review the decision.SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal said this move has hurt the sentiments of Punjabis. He said Sikhs in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) were already deprived of their minority status and now they were being pushed further with injustice done to the Punjabi language.“Millions of people in J&K speak Punjabi language. Still, Punjabi has been excluded from the J&K Language Bill 2020, passed by the Government of India. This has caused outrage among Sikhs,” said Longowal.
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister announces seven more village courts||To provide easy and speedy justice in the rural areas, in compliance with the directives of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered the establishment of seven more ‘Gram Nyayalayas’ (village courts) in the state.The new nyayalayas would be set up at Patran in Patiala district, Tapa in Barnala, Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib, Dera Baba Nanak and Dhar Kalan in Gurdaspur, Raikot in Ludhiana and Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar. These nyayalayas will cover only the gram panchayats of the sub-divisions and not towns, as per the proposal cleared by the Department of Home Affairs and Justice.With this, the number of such courts in the state will go up to nine, as two village courts at Kot Isse Khan in Moga district and Nangal in Rupnagar are already functional. — TNS
14-09-2020||sangrur||Process to acquire land for Malerkotla GMC on||The Punjab Government has started the process to construct a Government Medical College (GMC) in Malerkotla. The Sangrur administration has begun the formalities to acquire land on the behalf of the Punjab Waqf Board and sought proposals from area residents. In 2018, the government had announced setting up three new GMCs across Punjab. One of them was proposed for Sangrur district. Till some months ago, it was expected that the new GMC will be set up near Sangrur city and initially, a piece of land in Gharachon village was also inspected. In February this year, residents of Badrukhan village passed a resolution to give panchayat land for the construction of the GMC in their village and sent a proposal to the government. But the latest development has come as a surprise for many though area residents are satisfied that their district will get a GMC in the coming time. “Whether it’s built in Malerkotla or Sangrur, it does not matter. The GMC will benefit all residents,” said Ashinderpal Singh, a Class XII student. As per an order of the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner released on Sunday, he has sought proposals till September 18 from area residents to acquire their land to establish a GMC in Malerkotla-2 block. — TNS
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent
||Abohar farmer commits suicide||Abohar, September 13 The body of farmer Gurmeet Singh (45) was found hanging from the shed of a tea stall near the Seetogunno bypass here today. The deceased belonged to Bahawalbasi village which was waterlogged for the past four weeks due to heavy rain and subsequent overflow of water from the Abulkhurana drain that emanates from the Lambi segment.  His family said Gurmeet had cultivated ‘narma’ cotton after taking 10 acres on lease but the standing crop was completely damaged as stagnant water could not be drained. It appears that he took the extreme step due to desperation as he was unable to pay the contract money to the land owner. The body was shifted to the Civil Hospital for an autopsy.
14-09-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Unable to till land, border farmers demand relocation of fencing||Ferozepur, September 13Over 30 years ago, barbed wire fencing was installed along the Pakistan border in the district to keep a check on the escalating insurgency. However, as a fall-out of the move, thousands of acres of fertile agricultural land was “sandwiched” between this fencing and the International Border (IB).Though it plugged insurgency and drug peddling to some extent, the fencing proved counterproductive for farmers, who lost both the access and control over their fields. Since then, these farmers have been demanding “inconvenience allowance”. However, little has been done by the successive governments to ameliorate their hardships and compensate them for their loss.Sources said though the fencing was supposed to be erected around 50 to 150 metre from the zero line, at many places it was placed up to 2- 3.5 km from the IB due to topographical restraints. As a result, farmers are not able to till their land properly. Also, the stringent conditions, including restricted working hours, unavailability of canal water, ban on the height of the crops, frisking at the security gates and enhanced input costs, like rental of combines, added to the woes of the farmers.Proposal in abeyanceThe Ministry of Home Affairs had earlier planned to relocate the fencing towards the Zero Lne in certain areas so that fertile agricultural land could be retrieved. However, the plan did not materialise. Brig (retd) Surinder Mehta, DIG, BSF, said he would look into the matter to ascertain if any such proposal was in the pipeline.
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD’s fresh stand on ordinances poll gimmick: Capt||Dubbing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief’s U-turn on farm ordinances as a “cheap gimmick to hoodwink the farming community”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today challenged Sukhbir Singh Badal to quit the BJP-led Central Government to prove his party’s sincerity in the matter.Pointing out that as a member of the ruling alliance at the Centre, the SAD was party to the ordinances and had supported them unconditionally, the Chief Minister slammed Sukhbir over his party’s “brazen double standards on the issue” and asked if the Akali leader was ready to vote against the ordinances in Parliament as and when the Central Government puts them to vote. The Chief Minister termed as total hogwash the SAD’s so-called appeal to the Union Government not to present the three Central agricultural ordinances for approval in Parliament until all reservations expressed by farmer organisations were addressed. It is more than obvious now that the SAD president had lied then in a deliberate bid to mislead the farmers, he said, adding that given his track record, nothing that Sukhbir was saying now on the issue could be believed. — TNS
14-09-2020|| 
||Parent-teacher meetings of govt schools go online||Chandigarh, September 13  As an official feedback for the ongoing online classes in government schools, parents of the students in more than 19,000 government schools of the state will be interacting with their teachers during the Parent-Teacher interaction week commencing from Monday till Friday (September 19). The exercise will be conducted online through video calls and also direct phone to parents. Official sources said certain parents might be allowed direct contact with teachers, but, only keeping in mind the government Covid-care instructions. The exercise will involve approximately one lakh teachers and approximately 27 lakh students (pre-primary till Class XII). The exercise is also attempting to include panchayat members, midday meals workers, anganwari staff and school management committees.
14-09-2020||Amritsar||Religious bodies firm on holding stir at Diwan Hall in Golden Temple complex||Unmindful of SGPC’s warning against holding any protest at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex, the Satkar Committee and other organisations are adamant on holding their protest there tomorrow against the SGPC for its “failure” in ensuring the sanctity of Guru Granth Sahib “saroops”.On the other hand, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall was a religious site for holding ‘gurmat’ programmes and discussions, not for holding demonstrations. He had also asked the Satkar Committee to furnish details of the ‘saroops’ that were taken into their possession to date at the first instance.In the backdrop, the disappearance of ‘saroops’ from the possession of the SGPC in connivance with some of its staff members and officials had created an uproar. Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee head Balbir Singh Muchhal said Gurdwara Manji Sahib was not a personal site of the SGPC and hence he could not restrict anyone’s access. — TNS
14-09-2020||Fazilka||Woman alleges rape, one booked||A 36-year-old woman alleged that she was raped in Jalalabad. The victim, a resident of Guruharsahai sub-division, alleged that Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Ghaga Kalan village, used to come to their house and raped her. Later, he threatened me of dire consequences, she alleged. The accused has been booked under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC. — OC
14-09-2020||Karam Prakash||Covid app glitch has reports mixed up||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 13Gurminder Singh (name changed) of the Ragho Majra area here was in for a rude shock when the health authorities informed him on Sunday morning he had tested positive for Covid-19. This came a day after he received an automated message from the Punjab Government that his ‘RT-PCR sample’ had tested negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra blamed it on a technical glitch in the “RT-PCR application” that generated a common Specimen Referral Form (SRF) ID of a patient even if two separate samples — for rapid antigen test and RT-PCR — were taken.Health Dept informedWe have been receiving reports of confusion among patients. We have already raised the matter with the state Health Department—Dr Sumeet Singh, Epidemiologist“I have asked the authorities to stop the automated messages as it creates confusion among people,” he said.Gurminder, 40, refused to believe the test result amid rumours that doctors were deliberately declaring healthy people positive. Health officials had to counsel him for hours before he agreed for home isolation.“I was relaxing with my family after the negative report on Saturday. This morning, they said I had tested positive. I got convinced only after they (Health Department) explained there were two samples and the confirmatory test had tested positive,” he said.An investigation by The Tribune revealed patients had been getting automated messages of test results of RT-PCR even before the samples went for testing to the Government Medical College lab.The Health Department claimed the first message to patients was of the rapid antigen test and not the RT-PCR, the standard test for Covid-19. The message erroneously showed it as RT-PCR result.A medical officer, explaining the process, said: “We take two samples (RT- PCR and antigen) in cases of high-risk and symptomatic patients. It takes 15 minutes for the antigen test to come through.“But when we submit the antigen test result on the RT-PCR application, it shows as RT-PCR sample, instead of antigen. Thereafter, when the RT-PCR sample test report comes from the lab, and if it contradicts with earlier test of antigen, it fuels mistrust among people.”Antigen test shown as RT-PCR
14-09-2020||---||68 more succumb to virus in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 13At least 2,628 fresh Covid cases and 68 deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours in the state, taking the caseload to 79,679 and the total fatalities to 2,356.As the cases continue to rise, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday assured private hospitals partnering the state in the fight against Covid of all possible help from the government to address their concerns, including availability of drugs and PPE kits and disposal of bio-medical waste.The Chief Secretary gave the assurance during a video-conference interaction with all private hospitals that are working as equal partners with the state government in treating Covid cases in 22 districts of the state.Representatives of more than 100 private health facilities assured the government of their full support in combating the pandemic and offered to add as many beds as may be needed for the care of Covid patients in the state in order to save lives.Meanwhile, 57,536 patients have recovered from the virus and at present 19,787 cases are active in the state. Besides, 501 patients are on oxygen support and 91 are on ventilator support.In district wise break-up of cases reported today, SAS Nagar topped the chart with 433 cases, followed by Patiala (327), Ludhiana (274), Gurdaspur (260), Jalandhar (252), Amritsar (188), Bathinda (104).As far as deaths are concerned, Amritsar was the worst-hit with 11 deaths; Patiala (10), Bathinda and Jalandhar (6 each), Ludhiana (5), Kapurthala (4), Fazilka, Hoshiarpur, SAS Nagar, Pathankot and Sangrur (3 each), Mansa, Moga and Ropar (2 each), and Barnala, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran (1 each).
14-09-2020||  ||Release funds to support SC students: College assn||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, September 13  The Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) in Punjab has urged the state government to immediately release Rs 309 crore and clarify when the remaining funds to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore would be given.   Jagjit Singh, president, JAC, said if government did not disburse the said amount, 1,650 unaided colleges would be forced to demand fee from 2.5 lakh SC students who are studying free for the past four years.  Manjeet Singh, patron, JAC and Dr Anshu Kataria, co-chairman, JAC, said for the government had done nothing, except holding audits and enqiries. "Neither the government has released the scholarship nor the students have paid fees. The outstanding amount now stands at Rs 1,850 crore," said the JAC.
14-09-2020||Abohar||‘Chokho Abohar’ for better hygiene||Always close to farmers, fieldsChandigarh: Kahan Singh Pannu is known for his close association with the farming community. As the Agriculture Secretary in the past three years, Pannu worked to stop burning of crop residue and promote techniques for in situ stubble management. His efforts led to large scale direct seeding of rice this year and making it legally binding to transplant paddy after June 10, thus helping save the groundwater. Pannu retired after three decades of service last week. He said, “I have always taken keen interest in bringing latest technology to farmers. I hope to emulate these in my farm.” Pannu started his career as a deputy registrar in the Cooperative Department, where he introduced the concept of multi-purpose village cooperative societies and set up the Punjab State Farmers Commission. Pannu always remained the “son of the soil”, and keeping up with this image, he is back to where he loves being the most: In the field.With love from Sonu SoodFazilka: Distribution of free android mobile phones by actor Sonu Sood and Fazilka resident Karan Gilhotra during the Covid pandemic has been a boon for poor students. “Hundreds of poor students are being provided phones for their education in Fazilka and other parts of the country,” Gilhotra said. “I was not able to buy a phone for online classes and requested for it. To my surprise, I got it in three days,” said Vicky Paswan, a migrant labourer’s son. “Sonu Sood is a true Punjabi. He not only helped the migrants reach homes but has also been providing phones to their wards,” Gilhotra said.Recalling educationist’s contributionAbohar: Sher Singh Toor (98), former director of Gramothan Vidyapeeth and finance secretary of the Swami Keshwanand Memorial Charitable Trust, released the Hindi edition of a book on the life of Swami Keshwanand on Sunday. The book has been translated from English to Hindi by historian Dr Rekha Sood Handa. Toor and Raghubir Singh Bhadoo recall how Keshwanand went to villages to supply books and fought the ban on women education. In the pre and post-Independence period, Keshwanand had founded Sahitya Sadan in Abohar, Gramothan Vidyapeeth in Sangria and more than 200 primary education centers in Punjab and Rajasthan.
