14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t withdraw free power to farmers: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said his government will not withdraw free power to farmers, hours after an expert panel formed to revive the state’s economy termed the facility “highly regressive”.The Shiromani Akali Dal too had warned earlier in the day that any move in this direction will face stiff resistance.                                The group of experts, led by former deputy chairman of the erstwhile Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia, in its preliminary report said free power has limited the “government’s ability to incur other expenditures essential for Punjab’s development”.Commenting on it in a statement, the CM said there was no question of withdrawing the facility and it will continue as long as he is leading the government. The chief minister said though it was a preliminary report, his government will not consider any recommendation on the withdrawal of free power. “As long as I am here, free power to tubewells will continue,” he said.Amarinder Singh said that Montek himself clarified during a video conference with him that the report of the expert group was not anti-farmer. The panel has suggested diversification as the only hope for the Punjab agriculture, the CM said, adding that it recommended that farmers must be incentivised to diversify out of rice since ecological damage was massive due to the water intensive crop. “Diversification implies a reduction in area under rice and modernisation of marketing, which in turn implies a much larger role for the private sector,” said Montek as per the statement.The CM said the state had significantly increased the area under cotton but the problem of price support remains a big obstacle to diversification. Farmers need an MSP for alternate crops to incentivise them away from paddy, he added.He also underlined the need for promoting industry with the potential to generate more employment as no modern economy could grow only on agriculture.Earlier in the day, SAD chief Sukbir Badal warned the CM, “If you take a single step towards discontinuing free power to farmers, you must prepare yourself and your government to face an unprecedented mass movement by the SAD to safeguard interests of the already beleaguered peasantry. We will never allow free power to stop.”        Badal said the SAD rejects this report as “inimical to farmers and accepting its recommendations will amount to signing the death warrant of poor farmers”.He asked the chief minister to realise the gravity of the issue and reject the “recommendations”.Free power to farmers has been the “most progressive” contribution of former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal to the national economy as it has “completely secured our food kitty and saved billions of dollars in foreign exchange alone through self-reliance and export in foodgrains,” he said.Badal alleged that CM Amarinder Singh had always been looking for “excuses” to stop free power to farmers.“He had actually withdrawn this facility during his previous tenure as the chief minister before the SAD forced him through a mass movement to resume it,” he said. PTI
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government extends night curfew to all cities||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Friday that he was extending night curfew to all cities in the state---a development that comes as the state’s coronavirus count is just a 1,000 infections short of 30,000.Night curfew hours will now be from 9 pm to 5 am. Only industries will be exempted, the chief minister said.   Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said a nodal officer would be appointed in each city for contact tracing to help health teams.The state government also imposed weekend “stay-at-home” orders in Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar---the three cities that continue to record an alarming number of infections---for the next 15 days.Punjab’s coronavirus cases as well as deaths have gone up substantially this month---the state has recorded almost 13,000 new cases in just a fortnight since the end of July. The state’s death count has risen alarmingly as well, almost doubling from 386 at the end of July to stand now at 731.  The state has been reporting over 1,000 cases almost every day since August 6.The Punjab Government expects COVID-19 cases in the state to peak in September.Major decisions--- Night curfew hours to extend from 9 pm to 5 am in all cities--- Weekend “stay-at-home” orders in Patiala, Ludhiana and Jalandhar  --- Marriage palaces, restaurant, offices where more than 10 people gather must appoint one Covid Monitor for compliance of COVID protocols, i.e. masks, sanitisation, social distancing. Violators to be penalised--- People with high social contact will be tested in the coming week. Those in health, police and other government departments will be on frontline duty
14-08-2020||---||Punjab reports 1077 fresh COVID-19 cases, 25 deaths||Chandigarh, August 14A total of 1077 COVID-19 positive cases and 25 deaths surfaced in Punjab on Friday, taking the state tally to 29,013.Ludhiana reported the maximum number of cases at 296 followed by Patiala (135), Jalandhar (134), Pathankot (62), Bathinda (60), SAS Nagar (53), Kapurthala (38), Amritsar (36), Gurdaspur (35), 28 each in Ferozepur and Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib (27), 23 each in Moga and SBS Nagar, Faridkot (20), 17 each in Muktsar and Barnala, Tarn Taran (16), Hoshiarpur (13), Ropar (9), Mansa (4), Fazilka (3).The state has 9,954 active cases while 18,328 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the state.Meanwhile, 489 more patients were cured and discharged today. They include 113 from Jalandhar, Amritsar (45), SAS Nagar (114), Pathankot (13), Hoshiarpur (3), Moga (8), Tarn Taran (12), Bathinda (49), Fatehgarh Sahib (31), Faridkot (49), SBS Nagar (2), Fazilka (17), Kapurthala (16), Muktsar (5) and Mansa (12).Of the 29,013 cases, the maximum number of cases have been reported from Ludhiana (6,438), Jalandhar (3,727), Amritsar (2,670), Patiala (3,374), Sangrur (1,432), SAS Nager (1,647), Hoshiarpur (773), Gurdaspur (1,007), Pathankot (708), Tarn Taran (528), SBS Nagar (444), Ferozepur (805), Faridkot (518), Muktsar (358), Fatehgarh Sahib (615), Moga (677), Bathinda (1,072), Kapurthala (568), Ropar (419), Fazilka (405), Barnala (570) and Mansa (258).Meanwhile, with 25 more deaths reported, the death toll in the state has climbed to 731. The 25 deaths are reported from one each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Barnala, four each from Sangrur and Patiala, two each from Ferozepur and SAS Nagar, Ludhiana (7), and Jalandhar (3).Of the total deaths, Ludhiana has reported 216, Jalandhar (94), Amritsar (105), Sangrur (48), Patiala (67), SAS Nager (30), Gurdaspur (28), Pathankot (15), Tarn Taran (17), Hoshiarpur (23), SBS Nagar (7), Ferozepur (12), Faridkot (1), Muktsar (3), Fatehgarh Sahib (6), Moga (6), Bathinda (13), Kapurthala (19), Ropar (7), Fazilka (2), Barnala (11) and Mansa (1).
14-08-2020||---||2 Taran Taran men held in Jammu with 32 kg charas valuing Rs 1.3 cr||Jammu, August 14The Anti-Narcotic Task Force (ANTF) of J&K Police on Friday foiled a major bid to smuggle high-grade charas from Kashmir to Mumbai by arresting two Taran Taran men along with 32 kg contraband valuing nearly Rs 1.3 crore in the market.According to the ANTF officials, specific information was received about drugs being smuggled in a truck parked in the transport yard here by the smugglers who had come from Kashmir and were carrying the consignment to Mumbai.“On receiving the information, the ANTF team swung into action and started search operation in the transport yard. The team successfully located the truck and two persons were nabbed from the spot,” said the officials.During the search, a total of 32 kg charas was recovered from the truck, they added.The duo has been identified as Angrez Singh and Sahib Singh, both residents of Taran Taran in Punjab.The officials further said the two had been booked under relevant sections of the law and the truck had been seized. The ANTF is investigating further links.“The ANTF has been able to break this drug cartel which was the main inter-state racket of charas. We expect more arrests in this case,” said the officials.
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister takes students on tour of his office||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh took a group of students, whom he had met here at the launch of the smartphone scheme two days ago, on a tour of his office at the secretariat.He said it was heartening to see the students’ enthusiasm and positivity.“I was happy to take the young students whom I had met on #Captain SmartConnect launch event, on a tour of my Secretariat office (on Wednesday) to give them a glimpse of administration working,” Singh said in a tweet on Friday.He also posted a video of the interaction with the students. State Congress president Sunil Jakhar and senior government officials accompanied Singh in his office tour.The students had requested the chief minister to show them his office after the launch of the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme.Singh in the video is seen giving the students an extensive tour of the secretariat, including the room where meetings are held.The chief minister, who has also served in the Indian Army, guided a student who shared his interest to join the defence forces.“If anyone of you is interested to join politics, then he/she can sit over there,” Singh said while pointing to his chair in the office.Singh on Wednesday launched the ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ through video conferencing here on the occasion of Janmashtami and International Youth Day.He handed over smartphones to six Class 12 students.The scheme will benefit a total of 1,74,015 Class 12 students of government schools in the first phase, which will be completed by November.Giving free smartphones to youths of the state was one of the key poll promises of the Congress during the 2017 assembly elections. PTI I was happy to take the young students whom I had met on #CaptainSmartConnect launch event, on a tour of my Secretariat office to give them a glimpse of administration working. Our youngsters are our future leaders and it was heartening to see their enthusiasm and positivity. pic.twitter.com/F2IIV8cipI
14-08-2020||Aman Sood||PSPCL may abolish 40K vacant posts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 13Already facing criticism from unemployed youth of the state over less employment opportunities, the state government is planning to abolish thousands of posts in the power sector. Following directions by the state government to various departments to cut expenses and abolish unnecessary posts, more than 40,000 posts in Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) could soon be abolished.761 group A postsThe vacant posts include 761 group A posts, 2,862 group B posts, 30,702 group C posts and 6,158 group D posts.The staff strength of the PSPCL and PSTCL was reviewed at a meeting chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary (Power) on July 22. The sanctioned strength of posts in the PSPCL is 75,757 and 40,483 posts are lying vacant for the past few years.‘Reduce pesco staff by 20%’The Additional Chief Secretary (Power) has asked the CMD, PSPCL, to constitute a committee to rationalise the PESCO staff strength in the PSPCL and reduce it by 20 per cent. Power department letterSources in the PSPCL confirmed that “a number of meetings in this month with different heads of departments to restructure various posts” and curtail certain posts in the corporation have been scheduled. “The PSPCL plans to complete the process within three months,” said a top official.“Further, the staff strength of the PSPCL and PSTCL was reviewed. It was decided that any post lying vacant for the past one year may be abolished as per the instructions of the state government. The Additional Chief Secretary (Power) has asked the CMD, PSPCL, to constitute a committee to rationalise the Punjab Ex-servicemen Corporation (PESCO) staff strength and reduce it by 20 per cent,” claims a letter by the Punjab Power Department to the PSPCL on August 4.The vacant posts include 761 group A posts, 2,862 group B posts, 30,702 group C posts and 6,158 group D posts. Documents accessed by The Tribune reveal that over 40,000 posts are lying vacant for the past many years within the PSPCL and PSTCL.Senior PSPCL officials claimed that despite facing manpower shortage in the field, “no efforts were made to fill these posts”. “Due to paucity of funds to improve infrastructure, we are mostly relying on worn-out old transformers and electricity supply lines, which means more faults and more men to rectify them. The power sector needs more men and if the government clears the subsidy bill on time, we can manage ourselves without government intervention,” an official said.In addition to the abolition of regular posts, there will be a minimum 20 per cent cut on the posts of daily wagers, work charge, contract employees and other employees. A former PSPCL official said there were 6,427 daily-wagers, work charge and contract employees in the PSPCL .The PSEB Engineers’ Association has already met the Director (Commercial), Director (Finance) and Director (Distribution) regarding the abolition of various vacant posts.The association said there was a shortage of field staff. “Technicalworkforce is needed to improve consumer services and there is an urgent need to create new posts to tackle field difficulties as the subdivisions are understaffed,” it said.A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL, told The Tribune that they were yet to take a decision on abolishing or recruiting manpower against vacant posts. “We recently recruited 1,000 clerks and 3,500 linemen. Till date, no decision has been finalised to abolish any post,” he said.
14-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||No funds, colleges refuse admission to SC students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 13With an amount of Rs 1,850 crore pending towards colleges under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, almost all colleges of the state have decided to refuse free admission to poor and Dalit students for their studies.Even as Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had said yesterday that the state would own up the scheme and offer scholarship under its own criteria in the next Cabinet meeting, the verbal assurance has so far not brought any relief to the SC students.The Dalit students who are affected due to the refusal do not just include freshers but also those who are in the intermediate or final years of their courses. Kiran Kumari and Simran, BA final-year students from a local girls’ college, said they had been told that there still was no clarity from the government on continuing the scheme and hence were being asked to pay fee for the next semester to seek admission. Another Dalit student from Ram Nagar, Rohit Kumar, who is an MA first-year aspirant, said he was being asked to givr full fee by all colleges as no management was ready to offer free admission under the scholarship scheme.Managing Director of the CT Group of Institutions. Manbir Singh. said, “We already have Rs 30 crore due with the government for the scheme since 2016-17. There is absolutely no clarity with regard to implementation of the scheme for the current session. We do not even know when we will get our pending dues and whether the state or the Centre will pay us from 2017 onwards. Having suffered much financially, this year we are treating all SC students as general students and asking them to pay up full fee.”Likewise, HMV College Principal Dr Ajay Sareen said, “We have Rs 9.4 crore due from the government for the past four years. The SC scholarship scheme was notified for five years, which have ended. There is no clarity yet on whether it will be extended or not. So far, we are accepting whatever amount the students are paying and doing their registration. A final decision on the matter will be taken in a meeting of the principals’ association at Lyallpur Khalsa College tomorrow.”SAD spokesperson Pawan Tinu said, “Ever since the Congress rule started over three years ago, it has been erratic in making the payments. The Centre’s grant of Rs 309 crore has been withheld since March. The Centre had to stop the scheme as the state failed to return the excess money taken by colleges in the audit report.”
14-08-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Post Rajasthan, Congress to deal with dissidence in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13After defusing the month-long crisis in the Rajasthan Congress, former party president Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are expected to intervene in the ongoing feud in the Punjab Congress. It has been almost two weeks since the war of words between the Capt Amarinder Singh-led camp and the camp of party MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo escalated.Ongoing feudHowever, it may not happen immediately as the party leadership is busy with its issues and the likely coronation of Rahul Gandhi as the party president.Sources in the party said efforts by the two Rajya Sabha MPs and PPCC president Sunil Jakhar to have an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi had not yielded any results. While Jakhar has sought Bajwa and Dullo’s expulsion, the two MPs have sought replacement of the Chief Minister and the PPCC president.Dullo said: “I have sought an audience with the party president. I hope the leadership will listen to us while handling the report sent by Jakhar.”Bajwa said he would seek Sonia and Rahul Gandhi’s intervention so that a retake of the Rajasthan episode did not happen. The MP has already demanded that each party MLA should be called to Delhi to elicit their independent view on the functioning of the Congress government in the state and an independent survey of various sections of society be conducted to know the ground realty on the popularity of the Chief Minister. Though Bajwa’s camp has been claiming that MLAs are agitated and were ready to speak, the Chief Minister has so far checkmated his opponents by using the carrot and stick policy with his legislators.Bajwa has been regularly targeting Capt Amarinder over the tragic deaths in the spurious liquor tragedy and is going all out to nail the Chief Minister. In the process, he is also trying to project himself as an alternative to the Chief Minister.Senior party leaders also do not rule out a link between the much-delayed list of PPCC office-bearers and the ongoing feud between the two camps.
14-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Cheque bounce no offence against society, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13In a judgment that will change the way convicts in cheque bounce cases are sentenced, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the offence was not against society and an accused could escape punishment by settling with the complainant.Justice Sudhir Mittal of the High Court also asserted that the court could not lose sight of the fact that the offence of cheque bounce under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act was quasi criminal in nature. Section 147 of the Act made the offence compoundable, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure.The assertion came in a case where the petitioner-accused was convicted and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years. He was also directed to pay compensation equal to the cheque, amount along with 9 per cent per annum interest, from the date of cheque till the judgment date. Appeal against the judgment of conviction was dismissed leading to the filing of the revision petition before the High Court.The petitioner’s counsel, during the course of hearing, confined his prayer to reduction in the quantum of sentence. Describing the petitioner as a “poor person”, the counsel added he had suffered a protracted trial of almost 10 years and undergone actual sentence of more than a year. The counsel for the complainant, Ranjit Singh Bajaj, on the other hand added the accused was not entitled to benefit merely because he had undergone a protracted trial. Bajaj added he deserved to undergo the complete sentence awarded by the trial court. Justice Mittal ruled sentencing was primarily a matter of discretion in the absence of statutory provisions governing the same. Even guidelines had not been laid down to assist the courts in this matter.Justice Mittal asserted the sentence imposed must commensurate with the crime committed. It should also be in accordance with jurisprudential justifications, such as deterrence, retribution or restoration. Mitigating and aggravating circumstances were required to be kept in mind. Justice Mittal added the amended provisions revealed legislative intent of expediting the trial and making the sentence deterrent. “Provisions inserted for inculcating greater faith in banking transactions needed more teeth. It is, thus, apparent that deterrence and restoration are the principles to be kept in mind for sentencing,” Justice Mittal ruled.
14-08-2020||Our Correspondent||4 held for sheltering liquor tragedy accused||Tarn Taran, August 13Even as one of the prime accused of the spurious liquor tragedy in Tarn Taran — Rashpal Singh of Dhotian village — is still out of reach of the Punjab Police, four persons, including two Chandigarh-based women, have been held for allegedly sheltering him.Those arrested have been identified as Pinki and her daughter Shalu of Chandigarh, Jaskaran Singh of Dhotian village and Gurdev Singh of Jamarai village.Two cases under Sections 212 and 216 of the IPC were registered against them. They were released on bail later. Rashpal Singh and his brother Gurpal Singh were among the kingpins of the illicit liquor trade in Tarn Taran. They used to procure extra neutral alcohol (ENA), pilfered from tankers being supplied to distilleries for further processing to make wine, and later supplied it to bootleggers in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala for preparing illicit liquor.While Gurpal was arrested by the Phillaur police for possessing ENA earlier this year, Rashpal went underground after the tragedy. They had over 25 cases of the Excise Act registered against the duo. According to the police, their father Buta Singh was also involved in the illegal trade and was booked in many similar cases. Both belonged to a working class community with no family property. However, the police officials now claim that the accused had amassed huge properties in different parts of Punjab and Chandigarh.
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh defends SSP,  junks Akali charge||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said the “targeted attack by the SAD against a senior police officer is yet another shameful attempt by it to exploit the unfortunate liquor tragedy to push its own political agenda with an eye on the next Assembly polls”.‘Clean record’There is no question or need of shielding an officer who has an unblemished track record in police service. - Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterHe was reacting SAD leader Bikram Majithia’s statement, accusing DGP Dinkar Gupta of “shielding” the Amritsar Rural SSP over the latter’s alleged failure to act on a complaint against the liquor mafia, leading to the tragedy.There was no question or need of shielding an officer who had an unblemished track record, the Chief Minister said, adding that SSP Dhruv Dahiya had, in fact, been on his personal security team. “A person with links with the mafia, as was being suggested by the SAD, could hardly be trusted with my security,” he said. Noting that all SSPs and DCs were appointed directly by him, Capt Amarinder said the DGP or the CS could not be held responsible for their actions in any case. The SSP had received no specific complaint from any resident about manufacturing of illicit liquor, the Chief Minister said, trashing the SAD leader’s charges against the officer. In fact, if there had been even a suspicion of the SSP protecting or conniving with the liquor smugglers, he would have been the first to take action against the officer. — TNS
14-08-2020||---||No will to act against mafia: SAD||Patiala, August 13Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today demanded that a criminal case be registered against Congress legislator Madan Lal Jalalpur for allegedly running liquor and sand gangs. He accused Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of giving a free hand to his legislators to run an illicit liquor racket in the state.Punish guilty: BJPBathinda: BJP workers burnt an effigy of the state government at the Fire Brigade chowk here on Thursday. Vinod Binta, BJP district president, said: “The state government must take strict action against those operating illegal factories of liquor. The families of victims must be given adequate compensation.” TNSHolding a protest in front of the site of an illegal distillery unearthed in Patiala, Sukhbir said Jalalpur was the head of the illicit liquor gang and the Chief Minister was sheltering him by refusing to order a CBI probe into the racket.He said the government had even refused to hand over the case files regarding the Ghanaur illegal distillery to the Enforcement Directorate. “Even the SSP as well as the excise officials who were pursuing the case have been tranferred,” he alleged.He said: “It seems that the Congress government is deliberately not proceeding against the liquor mafia despite the recent tragedy which claimed more than 110 lives.”
14-08-2020||Abohar||New buildings for police stations in Abohar, Fazilka||At least five police stations in Abohar and Fazilka districts will soon have independent buildings, if the move initiated by the district authorities goes well.It is believed that one of the reasons for lapses in tightening the noose on bootleggers, drug peddlers, gamblers and immoral trafficking agents, was the functioning of some police stations from small and makeshift buildings, most of which looked like graveyards of hundreds of vehicles that had been impounded or damaged in mishaps in the past decade.At a meeting called by Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu, the officials were told to select suitable land to construct new buildings for police stations of City-2 Abohar, Khuikhera, Vairoke, Rohranwali and Amirkhas. The need to arrange independent buildings in Abohar for the offices of SP, DSP (urban) and DSP (rural) also surfaced. — OC
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||FDA teams check 74 veggie markets||With a commitment to provide rich quality fruit and vegetables free from all type of pesticides, the Punjab Food and Drug Administration (PFDA) carried out a checking drive in mandis throughout the state.Disclosing this, PFDA Commissioner Kahan Singh Pannu said the special drive was conducted in 74 fruit and vegetable markets. Teams were constituted for this operation at the district level throughout the state.He said the focus during the drive was on fruit ripened with unscientific methods and vegetables not fit for human consumption. However, polythene bags have also been seized from the spot. Checking teams also took the initiative to make aware the farmers about the ill-effects of plastic during the drive. Show-cause notices were issued to arhtiyas for using polythene. Pannu said 55.34 quintal fruit and vegetables, which were no longer edible, were destroyed on the spot. — TNS
14-08-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh  for 100% testing in containment zones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday emphasised the need for 100 per cent testing in micro-containment and containment zones using rapid antigen tests to keep the further spread of Covid-19 under check.‘Trace 10 contacts of each +ve case’Reviewing the prevalent pandemic situation across the state, the Chief Minister asked the deputy commissioners, commissioners of police, SSPs and civil surgeons to go for a vigorous tracing of at least 10 contacts of each positive case.He also directed the testing of persons with multiple contacts on account of their occupations, such as shop and mandi workers and frontline government employees, within this week, declaring that this should be a “testing week”.The Chief Minister also directed that all offices, business establishments, industrial units, marriage palaces etc, where more than 10 people gather, must appoint “Covid monitors” to ensure adherence of health and safety protocols meticulously.Capt Amarinder also exhorted the people who have recovered from this disease to generously donate plasma at the designated plasma banks at Government Medical Colleges of Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot to treat the infected patients.He also asked the Chief Secretary to direct the PR Department to launch a vigorous publicity campaign to bring awareness among the people about the significance of testing as at present people were shying away from getting tested due to stigma.Citing his own example, the Chief Minister said that he had no qualms as he would gladly share his video of getting tested on various social media platforms to instill confidence among the people about testing which was of paramount importance, especially during the recent spike.
14-08-2020||---||TruNat machines won’t be used for routine tests: ACS||Chandigarh, August 13 The controversy over an MLA and his men allegedly misbehaving with a woman doctor at government hospital, Moga, took a new turn today when the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) ordered that TruNat machines must be used only for testing emergency cases.   Two days ago, some NRIs, who claimed to be close associates of Congress MLA Harjot Kamal, wanted their tests done on TruNat machine in Moga. However, Dr Ritu Jain, nodal officer for the machine in Moga district, said the machine could perform only a limited number of tests so it could not be used for routine testing. Following this, the MLA, along with his supporters, visited the hospital and allegedly misbehaved with the doctor.  Intervening in the matter, Anurag Aggarwal, Additional Chief Secretary (Health), has issued an order today instructing that these machines should not be used for testing general public, including NRIs. Routine cases should be encouraged to get tested either at flu corners or at private testing centres, he stated.  Meanwhile, the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association has condemned the incident and have threatened to go on strike if such alleged acts against doctors are not dealt with strictly.  However, the MLA in a video message, denied the allegations of misbehaviour and said he had just requested the doctor to do the test. “I am a public representative, so people approach me for work. It is my duty to stand with them,” he said.
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||State health, wellness centres get top rank||Punjab has achieved the first rank in operationalisation of health and wellness centres (HWCs) as per the latest ranking of states released by the Union Government. The scheme was launched in the state in 2019.Health & Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said despite restrictions on the movement of people due to Covid-19 pandemic led lockdown, HWCs across Punjab recorded 28.1 lakh footfalls in the last five months. OPD services, RCH services, preventive and curative clinical services for communicable and non-communicable diseases were being provided at these centres by the HWC team. — TNS
14-08-2020||---||36 more succumb, toll crosses 700-mark in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 13With 1,035 fresh cases being reported, the state’s Covid caseload reached 27,936 on Thursday.As far as the worst-affected districts are concerned, Ludhiana topped the chart with 222 cases, followed by Jalandhar (176), Patiala (140), SAS Nagar (88), Bathinda (79), Ferozepur (66), Fatehgarh Sahib (43), Amritsar (41) and Faridkot (32).Ludhiana district also reported the maximum of 13 deaths, followed by Jalandhar (5), Patiala, SAS Nagar and Sangrur (3 each), Amritsar, Patiala and Tarn Taran (2 each), and Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Sangrur (1 each).Ludhiana’s death cases included a 26-year-old man and a 34-year-old woman from Dashmesh Nagar and Noorwala road, respectively. The Dashmesh Nagar patient was suffering from diabetes and the other was anemic and suffering from hypothyroidism. An 80-year-old patient belonging to New Upkar Nagar also lost his life. He was admitted to Deepak Hospital and was hypertensive. Two septuagenarians also succumbed to Covid. One of them was suffering from coronary artery disease and the other was having high blood pressure.Others who lost their lives were in the age group of 50-60 and had co-morbid conditions.
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Get tested in public interest, Bains told||Taking cognisance of media reports regarding Ludhiana incident in which Lok Insaaf Party chief Simranjit Singh Bains refused to get himself tested for Covid-19 even after a notice issued by the police, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Bains should have done that without any delay in larger public interest.He said Bains violated the instructions of the administration and it was the need of hour for the safety of Ludhiana residents in general and agitators who took part in protest with Bains in particular. Sidhu said it was a matter of serious concern as Ludhiana had recorded highest number of Covid-19 cases and in a political gimmick, Bains staged protest. — TNS
14-08-2020||---||Supreme Court orders status quo on Faridkot royal property||Faridkot, August 13In the dispute between the families of two daughters of the late Maharaja of erstwhile Faridkot estate to claim ownership of assets worth over Rs 25,000 crore, the Supreme Court on Thursday ordered status quo. The grandchildren of the late Maharaja had challenged the High Court verdict giving one-third share of the property to the latter’s elder daughter.In its order, the Supreme Court today directed that pending further consideration, all parties shall maintain status quo with regard to the properties involved in the present proceedings.The apex court directed that Maharwal Khewaji (MK) Trust to file the statement of accounts for the past five years before the next date of hearing, October 6.The court ordered that the respondents were at liberty to file their affidavits in reply by September 28 and the petitioners have to file their rejoinder, if any, by October 3. The order further reads that the matter shall be disposed of finally on the next date.In a series of claims and counter claims, Amrit Kaur had got a criminal case registered against 23 persons, including Jagir Singh Sran, CEO of the MK Trust, for forging her father’s will to deprive her of her share in the property. On the other hand, the CEO had accused some persons of making an attempt to take forcible possession of the property. The Trust is looking after the movable and immovable property for the past over 30 years.
14-08-2020||---||Protect Sikh girl’s rights: Aujla to Pak PM||Amritsar, August 13Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has written a letter to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan seeking his intervention in the alleged harassment case of a Sikh girl in Pakistan.He wrote that the Sikh girl, daughter of a gurdwara priest, was forcibly married to a Muslim youth after conversion. “Now, the Pakistan judiciary has also pronounced its verdict in favour of the Muslim youth. This incident has shaken me. I request you to resolve the issue in a fair manner or else I will be compelled to take up the issue on national and international forums so that speedy justice is ensured to the girl, who belongs to a minority community,” he said.
14-08-2020||BATHINDA||Protests continue despite curbs||Even as the government has ordered restrictions on gatherings in view of the pandemic, several employee and farmer unions continue to flout the norms.Workers from various government departments, under the banner of Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, on Thursday staged a demonstration and blocked the Bathinda-Mansa highway in front of the Administrative Complex over their demands.Besides regularisation of contractual employees, the protesters demanded that the state government implement Punjab Ad hoc, Contractual, Daily Wage, Temporary, Work Charged and Outsourced Employees’ Welfare Act, 2016, at the earliest.Earlier, the protesters gathered near Bibi Wala Chowk and carried out a protest march till the District Administrative Complex. — TNS
14-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Rs 2.9 cr spent on Sangrur ponds, Opposition cries fraud||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 13The Opposition parties have alleged overspending and the use of substandard material in converting 84 village ponds into water treatment plants (WTP) in the district. The administration had spent Rs 2.9 crore to renovate ponds as per the Seechewal model.‘Have evidence’The authorities had spent only 50 per cent of the said amount. I will take up the matter with the higher authorities with evidence and demand a high-level inquiry. - Parkash Chand Garg, SAD LeaderApart from installing WTP in 84 villages, the administration had dewatered 676 ponds and desilted another 264 ponds. The ponds were restored to store rainwater, which would be used for irrigation and daily needs of villagers.Ramvir, Deputy Commissioner, said: “By increasing the depth of the pond, the problem of waterlogging in drains and low-lying houses around the ponds has been resolved.”However, Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Sangrur legislator Parkash Chand Garg alleged that the authorities had used substandard material and produced fake bills to embezzle government funds. “The authorities had spent only 50 per cent of the said amount. I will take up the matter with the higher authorities with evidence and demand a high-level inquiry,” said Garg.Senior AAP leader Avtar Ealwal also demanded a thorough probe. “I have visited many villages and in almost every village, residents are openly alleging that officers have misappropriated funds,” he claimed.Ranjit Singh Shergill, Executive Engineer, Panchayat Department, denied the allegations. He said: “We have utilised the funds in a transparent manner and installed WTP in 84 villages with high quality material.”
14-08-2020||---||Rival groups clash in Muktsar, 7 hurt||Muktsar, August 13  At least seven persons were injured in a clash between two factions near Gurusar village here. Two of them suffered bullet injuries as well and were referred to Bathinda and Faridkot hospitals. Sources said around 150 youths gathered near Gurusar village on Husnar Road after which a brawl ensued. However, till the time of filing this report, the cause of the clash was not known. The police had reached the spot and started an investigation.  Those injured were taken to the Civil Hospital, Gidderbaha, and were identified as Gora Singh, Gursewak Singh, Varinder Singh, Baljit Singh, Lovedeep Singh, Manpreet Singh and Ajaypal Singh. Some eyewitness said both warring groups were firing at each other, so noboduy from the village dared to intervene in the matter. Paramjit Singh, Station House Officer, Gidderbaha police station, said the police would file the case after recording the statements of both sides. He said they were trying to find out the reason behind the clash.
14-08-2020||---||Webinar on Jallianwala massacre at GND varsity||Amritsar, August 13To commemorate the centennial anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) hosted a webinar on the history and significance of the place. The webinar had two sessions and was organised by the Department of History. The theme of the webinar was ‘Revisiting history and literature of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre-1919’.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh inaugurated the webinar and talked about the history behind the infamous incident that provided impetus to the nationalist movement in 1919 and gave rise to nationalist idols like Shaheed Udham Singh and Bhagat Singh.The Chief Minister mentioned the issue of rapid development near the memorial building and said this had diluted the significance of the narrow entrance through which the British troops entered the Jallianwala Bagh.Capt Amarinder told Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, that the hidden aspects of the massacre should be researched by the history department of the university and publish the same. A book ‘Re-imagining Jallianwala Bagh Massacre (1919-2019): Centennial Commemoration’ was also released during the webinar.
14-08-2020||---||To boost dairy farming, govt offers 40% subsidy on machines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 13The Punjab Government has launched a new scheme to provide 40 per cent subsidy to the farmers on silage baler-cum-wrapper machines through Punjab Dairy Development Board to promote dairy farming in the state and to make it more advanced and profitable.Will help cut groundwater useAs per Animal Husbandry Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, the increase in the area under green fodder would not only increase the milk production, but also reduce the area under traditional crops — wheat and paddy — which would also help save groundwaterIn a statement issued today, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development Minister, said the government was making continuous efforts to modernise the production and maintenance of green fodder.The minister said the increase in the area under green fodder would not only increase the milk production, but also reduce the area under traditional crops — wheat and paddy — which would also help save groundwater. He said with the implementation of this scheme, the progressive farmer who bought the machine would be provided financial assistance up to Rs 5.60 lakh by the government.The minister said the availability of green fodder throughout the year had been an important issue for the dairy farmers. It was common that green fodder was surplus in some months, while remained in short supply in other months.To tackle this problem, some progressive farmers were making silage from green fodder with their own efforts in a traditional way, but this could not be transported from one place to another place or stored for a longer period. But now with the invention of these advanced machines, silage balers made from green fodder could be easily wrapped and packed in bags, tubes and easily transported to small, landless farmers, urban dairies and green fodder deficient states.
14-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mandi Board launches video calling app||To ensure efficacious functioning and seamless coordination, especially during the trying circumstances amid Covid-19, Punjab Mandi Board on Thursday launched an in-house video-conferencing mobile app QVIC (quick video calling app) where an audio or video call can be made with a mere click.While launching this unique mobile app at Punjab Mandi Board Complex in Mohali, Board Chairman Laal Singh pointed out that Punjab was the first state in the country to develop such state-of-the-art app at the government level. The initiative would ensure greater security in its communication, transparency and speedy disposal of official work. — TNS
14-08-2020||---||Drugs seized in Mansa, 2 arrested||Mansa, August 13 The police recovered 1,30,750 intoxicant pills and arrested two peddlers in Mansa district.  The market value of the contraband is said to be around Rs 17 lakh. The police are establishing further links in the supply chain of intoxicants.  The officials arrested Gurdeep Singh of Nangal Kalan and Rakesh Kumar of Mansa city with 1,30,750 intoxicant pills (82,800 etizolam and 47,950 clovidol). Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said, “A police party of the Sadar police station was on routine patrol duty. When it reached near Nangal Khurd village, it nabbed Gurdeep Singh. After initial investigation, the accused disclosed that he bought the pills from Rakesh Kumar of Mansa. An FIR has been filed under Sections 22, 25, 27A, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 18 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.” Senior officials said a police remand would be sought for the accused.
14-08-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||No funds, fire station project hangs fire||Tribune News Service Bathinda, August 13 The construction of a new fire substation at ITI Chowk has been hanging fire due to paucity of funds. The Fire Department had taken over 650 sq yd of land and Rs 80 lakh was the estimated cost of the project. A boundary wall had been constructed, but the building has not come up as the department awaits release of funds by the state government. The demand for the fire station was made by industrialists as numerous industrial units were located at Industrial Growth Centre, ITI industrial area and the industrial area on Dabwali Road. Raman Watts of the Bathinda Chambers of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) said despite the approval, the fire sub-station has not been constructed so far. “We have been asking for a fire station at ITI Chowk from a long time. The Fire Department is ill-equipped to handle mishaps in crowded markets and residential areas.” It is pertinent to mention that in 2011, industrialists had met the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and had urged him to set up the fire station. The Municipal Corporation Bathinda (MCB) had prepared a proposal and sent it to the Industry Department for seeking a no-objection certificate (NOC) as the land belonged to the department. In 2016, the MCB received the NOC, but nothing has happened on the ground due to lack of funds.
14-08-2020||Faridkot||Punjab Class XII toppers to get Rs5,100 each on I-Day, 335 on list||The Punjab School Education Board has released a list of 335 students who will be given Rs 5,100 each by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Independence Day for scoring more than 98 per cent marks in Class XII board exams.Among the 11 toppers with 100 per cent marks, nine are girls. Seven of these students are from Faridkot district and two each from Muktsar and Fazilka.
14-08-2020||Faridkot||SIT files chargesheet against former SHO, SP||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing case today presented a chargesheet in the court of Judicial Magistrate (Class I) against former SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher and SP Baljeet Singh.The SIT has accused both police officers of tampering with evidence in the police firing incident of October 14, 2015, at Kotkapura.Kotkapura firing caseBy adding Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the IPC in the FIR and nominating Pandher and Baljeet Singh as the accused, the SIT alleged that both police officers framed many innocent persons in the police firing case at Kotkapura.The SIT alleged the police officers, posted at Kotkapura at that time, failed in handling the situation arising out of the dharna being held to protest sacrilege incidents at Kotkapura, and also fabricated evidence.It alleged Pandher and Baljit Singh made an attempt to destroy 11 pieces of evidence, manipulated and fabricated the relevant facts of the case and did not take any action on the medico legal reports of the persons injured in the police firing.The SIT claimed that both of them were the jurisdictional officers under whose area the incident of firing took place. Besides destroying the material evidence, they were part of a conspiracy to concoct a story of self-defence whereas the names of police officials mentioned by them had said in their statements that they did not fire any shot during the protest.
