14-05-2020||---||Schools in Punjab imparting online education can charge only tuition fee: Singla||Chandigarh, May 14Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, while giving a big relief to parents of the state, said only those schools which are imparting online education will be allowed to charge only tuition fee for lockdown period and admission fees, uniform or any other charges in any form will not be charged from the students.He added that the school managements should also refrain from increasing the fee or any other charges during academic session 2020-21 in view of the nationwide disaster.In a press communiqué released here today, Singla said economic activities have reduced to the minimal extent due to the countrywide curfew/lockdown, hence there is dire need to provide relief to the parents of the students.“We have passed an order mandating the schools to charge just tuition fees during the lockdown period,” he said, adding that the government order clearly states that only those schools, who are conducting online classes, will be eligible of charging only tuition fee from students.“Schools that are not conducting online classes cannot be able to charge any fee or fund,” he asserted.He said that although interest of the students is “paramount to us but with the new guidelines we have tried to strike a balance by allowing private schools to charge tuition fee so that they can meet their monthly expenses and pay their staff timely”.Singla categorically said, “This order has been passed complying with the guidelines of the Delhi High Court judgment with the sole aim of giving relief to the students and their parents. The concerned DEO will ensure that beyond tuition fee, no school should charge any transport fee, mess charges, building charges and any additional charge.”He also directed said that no school can expel any student, if he/she fails to pay tuition fees in time or gets it delayed due to any reason.Protecting the rights of the employees, the Minister also instructed that schools can neither stop nor reduce the salaries of their teachers and other employees under any circumstances. Besides this, schools managements have also been instructed that they cannot shunt out its employee on the pretext of lockdown and low affair of financial activities. “Strict action will be taken against all those schools, which will either stop or reduce the salaries of the teachers and employees,” Singla said.
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||3-year-old dances away COVID-19 blues in Nawanshahr hospital’s isolation ward||Unperturbed by the COVID-19 pandemic that has everyone worried, a three-year-old boy admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Nawanshahr district, Punjab, keeps himself busy by grooving to Punjabi songs.Admitted to the hospital, along with his 35-year-old mother, on April 30 after they tested positive for COVID-19 upon returning from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, the little one ensures that the mood in the ward remains upbeat.The boy is winning hearts on social media, with his videos being shared widely by people.One video shows him dancing to a Punjabi song. Another shows him readily agreeing to perform again at the request of other patients in the ward. Some patients are also seen clapping for the boy in the video.#Nawanshahr#FightAgainstCorona"ਬੇਪ੍ਰਵਾਹ ਬਚਪਨ"ਜ਼ਿਲ੍ਹਾ ਹਸਪਤਾਲ, ਨਵਾਂ ਸ਼ਹਿਰ ਦੇ ਆਈਸੋਲੇਸ਼ਨ ਵਾਰਡ ਵਿੱਚ ਆਪਣੀ ਮਾਂ ਦੇ ਨਾਲ ਹੀ ਕੋਰੋਨਾ ਵਾਇਰਸ ਦਾ ਸਾਹਮਣਾ ਕਰ ਰਿਹਾ ਇਹ ਤਿੰਨ ਸਾਲ ਦਾ ਬੱਚਾ ਸਾਰੇ ਕੋਵਿਡ-19 ਮਰੀਜ਼ਾਂ ਅਤੇ ਹਸਪਤਾਲ ਸਟਾਫ਼ ਦਾ ਮਨ ਮੋਹ ਰਿਹੈ। @capt_amarinder@VinayBublani @kbssidhu1961 pic.twitter.com/xDNgePUW0H  “We have installed a music system in isolation wards and the child dances to the music that is played,” Nawanshahr Senior Medical Officer Harwinder Singh said on Thursday.Some patients also performed bhangra in their isolation wards, he said. Religious hymns are also played for patients, he added.Both the boy and his mother are stable and their samples were again taken for testing on Thursday, Singh said.At present, a total of 68 COVID-19 patients were admitted at the Nawanshahr Civil Hospital, and 65 of them were pilgrims who returned from Nanded, he said. PTI
14-05-2020||---||Shops to remain open from 7 am to 6 pm in Punjab||Chandigarh, May 14Giving some more relaxation in curfew, the Punjab government on Thursday revised timings for opening of shops. Shops can now remain open from 7 am to 6 pm from May 15.Earlier, the shop timings were from 7 am to 3 pm.The Deputy Commissioners have been asked to immediately issue orders regarding revised timings.
14-05-2020||---||Punjab CM gives go-ahead to cottage industries in Ludhiana to resume operations||Chandigarh, May 14To facilitate the much-needed industrial revival in the state, and responding to concerns expressed by various industry associations, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Thursday, allowed tiny/cottage industries in non-containment mixed-use areas of Ludhiana to immediately resume operations, in order to support the opening of bigger industries that are dependent on the small ones for components.The resumption of operations in these small units, which normally had labour living on or in the vicinity of the premises, would be subject to requirements of access control and strict compliance with the COVID SOPs, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh asserted.The Chief Minister said repeated requests had been received from industry associations to allow the opening of industries in mixed-land use, with access control in non-containment zones of Ludhiana district, subject to adherence of all COVID SOPs/guidelines.State Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora had also suggested that such small units should be allowed to function in order to enable the bigger industries to start operations, he added.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said he had been informed that industry in certain industrial areas in Ludhiana was not yet open despite being permitted to operate under the recent guidelines allowing industries falling in SEE/EOUs /Industrial Estates/Focal Points/Designated Industrial areas, as per the Master Plan of Ludhiana, to resume operations.“Ludhiana has approximately 95,000 MSMEs, offering employment to more than 10 lakh skilled and non-skilled industrial workers. These workers belong to various states of the country, and as a result of the prolonged lockdown, have become unemployed and are facing great hardship,” the Chief Minister noted.Unfortunately, he observed, that despite easing of the restrictions, only 6,900 of the industries in Ludhiana had so far resumed activities. Many of the industries were not able to start their works as they were dependent on various small and tiny cottage industries which provided them components, and most of these small/tiny/cottage industries were located in the mixed-land use areas as per the notified Master Plan, pointed out the Chief Minister.Even as he directed the district administration to immediately encourage industry to open for the benefit of the large number of labourers employed there, Captain Amarinder noted that as per extant notification of town planning department/notified Master Plan, existing industries in mixed-land use areas were allowed to operate. Therefore, these industries needed to be permitted as they were also part of the supply chain to the industries which fall in SEE/EOUs/Industrial Estates/Focal Points/Designated Industrial areas as per the master plan of Ludhiana, he pointed out.The micro/tiny industries in mixed-land areas constitute about 50 per cent of the industrial set-up in the district and employ about five to six lakh workers.Established about four decades back, these have been granted industrial connections and, for all practical purposes, these mixed-land areas are considered as industrial pockets for green industries.
14-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Heartbreaking pictures of migrant kid clinging onto suitcase wheeled by mother||With 800 kms to cover by foot, a young boy sleeps on a suitcase being wheeled by his mother.  The woman drags the bag—with almost double the weight—but doesn't slow down. She maintains the pace with a small group of people.The group had apparently started their long journey on foot from Punjab and were heading to Jhansi.The pictures have left Twitter heartbroken. Can we help them before it's too late?😥 pic.twitter.com/fnodxclQP6  💔 Woman migrant walking to Jhansi with her child #MigrantsOnTheRoad https://t.co/EiABKbHLin  Must we not forget this ever. What have we done to them. https://t.co/KrTy5pvuhF
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: With 11 new cases, Punjab's tally rises to 1,935||Pujab on Thursday reported 11 new cases of coronavirus taking the state's tally to 1,935. Of the 11 new cases, seven are from Jalandhar, three from Patiala and one from Patiala.  Jalandhar reported seven new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 206. Four cases were reported from Qazi Mohalla, all contacts of a doctor who had tested positive previously.
14-05-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana migrant reaches UP home on bicycle; recounts examples of Hindu-Muslim unity on the way||Witnessing religious brotherhood, a 40-year-old migrant reached his village Mandharpur, in district Basti of Uttar Pradesh, amid coronavirus crisis.The migrant—Mahendra—started his journey on a bicycle from Ludhiana during the nation-wide lockdown.When Mahendra was hungry, tired and had his feet badly swollen, Muslims arranged food and water for him. They also helped other migrants who were on their way to their respective villages."After cycling for four days, I had reached Saharanpur along with 21 other workers from Ludhiana. We then halted at an orchard located near village Chhutmalpur to take rest. I was fully tired while my foot had badly swollen. When villagers who were Muslims learned about us, they reached the orchard that belongs to a Muslim man", Mahendra said.He continued: "When we shared our story, they assured us for every possible help. The Muslim villagers provided food and water to us. They provided soaps for all of us for bathing".“The villagers provided meals to us at night as well as the next morning. They also assured to arrange vehicles to send us to our villages. Meanwhile, the district administration officials reached there that day and asked us to come with them to nearby Doon Ayurvedic Medical College. I am Hindu. I can’t forget the help provided by the Muslim people. I am very thankful to them”, he continued.“After reaching Ayurvedic Medical College, we spent the night there. The Muslim people had brought food for us the next morning at the college too. We were happy that we can now go to our villages that day. But, the officials later told us that we will be quarantined for the next 14 days. Our medical screening was done there. We spent 14 days under quarantine at the college hostel”, he said.He continued: “After the quarantine period, the administration arranged vehicles to send us to our respective villages located in different districts. I was asked to station my cycle there and come after lockdown to take it. Finally, I reached my village in district Basti by bus."Mahendra used to work in a textile firm at Ludhiana.“Due to poor financial condition, I had come to Ludhiana in search of a job. Days after the lockdown was imposed, I had no money to eat that’s why I decided to go back village in UP on cycle. I had taken some amount of ‘Dhan Chura’ with me to eat on the way. For the first four days, I ate ‘Dhan Chura’ with water”, he said.“Now, I am living with a family in my native village. I have not yet thought to return to Ludhiana. I can do labour work at my village too. It is better to stay in the village by eating ‘roti’ with salt. However, some of my belongings are in the room where I was staying in Ludhiana”, he concluded.
14-05-2020||Minna Zutshi||Coronavirus: Online motivational meetings help those suffering from depression, anxiety||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14ICAR-sponsored project Utshah is coming to the rescue of those in panic because of the COVID-19 pandemic.“We are helping people who are experiencing bouts of depression, anxiety, neurosis, hopelessness, heightened suicidal ideation,” said Dr Sarabjeet Singh, Principal Investigator, Utshah, who is a professor at PAU.It started as an online motivational meeting on ZOOM app on March 23. The objective was to control panic and keep students, farmers, and general masses motivated and full of hope. “While people were distributing langar, ration to the needy, we started distributing seeds of hope to make the masses resilient and help them take care of their mental health,” said Dr Singh.Initially when the lockdown started, the Utshah meeting was held once a day and later the frequency was increased to twice a day for one hour each. The 96th meeting was held on May 12 with more than 200 volunteers. Right from the start, issues like positive psychology, health and hygiene, spirituality, simple living, taming the mind, fighting over-thinking, cultivating virtues, skill enhancement, adjusting to the changing work culture, devotional singing, connecting to scriptures, Japanese concepts like KAISEN and IKIGAI have been discussed in detail. The participants are occasionally briefed about the precautions to be taken at home and while going outside.Till now, 23 assignments (home works) have been given which include making a list of books at home, cleaning electricity switch boards, dish washing by male members, SWOT analysis, writing creative inspiring poems on current situations, building team spirit, rational and scientific thinking etc. The main idea was keeping the Utshah volunteers busy in constructive pursuits. As Dr Singh said: “Busy is blessed. All were asked to identify their relatives, friends, neighbours who could be prone to distress. They were encouraged to talk to them, listen to their woes, encourage them. Talking is healing.” Volunteers not only from across Punjab but also from UP, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana and from countries like France, Italy, the US, Canada and Australia have become regular members of this unique online class that has been helping the participants tune out stress and engage in constructive pursuits. Sumandeep from Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, said, “We almost forgot the deadly and dreaded thoughts of corona and were so much involved in the positive pursuits.”
14-05-2020||---||Patiala police raid illegal liquor manufacturing unit||Patiala, May 14The Rajpura police have confiscated a huge haul of illegal liquor after a raid at a godown.Police said they recovered hundreds of stickers of various whiskey brands that were pasted on the bottles filled with the illegal liquor manufactured at the godown.Following a tip-off late Wednesday evening, a police team conducted a raid. The godown where the production and packaging was done has been sealed.The police have informed the excise officials to continue with the raid and ascertain if the bottles carried the security logo of the excise department. Samples of the liquor have been collected for further tests.
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana procure 185 lakh tonne wheat||With a bumper crop, wheat procurement in foodgrain states Punjab and Haryana has reached 185 lakh tonne amid the ongoing lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Thursday.The wheat procurement in Punjab is almost double than its neighbouring Haryana.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary with the Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare and Cooperation Department, said a total of 65.66 lakh tonne of wheat has been procured from 424,868 farmers in the state in the past 21 days.He said 6.25 lakh tonne of mustard had been procured till Wednesday. Also, 3114.13 tonne of gram had been procured.Punjab, which contributes 30-35 per cent wheat to the national kitty, is expecting to harvest about 185 lakh tonne and the market arrival is likely to be about 135 lakh tonne, amounting to Rs 26,000 crore, officials said.The minimum support price (MSP) of wheat is Rs 1,925. IANS
14-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||His business shut, Jalandhar councillor spends Rs 4 lakh for welfare of his ward||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13For the past nearly two months, his business of readymade garments and currency exchange has been lying shut. But 35-year-old first-time councillor from ward no. 50 Paramjit Singh aka Sherry Chadha is undeterred with these losses. Instead, he has gone ahead with spending nearly Rs4 lakh for the welfare of ward residents.From providing free ration to getting his entire ward repeatedly sanitised, Chadha has been doing every bit to ensure that families in his ward are not inconvenienced in the ongoing fight against the coronavirus.“I have been trying every bit to ensure that people stay at homes, get all provisions on their doorstep and maintain social distancing norms. For poor families, my team of 10 youngsters and I have been providing free grocery and ration. But for those who can afford stuff, we have been ensuring that they get necessary items in time and they do not have to step out of their houses,” said Chadha.Councillor’s visuals of riding a tractor for a joint sanitisation exercise with MLA Rajinder Beri in Rainak Bazaar and helping vegetable sellers sell their produce in congested mohallas while strictly ensuring 2-meter distance between everyone had gone viral. These were widely appreciated in the city.On being asked how he was managing all expenditure, Chadha said, “I am not just a councillor but also a businessman. I have earned a lot for my family in the past few years. Now, it is time to do something for my people who trust me and love me. Several people have joined me with their small donations making my mission bigger and more achievable.”He said, “My cousins who live close by are very supportive. It was my uncle and ex-councillor Joginder Tony from whom I draw all the inspiration. He had worked intensely for people and served them as a councillor for over 20 years. I wish to follow his path and I pray that God gives me more strength to serve humanity in these tough times.”
14-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Vacancies cripple working of district consumer panels||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13No less than 16 posts of president and 25 of members are lying vacant in the district consumer disputes redressal forums across Punjab. Some of the posts are believed to have been lying vacant for past two years.The number is astronomical considering the fact that complaints before the forums are required to be decided in 90 days in accordance with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act.In all, there are 20 district consumer forums in the state with equal number of sanctioned posts of presidents and 40 posts of members. In the absence of quorum, the backlog is building.State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission president Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal says: “As of now, 16 posts of president are lying vacant and another is about to fall vacant. Besides, two additional Benches of the state commission are not functional due to vacancies. Only, the principal Bench is functional.”An advocate says, “In the absence of presiding officers, complaints filed by the consumers are not being addressed and the work is suffering. Some of these complaints contain allegations of malpractices in the real estate, banking and insurance sectors as well as government institutions.”The selection committee had sent a list of 11 candidates to be appointed as district forum presidents. It included the president of the state consumer dispute redressal commission, principal secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, and the state’s legal remembrancer.The final result was published on December 23, 2019, on the website of state commission. It recommended the filling of two posts of judicial members in the state commission and 11 of presidents in the district forums of Ludhiana, Amritsar Jalandhar, Sangrur, Mansa, Gurdaspur, Barnala Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib in December 2019. Yet, the posts are vacant.HUGE NUMBERThe number is astronomical considering the fact that complaints before the forums are required to be decided in 90 days in accordance with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act
14-05-2020||Mohali||SIT yet to serve on notice to ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||The SIT is yet to issue a notice to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini for joining the investigation into the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a CITCO employee, in 1991.The three-member SIT was set up by the Punjab Police on Tuesday after Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal had granted anticipatory bail to Saini and directed him to join the probe within seven days.The SIT members include Mohali SP-Investigation Harmandeep Singh Hans, DSP-Investigation Bikramjit Singh Brar and Rajiv Kumar, SHO, Mataur Police Station, where the case was registered. The SIT was formed to investigate the former DGP in connection with disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former Punjab bureaucrat Darshan Singh Multani.The SP (Investigation) said they were collecting records pertaining to the 29-year-old case. He said they would issue a notice to ex-DGP to join the investigation so that he could be questioned in connection with the case. Palwinder Singh Multani, victim’s brother, had filed a complaint against the former DGP in Mohali on May 6 .Palwinder had complained his brother Balwant was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then Chandigarh SSP. Four policemen posted in Saini’s security were killed in the attack. Later, the police claimed that Balwant had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police. — TNS
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||PWD official held for taking bribe||The state Vigilance Bureau today arrested Junior Engineer (JE) of the PWD for taking bribe of Rs 80,000 and registered a case against his accomplice.The complainant, Jagroop Singh of Moga’s Gholia Khurd village, alleged that the accused Honey Bansal and his accomplice Amarjeet Singh were demanding 10 per cent of Rs4,70,000 for evaluating his hotel land, which had come under the acquisition plan of National Highway 254. — TNS
14-05-2020||Bathinda||Varsity clerk held for murdering staffer||A clerk working in Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) has been arrested on the charge of murdering fellow colleague Jyoti Rani and then later terming the incident as suicide.On Sunday, the accused, Jagdev Singh, along with fellow staffers, had called Jyoti to the office on the pretext of some urgent work. Later, they pushed her from the fourth floor of the building.In a statement to the police, family members of the deceased said accused Jagdev Singh was pressuring their daughter to marry him despite repeatedly being spurned.The deceased was a resident of Amarpura Basti in the city and was working as a clerk-cum-data operator in the accounts department of the technical university.The family members of the deceased have demanded a high-level probe into the incident, claiming that injury marks on the hand of the deceased and her torn clothes indicated murder. — TNS
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hearing all types of cases, says High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today clarified that it had not restricted the hearing of cases to any particular category and requests for hearing pending matters could also be made.The clarification on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by High Court’s Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry came as a record number of 11 Single and one Division Bench heard the urgent and other cases today — almost a week after the High Court streamlined its functioning.The order said since the inception of the Covid-19 period, the HC had not restricted the hearing of cases to any particular category and all cases were being taken up keeping in view the urgency involved. The process was being carried out in strict adherence to the advisories/instructions issued by the government from time to time, especially by the health authorities, and the conditions prevailing in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. In its latest order also, it was clearly stated that “all types of cases” would be heard. — TNS
14-05-2020||---||Punjab seeks hike in Centre’s share in welfare schemes||Chandigarh, May 13 The Local Bodies Department has prepared a roadmap  for kickstarting the urban economy by significantly increasing the share of the Centre in many urban welfare schemes.  In a note prepared for the Chief Minister, which will be sent to the PM by May 15, the department has recommended that the Centre increase its share in Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, Smart City and Jal Jeevan Mission significantly. Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra has said the Centre wanted a broad strategy on how states would want to deal with the lockdown regime while ramping up the economic activity. “The only way to go forward would be through getting more aid from the Centre as the state’s own revenue sources dry up. The revenue inflow from cess on electricity consumption as well as share in excise duty on liquor is almost nil. Coupled with this, states have had to defer payment of property tax and water and sewage charges,” he said. Mohindra has recommended increasing Centre’s share in the Smart City projects from 33 per cent to 70 per cent (in cities above 10 lakh population), and in other cities from 50 per cent to 75 per cent. At present, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar are being developed under the scheme. In the AMRUT scheme, funding is in the ratio of 33:66 per cent for metros (66 per cent is state’s share) and 50:50 for other towns.  “This funding pattern must be changed with the Centre giving 75 per cent of the project cost,” he said.
14-05-2020||---||Sidhu: Testing ramped up to 1,392/mn daily||Chandigarh, May 13Punjab has completed testing of 41,849 people as on May 13 by increasing its testing-per-million figures to 1,392 per day. This is better than the national average of 1,243 tests per million per day, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said today.Punjab had followed an effective approach towards testing. The state had formulated its testing strategy in consultation with medical experts from the state, from the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi, and from Johns Hopkins University, USA, he said.“The state has rapidly ramped up its testing rate by increasing its lab capacities. It tested 20,000 samples by May 2. Moving forward, it did the next set of 10,000 tests in just five days, crossing the mark of 30,000 tests. The state is using its Government Medical College labs at full potential to test the Covid-19 suspected cases. Apart from these, Government of India institutions like IMTECH, Chandigarh and PGI, Chandigarh, have been roped in for testing. Some ICMR-approved private labs have been roped in by the Department of Health to increase the testing capacity of the state.The Health Minister said purchase orders for the procurement of 3 MGI-SP960 Automated High Throughput RNA Extraction System have been made by the Department of Medical Education and Research for three Government Medical Colleges. The government also plans to commence testing at four state government labs. Apart from this, labs are being set up at four Central government institutions like IISER, Mohali, NIPER, Mohali, NABI, Mohali, and PU, Chandigarh.Sidhu said a proposal had also been sent by the Department of Health to set up four new labs in district hospitals at Barnala, Roopnagar, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur.10,000 tests in just five days
14-05-2020||Aman Sood||Facing losses, PSPCL to raise Rs2,500 cr loan||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 13Hit hard by fall in industrial and commercial activity, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is contemplating to borrow money to buy power to meet the demand of the agriculture sector during the paddy season.The corporation is losing nearly Rs 20 crore per day due to a dip in the demand for power ever since the lockdown was announced on March 22.It will need Rs 40 crore per day to manage its affairs over the next three months. The agriculture sector is expected to consume some 4200 MW during this period. Officials sources said the Punjab Government was yet to pay Rs 5500 crore subsidy pertaining to the last fiscal year. Another Rs 2,500 crore was pending for the first two months of this fiscal. The state cleared only Rs 600 crore, while Rs 300 crore was adjusted. The sources said the PSPCL’s revenue during the first two months of this fiscal was Rs 1,200 crore as compared to Rs 2,000 crore last year. “We need around Rs 2,500 crore through loans to survive this paddy season,” an official said. The corporation is looking at the state government to release the pending subsidy amount and is also writing to the Centre to delay the payment of rail fare for coal and other charges. Baldev Singh Sran, CMD, PSPCL, said they were committed to provide round-the-clock power to all categories of consumers. “Despite the challenges, regular supply will be maintained. Sufficient finances will be arranged to meet the challenges posed by the lockdown,” Sran added.Halt billing for four months: SADChandigarh: The SAD on Wednesday slammed the Congress government for “issuing inflated power bills” with clauses of penalty at a time when the poor as well as the middle class were in dire straits due to the Covid-19 outbreak. In a statement, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema demanded a four-month moratorium on power bills, besides seeking reduction in the amount. TNS
14-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Kin booked for ‘honour  killing’ in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, May 13A couple of Duhal Kona village, 50 km from here, was killed in a case of alleged honour killing. The decomposed bodies were recovered from a field in the nearby Manawan village.The Khemkaran police booked members of the girl’s family under Sections 302, 201 and 120B of the IPC.Officials said the deceased had been identified as Jugraj Singh (20) and Jyoti (18) of Duhal Kona village. The girl’s family was reportedly opposed to the relationship.The case has been registered on the statement of Jugraj’s father Kulwant Singh. He said the couple left home on May 7 night but did not return. Two of the accused were identified as Jyoti’s mother Sukhi and the girl’s cousin Gurbhej Singh. No arrests have been made in the case so far. The SHO said the bodies had been sent to the Civil Hospital, Patti, for a post-mortem.
14-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Fearing quarantine, migrants rethink plan to return home||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 13The fear of being quarantined when they reach home in their respective states has forced hundreds of migrants to change their plans.Sarwan Kumar, who worked as a labourer in a farm in Bahian village of Gurdaspur, said he and many of his co-workers now no longer want to travel.“The state government is slowly easing restrictions in factories. Instead of moving to my village near Patna, I have made plans to go to Batala, 35 km from here, where some small scale industries have already opened. I will find work there,” he said.He said he knew more than 100 migrants who feared that quarantine restrictions could hamper their movement back home.“I will be made to stay in my home for 14 days when I reach my village in Purnia district, a 32-hour journey from here. What if I do not find work after that? If I decide to come back to Punjab, I will again placed under quarantine for 21 days. So why travel all the way back to Purnia and then back to Gurdaspur?” said Dharo, who used to sell dry fruits in his rickety cart in the busy Hanuman chowk area of the city before the lockdown came in.“We are from Gopalganj and got ourselves registered on the portal two days ago. However, as units are opening up, employers are calling us. Working in a foundry unit in Batala is a much better option than undergoing an arduous 28-hour journey back home. Moreover, sitting at home for 14 days as a part of the quarantine period is not acceptable to us,” said Lakshman.Migrants from Gurdaspur district have to travel to Amritsar to take a train to their respective states. “We would have gone had the authorities arranged trains for us from Gurdaspur itself. Instead of travelling to Gaya, from where we came five years ago, it is more viable to move to Batala or its surrounding areas where we can find work. My friends in Batala tell me that industrial units will start functioning in the next few days. I had got myself registered but now, I have changed plans,” said Madho.Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu, ADC (general), said the administration was making arrangements for migrants to board trains from Gurdaspur. “Gurdaspur district has been allocated just one bogey and only 54 migrants can board it. We have written to the state government’s nodal officer to ensure that at least four trains start from Gurdaspur itself. This will ease the pressure to some extent,” he added.Address their woes: Capt to CentreChandigarh: CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said intervention in the unorganised labour sector should have been the priority in the fiscal relief package, the first tranche of which was announced by Union Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman. It was unfortunate that the minister had not deemed it fit to balance the needs of the small industry with the requirements of labourers facing problems, said the CM. tns
14-05-2020||Aman Sood||We paid for your journey, Cong men tell labourers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 13Local Congress leaders today rushed to the railway station to hand over pamphlets to the migrants going back to their native places, taking credit for their travel and food arrangements.The leaders and their supporters repeatedly told the passengers that their train fare was being paid by the Congress.Leading the campaign was Patiala Mayor Sanjiv Sharma Bittu and district Congress chief KK Malhotra, who were seen distributing pamphlets with pictures of AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, besides their own. Sporting face masks and accompanied by party workers, they handed over the flyers to the migrants as the latter hurriedly boarded the train.A passenger said, “I don’t care who is paying the train fare. The past six weeks have been rough. We had been getting limited ration. We just hope that we reach our village alive.”Another migrant said although they got help so far as travel and food was concerned, the leaders were only worried about votes, not them.Meanwhile, senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the Congress government cheated the migrants by not giving them any financial aid and food for the past six weeks. “Now, when these people are rushing back home, the government is paying for their journey from tax payers’ money, while NGOs are arranging food for them,” he claimed.
14-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||No SMS, workers crowd rly station||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13Shailender, a migrant, packed his bags three days ago and left his quarter. In the desperation of going back, he went to the checking centre without even receiving any confirmatory SMS of rail ticket. After spending hours outside the centre, he returned to work. His fellow workers refused to work with him and even the quarter owner didn’t allow him to stay because of fear of contacting the virus. It was a double whammy for him.In Jalandhar, several labourers like him are thronging checking centres where medical screening of those with confirmation to board trains is being done.Officials said the labourers were putting themselves to high risk.An owner of a pipe fitting manufacturing unit said three of his workers left work without even telling him, and after spending some hours at the checking centre, they came back. “Their fellow workers said they didn’t want to work in their presence because they thought the workers who had left and spent several hours amid thousands of other migrants might have been infected,” he said.Jasbir Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), said lakhs of the migrants had applied to go back, but the availability of the transportation was limited. “It is not possible to accommodate everyone at a time. They should wait for their turn,” he said.1.1 lakh reach home via trainsChandigarh: The state government said it had been facilitating the return of migrants to their native states. More than 90 trains have left from Punjab taking 1,10,000 migrants to their respective states. The state government has spent more than Rs6 crore to fund the movement of migrants till now. tns
14-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Contractors firm on demands as Capt okays excise policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Amid the political-bureaucratic stand-off, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced amendments to the excise policy for 2020-21. With several issues raised by the liquor contractors before the stand-off remaining unresolved, many have rejected the announcements and threatened to keep the liquor vends shut.Only 50-60 per cent of the 5,800 liquor vends across Punjab are expected to be reopened on Thursday.Ministers Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaraia and Vijay Inder Singla along with officials of the Excise and Taxation Department met some of the liquor contractors in Jalandhar this evening, asking them to open the vends.The government delegation is learnt to have conveyed that they would not be demanding licence fee immediately. It also assured the contractors that liquor smuggling from neighbouring states would be curbed.A contractor said, “While the decision to open vends will be taken by all contractors, many are now ready to leave the contracts, mainly those having sites near migrant labour settlements. With the departure of migrants, these vends, which otherwise saw good sale of Punjab made liquor, will incur losses.”On the other hand, Anil Mahajan, a Hoshiarpur-based contractor said, “I am suffering a loss of Rs15 lakh each day. I have decided to open the vend as I don’t see the government agreeing to any discounts.”The amendments to the excise policy included providing adjustments to licencees for losses incurred for the lockdown period from March 23-May 6; not extending the period of contract of liquor vends beyond March 31, 2021; setting up a group of ministers comprising Manpreet Badal, Vijay Inder Singla and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, to consider the levying of Covid cess on liquor; and leaving the option of home delivery of liquor on the licencees.The contractors said the government neither reduced the minimum guaranteed quota or the minimum guaranteed revenue for the coming months nor acceded to their demand for extending the year of implementation of the policy by 36 days, beyond March 31, 2021.“None of our demands have been met. In Ludhiana, majority of the contractors have decided against opening vends,” said Varinder Sharma, a representative for Ludhiana liquor contractors.A meeting of the group of ministers is likely to be held on the issue on Friday.
14-05-2020||Chandigarh May 13||Ministers want share in liquor trade, says SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today alleged that it was shocking that while people were fighting for their lives, Congress ministers and leaders were losing sleep over their share in the liquor trade.Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia alleged they were not bothered over finding solution to the problems being faced by farmers, labourers, shopkeepers, small and medium traders and employees.He claimed that the ministers seemed to have launched a counter attack on senior bureaucrats only to deflect public attention from the allegations of liquor loot levelled by the Chief Secretary in the Cabinet meeting.“However, if there is substance in the allegations of either the CS or the ministers, the government must dare to act them and file FIRs against whichever side is prima facie guilty,” he said. — TNSSet up liquor corpn: AAPLeader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the CM should implement the new excise policy through a government liquor corporation, which he said should set up soon. The AAP leader said the exercise would not only fetch Rs18,000 crore against the current target of Rs6,200 crore, but would also eliminate liquor mafia. — TNS
14-05-2020||---||Deadline for realty projects extended by RERA||Chandigarh, May 13To minimise the effect of Covid-19 on the real estate sector, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Punjab, has announced a series of relaxations for developers.NS Kang, Chairperson, RERA, said for all registered projects where completion date or revised completion date or extended completion date was on or after March 15, the period of validity for registration of such projects shall be automatically extended by six months from the original date.For all projects whose registration had lapsed prior to March and in which applications for extension are under consideration, the period of validity for registration of such projects shall be extended by six months in addition to the extension period that would normally be granted on processing the application.Besides, for all registered projects the registration of which has lapsed prior to March 15, and in which application for extension has not yet been made, the period of validity for registration of such projects shall be extended by six months in addition to the period that would normally be granted on processing the application, provided they apply for extension after paying the necessary late fee. In calculation of late fee, the period from March 15 to June 30 shall be excluded.
14-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||No money for rent, families put up on roads in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 13Atul Kumar, a 34-year-old construction labourer from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, says he hasn’t slept properly for days. Forced to live on the footpath after his landlord evicted him from the rented accommodation, he yearns for his family back home.Without food and money, he has been putting up on the footpath near the Kacheri road here. “I have applied for Shramik train, but I haven’t received the confirmatory SMS of my rail ticket yet,” he said.Like Kumar, there are many others stranded in the city without any mean of sustenance.Ram Niwas, a freight loader and UP native, says he is running short of money to pay rent. “I have decided to live on the road near a farm on the Pathankot bypass. There, migrants who have received the rail ticket on SMS are medically screened. So, I will remain in touch with officials and get the update about my rail ticket,” he said.What are the eating? “Sometimes, NGOs serve us food. Otherwise, we sleep on an empty stomach,” Ram Niwas said.Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said: “The arrangements for migrant workers are in place, but they are too eager to return home. They are not following the directions of the district administration.”7 lakh registerLudhiana: About 7.29 lakh migrants here have applied for Shramik trains. Around 30,000 migrants have already gone back to their native places via 25 trains during the lockdown. The Karkhana Mazdoor Union said it was estimated that 20,000 labourers from the city had moved to UP and Bihar on foot and bicycles. tns
14-05-2020||Sangrur||Workers allege police brutality||A day after spinning mill workers in Malerkotla protested over salary cut, a delegation of three organisations today alleged police brutality on the labourers.SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey, DSP Sumit Sood and ASI Jaswinder Singh were hurt as the administration claimed the labourers pelted stones on them.The mill authorities have alleged that a handful of workers created unrest on Monday evening when they were refused wages for the period they did not work on account of the lockdown.The delegation, which included members of the Democratic Lawyers’ Association, Naujwan Bharat Sabha and Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee, met the labourers today and live-streamed their interaction.A migrant woman said, “Cops surrounded me inside the mill and thrashed me with sticks and abused me.”“About 15 labourers have suffered injuries. They were taken to a private hospital. But on the directions of the administration, they were forcibly discharged so that the police brutality is not exposed. We will protest if the authorities fail to take action against the police,” said Mukesh Malaud, chief, Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee.The Malerkotla administration has denied the charge of the use of force on protesters. It said the protest turned violent after senior officers met the labourers on Monday.The SDM said, “The police used mild force after labourers started pelting stones. We are trying to convince them to call off the protest as the mill management has assured them of looking into their demands.” — TNS
14-05-2020||---||Relief as Punjab sees drop in new cases||Chandigarh, May 13After a continuous spike in cases for almost 10 days, the Covid-19 situation once again seems to be coming under control in the state.On Wednesday, only 10 new cases were reported and the total count reached 1,924. Notably, 37 new cases were reported on Tuesday.As per a media bulletin, Ludhiana district recorded five fresh cases, followedby Ropar with twocases, and Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur with one case each.In the last one week, 398 cases have been reported in the state. For almost a month, the situation in the state looked under control till April 26. However, after the arrival of over 4,000 pilgrims from Hazoor Sahib in Nanded, the situation started changing.Before April 26, the total number of cases in the state was just around 300. However, in less than three weeks, it swelled more than six times. Now again, the situation seems to be coming under control. As for the past week, the cases have been continuously declining. In Ludhiana, five more workers of a leading tyre company tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the tally to 141 in the district. The report of these patients camefrom DMCH early today.In Ropar, a 22-year-old youth, who reached Punjab from Kanpur on foot, also tested positive. A few days ago, the patient was brought to the flu corner by his father at Civil Hospital. With this, the total number of active Covid cases has touched 57 in the district. Besides, another case was reported in Jalandhar today, taking the tally in the district to 198. The latest case was a 66-year-old from Basti Shiekh. In Kapurthala, a 14-year-old returnee from Hazoor Sahib, tested positive. Staying on the PTU campus, the patient hails from Narangpur village in Bholath. So far, samples of 46,026 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 40,637 samples were found negative and reports of 3,465 are still awaited.
14-05-2020||New Delhi||1984 anti-Sikh riots: SC refuses to grant interim bail to Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to grant interim bail to former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving a life sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.Noting that his medical examination report, prepared by a panel of doctors from AIIMS, said he didn’t need hospitalisation, a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said the matter will be taken up for hearing in July.The Bench also refused to grant parole to convicts Balwan Khokhar and Mahender Yadav. While Khokhar is serving a life term, Yadav has been given 10-year imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in the case.On behalf of Kumar, senior advocate Vikas Singh said he was produced before the AIIMS board and was examined and then he came back to jail.“After that, he could not be produced in AIIMS due to COVID-19. Tomorrow, if my client dies, his life sentence will automatically get converted to a death sentence,” Singh submitted.“Don’t say that,” responded the CJI, adding, “At the moment, we don’t want to decide on his bail application.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed Kumar’s plea, saying, “It’s a case genocide and he was leading a mob.”On behalf of the riot victims, senior advocate HS Phoolka opposed the convicts’ pleas for parole, saying they were not entitled to it under the rules.Kumar (73)—who sought interim bail on the grounds of his poor health condition—is in jail since December 31, 2018, when he surrendered after being convicted and awarded life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.He has challenged the Delhi High Court’s verdict of December 17 last year that awarded him life imprisonment for the “remainder of his natural life” in a case relating the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment’s Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2 in 1984 and burning down of a Gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.In his main petition, he has also sought suspension of sentence and his release on bail.
14-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||12 MLAs seek CBI probe against Chief Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Amid the clamour for the ouster of Chief Secretary (CS) Karan Avtar Singh, the Punjab Government today announced amendments to the Excise Policy 2020-21 and constituted a three-member committee of senior officers to assess the loss owing to the closure of liquor vends post lockdown.Complicating matters further for Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, at least 12 MLAs — among them Raja Warring, Raj Kumar Verka, Fateh Jung Bajwa, Kulbir Zira, Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Sangat Singh Gilzian — today took to Twitter, demanding a CBI probe against the Chief Secretary over “conflict of interest” and the revenue loss incurred by the Excise Department in the past three years.Also read: It was illegal sale of liquor that triggered face-offAlarmed, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) swung into action. The Chief Minister, sources said, called up the MLAs as well as minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, urging them not to blow up the issue given the fact that the Chief Secretary was due for retirement in August.He is learnt to have also called up Cabinet Minister Charanjit Channi to placate him after a minister reportedly threatened Channi to reopen a case against him involving a woman officer. Some Dalit MLAs have reportedly expressed solidarity with Channi.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar said that the Chief Secretary’s continuing in office would reflect poorly on the party as well as the government. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa called for an inquiry into the ‘conflict of interest’ charge by a central investigating agency. “If there is no probe, Punjabis will continue to question the government on corruption,” he stressed.
14-05-2020||New Delhi||Returning migrants may raise Punjab’s disease burden||As India’s Covid case count reached 74,281 today, witnessing a single-day rise of 3,525, the Centre flagged top challenges for Punjab that has seen a rapid spike in disease load recently.At a review meeting today, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said 20,521 migrants and persons returning from abroad over the next few days would pose a major challenge to Punjab.The Centre said significant disease burden in the state was linked to pilgrims who returned from Nanded. Of the state’s 1,924 cases, 1,225 are linked to Nanded. Vardhan said all 22 districts in the state stood affected by Covid-19, with Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala in red zone and 15 others in orange zone. Total samples collected in the state so far are 43,999 with the positivity rate at 4.3 per cent. Punjab informed the Centre that 85 per cent of its patients were asymptomatic. — TNS
14-05-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Illegal sale of liquor triggered face-off within Punjab Govt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13At the heart of the recent face-off between Congress ministers and Punjab Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh was the alleged involvement of party leaders in the illegal production and sale of liquor. Official figures put the excise revenue loss during the three years of the Congress rule at an estimated Rs 1,800 crore.Sources said the trouble began when the ministers accused the top officer of not accounting for the mounting losses. He, in turn, is learnt to have replied that the main reasons for the low revenue receipts were liquor smuggling and unaccounted-for sale across the state allegedly involving Congress leaders.Also read: 12 MLAs seek CBI probe against Chief SecretaryThe Chief Secretary has since relinquished the additional charge of Financial Commissioner, Excise and Taxation.Certain ministers and MLAs are said to be into the liquor business, directly or indirectly. “These leaders are into the business in their own names or in the names of their family members. The big issue here is unaccounted-for liquor stock. There are no records,” a senior official of the state Excise and Taxation Department said.There are three aspects to the revenue loss: businessmen owning distilleries and retail outlets moving stocks illegally and selling without record of sales; retailers buying stocks from distilleries without bills and selling these illegally; and third, organised smuggling of alcohol in districts and sale by bootleggers.The officer added that besides involvement of leaders and questionable liquor supply, “we have also been facing competition as a result of smuggling of liquor from Chandigarh and Haryana”.Congress minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, when contacted, said, “Our sole objection during the meeting with the Chief Secretary was the falling revenue figures from liquor sales. We asked about liquor being sold during the lockdown. We also raised the issue of ‘conflict of interest’ because the Chief Secretary’s son is involved in the liquor trade.”Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh could not be contacted despite several attempts.
14-05-2020||Vijay C Roy||Covid cripples Rs 1,200-crore Jalandhar sports industry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Stumbling BlocksClosure of markets, malls, stadiums, gymsThe cancellation of sports events across the world amid coronavirus pandemic has cast shadow over the Jalandhar sports industry. In March, Indian cricket saw the series against South Africa abandoned. IPL was also cancelled. The Indian Super League final (football) was held in an empty stadium in Goa on March 14. The I-League season was called off with 23 matches left. Similarly, The All England Championships, which concluded on March 15, was the last event in which India’s major badminton stars participated. In tennis also, India was to take on Latvia in a Fed Cup playoff on April 17-18 but that too has been postponed.The industry, which was banking on demand generated by these events, is clueless about future and foresees no signs of revival in next 1-2 years. The industry, dominated by around 500 units in MSME sector, is battling for survival with payments stuck and virtually no orders in hand.The lockdown was announced at a time when the industry was gearing up for the demand which is common during March-October. Especially, summers are considered as the peak season because of summer vacations when many cricket academies open and summer camps are organised across the country.“Our stocks are lying with us. We are uncertain about the future. Even if we want to commence production, there are no signs of demand as markets are closed, stadiums not accessible to masses and major sports activities have already been cancelled,” said Munish Chopra, proprietor, Chopra Synthetics.He said the biggest buyers — schools, universities, gymnasiums and sports clubs — are shut, resulting in virtually no uptake of sports goods. The losses of manufacturers are mounting as they are yet to receive payments but have to pay fixed electricity charges despite their units being closed.Punjab and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh are hubs of sports industry, with former contributing 60% to total sales. The Rs 1,200-crore sports industry of Jalandhar contributes around 30% to exports from the country.“Though there is no demand, even if we want to start operations, labour is hardly available as a large number of migrants have left,” said one of the manufacturers.“The cancellation or deferment of exports and domestic orders has started biting the industry. The extension of the lockdown will give a major jolt to the industry. Sports goods don’t come under essential items. This will delay the revival of our industry and it will take at least 1-2 years,” said Ashish Anand, CEO, Anand & Anand and chairman of Sports and Toys Manufacturers Association.
