14-12-2020||Amritsar||Farmers’ protests: Crisis wouldn’t have happened had Centre followed federal approach, says SAD||The Akali Dal on Monday said the crisis over the new farm laws wouldn’t have arisen had the BJP-led government followed a federal approach, claiming that the country has seen a “dangerous slide” into an increasingly autocratic system under it.“The alarming crisis following the passage of three anti-farmer Acts would not have arisen if the government had followed a federal approach through consultation, conciliation and consensus,” Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said in a statement. “The farmers’ crisis cannot be de-linked from the ill-advised unitary and dictatorial tendencies in the country. The problem could have been averted through an approach based on federal principles,” said Badal after offering prayers at the Akal Takht Sahib complex.Badal lamented that under the BJP-led government at the Centre, “the country has seen a dangerous slide into an increasingly autocratic and unitary system with growing centralisation of power in a few hands”.He said his party would work in tandem with like-minded regional and national parties to make India a genuine federal country. “This alone is the ultimate and durable guarantee against the social, political and economic turmoil which the country has been witnessing in recent years,” he said.He reiterated that his party fully supports the farmers’ demand for total revocation of the farm laws.Badal alleged that the NDA government had “violated” the principle of federalism and “usurped” the powers of the states to institute three laws on agriculture which was a state subject. The government is working “against the interests of the states by concentrating all power in its hands”, Badal said, adding that the SAD was the first to talk about the need for a true federal structure.“Then we were branded as separatists. However, today all the states are in favour of a federal structure and feel that if this had been in place the farmers would not have been agitating for their rights,” he said.Things had taken such a turn that if one was in agreement with the central government, he was a ‘desh bhakt’ (nationalist) but if one spoke out against it, he was branded a ‘desh drohi’ (traitor), he alleged. --- PTI
14-12-2020||Mansa||Farmer attempts to commit suicide in his field in front of police officials in Mansa||A farmer on Monday made an attempt to commit suicide by consuming a poisonous substance in his fields in the presence of police officials, who had come to stop him to plough his fields.He was taken to a hospital where his condition is said to be serious.A video pertaining to this incident made from a mobile phone is also going viral in which it was clearly seen that police officials were busy talking on phone while the farmer was consuming poisonous substance.It was clearly seen that no efforts were made by police to stop the farmers from consuming it.As per information, Bogh Singh (50) of Alampur Bodla in Budhlada block in Mansa district is having a dispute of his around two acre land with Darshan Singh.While talking to media-persons, Bogh Singh’s wife Paramjit Kaur alleged that Darshan Singh was illegally trying to grab their land.Today morning when they started to plough their land, Darshan Singh along with the police party reached their fields and stopped them from working in their field.Further, she claimed that irked over the police officials for illegally stopping them from working in their fields, her husband consumed a poisonous substance in presence of police officials.She also alleged that some persons had made forged documents trying to grab their land wrongfully.Victim’s relative Gurmail Singh said Bogh Singh has around two acre land, from where he manages his family, but some people along with police are trying to illegally grab it.On the other hand, DSP Budhlada Baljinder Singh Pannu said the matter related to land dispute was under consideration in the court.The farmer who consumed poison was picked up from the spot and admitted to the hospital. The matter is being investigated. He denied the allegations levelled by the family against the police.
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 21 more deaths, 464 fresh cases in Punjab||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Punjab rose to 5,098 on Monday with 21 more fatalities, while 464 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,60,659.Five deaths were reported from Hoshiarpur, three each from Patiala and Mohali, two each from Faridkot, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Sangrur and one each from Muktsar and Gurdaspur, according to a medical bulletin.There are 6,881 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as per the bulletin.Mohali reported 97 new cases, Jalandhar 90 and Ludhiana 65.A total of 633 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,48,680.Nineteen critical patients are on ventilator, while 140 on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 35,33,856 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
14-12-2020||New Delhi||Over 2,000 women from protesting farmers’ families to join in, arrangements being made||Over 2,000 women from the families of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws at Singhu border here will join the ongoing agitation in the coming days, as peasants are set to intensify their protest further to press their demands.Farmer leaders said they are making arrangements to host the women members coming from various parts of Punjab—tents are being put up, a separate langar is being planned, and extra temporary toilets are being arranged.The aim is to give them a safe and comfortable environment to stay at the protest site, they said.Farmer leader Harendir Singh Lakhowal said that a Delhi-based organisation donated around 200 tents on Sunday which are now being put up at Singhu as well as Tikri borders, especially for women.Shiv Kumar Kakka, one of the 33 farmers who observed hunger strike at Singhu border on Monday, said it is not an agitation of Punjab farmers alone, but of farmers from across the nation.Several women have already been a part of the agitation at the borders here, but more have expressed their willingness to join the cause, he said.“We are expecting over 2,000 women from across various parts of Punjab to join the agitation. We have multiple langars open here for everyone, but we are also thinking to start a separate one for the women.“We are also making arrangements for water tankers to facilitate their drinking and bathing purposes,” said Kakka, who is associated with the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh.“Our main purpose is to give women a safe and comfortable environment to stay. After all they are daughters of farmers, they can live anywhere here,” he said.Lakhowal said that with more farmers, especially women, planning to join in the agitation, they are looking for vacant or incomplete buildings as a temporary accommodation for the protesting women.Some good samaritan have also approached them to donate temporary toilets and have offered their flats for temporary accommodation, the farmer leaders said. — PTI
14-12-2020||New Delhi||Night temperatures expected to drop by 3-5 degrees in next 2-3 days in north India: IMD||Night temperatures are expected to drop by 3-5 degrees Celsius in the next 2-3 days over north India, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Monday.Cold to severe cold weather conditions are also likely over Punjab, while cold day conditions are likely over Haryana, Chandigarh and northwest Rajasthan, the India Meteorological Department added.  Large parts of north India are already witnessing foggy conditions as temperature drops further.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over most parts of northwest India during the next four days,” the IMD said.The IMD, in its winter forecast issued last month for December-February, has already predicted below normal night temperatures in north India this winter season.It added that no significant change in minimum temperatures over most parts of central and east India is likely during next 2-3 days. The temperatures will fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius thereafter.The IMD said under the influence of strengthening of the easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area between December 16 and 18. --- PTI
14-12-2020||New Delhi||Nooran sisters join farmer protest at Singhu border||As the farmer protests entered the 19th day on Monday and farmer leaders are on hunger strike, famous Punjabi singers--- the Nooran sisters---also came out in support of the farmers.The Nooran sisters visited the Singhu border here to extend their support and show solidarity with the farmers. They met the protesting farmers and also got on to the stage to sing a song for the farmers.While speaking to IANS, they said, "Whatever is happening, it is really wrong. We want to tell the government that burgers and pizzas don't fill up stomachs, 'roti' does that and its the farmers who give this to us." "Whatever we all are today, it's all because of the farmers," the singers said.The farmer leaders began their one-day hunger strike at 8 am and the same would continue till 5 pm on Monday.The farmer leaders sitting on hunger strike include Gurnam Singh Chironi from Haryana, Harinder Singh Lakhowal from Punjab and other leaders of more than 30 farmer unions under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.--IANS
14-12-2020||New Delhi||TractortoTwitter: Sydney-based IT professional from Ludhiana taking on ‘fake news’ against protest||When he came to India from Australia’s Sydney in October for some personal work, taking a break from his job in the IT industry there, Bhavjit Singh had no plans to overstay.                  But the IT professional from Punjab’s Ludhiana finds himself here in the month of December, running a Twitter campaign to take on those spreading “fake news and running vilification campaigns” against the ongoing farmers’ protest.The Twitter handle — Tractor2twitr — has garnered 2.5 million impressions from across the globe since November 28.The farmers’ protest at multiple entry points to the national capital began on November 26, driven mainly by the food-growers from Punjab and Haryana.“I had come to India in October-end to attend to some personal work, but then this (farmers’ protest) happened and I stayed on,” Bhavjit Singh says. He said his idea was to disseminate authentic information about the protest as a “lot of people have been tweeting, running a vilification campaign against the movement”.His friend and a volunteer, Jaspreet Singh, says, “Paid and motivated users dominate and encroach up on the Twitter space. Our campaign is an effort to counter them.”“Farmers don’t know how to operate Twitter. We wanted to connect them to it. We don’t have an IT cell, all tweets are ‘organic’,” he says.Also, when the international media want to know what is happening in India, they don’t go to Facebook or WhatsApp, they logon to Twitter to see what is trending, Bhavjit Singh adds.“When the anti-farmer campaign was at its peak, we thought it was time that the farmers moved from tractor to Twitter. The name of the handle – tractor2twtr – just came out from nowhere,” he says.Bhavjit Singh says the Twitter handle is being operated by volunteers from all across the globe.“Everybody is an administrator.”              The posts from the handle receive more than one lakh retweets daily on an average, he claims.“We have consolidated our power, our presence on Twitter. Now, we are giving those running a vilification campaign a tough fight,” he says.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.They are on a day-long fast on Monday even as the agitation spread to different parts of the country with peasant unions staging demonstrations at district headquarters.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers hold protests at district headquarters in Punjab, Haryana||Farmers raised slogans outside the offices of district commissioners and took out protest marches in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, following a nationwide call given by their unions against the new central laws.The Haryana Police closed the Ambala-Patiala highway after protesters gathered at the Shambhu border point with adjoining Punjab.The ruling Congress also held protests in Punjab, with state unit chief Sunil Jakhar participating in one near the Shambhu border. Shiromani Akali Dal workers protested in Amritsar.In Punjab, protests were held in several districts including Ludhiana, Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Moga, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran.“Farmers held protests outside the offices of deputy commissioners at several places in Punjab,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said.He added that there were plans to hold protest marches as well.In Haryana, protests were reported from Fatehabad, Jind, Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Bhiwani, Kaithal and Ambala.Slogan-shouting protesters pushed at the barricades near the mini-secretariat in Jind, trying to enter the district office complex.In Fatehabad, they took out a tractor procession before some of them sat on a hunger strike at the district secretariat. In Ambala city too, there was slogan shouting outside the DC’s office.In Faridabad, farmers took out a march towards the secretariat. A group of lawyers also sat on a ‘dharna’ there, extending support to the farmers.Memorandums were submitted to the Centre through the deputy commissioners at other places in Haryana, demanding the scrapping of the new laws.“We want a legal guarantee on the MSP and the repeal of the farm laws,” said a Fatehabad farmer.Thousands of farmers – mainly from Punjab and Haryana—have been camping at the entry points to Delhi for days. Monday’s district-level protests were part of this agitation.The farmers also staged protests and sit-ins outside residences and offices of BJP leaders in both the states.Farmer unions are seeking the repeal of the three agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September.Negotiations so far with the Centre have failed to break the deadlock over the laws, which the unions say weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The BJP-led government has assured that the system will stay and maintained that the laws will offer farmers more options for selling their crops. — PTI
14-12-2020||New Delhi||20 more die in Punjab; daily national Covid cases dip below 30,000||The daily new COVID-19 cases fell below 30,000 for the third time this month taking India's virus caseload to 98.84 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 93.88 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,84,100 with  27,071 infections being reported in a day. The death toll rose to 1,43,355 with 336 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 93,88,159 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.98 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent.The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 4 lakh for the eighth consecutive day.There are 3,52,586 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 3.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 15,45,66,990 samples have been tested up to December 12 with 8,55,157 samples being tested on Sunday.The 336 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 47 from West Bengal, 33 from Delhi, 29 from Kerala and 20 from Punjab.A total of 1,43,355 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 48,209 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,944 from Karnataka, 11,895 from Tamil Nadu, 10,014 from Delhi, 9,057 from West Bengal, 8,072 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,057 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,077 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI
14-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||No trust in the system, farmers mull their own political outfit||Tribune News ServiceSinghu border, December 13Amid the din of sloganeering and speeches from the rostrum, with speaker after speaker targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for allegedly trying to corporatise agriculture, anxiety is palpable among the protesting farmers as they look for a political alternative to safeguard their interests.Do we require “our own” political outfit to stop the exploitation of farmers? If the minimum support price on wheat and rice goes, will the prices of irrigated farmland fall further? Do our farmer leaders have political vision? Such thought-provoking queries trouble the young and the elderly alike as the protesters withdraw to their base camps after the day’s hectic schedule. The questions also reflect their disenchantment with the mainstream political parties — be it the BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal, Congress or the Aam Aadmi Party.With no politician welcome on the “protest stage”, farmer union leaders, including Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, Jagmohan Singh Dakaunda and Balbir Singh Rajewal, have turned icons at the ‘kisan andolan’here. They have been grabbing space on the social media as well as the digital, print and visual media platforms.As the youth share their concerns with their “new leaders” over the three central farm laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) chief Balbir Singh Rajewal tells them it could be a long haul.The anger and anguish against the political system is writ large on the faces of the protesters. Gurpreet, representing a group of progressive farmers from Ghanaur in Patiala, takes on the powers-that-be over their “double standards”.“We are aware the underground water table is declining sharply due to traditional crops and there is overuse of pesticides, but the successive governments lacked in efforts to wean the farmers away from wheat and paddy. The attempts to promote diversification were half-hearted!” he maintains.“All of them (politicians) stand exposed. The political outfits are concerned only about their own survival amid the changed dynamics,” says Parminder Singh of Chakdana village in Nawanshahr.Otherwise owing allegiance to different political parties, the youngsters at the protest site here no more feel proud of being identified as “Congressi” or “Akali”. “We are farmers and are united here by a common cause,” says Raju from Aulakh village in Gurdaspur.
14-12-2020||Abohar||Braving cold, for a ‘green’ act||The comeback manGurdaspur: With talk of Navjot Singh Sidhu trying to make a comeback in the Punjab Cabinet, a little known fact that has emerged is that during his cricket playing days he had earned the sobriquet of being the ‘eternal comeback man of Indian cricket’ for repeatedly making his way back into the national squad when the chips were down. In his 16-year international career, Sidhu made as many as a dozen comebacks in Test and one-day cricket. He would often rebound when his critics wrote him off. Such was his resilience and tenacity. The only other cricketer to match him in the number of comebacks was Mohinder Amarnath. Cricket writer Harsha Bhogle once wrote that Sidhu “had the mind of a poet and the hardness of a rock”. Hence it will be no exaggeration to state that he may make yet another comeback, this time politically. His detractors better watch out! After all, to have a comeback, you have to have a setback.Free fuel for tractors on way to farmers’ stirMuktsar: SAD’s Muktsar MLA-cum-district president Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi has offered free diesel to farmers moving towards the ongoing stir at Delhi borders. Barkandi has even given some telephone numbers to contact his team to get the free diesel.Film on magician Shankar soonAbohar: The shooting for a telefilm based on the biography of magician Samrat Shankar is going to start soon. Titled “Jadoo Teri Nazar”, it will feature glimpses of his magical shows and will be shot in Delhi, Mumbai and his ancestral towns Srikaranpur and Ellenabad of Sirsa district in Haryana. Earlier, a 10-episode series on him was telecast on Doordarshan and DD Bharati, which has been re-telecast about 20 times. In the past 45 years, he has done around 30,000 stage shows abroad of which 20,000 were done for charity. Born in 1950, he has created a magic box, which contains 15 games and he claims that after understanding those games, anyone can become a magician. Shankar says he has created the box especially for children, who, he says, should stay away from electronic gadgets, particularly mobile phones.Now, a bookstall for farmersFatehgarh Sahib: “Rise to help”, an NGO comprising students of Fatehgarh Sahib, has set up a bookstall at Singhu border, Delhi, for protesting farmers. The brainchild of Ajmer Singh, a Sikh historian, volunteers have brought several books on state’s history, struggles and culture, which they are distributing among farmers for free so that they may stay motivated with the stories of warriors and religious leaders. Sahil Kapila, head of the NGO, said the youth, who were normally glued to the mobile phones, should read these books and learn that struggles were always won with hard work, discipline, determination and perseverance. The volunteers are getting good response and appreciation from farmers. “Leading Punjabi writers have also come forward to donate their books,” said Jasvir Singh and Kiranpreet Singh, who are supervising the stall.Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal, Archit Watts, Raj Sadosh, Surinder Bhardwaj
14-12-2020||Barnala||5 held for youth’s murder in Barnala||After a tiff over some petty issue, five youngsters first allegedly murdered another local youngster with sharp-edged weapons, cut his body into pieces and later threw the parts into a gutter. The Barnala police recovered the body parts late Thursday evening and arrested all five accused.Barnala DSP Lakhvir Singh Tiwana said Gora (20) went missing on December 4 and investigations revealed that he had a tiff with some youths playing cricket in Prem Nagar who later killed him. — TNS
14-12-2020||---||Youth murdered in Sangrur, probe underway||Sangrur, December 13A youth was allegedly murdered in Lehra on Thursday evening with sharp-edged weapons. The police have registered a case and started an investigation.“The vicitim, identified as Amandeep Singh, had been helping his aunt Harpreet Kaur in fighting a case against her husband Malkiat Singh, who was threatening Amandeep to stop supporting his aunt. As per the statement of Ramandeep Kaur, wife of the deceased, the accused, along with some other persons, kidnapped Amandeep and murdered him,” said Lehra DSP Roshan Lal. He said a murder case had been registered against Malkiat Singh, Jasvir Singh, Satpal Singh and some other unidentified persons. “Our raids are going on to arrest the accused,” the DSP said.
14-12-2020||---||Scholars of Punjabi University, Patiala, develop language software for specially abled||Bathinda, December 13Learning English will now be easier for people with speech and hearing impairment as a group of scholars of Punjabi University, Patiala, has developed a software that will translate English text into video interactive animation in Indian Sign Language (ISL).Talking to The Tribune, Deepali Goyal, a PHD scholar in computer science at the research centre for technology development for specially abled persons, Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University, who developed the software with other scholars, said: “Our team has worked day and night to introduce this software that will help the deaf and dumb learn English through animated videos in Indian sign language. Learners can simply insert the text in English in the software and click on a button to watch animated interactive videos explaining the meaning in sign language.”
14-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||2 drug peddlers arrested with 16,000 tablets in Fatehgarh Sahib||The district police claimed to have arrested two drug peddlers who used to supply intoxicants among the rural populace by bringing them from other states. The police have seized 16,500 intoxicating tablets which the accused were going to supply to peddlers in rural areas.Amneet Kondal, SSP, said the police got a tip-off that two motorcycle-borne drug peddlers occasionally came to their village and supplied tablets. She said the SHO, Badali Ala Singh police station, was directed to erect a naka to nab them.During checking, the police intercepted a motorcycle. The men riding it tried to flee. They were overpowered and during search, the police seized 16,500 intoxicating tablets from them. They were identified as Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, a resident of Behla Khanpur village and Pawan Kumar, alias Babla, a resident of Chuni Kalan.She said during preliminary interrogation, they revealed that they used to bring the tablets from Haryana. — OC
14-12-2020||---||Stopped from ‘selling’ drugs, youth thrash sarpanch in Bathinda||Bathinda, December 13The sarpanch of Gurusar village, Gurjit Singh, was thrashed by youth of his village after he stopped them from “selling” drugs.The accused youth and some other persons attacked the sarpanch and one of his companions. The sarpanch was seriously injured in the incident.The police have registered a case under various sections, including attempt to murder, against 18 persons, based on a medical report of the victim. Gurjit Singh said the accused, identified as Gagandeep Singh, Bittu Singh, Balwant Singh, Premjit Singh, Jagjit Singh, Khushi Singh, Amarjeet Singh, Preeti Singh, Hardeep Kaur and Rani Kaur, residents of Gurusar village and Manpreet Singh, a resident of Fatehgarh Nauabad village, along with five unknown persons, surrounded him and his partner Sarbjit Singh, and attacked them with a plan to kill them.18 persons booked
14-12-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal||Defunct equipment at Fazilka hospital leaves patients in lurch||Fazilka, December 13The equipment for investigation and treatment at the local district hospital has been lying defunct for long due to technical issues and staff shortage, leaving patients in the lurch.Official sources said the dialysis unit here had been lying shut for the past about one year for want of a trained specialist to operate it. As a result, patients have to go to Sriganganagar to get dialysis done and shell a huge amount in the process. “I have to take my husband to Sriganganagar to get his dialysis done twice a week, for which I end up spending Rs 4,000 to 5,000 per trip,” said Pooja, a sanitary worker. The ultrasound scan machine developed some technical snag about eight months ago and patients requiring the test are reportedly referred to private institutions.Pooja, Sanitary workerForced to shell out more I have to take my husband to Sriganganagar twice a week to get his dialysis done for which I end up spending Rs 4,000 to 5,000 per trip. The main X-ray unit also went out of order some two months ago, as a result of which major X-rays were not being conducted at the hospital. Also, patients in need of CT scan have been caught in a piquant situation as their reports are received after one day due to unavailability of a radiologist. The reports are given by outsourced doctors. In case of emergency and accidental cases, the delayed report sometimes proves futile.The issue of machines and equipment lying defunct was raised in the District Grievances Redressal Committee meeting held on November 6 under the chairmanship of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who then directed the Civil Surgeon to set the machines in order. Civil Surgeon Kundan Lal Pal said the out-of-order parts of the ultrasound and X-ray machines were being purchased and a specialist doctor was being trained to conduct dialysis.
14-12-2020||Our Correspondent||17-year-old gang-raped, three held||Abohar/Sriganganagar, December 13The Sriganganagar Police have arrested three persons, identified as Mohammed Rafi, Mewa Singh and Inderjit Singh of Sahuwala village for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl after stopping the two-wheeler, on which she and her male friend, were riding on Wednesday evening at Padampur Road.The victim had registered a complaint later at the women police station. She said that a youth had come from a field on Wednesday at 7 pm, stopped her and pulled out the key of the scooter. Meanwhile, two more men, who were hiding behind the shrubs, arrived. They demanded money, but when she and her friend said they did not keep money in their purses, the miscreants allegedly dragged the girl into the field and raped her.As her friend requested the men to let them go, the miscreants allegedly forced him to transfer Rs 5,000 to an account through Google Pay. They also threatened to kill the victim and her friend if they shouted for help.The cyber team of the police was able to identify the account to which the money had been transferred. The holder of the account was detained after interrogation and the remaining two youths were also nabbed.Senior police officers inspected the site of the crime. Evidence was collected by the Forensic Science Laboratory staff at the spot. The medical examination of the victim had been done.
14-12-2020||---||No bail for Adarsh school chairman||Faridkot, December 13The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, declined pre-arrest bail to the chairman of the management committee of three Government Adarsh Schools for the alleged offence of misappropriating teachers’ salaries.The daughter of the chairman, who is presently working as a principal in one of these schools, has also been denied bail as the court observed that the allegations against the accused were serious.“Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, custodial interrogation of the accused is eminently required, so this case is not fit for grant of pre-arrest bail,” observed the court in its orders.After investigating a complaint received from a teacher, the Faridkot police had registered a criminal case against Narinder Singh Randhawa, chairman of the Sukh Sagar Welfare Association, and his daughter Harsimran Kaur, for the offence of cheating last week. It is alleged that the accused faked some receipts to misappropriate the funds received from the school Education Department to disburse among the teachers as salary.The department had allotted the management of three Government Adarsh Schools — one in Moga and two in Faridkot — to Ludhiana-based Sukh Sagar Avenue Welfare Society under the private public partnership (PPP) mode on August 12, 2016.Under the PPP mode, the state government spends Rs 1,852 per student per month in 24 Adarsh schools in the state. These funds are provided to the management.Funds ‘bungled’
14-12-2020||---||Punjab water supply department yet to pay Rs 31 cr power bill||Bathinda, December 13The pending electricity bill of waterworks operating in rural areas of the Malwa region have been running into crores of rupees for the past many years. Data accessed by The Tribune revealed that an outstanding electricity bill to the tune of Rs 31.80 crore of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department in Bathinda and Mansa districts was pending for the past over two years.Senior officials of the Powercom said despite serving notices for payment of pending bills on numerous occasions, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department had failed to clear outstanding bills running into crores of rupees now.Jaspreet Kaur Talwar, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation Dept‘Will clear dues on priority’At its end, the department has paid all electricity bills but if there is anything pending, we will clear it on priority.A total of Rs 28,54,74,949 pending electricity bill of the Bathinda unit and Rs 3,26,09,683 of Mansa unit has not been cleared by the department. Powercom officials said payments of a miniscule part of the total outstanding electricity bills were made some time back but a large amount still remained unpaid.A senior functionary in the Powercom said the department or panchayats in villages could not solely be held accountable for non-clearance of outstanding electricity bills. The lackadaisical approach of the Powercom and political patronage were to be equally blamed.He said, “It is for the senior officials in the department to get these electricity bills cleared provided they are willing to do so. If payments were not made in time, the Powercom could have disconnected the electricity meters. But by and large, all this is done with political pressure.”Jeevan Kansal, Chief Engineer, Powercom, Bathinda and Mansa‘Payment not cleared despite reminders’Our constant efforts to get the payments cleared from the department have barely yielded any result. We have served several notices to the respective departments but to no avail. Talking to The Tribune, Jaspreet Kaur Talwar, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, said, “The department at its end has made payments of electricity bills but if there are any pending bills, we will clear them on a priority basis.”SK Sharma, Superintending Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, Bathinda and Mansa, said, “The payment of outstanding electricity bills has been made partly by the department. We will make sure that rest of the pending amount is cleared soon.”Jeevan Kansal, Chief Engineer, Powercom, Bathinda and Mansa, said, “Our constant efforts to get the payments cleared from the department have barely garnered any result as the pending bills continue to mount over the years. We have served notices for making payments to the respective departments on numerous occasions but to no avail.” Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan did not respond to repeated calls.
14-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Work on Beas-Qadian rail track shelved due to fund shortage||Tribune News ServiceQadian, December 13Regular protests by farmers against acquisition of their land and paucity of funds on the part of the Punjab Government have combined to sound the death knell of the strategically important 40-km-long Qadian-Beas rail link, one of the most talked about projects of the district.The rail linkage was vital in many respects. Beas is the headquarters of the Radha Soami sect while Qadian houses the Ahmadiyya community’s international headquarters. The venture could have placed Batala on the high speed Amritsar-Delhi line thus proving to be a boon for industrialists as far as connectivity with the national capital was concerned. It would also have facilitated the smooth movement of armed forces in the border area.In 2010, the then Rail Minister Mamata Banerjee, acting on a request made by MP Partap Singh Bajwa, had sanctioned the track under the socially desirable rail connectivity proposals scheme. At that time, its cost was pegged at Rs 205.22 crore and work was envisaged to be completed by 2024. The cost has now escalated to a whopping Rs 840 crore. Half the amount was to be paid by the Punjab Government in the form of a matching grant which, in any case, is not forthcoming.Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa said at present, Qadian and Beas towns were connected by a circuitous route. He said he would take up the issue with CM Capt Amarinder Singh. The fact that the project had been shelved would not have come to light but for the efforts of Batala resident Jagjot Singh Sandhu. Sandhu had written to the Railways asking for information about the track’s progress. The answer he got was “work has been kept in abeyance”. The distance between Qadian and Beas would have been reduced to 28 km from the present 58 km.Project cost escalated to Rs 840 crore
14-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||‘Cancer train’ suspended for 9 months, treatment hit||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 13Cancer treatment in the region took a massive hit during the Covid lockdown as the Abohar-Jodhpur Express, also known as the ‘cancer train’, has been lying suspended for nine months.As a result, many patients have not been able to travel to Bikaner for treatment. These patients have shifted their treatment to the Advanced Cancer Institute at Bathinda and Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot.Gurpreet Singh, Bathinda residentHospitals reluctant to admit My father was having health issues during the lockdown but most hospitals turned us away. Later, when we got him checked, he was diagnosed with cancer. Due to this, the Bathinda institute has witnessed a huge rush of patients. The conditions at the institute have become such that minor surgeries have been stopped to clear the backlog of major surgeries. The most remarkable feature of this train was that 60 per cent of its passengers were cancer patients of all ages who came from all across Punjab. On an average, the train was the lifeline of 100 cancer patients daily along with 200 other co-travellers. It was almost always packed to near capacity.The train would leave Abohar every day carrying patients, mostly small farmers from Punjab’s cotton belt — Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka — for treatment at Acharya Tulsi Regional Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Bikaner. Although the numbers dipped with the opening of Advanced Cancer Institute and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Sangrur, yet many continued to take treatment in Bikaner.The ticket was priced at Rs 210, but for cancer patients, the eight-hour journey to Bikaner was free. One accompanying attendant got a concession of 75 per cent.Even after the lockdown was relaxed gradually, the fear of Covid infection kept cancer patients away from hospitals. Those who sought treatment didn’t get it because of health systems prioritising Covid treatment. A floor of the cancer institute was made a Covid ward. Later, it was shifted after a hue and cry was made over the issue.Angrej Kaur of Maur had to face problems due to the lockdown. She was getting treatment of breast cancer from a hospital in Bikaner, but due to the stopping of the train, she had to get her surgery done from the Advanced Cancer Institute.Gurpreet Singh of Bathinda city said, “My father was having health issues during the lockdown but most hospitals turned us away. Later, when we got him checked, he was diagnosed with cancer. Had he been tested earlier, we could have controlled cancer at an earlier stage.”“The disease has advanced in among 10 per cent patients who could not come to the hospital because of the pandemic,” said Dr Deepak Arora, Director, Advanced Cancer Institute, Bathinda.
14-12-2020||Jalandhar||Hold referendum on laws: Sukhpal Singh Khaira||Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Bholath MLA, today asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold a special referendum in Punjab and Haryana to peacefully resolve the deadlock over the controversial farm laws.Khaira said a referendum seemed to be the only logical and democratic solution to the deadlock. He said he would write to the President and the Prime minister on the issue. Khaira also exhorted the state MLAs to build pressure by holding a dharna at Parliament or the PM’s house. — TNS
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kanungos, patwaris from Punjab to protest today||The kanungos and patwaris of Punjab have decided to stand with the protesting farmer unions against Centre farm laws. They will protest outside the offices of Deputy Commissioners on Monday. Mohan Singh, legal secretary of Kanungo Association of Punjab, said that revenue officers have always stood by the farmers. The Revenue Patwar Union too had decided to participate in the farmers’ dharna on Monday. — TNS
14-12-2020||---||Modi has no time for farmers’ concerns: AAP||Chandigarh, December 13Condemning PM Narendra Modi for speaking in favour of the farm laws during an address at FICCI’s virtual meet, the Aam Aadmi Party today asked why the PM was answering farmer’s questions in front of businessmen.Harpal Singh Cheema, AAP leaderThe Centre is running away from reality, cozying up with big business houses and playing every card possible to defame the farmers’ struggle.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the address given by PM Narendra Modi showed that the PM was in no mood to revoke the Central farm laws. Moreover, Piyush Goyal and other Central Ministers were peddling a lie campaign to prove anti-nationals were behind the farmers’ agitation. This strategy of Narendra Modi is absolutely condemnable.Cheema said, “It is shocking that for months now farmers have been bracing the freezing cold in protest against the farm laws and have surrounded the national capital, but Narendra Modi is finding no time to listen to the agitating farmers but has all the time in the world to speak in favour of the Acts.”He said instead of speaking about what the farmers thought about the laws, Modi was busy speaking about what he thought about them.
14-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Fathers at protest site, young girls pitch in||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 13When Rupinder Singh, a farmer from Mirpur Maari village was protesting at Singhu border, his 12-year-old daughter, who is a horse rider, looked after their three horses.In the absence of Rupinder Singh, when one of the horses fell ill, Ravjot Kaur (12) gave it ‘Himalayan Batisa’ and a homeopathy medicine and took care of the horse.“I made sure that the horses had a proper diet and exercised daily. I wanted to join my father, but then, who would look after the horses?” Kaur said. She isn’t alone. While their fathers are at the protest sites fighting for their rights, the young daughters of farmers have taken on the responsibility and are looking after every kind of work, besides studying.Rupinder Singh, who will be going to the protest again on December 15, said that he was relieved when he found out that his daughter — at such a small age — could look after the horses with such perfection. The family has been keeping horses for generations and his daughter developed love for horses and now, can ride horses without any training. “When I was away, she took care of the horses and also started going to the fields with her mother,” he said.Passiran village resident 20-year-old Simran Kaur who is pursuing Bachelors of Physiotherapy is the daughter of farmer Nirmal Singh who owns a 15-acre field. When he spent eight days protesting at the Singhu border, his daughter was the one who looked after the fields. She used to wake up at 4 am to water the fields. At times, she would come back from her college in the evening and along with her mother, would go to the fields far away from her house. “I don’t have any experience. but, I call up my father for guidance,” Simran said.
14-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||Tikri, Singhu are worlds apart||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13Tikri and Singhu, two protest sites, seem to exist in different spaces. If one is flooded with lavish langars and unheard-of dishes, the other is struggling to feed people even basic items.The two sites seem to be representing two Punjabs — the landless and the landlord; those coming from fertile land and those from the infertile hinterland. With the entire leadership of farmers camping amid the attention of national media and most of the langars from Delhi and Punjab being offered there, Singhu seems to have emerged as the centre of the struggle.Two PunjabsOn the other hand, Tikri, where most of the farmers are from the poorest of the poor districts of Malwa, is managing on its own. “Singhu has better connectivity to Delhi and Chandigarh. So, most of the people offering langars and other help prefer that site over Tikri,” says Harinder Kaur Bindu, vice-president of BKU (Ugrahan).She says that most of the farmers at Tikri are poor who come from the Malwa region where land holdings are small. Many are even landless. These are the people among whom the maximum suicides have taken place.“We have given village units responsibility to manage their own langar. From each village, if one team returns, the other starts off with ration,” she says.If Singhu looks like a picnic spot with langars of desi ghee pinnis to pizzas, foot massagers to roti-making machines, the atmosphere at Tikri seems to be more vibrant with midnight documentary film screenings to revolutionary theatre, from raising the issues of landless to food for all.Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, vice-president of Kirti Kisan Union, says Singhu has become the centre of struggle but other centres are equally important.
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||DIG-Jails resigns over agri laws||DIG (Jails) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar on Sunday submitted his resignation claiming that he was doing so to protest against the contentious farm laws.Jakhar had in 2012 refused to carry out the death sentence of Beant Singh assassination case convict Balwant Singh Rajoana. Jakhar said he would join the farmers’ protest. ADGP (Jails) PK Sinha confirmed the development. He said the government is yet to accept the resignation as an inquiry on alleged corruption charges against him was pending. Jakhar was suspended a few months ago for allegedly taking money from jail officials on a monthly basis. He was re-instated later. — TNS
14-12-2020||Anandpur Sahib||Regional parties’ meet  in third week of December: SAD||Leaders of various regional parties from across the country would soon meet in Delhi to frame a strategy to tackle attempts of the Centre to “encroach upon” the powers and rights of the states, said SAD senior leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra today.He said he had visited top leaders of the Trinamool Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Shiv Sena (Thackeray), National Congress Party and Samajwadi party in this regard and all of them had agreed to meet in the third week of December in Delhi.Chandumajra said the country’s federal system was being damaged as powers of states were being gradually “diluted by the Centre”. — TNS
14-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||15 quintal panjiri to beat Delhi cold||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, December 13After pinnis, fruits, vegetables and others items, now 15 quintal panjiri has been prepared in Sekhan village gurdwara for the farmers protesting at the New Delhi border against the farm laws. A team of locals, with thousands of packets of panjiri and bottles of water, will depart from the village on Monday morning.The group was busy packing panjiri, while some NRIs have sent Rs 2 lakh to the Chhote Sahibzade Welfare Society at Sekhan and Surjitpura villages to help the farmers. Each small packet contains 250 gm panjiri.A huge heap of packets is being made ready as the locals have set the target to end their job before Sunday night, so that the youth can leave for New Delhi in the wee hours of Monday.“Panjiri is an inseparable part of our diet in rural side, and its consumption increases during winter. Our brothers, elders, mothers and sisters, who are fighting for us in this biting cold at New Delhi, need it more than us,” said Bikram Singh, a member of the society.Some other persons said they would take panjiri packets and water bottles in a truck to the border. They said they were in touch with various farm unions and they would serve the farmers as per their requirements. They had taken a detailed feedback about the area, where they should serve panjiri, as protests were taking place at different areas,” the locals said.
14-12-2020||Muktsar||Free pesticides for protesters||With the support for farmers growing by the day, a farmer-cum-pesticide dealer at Doda village here has announced to give free pesticides to all farmers of his village, who have gone to lodge protest at Delhi borders against the Centre over the farm laws.“I am giving pesticides free to the farmers who have gone to Delhi to protest the farm laws,” said Parampal Singh Gill, a pesticide dealer. He further said the farmers who have no one here in the family to take care of fields need not worry as he would himself send some men for pesticide spray in their fields. — TNS
14-12-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||No split, united we stand: Farm leaders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13As they weigh their options after an apparent hardening of stand by the Centre, farmer unions have said they will continue to stand united in their struggle to get the three farm laws repealed and force the Central Government to withdraw the amendments to the Electricity Act and the environment laws that seek to heavily penalise farmers.“There will be attempts to defame us and derail our movement, but we are prepared to tackle them and stand together for our cause,” says Balbir Singh Rajewal, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).Jagmohan Singh Patiala, BKU leaderIn constant touchWe are constantly in touch and all Punjab-based leaders realise that the battle can be won only if we remain united.Fearing that renewed efforts will be made to break their unity, the leaders say that theirs is an issue-based unity for a common threat in “Punjab’s agrarian economy”. “We are constantly in touch and all Punjab-based leaders realise that the battle can be won, only if we remain united.We are fighting not just for revocation of the three farm laws, but also for ensuring that farmers are neither labelled adversely nor divided on the basis of caste and religion,” says Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda) and member of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.These leaders say earlier they fought the propaganda of being labelled separatists and their protest being communalised, they are now trying to ensure that the personal ideologies of each union is not highlighted.“While the Kirti Kisan Union has been advocating that the free power subsidy given to farmers in Punjab be restricted only to those farmers having less than 10 acres of land, it is an independent demand of our union and we are not using this stage to raise it,” says Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, vice-president of the union, who is also the youngest farmer leader in the protest.It is for this reason that the observation of International Human Rights Day by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) near Tikri, where the issue of Left ideology leaders and intellectuals having been incarcerated was raised, did not find resonance amongst other farmer unions.Buta Singh Burjgill, president, BKU (Dakaunda), says all other farmer unions have had to now clarify that this was an individual function of BKU (Ugrahan). “It is a big issue of human rights, but the farmers protest is only against the three farm laws,” he said.
14-12-2020||Sameer Singh||Trains jam-packed as Punjab farmers leave for Delhi||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 13It’s almost 7 am on a foggy December morning at the Bathinda railway junction. Hardeep Singh (24), a farmer from Pathrala village in the district, is seated on a bench next to the ticket counter, reading a vernacular newspaper as a flag of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) rests on his shoulder.Seated across him, wrapped in shawls, 65-year-old Buta Singh from Machhana village and 50-year-old Kuldeep Sharma from Virk Khurd village along with other farmers left from their respective villages even before the dawn struck to reach the station. Buta Singh, while sipping tea to keep the biting cold at bay, is busy discussing the Union Government’s “adamant stance” over the new agricultural laws. Half an hour into their conversation, farmers carrying luggage and flags of their respective unions start converging on the platform to catch the next train to join their counterparts at the Tikri border in Delhi.Harmail Singh, BKU (Sidhupur) leaderWe have made all arrangementsall arrangements and plan to stay put at the Tikri border until the Central Government repeals the new farm laws imposed on us.Talking to The Tribune, Harmail Singh, a farmer from Bath village and leader of the BKU (Sidhupur) said, “We are going with all arrangements and plan to stay put at the Tikri border until the Centre repeals the new farm laws imposed on us. Hundreds of farmers from Bathinda are leaving for Delhi to take part in the protests on a daily basis.”A visit by The Tribune team to the city railway station found that a large number of farmers from different villages had converged on the platforms to board the Dainik Express (Sriganganagar to Delhi) to visit the protest venue at the Tikri border on Sunday.Alluding towards the heavy presence of farmers heading to take part in the agitation, an elated Gursewak Singh (60) said, “The Dainik Express from Bathinda to Delhi has turned into ‘Kisan Express’ now. Resumption of train services has indeed served as an easy mode of transportation for thousands of farmers travelling to and from Delhi borders.”Holding flags of the BKU (Dakaunda), Gagandeep, Hardeep and Rajbahadur, along with their union members, raised against the Union Government before boarding the train. They said, “Unlike years ago, farmers are now well aware of their condition and can decide for themselves. We will stay put at the protest venue till the Centre repeals the anti-farmer laws.”Amarinder flays Kejriwal’s ‘theatrics’Chandigarh: CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday described his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal's announcement of observing a fast on Monday as “theatrics”. Kejriwal has said he would observe a day-long fast on Monday in response to a call given by the farmers protesting against three new farm laws. Singh said the Kejriwal govt had “backstabbed” the farmers by “shamelessly” notifying one of the farm laws on November 23. “And now, they are indulging in theatrics by announcing that they would be sitting on a fast in support of the farmers’ hunger strike, he said. PTI
