15-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Breaking protocol, health dept team at ‘MLA’s doorstep’ for Covid sampling||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 15On the one hand Health Department in Patiala is raising hue and cry over being understaffed to fight coronavirus, on the other hand it allegedly provided sampling ‘service at doorstep’ to a Congress MLA on Wednesday. In fact, Patiala health department went all the way to the residence of MLA -- in his native village — to take his sample for coronavirus. Sadly, common people—including sick patients—have to queue up at health centres to give samples for Covid testing. Interestingly, the health department took samples of the Congress MLA and his family members violating the existing protocol. Dr Satinder Sandhu, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), confirming the development said they took samples of the MLA and his family members at his residence. “Some of his workers came to our centre for medicines, therefore, I thought we should take samples of MLA also. There was no wrong intention behind taking samples,” she added.When asked about the rationale behind taking his samples, the SMO said that they took samples as routine work. She explained neither he (MLA) was symptomatic nor an inter-state traveller. Moreover, MLA was not a contact of any positive patient. Sources in the health department said rules were violated for the sample collection of the MLA and his family members. However, senior officers at the health department—including Patiala Civil Surgeon—remained tightlipped. The Health Department said action would be taken only after they receive a complaint.The MLA has already shared the pictures of a sample collection of himself and his family members on his social media account. Meanwhile, the Congress MLA said, “As a public representative, I meet hundreds of people, therefore, I got myself tested for coronavirus.  I and my wife are already suffering from other diseases, therefore we could not visit the health centre.”
15-07-2020||---||7 elevated as permanent judges of Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, July 15The Supreme Court Collegium has approved the proposal for appointment of seven Additional Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court as Permanent Judges.The judges are Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi, Justice Arun Monga, Justice Manoj Bajaj, Justice Lalit Batra, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi and Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill.
15-07-2020||---||Eight deaths, 288 fresh Covid cases in Punjab; total count 8,799||Chandigarh, July 15Punjab has reported 288 new cases of Covid-19 and eight deaths during the last 24 hours.A total of 8,799 people have tested positive for the virus so far, with 2,711 of these being active cases. The death toll has risen to 221.Of the 204 patients discharged today, Ludhiana saw a maximum of 123 cases being cured.Three deaths each were reported in Amritsar and Jalandhar while one each took place in Ludhiana and Pathankot, a medical bulletin said. Jalandhar, one of the worst-hit districts, reported the maximum 92 cases on Wednesday.Ludhiana reported 61 cases, followed by 26 in Patiala; 22 in Amritsar; 21 in Ferozepur; 13 in Mohali; nine in SBS Nagar; seven in Pathankot; six each in Faridkot and Muktsar; five each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur; three each in Hoshiarpur and Bathinda; two each in Rupnagar, Tarn Taran and Barnala; and one each in Fazilka, Moga and Gurdaspur. Of the fresh patients, four were foreign returnees while 15 had travel history to other states.Four policemen in Ludhiana, one each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Tarn Taran and six BSF personnel in Ferozepur were among new cases. As many as 204 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 5,867 people have been cured of the infection so far, the bulletin said. There are 2,711 active cases in the state as of now, it said.Ludhiana continued to top the COVID tally with 1,581 cases; followed by 1,437 in Jalandhar; 1,131 in Amritsar; 748 in Patiala; 672 in Sangrur; 455 in Mohali; 292 in Gurdaspur; 263 in Pathankot; 242 in SBS Nagar; 221 in Tarn Taran; 207 in Hoshiarpur; 190 in Ferozepur; 178 in Fatehgarh Sahib; 175 in Faridkot; 159 in Muktsar; 154 in Bathinda; 153 in Moga; 143 in Rupnagar;141 in Kapurthala;114 in Fazilka;79 in Barnala and 64 in Mansa. Nine patients are critical and on ventilator support while 46 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 4,21,593 samples have been taken so far for testing, it said. With PTI inputs
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister urges farmers to defer agitation||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to farmers to postpone their agitation against Union government ordinances due to the curbs imposed to check the coronavirus spread in the state.The chief minister’s reaction came amid reports that several farmer unions have decided to go ahead with their protest on July 20 despite the restrictions in place.The BKU (Rajewal) and the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) had earlier announced to hold a state-wide protest against the Union government legislations related to the agriculture sector and fuel prices.The Centre had recently introduced the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, which is being opposed by them.The chief minister in an official statement urged them not to take a “confrontationist approach” in the current circumstances, given that Section 144 of the CrPC is in place and all gatherings barred in the state. Restraint is the need of the hour, he said, calling upon the farmer unions to help the state government in checking the spread of coronavirus in the interest of Punjab and its people.Though the issue of the farm ordinances is vital to the state’s interests, any physical protest at the moment will harm Punjab, said Singh.He advised the farmer bodies to use social media to express their anger and garner support against the ordinances, which according to him, are against the federal character of the nation.On July 13, the state government had issued revised coronavirus guidelines, disallowing public gatherings due to a spike in infection cases.Meanwhile, the chief minister urged political parties not to hold any gathering in view of the pandemic.These are tough times with infection cases rising across India, Singh said in a letter to all political parties, urging them to rise above politics and strengthen his government’s efforts to “save lives” and “protect” future generations.Politics and protests of any kind can wait, but coronavirus won’t, the chief minister said, adding that it is a collective battle. The Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday had announced to postpone all the political programmes of the party for next 15 days keeping in view the coronavirus situation. PTI
15-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sidhu Moosewala gets regular bail in Arms Act case||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 15A local court has granted regular bail to Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu Moosewala in an Arms Act case.On Wednesday, police claimed that Moosewala had joined investigations on July 7, even as on July 9 they said the singer had not joined probe.While granting him interim bail on June 30, a local court had directed Moosewala to join police investigations within seven days in a case registered at Dhuri Sadar police station on May5.“Since police said that Moosewala had joined police investigations, court has granted him regular bail,” said Mahesh Goyal Additional Public Prosecutor (APP).On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district went viral on social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and eight others.They included Assistant Sub inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh.But within 24 hours, another FIR was also registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced.On May 17, police had added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others. All cops were suspended after the registration of FIR and since the addition of Arms Act.Gurmeet Singh, SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Sangrur, who had on July 9 said Moosewala had not joined investigations, and is heading Special Investigations Team, today said the singer had joined investigations on July 7.“On July 7, we could not question him as after signing formal papers, he had started coughing showing suspected symptoms of Covid-19. We immediately asked him to get medical aid. Since he is wanted in Barnala FIR, we had informed Barnala police also about his presence in Sangrur police lines. I also underwent Covid-19 test and reported negative. He sent his formal statement three days back,” said the SP.On May 30, Sangrur court had granted interim bail to Karam Sukhbir Singh. On May 27, court had granted interim bail to constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh and Gagandeep Singh and ASI Balkar Singh and shooting player Jungsher Singh and Inderveer Singh Grewal.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tests COVID-19 negative, urges all ministers to get tested||As his cabinet colleague, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested COVID-19 positive, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged all ministers, as well as MLAs and department secretaries, to get themselves tested for the deadly disease.The Chief Minister was tested and found COVID-19 negative, said an official spokesperson.On Wednesday, two other ministers—Sukhjinder Randhawa and Aruna Chowdhary—also got themselves tested, while a few were tested on Tuesday.Results of two congress MLAs is awaited.During the cabinet meeting, Captain Amarinder said that all the ministers and officials of various department, especially, who could have come in contact with IAS/PCS officers—who have been infected—should get themselves tested.The Chief Minister said Bajwa was doing well. He added that extreme caution should be maintained by the ministers and others who are engaged in any kind of public dealing.In fact, Captain Amarinder has been calling upon all the people of Punjab to get themselves tested at the first sign or indication of COVID infection.Early detection is the way to beat the disease and check fatalities, he stressed.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government to expand social media outreach amid COVID-19; to set up social media teams||The Punjab Government has decided to expand its social media outreach by setting up 15 expert social media teams----a development that comes when the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent social distancing norms have made social media a primary tool of public engagement.  The Cabinet on Wednesday approved an annual budget of Rs 7 crore for these teams, which will be constituted by engaging professionals and experts in the field, an official spokesperson said.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh termed the move as vital for expanding the state’s reach and the strengthening the PR department’s efforts in disseminating information regarding various aspects  elated to the novel Coronavirus pandemic in an effective and result oriented manner.The state government will engage 63 social media professionals or experts, including one media manager, two assistant media managers, 15 digital media executives, 15 video editors, 15 graphic designers and 15 content writers. The work will be outsourced, and the arrangement will last a year, the spokespersonBesides creating awareness among the people about the precautions and norms relating to the pandemic, the teams would also help in countering spread of misinformation by providing credible information on a regular basis.The cabinet felt that since certain departments of the state government have a high level of interaction with the public, it was essential that all important information relating to the pandemic, and the preventive measures being put in place to combat it, should be regularly highlighted on the social media, the spokesperson said.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police is India's first force to recruit civilian experts for cutting-edge investigations||The Captain Amarinder Singh led Council of Ministers on Wednesday paved the way for Punjab Police to become India’s first police force drawing civilians as domain experts in IT/Digital, Legal Forensics and Finance to give a high-quality cutting edge to its investigation functions.As many as 798 such experts will be recruited directly as plain clothes Civilian Support Staff for the Punjab Investigation Bureau, which is all set to get a dose of fresh expert blood and a qualitative edge with the induction of a total of 4,251 personnel, across different ranks and positions, as a result of the restructuring of the Punjab Police department.The restructuring was approved by the Cabinet, led by the Chief Minister, at a VC meeting, according to an official spokesperson.The restructuring, which will enable the Bureau to make direct recruitments in the ranks of Sub-Inspectors/Head Constables and Constables, will be done in a revenue-neutral manner, by abolishing 4849 existing posts, thus ensuring that there is no additional financial burden on the state exchequer, an official spokesperson said.As per provisional plans, direct recruitment of 1481 police officers will be undertaken across ranks (297 SIs, 811 Head Constables and 373 Constables), which would be a game-changer as they will infuse fresh blood that will bring in the requisite skill-sets, expertise and experience to carry out specialised investigations, such cyber investigations, financial investigations for economic crimes, etc.This will bring about a qualitative change in the investigation process, which is currently in the purview of the general cops in the Punjab Investigation Bureau, that was set up in 2015.It would help improve the quality of investigations in NDPS cases against drug smugglers and suppliers. Such recruitments of graduates in law, forensics and commerce & other domains would also allow the educated youth of Punjab in getting jobs and making careers in the Punjab Police service.These fresh recruitments would be done after taking out these posts from the purview of the Subordinate Service Selection Board through Police Recruitment Board.This will enable the Bureau to also fill 100% posts (159 posts) of Ministerial Staff as per existing Punjab Police Ministerial Staff Rules and 798 posts of Civilian Support Staff as per the new proposed service rules. The remaining 1,947 posts of Subordinate Ranks (Inspector to Constables) out of the total 4,521 posts sanctioned in Punjab Bureau of Investigation would initially be filled up by deputation from Punjab Police and, thereafter, by promotion from the ranks of Punjab Bureau of Investigation.The Cabinet has also accordingly approved "The Punjab Police Investigation Cadre Subordinate Ranks (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2020" to govern the recruitment/appointment and the conditions of service of the Subordinate Ranks (Constables to Inspectors) of the Punjab Bureau of Investigation Cadre.The restructuring would help improve efficiency, reduce delays and ensure effective supervision of investigations, thereby attaining the objectives as laid down by the Supreme Court in the Prakash Singh case.The Punjab Bureau of Investigation would deal with five types of serious criminal cases i.e. Homicide & Forensic (H&F) Unit, Crime against Women and Children (CAW & C) Unit, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Unit, Special Crime (SC) Unit and Economic Offences & Cyber Crime (EO&CC) Unit.These constitute around 14-15% of the state’s total crime.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||All Punjab ministers to undergo coronavirus test||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has advised his cabinet colleagues to undergo test for coronavirus after one of the ministers tested positive for the infection.“All the cabinet ministers will give their samples for testing (coronavirus) today. Their results will come by today evening or tomorrow,” Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu told reporters here on Wednesday.Officials said the chief minister has advised his ministers to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure.Punjab Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Tuesday had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.He is the first minister in the state to contract the infection.Sidhu said Bajwa, who is admitted to a private hospital in Mohali, is stable.“He is completely fine. He is likely to be put under home quarantine by tomorrow evening,” the health minister said.Sidhu appealed to people to adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines to contain the spread of the disease.“People must maintain social distancing and wear masks and follow the government guidelines,” he said.Punjab's COVID tally had reached 8,511 with 213 deaths by Tuesday evening. With PTI
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab RERA postpones hearings of cases till August 17||In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) has adjourned hearings till August 17 of all complaint cases. All the hearings between July 15 and August 14 would be resumed on August 17 before various benches and Adjudicating Officer.In case a party wishes to have the matter heard earlier—before the fixed date—an email has to be sent at helprera@punjab.gov.in with the complaint number and reasons for seeking an out of turn hearing.
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Indians have had a history of braving all odds, says Rajmohan Gandhi||Noted historian, biographer and author Rajmohan Gandhi participated in an online lecture on international history organised by DAV College. Gandhi, who is the grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, was speaking from the USA, where he is based. Speaking on the subject of a changing world from a perspective of an Indo-American, Gandhi said Indians have had a history of braving the odds and the Covid-19 induced uncertain times require a humanist approach to deal with the pandemic.“Our strength as Indians has always been the ability to help others in need, and even today, we need our youths to take that responsibility of maintaining peace and establishing a society without bias, discrimination,” he said. He also added a few interesting observations about flaws and strengths of Indians living in USA.The lecture series has been started by the PG Department of History, travel and Tourism, DAV College and features eminent speakers from across the globe. The series is being held under the UGC-sponsored Gandhian Study Centre. More than 800 people registered themselves to hear to Prof Gandhi and others talk about topics related to international history.
15-07-2020||Ludhiana||Mid-day meal off table, Punjab school kids hit hard||The pandemic seems to have undone the years of progress made in reducing malnutrition among children. Since schools are lying shut due to the Covid outbreak, students are not getting food under the mid-day meal scheme.Each student was given 2-kg grainAround 13 lakh students of primary and upper-primary classes of government schools in the state come under the mid-day meal scheme.Even during the period when ration was distributed, each primary student was given 1.2 kg each of wheat and rice, while upper primary students were given 1.8 kg each of wheat and rice.Tehal Singh, press secretary, Government School Teachers Union (Ludhiana), said initially, foodgrain was delivered on the doorsteps of the students for 24 days (March 23 to April 15), but after that, no distribution had been done and no instructions were given to the schools in this regard.Around 13 lakh students of primary and upper-primary classes of government schools in the state come under the mid-day meal scheme.Even during the period when ration was distributed, each primary student was given 1.2 kg each of wheat and rice, while upper primary student was given 1.8 kg each. Besides, a cooking amount of Rs 107.52 was given to primary students and Rs 161.04 to upper primary students by way of direct benefit transfer.A teacher, who was on duty for the distribution of ration, said: “We were often caught in embarrassing situations as families would argue that how they would get a kilogram of wheat ground as no mill would do that. Some even refused to accept the grain.”Lalita from Bhagwan Das Colony, whose son studies in a government primary school, said earlier, she was not worried about the lunch of her son as he used to have it at school, but now, all she could afford was rice with dal and sometimes just potatoes with a chapatti or two.Lalit Kishore Ghai, DPI (Elementary), said they had received instructions from the Central Government and were chalking out a plan for the distribution of foodgrain among the students.Meanwhile, anganwadi centres are regularly getting ration, comprising wheat, rice, sugar, milk powder, desi ghee and panjiri, which is being delivered on the doorsteps of the beneficiary children. The anganwadis provide breakfast and lunch to pre-school children.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Army Chief reviews ops in border districts||Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane today visited formations of the Vajra Corps in Amritsar and Ferozepur and reviewed the operational preparedness along the western border.During the visit, the Army Chief was accompanied by Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command. They were briefed on the operational environment and security situation by Lt Gen Sanjeev Sharma, GOC, Vajra Corps, and the GOCs of Panther and Golden Arrow Divisions.General Naravane interacted with the troops and lauded them for their high morale and motivation. He also awarded Commendation Cards to individuals for their bravery and devotion to duty.The Army Chief also commended the efforts of the formations in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and also exhorted all ranks to maintain focus on operational preparedness at all times.
15-07-2020||Faridkot||Medical Council of India slashes cut-off for PG seats||Facing a shortage of eligible candidates to fill all seats in MD/MS courses, particularly the NRI quota seats, the Medical Council of India (MCI) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Tuesday reduced the cut-off marks for NEET-PG.The cut-off has been reduced by 20 percentile for all categories. The qualifying percentile for the NEET-PG has been lowered from 50 to 30 for the general category candidates while for SC, ST/and OBC categories, the qualifying percentile has been reduced from 40 to 20. For general category-PWD and SC/ST and OBC category-PWD, the cut-off percentile has been lowered from 45 to 25 and 40 to 20, respectively.Last week, the Dental Council of India had announced a reduction in the cut-off for the MDS course. As 83 of the total 139 MDS quota seats remained vacant in the first round of counselling in the state, conducted by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) last month, the qualifying percentile was lowered from 50 to 31.065 for the general category candidates while for SC/BC and handicapped candidates, the percentile was reduced from 40 to 21.065 and 45 to 26.065, respectively.With this reduction in qualifying cut-off score, additional candidates will be eligible for the vacant seats in the second round of counselling for admission in MD/MS and MDS courses. This counselling is already underway.Due to the fixing of the cut-off at 50 percentile for general category candidates for MD/MS seats, there were only two applicants for 29 NRI quota MD/MS seats in the second round of counselling in Punjab.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court gives 4 days to Ludhiana DC to visit mining site||Dubbing as “lame an excuse” by the state that the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner was facing personal inconvenience in visiting an alleged illegal mining site, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today set a four-day deadline for him and the Sessions Judge to conduct the inspection before filing a report.As the case came up for resumed hearing before Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri, the state counsel referred to personal inconvenience before seeking modification of an earlier order to the extent that the DC may depute somebody in his place for inspection. — TNS
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht seals records of SGPC’s publication wing||In the wake of 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, an Akal Takht Secretariat team today sealed the records of the publication wing of the SGPC at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, the designated place for the publication of holy books and maintaining records.Notably, the SGPC executive had urged Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to get an independent investigation conducted by a retired Sikh judge or a Sikh intellectual into the case.Akal Takht Secretariat official Jaspal Singh said on the directions of Giani Harpreet Singh, the records had been sealed in the presence of Takht’s additional priest Giani Malkiat Singh and other officials of the publication department. “We have sealed the records of ‘saroops’ from April 1, 2015, to date,” he said.The SGPC has already shifted the publication and binding wing officials and staff members, including supervisers, secretary, deputy secretary and additional secretary, so that the inquiry was not influenced.SGPC’s assistant supervisor (publication department) Kanwaljit Singh, upon his retirement, had revealed about the missing ‘saroops’ in the records.Meanwhile, SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh has gone on leave for 40 days. He boarded a Qatar Airways flight today. He said his tickets were already booked and he had availed the leave due to some domestic exigency. In his absence, SGPC’s personal secretary Mohinder Singh Ayali would officiate him.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Show-cause notice to Punjab Vidhan Sabha Secretary||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the issuance of a show-cause notice to Punjab Vidhan Sabha Secretary Shashi Lakhanpal Mishra and another official for explaining why they should not be held guilty of contempt and sentenced accordingly. The two have been directed to be present before the court in person on July 27.‘Deliberate, intentional violation’The court’s directions came after Justice Jaishree Thakur ruled there was prima facie deliberate, intentional and flagrant violation of the High Court order passed on January 7 in a seniority dispute.This is, perhaps, the first time an order directing personal appearance of a senior officer has been ordered since the High Court went into restricted functioning mode in March-end following the Covid outbreak.The directions came after Justice Jaishree Thakur ruled that prima facie, there was deliberate, intentional and flagrant violation of the court order passed on January 7 in a seniority dispute.The respondents, after the verdict was reserved in the matter, made an unsuccessful attempt of a turnaround by informing Justice Thakur’s Bench that they were withdrawing the impugned order.Justice Thakur observed that the state counsel placed on record a communication stating they were withdrawing the order “in view of the observations” by the High Court during the hearing of the contempt petition.“A reading of the communication would reflect that the respondents are only withdrawing the impugned order, after the matter has been reserved. The order withdrawing the impugned order had not been placed upon record,” Justice Thakur added. Appearing before the Bench on petitioner Jaswinder Singh’s behalf, senior counsel DS Patwalia and Adityajit Singh Chadha had, on the previous date of hearing, submitted that the petitioner’s demotion was stayed by the High Court, but the order was disobeyed. — TNS
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Dera Sacha Sauda remark exposed SAD, says Jakhar||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar today said revelations by the Dera Sacha Sauda that it had extended support to the SAD in the 2017 Assembly polls had “exposed the nefarious nexus that exists between them”.Addressing a press conference, Jakhar said, “It is clear that Sukhbir had struck a deal with the dera for seeking their support in the polls.”
15-07-2020||Muktsar||Youths raise funds to fly friend’s body home||Setting an example, some friends of 21-year-old local youth Puneet Rajoria, who had gone to Canada for studies in 2018 and passed away due to cancer on July 12, are raising funds to send his body back home.In their fund-raising appeal, the deceased’s friends have stated, “Puneet’s sibling in India is also suffering from cancer and his parents are already spending too much on treatment. So, this fundraiser is targeted towards helping cover his hospital expenses in Canada, in addition to sending his body back to India for a funeral. We are a group of friends trying to do our best to cover the expenses but they are too much for us. So, we request everyone to do their part in raising funds and help us support his family and closed ones in this difficult time.”Meanwhile, the deceased’s father, Devinder Kumar Rajoria, said, “I have appealed to the External Affairs Ministry to help us bring back Puneet’s body. Besides, his friends in Canada have started an online campaign to raise funds.”
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||SAD cancels all events  for 15 days||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced to postpone all political programmes of the party for the next 15 days keeping in view the emerging Covid situation.SAD senior vice-president and spokesman Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the decision had been taken keeping in view the health of the public and party workers and in accordance with the advice of doctors and the Health Department.He said all party workers had been informed about the decision and the leadership had clearly directed that keeping in view health concerns, no political programme would be organised during the next 15 days. No meeting at the head office or dharna or protests would take place at the district level, he said, adding that all workers had been told to strictly follow the directive of the party president. — TNS
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tests +ve||Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested positive for Covid-19 today.Last week, Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Rural Development, had tested positive. Following that Bajwa’s sample was taken, but his report had come negative. His test was repeated and its report came today.Capt’s tweetWishing my Cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa a speedy recovery. He has tested positive for #Covid-19 on Tuesday. Looking forward to having you rejoin us soonDirector, Health Services, Dr Avneet Kaur said Bajwa’s sample was taken last week, which was found negative. “However, he developed flu-like symptoms. So we repeated the test today, which was found positive,” she said.Apart from that, 340 fresh cases and nine more deaths due to Covid were reported in the state.Three deaths were reported from Ludhiana, two each from SAS Nagar and Sangrur, one each from Fazilka, Amritsar and SAS Nagar. With these deaths, the number of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 213. Besides, 54 persons are on oxygen support and 11 are on ventilator support.In Sangrur, two more persons died due to Covid-19 during the last 24 hours, while the death toll has increased to 21 in the district. A 60-year-old woman from Sherpur block died at DMC Hospital, Ludhiana, today. She was admitted on July 12 and was suffering from diabetes, chronic kidney disease and respiratory problems. Another patient, a 55-year-old man from Malerkotla died at the GMC, Patiala, last night. He was admitted on July 4.In Amritsar, a 62-year-old died due to Covid today. As per the state media bulletin, districts which are badly affected by the virus in the last 24 hours include Jalandhar and Ludhiana (80 cases each), Patiala (51), SAS Nagar (26), Amritsar (22) and Sangrur (20) and Faridkot (12).
15-07-2020||Ropar/Faridkot||6 doctors in Faridkot, three in Ropar +ve||Three doctors working at the local civil hospital tested Covid-19 positive in Ropar today. While one of them is a medical specialist, the remaining two are working as epidemiologists. The son of one of the doctors has also been found positive.Six doctors at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot also tested positive. The Department of Community Medicine in the medical college has urged the authorities to put 30 doctors in different departments in the college under quarantine as they had exposure to the Covid-19 positive doctors during their duties without proper PPE kits. In the last six days, nine doctors in the medical college have tested positive.Besides doctors, the mother of the DC in Faridkot tested positive on Tuesday. The officer was staying in a guest house here with his mother.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||No quarantine if coming to Punjab for less than 72 hrs||Those coming to Punjab for less than 72 hours are now exempted from the mandatory home quarantine. They only need to submit a formal undertaking at the border check post.Announcing this relaxation for inbound domestic travellers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said it had been decided to provide this concession to facilitate students wishing to come for examinations or business travellers etc, whose stay in the state is less than 72 hours from the time of their arrival. — TNS
15-07-2020||Jalandhar||Bishop Franco Mulakkal of Jalandhar Diocese contracts infection||Even as the local Health Department authorities today confirmed that the nun rape case accused, Bishop Franco Mulakkal of Jalandhar Diocese, had tested Covid positive, most people following his case in the Kerala court are finding it hard to believe as the report came hours after non-bailable arrest warrants were issued against him.Also read: Christian body comes out in support of Bishop FrancoSOPs not followedHis report came in hours after his bail plea was rejectedNo sanitisation or contact tracing has been done in the Bishop HouseMulakkal tested positive late last evening. His bail cancellation and orders to issue warrants of arrest also came yesterday, after the prosecution lawyer told the court in Kerala that he was not living in any containment zone in Jalandhar and that he had misled the court.Mulakkal was learnt to be unwilling to shift to a hospital and had been pleading that he be allowed home quarantine at the Bishop House in Civil Lines area here. Several priests, who are siding with the victim nun, have said the sequence of events — his previous false submissions in the court and the fact that he cannot be taken to Kerala anytime soon — made them suspect that this could be a part of another plan to evade arrest. “Our suspicion is based on the fact that even as Mulakkal tested positive last evening, no one from the Health Department reached out to anyone in the Bishop House. No sanitisation or contact tracing, as per the procedures, has been done. The drivers kept going in and out the whole day today and no one stopped them. The administrative Bishop who lives in the same House, Bishop Agnelo Rufian Gracias, organised an ordination ceremony at Patti in Tarn Taran today. Five other priests and nearly 30 staff members in the Bishop House too were seen shuttling in and out throughout the day,” a close follower stated.Jai Inder Singh, SDM, Jalandhar-1, said health teams would visit the Bishop House tomorrow to do the testing and follow other protocols as per the SOPs.
15-07-2020||Bathinda||4 Bathinda Central jail inmates hurt in clash||Four jail inmates were reportedly injured in a clash at the Bathinda Central Jail today. They were taken to the Civil Hospital. The injured have been identified as Manoj Kimar of Mirza Dayalpura village, Amanpreet Singh of Hoshairpur, Sukhpreet Singh of Ludhiana and Harkamal Singh of Bathinda.The police have launched a probe. Cantt Police Station SHO Narinder Singh said whether inmates were injured in a clash or they had hurt themselves on their own would be ascertained. — TNS
15-07-2020||Jalandhar||Two arms smugglers nabbed in Jalandhar||The Punjab Police have busted a gang of international arms smugglers with the arrest of two gangsters — Gurpreet Singh, alias Gora, and Germanjeet Singh.A large number of arms and ammunition has been seized from the gangsters, who were allegedly involved in the smuggling of weapons from across the border.One of them PO in 13 casesGangsters Gurpreet Singh, alias Gora, and Germanjeet Singh were arrested by the Jalandhar (Rural) police from BhogpurThe cops seized from them a .455 bore pistol, two 9 mm pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore rifle, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridgesGora is facing criminal charges in 14 cases in various districts of Punjab, including attempt to murder, assault, snatching, dacoity, gang war and others. He has already been declared a proclaimed offender in 13 casesThe duo was arrested by the Jalandhar (Rural) police from Bhogpur. The cops seized a .455 bore pistol, two 9 mm pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore rifle, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridges, DGP Dinkar Gupta said, adding that the Hyundai Verna car they were travelling in was also impounded.Gora is facing criminal charges in 14 cases in various districts of Punjab, including attempt to murder, dacoity, gang war and others. He has already been declared a proclaimed offender in 13 cases, said Gupta.Navjot Mahal, SSP, Jalandhar (Rural), said they had got a tip-off that Gurpreet Singh of Batala and his aide Germanjeet Singh of Tarn Taran were going towards Behram in a Verna car and were planning to commit some crime. A special surveillance was quickly organised and the duo was apprehended.
15-07-2020||Moga||Trader shot dead in Moga||A leading businessman of Moga city was allegedly murdered by two motorcycle-borne youths in the New Town area this evening.The deceased has been identified as Tejinder Kumar, a resident of Bag Gali, Moga city. He was running a readymade garments shop. Reportedly, the assailants had their faces covered. They came to the shop of the deceased and fired at him from a revolver. The shop owner was rushed to the district hospital. However, before the doctors could conduct a surgery to remove the bullets from his body, the victim succumbed. — TNS
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||CBI deliberately not sharing info, says SIT||The CBI is unnecessarily contesting the handing over of records available with it to the SIT, resulting in delay in the investigation, said the Punjab Police in a reply filed before the district court today. The police have filed a rejoinder on the reply of the CBI in the 29-year-old case related to the abduction of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.The police had booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the case and had sought the status report.The police alleged that the CBI was deliberately not sharing the information regarding the probe it had conducted earlier and shared with the High Court.The CBI has stated that it did not possess any record as it had weeded out records of old cases.The SIT says that it is surprising that the premier investigating agency is obstructing investigation being conducted by another agency, for which there can be no justification. The matter would now come up for hearing on July 20. — TNS
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Now, pay more to get NOC from Punjab Fire Dept||Getting a fire NOC has become costlier in the state. To mop up resources, the Local Government Department on Tuesday issued a uniform fee structure to get fire NOCs for residential, commercial and industrial units and charges levied to attend a fire call.Those getting a fire damage report will also have to pay a fee. Those seeking NOC for multiplexes, petrol pumps, high-rise building of 15 metres and above, residential colonies, industrial units, marriage palaces and hotels with three-star rating and above will now have to pay Rs 20,000.Similarly, those seeking NOCs for group housing projects with height less than 15 metres and business establishments on an area above 5 marlas will have to pay Rs 10,000. For smaller plots, the NOC fee has been fixed at Rs 5,000. For private schools and colleges, the fee varies between Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000, depending on student strength. — TNS
15-07-2020||Bathinda||Three held for oil pilferage||Cheema flays govt over debtChandigarh: AAP senior leader and LoP Harpal Singh Cheema has blamed the successive SAD-BJP and Congress governments at the Centre and the state for increasing debt among agricultural labourers by 61 per cent in the last 30 years. He claimed that the governments used farmers and labourers for their vote-bank politics and later backtracked on their promises. TNSBKU lodges protestChandigarh: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has lodged a protest against the state government move to ban any kind of protests, saying it was an infringement on their democratic rights. The government has banned all protests in the wake of Covid-19. TNSTaksali leader joins CongFazilka: Former Jalalabad Market Committee chairman and secretary, SAD (Taksali), Charan Singh joined the Congress on Tuesday. Better known as Jathedar Charan Singh, he was inducted into the party fold by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar. OC
15-07-2020||---||32 new cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, July 14In the highest single-day spike, 32 persons, including five police personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 from Fatehgarh Sahib district.The patients include four members of the family of Bassi Pathana Congress president who was earlier tested positive, a couple from Sirhind town, two from Sanipur village, one from Sekhupura, three from Kasumbhri village, one from Nurpura, one from Aman Colony in Sirhind, one from Mandi Gobindgarh, one from Rampur village, one from Manela, one from Railon village, two migrants from Bihar, two from Bhambhri village, two from Bhari village, one from Tarkhan Majra, one from Jameetgarh and one from Patarsi.Panic gripped the district and all public dealings at the District Administrative Complex by the SSP and the Deputy Commissioner office were stopped.Sources said Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill directed the Civil Surgeon to further increase the testing capacity, contact tracing and create awareness among residents.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said that 53 cases were active in the district.
