15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab increases VAT on fuel from midnight; prices to go up||Punjab Government on Monday evening increased Value Added Tax on retail fuels, effective midnight.This will lead to an increase in petrol price by Re 1- Rs 1.20 per litre and Rs 0.53 per litre in price of diesel.Through a notification issued late on Monday, Punjab Government increased VAT on petrol from 23.3 per cent to 26. 43 per cent, and that on diesel from 15.15 per cent to 15.98 per cent.The measure aims to increase the state’s falling revenue collections, mainly because of the COVID induced lockdown.“The hike in VAT will help us realise an additional Rs 250 crore to Rs 300 crore per annum as the revenue,” A Venu Prasad, Financial Commissioner, Taxation told The Tribune. It may be noted that the annual sale of petrol in Punjab is estimated at 120 crore litres and that of diesel is 400 crore litre.Punjab earns Rs 4000 crore per annum as VAT on these retail fuels.It was in February last year that Punjab government had reduced the price of petrol by Rs 5 and that of diesel by Rs 1 per litre. This was done in the hope that it would lead to an increase in volumes of sale of retail fuels. However, according to sources in the Taxation department, it did not increase any volume in sales and the state lost over Rs 800 crore in revenue.The move to increase the VAT has not gone down well with the petroleum dealers, who have expressed fear that the sales in border areas of the state will shift to neighbouring states where the fuels are cheaper.Gurmeet Monty Sehgal, spokesperson of Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association, said that the move would lead to shift in business to neighbouring states and also encourage the smuggling of fuel, besides hitting the sale of automobiles in Punjab.
15-06-2020||---||127 more COVID 19 cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 15Punjab recorded 127 new positive cases of COVID 19 on Monday. The state’s tally went up to 3,267, as per the evening bulletin issued by the state government. With three more deaths due to the virus reported from Amrtisar, the state has seen 71 fatalities so far.A state government spokesperson said 2,443 persons have recovered while nine were on oxygen support and only one person was critical.Ludhiana reported the highest number of 33 cases, including 22 contacts of positive cases, five new patients and another six TB patients have also tested positive.Jalandhar had 23 cases, including four cops and a jail inmate. One case had a travel history to Pune while eight were new cases and nine contacts of positive cases.Amritsar reported 20 cases out of which 16 were new cases while four were contacts of earlier positive cases.The new cases without any known contact with a positive person may be examples of community transfer, said officials.Sangrur has recorded 15 cases in last 24 hours. All of these are contacts of previous positive cases.Mohali had 11 fresh cases, including nine with travel history of Delhi, UP and Mumbai. Patiala added 10 cases, including three with travel history of Delhi and Rajasthan.A police official from Moga has also tested positive.
15-06-2020||---||Fake advertisement for police recruitment; Punjab police lodge FIR||Chandigarh, June 15Punjab Police on Monday lodged an FIR against unknown persons for circulating a fake advertisement for recruitment of constables.An FIR has been registered at the State Cyber Crime Cell, on charges of forgery, forgery for cheating, using a forged document as a genuine one, identity theft and cheating by personation by using computer resources. Investigations are in progress to identify and trace the culprits, said the spokesperson.A government spokesperson said the police department has requested citizens to completely disregard the purported advertisement captioned — ‘Recruitment of Male & Female Constable – 2020 (District Police Cadre & Armed Police Cadre)’.There is no truth in the purported advertisement, said the spokesperson, adding that a perusal of the document showed that material from earlier advertisements of Punjab Police had been used to mislead the public.The so-called advertisement was stated to be signed by Suresh Arora, IPS, Director General of Police, Punjab, when the fact was that Arora superannuated from service on February 7, 2019, and was no longer heading the state police.
15-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab Scheduled Castes Commission member, husband and son arrested||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 15Ten days after the registration of abetment to suicide case, Sangrur police, on Sunday night, arrested Punjab State Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission member Poonam Kangra, her husband and one son.The other two sons were absconding, the police said.“Our police party have arrested Commission member Poonam Kangra, her husband Darshan Kangra and their son Vikasdeep from near Ladda village bus stand on Sunday night. The other two sons, Rajan and Anmol, are absconding. All five were booked for abetment to suicide on June 4 after Sanjeev Kumar allegedly committed suicide by consuming a suspected poison,” said Satpal Sharma, DSP, rural Sangrur.As per the allegations of the family members of the deceased, Sanjeev Kumar consumed poison on June 4 after he failed to trace his 27-year-old daughter, who had allegedly eloped with a son of Poonam Kangra on June 4.Sanjeev Kumar died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. His family members and neighbours had also protested at Mahavir Chowk by placing the body on the road, demanding the arrest of the accused.“We had registered a case against all five after the wife of the deceased alleged that the accused had been threatening to marry her daughter forcibly to their son. After his daughter disappeared from home, the victim allegedly died of suicide. We are conducting raids to arrest the remaining two accused,” said DSP Sharma.
15-06-2020||---||Amarinder writes to PM Modi, seeks Rs 80,845-crore aid||Chandigarh, June 15Pointing to the large-scale devastation and distress caused to the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has sent a memorandum to the Prime Minister, seeking fiscal aid from the Government of India to the tune of Rs 80,845 crore, along with non-fiscal assistance on various counts, in order to save lives and secure livelihoods in the new normal.The non-fiscal component of the aid sought by the Chief Minister includes waiver of long-term CCL debt, upward revision of capital outlay and targets under MGNREGA, and other major flagship programmes of the Union Government such as Smart City Programme, AMRUT, a new National Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme, etc, in addition to revamping of Inter-state Migrant Workers Act and amendments to Labour Reforms to ensure full protection of civil liberties and basic rights of agriculture and industrial labourers.The Centre’s urgent intervention was needed to avert any major socio-economic upheaval in the coming future, as also to assure our next generations of safe living and security of livelihood in the country, said the Chief Minister.In his detailed memorandum, Captain Amarinder has drawn the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the need for administrative, structural, and even statutory changes to ensure the safety and security of people in the new normal, given that the pandemic is here to stay for a long time. The new normal has also necessitated changes and repurposing in government programmes to meet the challenges of the present crisis, he added.Amarinder pointed out that, “The Government of Punjab, despite all-out efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in keeping with the guidelines issued by the Government of India from time to time, feels that states alone cannot meet the new challenges, and therefore in the true spirit of cooperative federalism, needs the Union Government to aid and assist them in an unusually big way, which the country has never seen since independence in 1947.”Listing out the detailed support measures needed to revive the state’s economy while ensuring protection of life amid the continuing pandemic spread, the Chief Minister said a direct fiscal stimulus of Rs 26,400 crore and the waiver of the long-term CCL debt was extremely necessary for the fiscal recovery of the state government. Additionally, all central schemes should be 100% funded by the Centre in FY 2020-21, he has further requested in the memorandum.Listing out the areas in which assistance was urgent required, the Chief Minister said improvement in the state’s public health infrastructure from a long-term perspective had been estimated at a cost of Rs 6,603 crore.To contain the COVID-19 contagion in the rural areas, Rs 5,068 crore would be required for liquid and solid waste management in the villages, in addition to upward revision of capital outlay and targets under MGNREGA from Rs 767 crore to Rs 2,413 crore, as per the state government estimates, said the Chief Minister, adding that total fiscal assistance of Rs 6,714 crore was required for this sector.For Housing and Urban Affairs, Amarinder has proposed a National Urban Employment Guarantee Act (NUEGA), to guarantee employment in urban areas, or which an annual outlay of Rs 3,200 crore would be required. He has also solicited additional capital outlay of Rs 6,670 crore under Schemes like AMRUT, Smart City, PMAY etc., with certain relaxations, along with a grant of Rs. 1,137 crore on account of revenue loss is solicited.To meet the post-Covid online and other educational needs of, the state has sought assistance of Rs. 3,080 crore, with another Rs 8 crore for online training and stipend at Rs 1,000 per month for students during the lockdown period.Further, financial assistance of  Rs 2,571 crore has been solicited for Border Area Development in an integrated manner, with acquisition of farm land beyond the border fencing or adequate compensation to farmers for frequent disruptions in those areas.Also, trade, business and Industry, specifically MSMEs, need strong support from the Government of India, including interest waiver, broader ESI/ EPF contribution, higher interest subvention and expeditious GST refunds, the Chief Minister has underlined in the memorandum.Similarly, the Power sector needs several policy interventions by the Government of India, he stressed, adding that labour process reforms would be required to facilitate quicker recovery of the industrial sector without causing damage to civil liberties and basic rights of the workers.
15-06-2020||---||Punjab CM writes to PM Modi for review of three recent ordinances on farming sector||Chandigarh, June 15Expressing Punjab’s reservations on the amendments, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Monday, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the three recently issued central government ordinances related to the farming sector, in the interest of farmers, and taking into account the spirit of ‘cooperative federalism’ which the letter has always strongly championed, a press release by the state government read.Underlining the need for the Centre and the states to work together to secure the collective good of the people of the country, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a reconsideration of the three ordinances — for permitting trade in agricultural produce outside the physical boundaries of the set-up of the agricultural market under the APMC Act, easing of easing restrictions under the Essential Commodities Act and facilitating contract farming.All three should be revisited keeping in view the concerns and the interests of farmers, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, seeking protection of farmers’ interests.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh pointed out that Punjab had been at the forefront of ensuring food security for the country. The development of crop production technology for wheat and paddy as well as its dissemination, supported by the assured procurement at minimum support price (MSP) by the FCI in the notified markets, had played a key role in building up buffer stocks and making the country self-reliant, he stressed.The results of this policy, observed Captain Amarinder, were most visible in the recent past when the country was able to face the unprecedented crisis emanating from the COVID-19 pandemic with confidence, with no threat of hunger and food deprivation.Further, the Punjab Chief Minister pointed that agriculture was a subject entrusted to the sates by the makers of the Indian Constitution and features at entry 14 on the State List. On the other hand, the trade and commerce feature in entry 33 of the Concurrent List, which enabled both the Union and states government to legislate on the subject, provided the state legislation is not repugnant, to the legislation of the Union.Referring to the specific ordinances, the Chief Minister said the Agriculture Produce Marketing System in Punjab had stood the test of time and served the State and the country well over the last 60 years.It had in fact been an important contributor to the success of the ‘Green Revolution’, he said, adding that it had helped in ensuring food security on the one hand and securing livelihoods of millions of farmers and farmworkers on the other.Further, he pointed out that a well-developed infrastructure has also been created in Punjab, both for open marketing and storage of produce and seamless transportation of produce from farm-gate to 'mandis' and godowns. The state government was in the process of further upgrading this infrastructure to support modern farming and agri-marketing practices, he added.However, the changes as per the Ordinance dated June 5, 2020, in the agricultural marketing system, had led to widespread apprehension among farmers of the state that the Union Government was planning to withdraw from the assured procurement of food grains produced by them.He said that there was also another apprehension that the proposed barrier-free nation-wide markets for farmers would really come to mean a nation-wide market for traders, possibly to the detriment of the already debt-ridden and beleaguered farmers of the State.Coming as it does in the times of the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis, it would further exacerbate the socio-economic tensions among farmers of the state, said the Chief Minister,  adding that this would not at all be conducive for the peace and development of the region, which faces serious challenges of public order due to a live international border.Drawing the Prime Minister’s attention to “The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020”, Captain Amarinder said it permitted new marketing channels outside the APMC domain and had, thus, far-reaching implications for the states, particularly Punjab.He said the levies/fees charged by the APMCs were used for the development and management of 'mandis', the creation of rural marketing, and supporting infrastructure, as well as for the welfare of rural farming and non-farming communities.It is a matter of common understanding that entry 33 of the Concurrent List i.e. “trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of the products…”, is applicable only to foodstuffs such as raw cotton, jute, oilseeds, etc., which are industrial raw materials and not to food grains, fruits, and vegetables, he said, adding that there thus appeared to be no rationale to infringe upon the APMC Act or for that matter, the autonomy of the States enshrined in the Constitution within the time-tested federal framework.On the easing of the regulation of food-grains under the Essential Commodities Act, Captain Amarinder said it further allowed the exporters, processors or traders to hold large stocks of farm produce without limits, except in certain grave situations of war, natural calamity, famine, and extra-ordinary price rise. The amendment would allow the private players to buy the produce in the harvest season when prices are generally lower, and release it later when prices firm up.He stated that in the absence of any regulation, the states would also have no information about the availability of stocks of commodities within the state.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh further pointed out that ‘The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020’ provided for engagement of farmers with processors, exporters, and large retailers for farm services and sale of future production at a mutually agreed remunerative price.“But it largely pertains to contract farming and provision of services. As these services and contracts relate to agricultural produce, it is covered under entry 14 read along with entry 26 and 27 of the State List and cannot be treated simply as a matter of trade and commerce under entry 33 of the Concurrent List,” he added.
15-06-2020||New Delhi||Monsoon may arrive in Delhi, Punjab, HP by June 25-26||Boosted by two low-pressure systems—one over southeast Arabian which later turned into ‘severe cyclone’ Nisarga and another over the Bay of Bengal—the Southwest Monsoon has arrived in Gujarat and East Uttar Pradesh, the IMD said on Monday.With conditions becoming favourable for its further advance into UP and Madhya Pradesh over the next 48 hours, meteorologists are predicting an early arrival of monsoon in the Northwest—including Delhi, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, the IMD said another low-pressure area is likely to form over North Bay of Bengal and its surrounding areas around June 19.As per forecaster Skymet, until now, the 2020 Monsoon has progressed almost in the “copybook style”.“It kept its date with the normal onset over Kerala. We think it can arrive over Delhi by June 25-26. Pre-monsoon rains will pick pace from June 20,” says Mahesh Palawat of Skymet.“The onset over Gujarat is well ahead of time. Usually, monsoon reaches parts of Kutch around June 25, this time it is almost 10 days early. Likewise in the Central and Eastern parts of the country, either it is on time or slightly ahead by a day or two,” says Palawat.While the initial push to monsoon over west coast came via Nisarga, in the second week of June, the low-pressure area over Bengal became instrumental in boosting its progress in Eastern and Central India.“We expect rain to continue with moderate-to-heavy intensity over Eastern and Central parts of the country, including Gujarat. The weather of hills, as well as Northwest India, will remain almost dry and hot for at least the next 3 to 4 days.”“Isolated pockets of Rajasthan can also experience heatwave conditions. The rains are expected to reach Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and parts of Jammu and Kashmir by around June 25/26 with an error margin of three days,” says Palawat.The normal arrival date in the region has been revised up to June 27.
15-06-2020||---||'Thrash mediapersons', says Sidhu Moosewala in video; Patiala Media Club files complaint||Patiala, June 15The Patiala Media Club on Monday filed a complaint against controversial singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu Moosewala for allegedly threatening the media for writing against him and also for using highly rude language against the journalist fraternity. The complaint was handed over to Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu, who has assured of a thorough investigation into the case.“The singer has even asked his supporters to thrash mediapersons. In a live video, viral on social media, he took names of some media organisations and said that he is least bothered about writings and news against him. He has used highly offensive language against the fraternity and said that they should be cautious in future if they write or air any news against him. He said that if done so, they will face the consequences,” said Patiala Media Club president Gurpreet Singh Chatha who along with several senior members of the club met the SSP at his office.They urged the SSP to appoint an investigation officer in the case and act as per law against the singer for allegedly issuing threats. “I will certainly look into the matter,” said the SSP.
15-06-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: Patiala reports nine new cases; district tally rises to 171||Patiala on Monday reported nine new cases of coronavirus, taking the district’s case tally to 171.The new cases include two workers under the Elective Officer (EO) of Samana.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that one of the positive patients—a 30-year-old—had already stayed at the Samana Civil Hospital for three days before he was shifted to the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala for treatment.The Health Department has started testing the staff at the Samana hospital as they are at risk having been exposed to the patient.Malhotra said that other patients who tested positive on Monday include two Delhi returnees and one from Rajasthan. All three have been isolated at home as per the new policy. A woman, from Nabha, also tested positive on Monday. She was a contact of a patient who had recently died of coronavirus.
15-06-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Locust keeps Punjab farmers on tenterhooks||Hardeep Dakha, sarpanch of Khanwala village on the Indo-Pakistan border in Fazilka district, is a scared man these days. “This year, I have grown cotton on 35 acres. Every evening, I stand with folded hands in front of the village gurdwara, praying that the swarming locusts do not attack my crop yield.”“Hovering over nearby areas of Rajasthan, the grasshoppers did enter Fazilka district, in early May. A farmer lost all his crop, spread over 10 acres, in Roop Nagar village. Located in our neighbourhood, Bareka village also witnessed a mild attack,” he adds.Experts say that a 1 sq-km swarm has about 40 million locusts. They can eat food equal to that consumed by around 35,000 people at a time. They can fly 150-200 km daily and ravage crops.State Agriculture Director Sutantar Kumar Airi visited the affected villages. Hundreds of litres of insecticides, mounted on tractors, were sprayed on the affected trees. Fire tenders were commissioned from neighbouring districts.Locust were also spotted in nearby Sivana, Muradwala, Chananwala, Khanpur and Nejeke villages in the district. Fear also gripped parts of Muktsar districts after reports of a swarm of about 2x2 km in Gharsana block of Sriganganagar district in Rajasthan. These villages — 3 MLD, 4 MLD, 7 MLD, 26 AS and 28 AS — are about 150 km from the state border. Earlier, these locust swarms had attacked Guluwala and Pilibanga areas of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan. Agriculture Department officials say the primary locust threat was in the areas of Fazilka, Muktsar and Bathinda districts.A change in the wind direction proved fortuitous for Punjab as the locusts went back towards Rajasthan.Lachhman Singh (87) of Jandwala, also a border village, says, “I have seen at least three attacks by the tiddi dal (locusts) over the decades. We would beat our tin drums and scare the swarm away. This time, however, the spread of locusts is frightening.” He is right because the size of the swarm reported recently in parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh was as big as 15 km x 2 km.Jagdish Godhara, Assistant Plant Protection Officer at the Central Locust Warning Organisation, Suratgarh, says, “Locust concentration, at the moment, is not near the Punjab border. It is more than 200 km away, near Bikaner. However, the threat continues.”Secretary, Agriculture, Kahan Singh Pannu says, “The early warning showed that the main threat was in areas of Fazilka, Muktsar and Bathinda districts, which are located close to Rajasthan. We rushed our teams to these areas on May 28 after a warning from the Locust Warning Organisation. The locusts were only 50 km away from the state border near Sangriya (Rajasthan).”Later, the state set up 8-10 locust teams in each district. Each district also has a separate control room to keep a watch on the pest movement. Buffer stock of the pesticide has been kept at Bathinda, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Fazilka and Ferozepur to meet emergency needs, if any. The department also carried out mock drills at Tharu village in Tarn Taran district and Kandu Khera block in Lambi area of Muktsar district.The grasshopper has, largely, spared the rabi crop in Punjab. However, it can affect the kharif crop if not controlled. Since the rabi season is over, there is very less food available. The locusts will start laying eggs after the onset of monsoon and will have a ‘fresh force’ before the kharif crop matures.The grasshopper menace has spread to Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Several successive waves of invasions can be expected till July in Rajasthan with eastward surges across northern India as far as Bihar and Odisha, followed by westward movements and a return to Rajasthan on the changing winds associated with the monsoon. Swarms are less likely to reach south India, say experts.Locust cycles were witnessed here in 1926-31, 1940-46, 1949-55 and 1959-62.Experts point out that locust swarms were known to enter India largely during the monsoon. This time, the invasion during the winter was an aberrant phenomenon. The adaptability to the changed climatic conditions also indicates that the locust control mechanism needs a relook.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com
15-06-2020||---||Indo-Canadian bus service incurs Rs 6-cr loss||Jalandhar, June 14Even as the bus and taxi services have been resumed in the state, the luxury Indo-Canadian bus facility from Jalandhar to the Delhi international airport continues to remain suspended.As many as 40 buses of the company remain off road. The service is mostly availed by NRIs from the Doaba region. Besides, international students and those from other states studying here at Lovely Professional University (LPU) and other institutions choose to travel via these luxury buses to further board their flights from the Delhi airport.Jaskaran Sharma, who is currently overseeing operations at the local office, said, “Owing to the lockdown, the Indo-Canadian company has suffered a loss of over Rs 6 crore. This is the first time that the company has witnessed such a major setback. As we have no idea when international flights will resume, to cope with the losses incurred, we are planning to operate the buses in the state only and the company is chalking out local routes.”The fully air-conditioned buses has both sleeper and business class seats with Wi-Fi, TV and even massage facility. The fare ranges from Rs 2,000-Rs 3,500 per seat.Mishu Atwal, a worker in the admin block, said all bookings done in the last two months had to be cancelled. “This is usually the peak season when a large numbers of bookings are done due to May and April intake in international universities. Besides, private universities are also visited by international students for admissions,” added Atwal.
15-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||10 booked in cremation row of Hazoori Ragi Nirmal Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14The police have reportedly nominated around 10 persons in connection with the row over cremation of former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa.Though the police had already registered a case against around 40 unknown persons on April 9, a week after the incident, it remained tight-lipped over the registration of the FIR.The special investigating team (SIT), headed by Jalandhar Division Commissioner B Purusartha, started a probe in the case and had nominated around 10 persons for protesting and creating hindrance against the cremation of the deceased. He died of Covid on April 2.SIT has summoned around 25 persons, including family members of Khalsa, police and district administrative officials, including an SDM-rank official, for recording their statements. Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and local Civil Surgeon were also members of SIT.While managements of cremation grounds at Durgiana Temple and Chatiwind allegedly did not allow his cremation as he was a Covid patient, certain residents of the Verka area had also opposed his cremation at the Verka cremation ground, fearing that it would spread the virus in the area. Later, negotiations were made with the residents and his mortal remains were cremated at a distance in a secluded place provided by a local resident. They also promised to make a memorial in his remembrance. The district and the police administrations faced a tough time negotiating with the residents.Earlier, an audio message of a conversation between Khalsa and his son also went viral in which he had alleged that he was not being properly treated at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he was admitted for treatment. His family members had also accused the Health Department of alleged negligence in his treatment.A police official privy to the probe said among those nominated in the FIR included Harpal Singh, Lalli, Rana, Baldev Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Harman and Navdeep Singh. However, Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, denied the same.Meanwhile, the Police Commissioner also denied nominating anyone in the case. “The SIT was probing the case and summons were issued in this regard. As investigations were on, the question of nominating anyone does not arise at the moment,” he said.
15-06-2020||---||Lockdown on Sat, Sun gets good response from Amritsar residents||Amritsar, June 14The weekend lockdown introduced by the state government after rise in Covid positive cases received support from people. The police laid nakas at the entrance of the city. Besides, all major roads were barricaded.All roads wore a deserted look. Even the Heritage Street, leading to the Golden Temple and the Jallianwala Bagh, was seen without any pedestrian. Staff of the SGPC said the number of devotees was negligible in the two days.Vinod Mittal, a shopkeeper, said the two-day lockdown revived the memories of the recent curfew when the majority of people abided by the new norms framed by the government to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, largely people did not follow the norms after relaxations in the lockdown, due to which a rise in positive cases was witnessed in almost all parts of the city.Barring chemists and liquor vends, all shops were closed. Interestingly, people were not allowed to move on roads but sales persons at liquor vends kept waiting for customers.
15-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Rs 7.5 cr heroin seized, 2 held||Phagwara, June 14The police on Saturday arrested two drug smugglers and recovered 1.5-kg heroin worth Rs 7.5 crore from their possession. The accused were also carrying Rs 2.9 lakh.Satinder Singh, Senior Superintendent of the Police, Kapurthala, said the smugglers had been identified as Davinder Singh Bara of Lattiawala village, Sultanpur Lodhi, and Balwinder Singh, a resident of Toti village in Kapurthala. The police also impounded their bike.The Senior Superintendent of Police said three of their accomplices — Mangal Singh, Harwinder Singh and Kuldip Singh — managed to flee.The accused were nabbed at a checkpoint near Secha village, said the SSP, Satinder Singh.
15-06-2020||---||Disburse funds under post-matric scheme: Panel||Chandigarh, June 14The Joint Action Committee (JAC), comprising 13 associations, has expressed concern over the state government delaying the release of Rs 309 crore rolled out by the Centre under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scheme.The committee said of the total Rs 1,850 crore, the Centre had released Rs 309 crore to the state in March-April. But the funds had not been disbursed to colleges. The JAC questioned why the state government was not disbursing the amount.“For the remaining Rs 1,541 crore, the state should take up the matter with the Centre. Due to the non-disbursal of funds, poor SC students are finding it difficult to continue their studies,” said a committee member.
15-06-2020||Patiala||Ease age norm: PPSC aspirants||Hundreds of general category candidates in the state are unhappy over the Punjab Government’s recent decision to fill DSP-level posts without any increase in the maximum age limit, which is 28 at present.They claim the government had last year announced to give age relaxation to the general category aspirants. While all other posts carry a maximum age cap of 37 years, the same in Punjab Police Service and Punjab Prisons Service is 28 years.Following the UPSC pattern, the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) has increased the number of attempts from four to six from this year, but the age limit is still the same. PPSC Secretary (Examination) Jasleen Kaur Sandhu said the examination date was fixed by the government after notifying the posts. “We only advertised the posts after receiving the government nod. We have received some representations by aspirants, which have been forwarded to the government for necessary action,” she said. — TNS
15-06-2020||---||Pregnant woman dies, kin allege negligence||Muktsar, June 14A pregnant woman (28) died at local civil hospital on Sunday. Alleging negligence on the part of hospital staff, family members are demanding strict action against them.The deceased has been identified as Rajani.Prabhdyal, spouse of the deceased, said, “My wife was about five months pregnant. On Saturday, due to some complication we had to take her to the hospital. However, the doctor came to see her on Sunday afternoon and by that time she had passed away. The paramedical staff failed to covey to the doctor about the critical condition of my wife and the delay claimed the life of my partner.”Dr Satish Goyal, senior medical officer (SMO), civil hospital, Muktsar, told the mediapersons that an inquiry would be conducted and if the allegations proved true, then an action would be taken against the staff. Further investigation is underway.
15-06-2020||Phagwara||AAP: CM to look into Sangrur college issue||The Leader of Opposition, Harpal Cheema, said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had given an assurance of looking into the matter of Akal Degree College for Women putting an end to BA degree course in the college. The reply has come in response of Cheema's letter to the CM, wherein he had brought forward the college’s decision to stop offering the BA degree course. OCChandigarh1,451 shops raided, stale food items destroyedCommissioner, Food and Drug Administration, Punjab, Kahan Singh Pannu said shopkeepers had been directed to strictly follow social distancing guidelines, wear masks and use hand sanitisers. He said from May 1 to 31, food safety teams conducted checks at 1,451 shops and disposed of stale items, including 22-quintal fruit and vegetables, milk and milk products, 419-litre soft drinks, oil, 167 namkeen packets, biscuits and masala. TNSChandigarh2,850 units collected on World Blood Donor DayOn the occasion of World Blood Donor Day, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said blood donation camps under 'Mission Fateh' were being organised across the state. He said special passes had been issued to donors by blood banks for unhindered movement during the weekend lockdown. He said over 2,850 units of blood had been collected today. "People can download eRaktkosh app to know about the registration process, nearby blood banks and information on blood donors," said Sidhu. He said there were 124 licenced blood banks in the state. TNS
15-06-2020||Fazilka/Ropar||On 'Mission Fateh'||Lending a helping handHoshiarpur: An NGO, run by a Mauritius-based NRI, helped an octogenarian stuck at Sanawa village in SBS Nagar, return to the UK. Harbans Kaur (84) had come from Nottingham, UK, in February and was supposed to return in the last week of March, but couldn't because of the lockdown. Her son Navtej Singh Hundal contacted Hoshiarpur-based NRI Dr Sunil Chadda, who runs an NGO named Shah Ji Foundation. He contacted the British High Commission in India and completed the documentation on behalf of Harbans Kaur. She finally boarded the flight arranged by the British High Commission from Amritsar recently. A vehicle was arranged by the NGO in which two more British nationals were sent to the Amritsar airport.Noble causeBarnala: On the occasion of World Blood Donor Day on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner Tej Partap Singh Phoolka donated blood at the local civil hospital. Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Singh also joined him. Phoolka said, "The aim is to motivate others to come forward for this noble cause. Since Covid-19 pandemic is rising despite our best efforts, we must donate blood to meet emergency situations." The DC urged the youth to donate blood and maintain social distancing to prevent the Covid spread.Saying it on canvasAbohar: Days after Usha of Wahabwala village earned appreciation from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for her paintings on the topic of Covid-19, Kavita Sokhal of Sayeedwala village is being praised for her depiction of pain and sufferings of migrant labourers hit by the lockdown on the canvas. She says millions of workers were stranded in every corner of the country due to the lockdown. She is earning appreciation from various quarters.(Contributed by Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, Parvesh Sharma and Raj Sadosh)
15-06-2020||Mahesh Sharma||Duped by travel agents, youths stuck in Dubai||Mandi Ahmedgarh, June 14Duped by unauthorised travel agents, over 10 Malwa youths stuck in Dubai are seeking help from the Government of India and social organisations to facilitate their return.Manpreet Singh Channon, a youth from the local Dehliz road area, said he, along with many youths from various areas in Malwa, were working in an industrial unit at Saja in Dubai. Following the Covid outbreak, the company suspended operations and their wages were stopped.‘Not paid a penny by employers’Even though we were not being paid, our agents and employers promised us Rs25,000 per month so that we can send some money to our families. However, we have not been paid a single penny. — Manpreet Singh Channon, youth stuck in Dubai“Even though we were not being paid, our agents and employers promised us Rs 25,000 per month, so that we can send some money to our families. But we have not been paid a single penny. Instead, the company is asking us for 1,400 dirham to get our passports back,” said Channon, an aggrieved youth.He said the company had not been providing them medical facility as was promised at the time of signing of the contract.Avtar Singh of Bhadaur town said his agent had promised him a monthly salary of Rs 35,000, but he had not been paid. Like Channon, he had also shelled out Rs 80,000 for getting a job in Dubai. “Now that we have no resources, we want the Government of India and social organisations to help us,” said Avtar.They said more than 10 youths from the Malwa region were stranded at Saja. “We are not allowed to go out of the industrial unit premises,” Channon said.
15-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Medicos, varsities at loggerheads over MD/MS fee||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 14Three weeks after the Medical Education Department announced a uniform fee structure for postgraduate medical courses (MD/MS) in all private medical colleges in the state, many students have demanded refund of excess fee already charged from them. On the other hand, Adesh Medical University (AMU), Bathinda, has challenged the uniform fee structure in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.On May 19, while amending the Punjab Private Health Sciences Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission, Fixation of Fee and Making of Reservation) Act, 2006, the Medical Education Department had fixed Rs 6.5 lakh annual tuition fee for MD/MS (clinical) courses in all private medical colleges. This amendment caused reduction in the annual fee from Rs 14.90 lakh to Rs 6.5 lakh in AMU.On May 2, at the time of admission in AMU, students had paid Rs 7.45 lakh as 50 per cent of the annual fee. After the amendment to the Act, the 50 per cent of the annual fee in AMU comes out to Rs 3.25 lakh, so students are now demanding the refund of Rs 4.20 lakh as excess fee paid by them.However, the AMU has now challenged the amendment to the Act in the High Court, raising the argument how the fee structure could be revised on May 19 when the admission process was already initiated on March 11 with the issuance of prospectus and the admission policy being announced on February 14.When students had opted for admission as per the prospectus and they had already deposited the pre-revised rate of fee, there was no rationale in revising the fee with the amendment in the Act, AMU argued in its petition in the High Court.The court has issued notice to the state government for June 18.‘Report at colleges or lose seat’The Director General of Health Services (DGHS) has directed all candidates who were allotted MD/MS seats across the country last month to report physically at their respective colleges before June 22 or face cancellation of admission. After the first round of counselling for admissions to MD/MS all-India quota seats last month, the candidates who were allotted seats had joined through the virtual mode due to the Covid-19 lockdown.
15-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Let down by direct seeding tech, Malwa farmers replant paddy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The much-touted direct seeding of rice (DSR) has failed to give the desired results in large parts of the Malwa region, with farmers ploughing back the seed and replanting paddy in a traditional way.Attack by rodents and rainwater filling up furrows created by raised beds are the main reasons for the failure of direct seeding at many places. Dejected farmers have had to hire labour (both local as well as migrant labour by ferrying them from Uttar Pradesh) so that the paddy can be transplanted in the fields.Officials of the Agriculture Department as well as Punjab Agricultural University admit that there have been problems, but they insist that it was because the farmers didn’t follow the SOPs issued to them. “This is the first year and it takes time for the farmers to learn the new technology,” said Agriculture Secretary Kahan Singh Pannu. At almost all places where the protocol issued by the department was followed, the direct seeding of rice had been successful, he said.Gurcharan Singh, a paddy grower from Gowara village in Sangrur, said he went for direct seeding of rice. “But untimely rains led to the filling of furrows created between the raised beds. We were left with no option, so we sent a farmer to Sujanpur near Raebareli in Uttar Pradesh to get labour. We paid Rs 5,000 per acre to replant the paddy. Though local workers were available, they demanded similar wages,” he rued.At Mangewal village of Barnala, Jeet Singh said he and his cousins had to replant paddy on 100 acres. “We got labour (bazigars) from Haryana and paid Rs 5,550 per acre for transplantation. At least our crop will be safe now,” he said.Abjinder Sangha, a farmer and agriculture activist, said at many places where direct seeding was done, the farmers had been troubled by rats.Pannu said the department had repeatedly told the farmers that they should do direct seeding on just 20 per cent of their land.
15-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur girl shuns foreign dreams, picks farming||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 14At a time when the youth are eager to leave their home country and move abroad in the search of a better future, Amandeep Kaur (21) from Kanoi village decided not to pursue her foreign dreams and instead help her father in farming.Like others, she also wanted to go abroad and cleared IELTS in 2018. “I had received my offer letter from a Canadian college. But once I went to the farm to help my father, I realised that if I go abroad, he will be alone. So I decided to stay here and help my father,” she said. For the last three years, she has been assisting her father in the farm work. She goes to a field in the morning and works hard all day. She is also pursuing a diploma in food processing.“People in my village have always motivated me to work in the field. When girls can compete with boys in all areas, why not in farming? I request girls to start helping their families in farming,” she said.“Many times when I am busy, she alone handles all the work. I am proud of her,” her father Harmilap Singh said. “After seeing Amandeep working in the field, many other families in our area are thinking of allowing their girls to work in farms,” her uncle Jagdeep Singh said.
15-06-2020||Chandigarh||Roads, markets deserted amid weekend restrictions in Punjab||Roads and markets in most parts of the state wore a deserted look on Sunday with the state government imposing stricter lockdown restrictions on weekends.Police personnel were deployed in adequate numbers across the state for implementing the lockdown strictly, officials said.Inter-district movement was barred except for people with e-passes, they said, adding that no pass was required for such travel in case of a medical emergency.All shops dealing with non-essential items stayed shut in the state, though chemist shops and departmental stores remained open. In Ludhiana, there was no rush of people at Chaura Bazaar, which is one of the busiest markets.“E-pass is a must if anybody is on the road,” a policeman in Ludhiana said. Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Garg said the police were strictly implementing the lockdown restrictions.The police were patrolling throughout the district to ensure people stayed indoors, the SSP said.There was a drastic decline in the footfall of devotees at the Golden Temple in the morning on the occasion of ‘Sangrand’ (beginning of the new month). In Mohali, policemen were checking vehicles coming from Chandigarh and other parts. — PTI
15-06-2020||---||Extend foodgrain scheme by 6 months, Capt tells PM||Chandigarh, June 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for another six months in view of the Covid crisis to facilitate free wheat and pulses to the beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA).In a letter to the Prime Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh said the extension would go a long way in ensuring that the poor and needy do not sleep hungry and would enable them to make both ends meet.The Chief Minister urged the PM to advise the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Government of India, accordingly.Noting that the early announcement of the PMGKAY had provided major relief to the poor NFSA beneficiaries during Covid, the Chief Minister said the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic had not only slowed down the country’s economy but also led to a major reduction in the incomes and savings of the people.The Chief Minister pointed out that with the lockdown now touching almost three months, the economic situation of the people, especially the poor, had not improved much even after resumption of industrial activities in Punjab. Of the 2.60 lakh industrial units in the state, more than 2.32 lakh units had resumed operations, but the loss of wages over the past few months had severely crippled the purchasing power of the people, especially the poor NFSA beneficiaries, he said.‘Financial position not improving’The Chief Minister wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that with the lockdown period now touching almost three months, the economic condition of people, especially the poor, had not improved much even after resumption of industrial activity in Punjab.
15-06-2020||Mansa||Transporters in Punjab trafficking migrants||The Mansa district police today arrested six bus drivers for trafficking brickkiln labourers to Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh on fake curfew passes. The bus company owners, Surinder Kumar, Harminder Singh, Balkaran Singh and Manpreet Singh, all residents of Mansa, have been booked. SSP Narinder Bhargav said the fake passes were purportedly issued by the authorities in Bathinda. He said the migrants — including 150 men, 80 women and 115 children — were provided drinking water, breakfast and lunch. They had paid a hefty sum to be ferried back to their home state.The police later arranged buses with valid passes for the migrants who left for their onward journey after a health check-up, SSP Bhargav added.A case has been filed with the Sardulgarh police station against Paramjeet Singh, Bunty Seth and Jasbir Singh of Bus Transport Noor Chahal, Gomy Singh of Jogi Peer Bus Transport, Balbir Singh of Sohal Bus Service and Amrik Singh of Bhai Behlo Bus Service under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B, 269 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Two buses impounded in AmlohFatehgarh Sahib: Two buses carrying migrant labourers were intercepted in Mandi Gobindgarh on Sunday. The SDM (Amloh), AS Sharma, said one of the buses was carrying 30 migrants. The driver claimed he had ferried them from Purnia district in Bihar. The other bus, carrying migrants from Ambala, had dropped 15 labourers at Sirhind. OC
15-06-2020||---||VDS scheme for water connections in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 14The Punjab Government has notified a voluntary disclosure scheme (VDS) for consumers having unapproved water connections in the rural areas. Under this scheme, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department offers an opportunity to consumers for voluntary disclosure and free of cost regularisation of their unapproved connection.As per the policy, no charges will be taken from the consumers for the previous usage of water, if any.Razia Sultana, Water Supply and Sanitation Minister, said this scheme would be formally launched on Monday and the last date to apply under the voluntary disclosure scheme would be July 15.She said new connections could also be applied during this period. The details of the scheme can be obtained from the department website, pbdwss.gov.in.The consumers can also apply by calling on toll free no. 1800-103-6999 and the representative of the department shall get the form filled from the applicant.The minister said the department had planned to conduct third-party comprehensive household survey of all rural households in Punjab from July onwards. During the survey, if any consumer was found with unapproved connection after the closure of the voluntary disclosure scheme, the connection would be snapped and charges would be collected from the guilty for unapproved usage of water.
15-06-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps cops over ‘offensive’ term for African national||Chandigarh, June 14The Punjab Police have been caught in a racism row. Amidst worldwide demonstrations against racism and racial discrimination, the police was found using a “highly offensive” word for an African national in its final investigation report filed before a trial court.‘Don’t judge by colour of skin’The investigating officers and police officials that record FIRs should be immediately sensitised and warned on the issue by ensuring that no person should be looked down upon on the basis of the colour of his/her skin. — Punjab and Haryana High CourtRapping the police for its “terrible thinking” and bringing “shame to India and hatred for the country”, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserted the “pernicious practice” was socially unacceptable, “but what can one expect from an uneducated and insensitive constabulary”.Asking the state Director-General of Police to intervene, Justice Rajiv Narain Raina asked him to consider and notify instructions, asking the police force never to use offensive terms in case papers. They should simply be referred to by the country of their origin, Justice Raina added.“The investigating officers and the police officials that record FIRs be immediately sensitised and warned on the issue by ensuring that no person should be looked down upon on the basis of the colour of his/her skin,” Justice Raina asserted.Apparently referring to a cricketer’s allegations of racism during India stint, Justice Raina added: “For many centuries we have been slaves. Freedom does not lend its wings to our countrymen to fly anywhere they wish and in any manner they like and abuse foreigners on the street calling them kaala”.The order has its genesis in a regular bail plea filed in a drugs case by Amarjit Singh. Justice Raina asserted he was appalled to find the term while referring to an African national in the challan papers.“This is a highly offensive word across the globe and no one has any business to use it and much less the police.... The police appear to have assumed that every black is a drug peddler and should be treated as such,” Justice Raina added.He added that they deserved dignity and respect as visitors or students while temporarily living in India, which took pride in having people of all skin colours ranging from white to black and aboriginal. “All Africans are our friends and when they come to India, either as visitors or students, they are our valuable guests and we should be reminded that India is rich in its traditions of ‘mehman nawazi’ and ‘attithi sanskar/satkar,’” Justice Raina added.Alluding to Mahatma Gandhi, Justice Raina added he was politically nurtured in South Africa for two decades, pioneering the apartheid movement, fighting against colour discrimination and for freedom against “black laws”.He said the aspect required correction by ordering strict action against the policemen indulging in character assassination based on physical features. The Bench has kept the matter pending for information on action proposed to be taken.
15-06-2020||---||‘Renaming Southall road, a befitting tribute to Guru Nanak’||Amritsar, June 14Sikh bodies have welcomed the UK authorities’ proposal to rechristen the Havelock Road in Southall as Guru Nanak Road.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said if this proposal was executed, it would be a befitting tribute to Guru Nanak Dev in view of the 550th Gurpurb.“This road will be a symbol of recognition of the Sikh community’s huge contribution, be it to the UK’s economy or social service. It will also help in strengthening the anti-racism campaign on foreign soil. Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, the largest shrine in western Europe, is also located on the same street, which would further complement its significance,” he said.In the wake of “Black Lives Matter” protests, the UK’s Ealing Council has been reviewing colonialist connects associated with its street names and statues. A survey was already being conducted on the proposed name of the road. At present, the road is named after British General Sir Henry Havelock, who was involved in the recapture of Cawnpore (now Kanpur) in Uttar Pradesh during the First War of Independence in 1857.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said the langar tradition taught by Guru Nanak Dev, which had got acclaim world over especially during the Covid-19 crisis, had shown its impact.“That’s why the foreign community recognised Guru Nanak’s philosophy of communal harmony in the modern materialistic world,” he said.However, Sukhdev Singh, Punjab convener, Indian National Trust For Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said, “As a Sikh devotee, it was a matter of pride to name the UK road after the founder of Sikhism. But historically speaking, the streets and monuments signify the legacy of occurrences and their names apprise of those chapters of the past from where the community ultimately rescued. So, the original names should not be altered.”
15-06-2020||Aman Sood||No money recovered in fake liquor case in Punjab||Tribune news servicePatiala, June 14Almost a month after an illegal liquor distillery involving a Congress sarpanch was busted, the police despite arresting all main accused have failed to recover any money.Congress-backed Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh, who is in the liquor trade for the past few years, and another main accused in the case Dipesh Kumar, who allegedly set up the illegal distillery, are now under arrest and being grilled by the police. Amrik surrendered on Saturday following police raids and political pressure.As per excise officials, the illegal distillery was running on full swing during the lockdown and selling liquor worth lakhs every day. If only lockdown phase profits are calculated, the money earned is in crores. “We can only say that Dipesh and Amrik sold liquor worth lakhs every day, selling popular brands and saving lots of money. It is now part of police investigation to recover the money from the accused as we handed over the investigation to the police after an FIR was registered,” said Upkar Singh, Excise and Taxation officer, Patiala.“Dipesh even met a few excise officials and it is still not clear if it was done to directly bribe them,” said a top source. “Dipesh used a strong political recommendation to approach certain excise officials,” he added.The SAD alleged that following political pressure and many big names from the political circles involved in the investigations, the police were not digging too deep to identify the money trail.Ghanaur DSP Manpreet Singh said they were grilling the two accused to identify the money trail and profits made by them. “It is too early to comment as we are still to question Amrik Singh in detail,” he added.
15-06-2020||Harshraj Singh||Put on frontline duty in Punjab, 3,000 workers await regular jobs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 14Contractual sanitation workers have been performing their duty amid the Covid crisis, but their wait for regular jobs seems to be unending.Ahead of the state Assembly elections, sewermen and safai karamcharis were ‘assured’ that their jobs will be regularised soon, but nothing has been done so far.Several protests have also been held in the past seeking regularisation of the contractual workers. There are over 3,000 contractual sweepers and sewermen working under the Ludhiana MC.A contractual sewerman in Ludhiana said: “With Rs 8,500 per month, it becomes difficult to make ends meet. My job has also required me to put my life on the line many times. I appeal to the government to regularise the job of contractual workers.”A woman sweeper said, “I have been working with the Ludhiana MC for around 10 years on a contractual basis. I have never hesitated to work amid this hour of crisis. Promises made to us in the past have not been fulfilled till date. Our pay should be increased and jobs must be regularised at the earliest.”Subash Desawar, state convener, Safai Karamchari Andolan, said “A number of sewermen, including regular and contractual employees, have either lost their lives or fallen sick after inhaling poisonous gases while cleaning sewers in the past. It goes without saying that the sanitation workers do their work under tough conditions.”Vijay Kumar of the Municipal Karamchari Sayunkt Committee, Ludhiana, said many contractual workers had been working for the past over 10 years in Ludhiana MC. He said, “The sanitation workers are performing their duty with dedication during this time of crisis. Their jobs should be regularised.”Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “I had earlier raised this matter before the government. I will again take it up with the authorities and demand regularisation of jobs of contractual sewermen and safai karamcharis.”
15-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Amid pandemic, Gurdaspur abuzz with political activity||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 14Heightened political activity is being witnessed in Gurdaspur with leaders, cutting across party lines, making attempts to hog the spotlight amid the Covid-19 outbreak.A minister said, “Leaders do not want miss any chance of gaining publicity from distributing ration kits, masks, gloves, sanitisers and PPE kits. This is the reason why they are all over the place, notwithstanding the spike in Covid cases.”Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa recently invited top bureaucrats and police officers to his Dera Baba Nanak residence for dinner. “I had invited just 10 officers and made certain that social distancing norms were strictly followed,” he said.A bureaucrat disclosed that since Randhawa’s clout within the government and the local administration was well known, every official wanted to be a part of the proceedings. “However, in the times of coronavirus, the minister did well to put a cap on the number of invitees,” he said.Batala SAD MLA LS Lodhinangal, besides being actively involved in the distribution of ration to needy, held a press conference where he showed a video in which a PWD officer was seen taking a bribe.Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, too, was quick to arrive in his Assembly seat of Fatehgarh Churian from Chandigarh as soon as relaxations in lockdown began.Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, Gurdaspur Planning Board chief and Congress ticket aspirant from the Batala seat, said, “What should have been an activity inversely proportional to the rise in the number of case, has become directly proportional. The more the number of positive cases, the more politicians can be seen in the streets,” he said. Nijjar has regularly been holding meetings of the Planning Board in Gurdaspur.Arjun Partap Singh, son of Qadian legislator Fateh Jung Bajwa, too, remained in limelight for distributing medical equipment to health workers.Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Laddi is making sure that word spreads among people of his constituency that he was the one who financed ration kits given to needy.SAD leader Ravi Karan Kahlon remained busy in distributing masks to cops on duty at check posts till his father and former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon got unwell yesterday.MP Sunny Deol, who has earned the sobriquet of being “elusive”, is finally slated to make an appearance in Pathankot early next week. Niranjan, his personal assistant, was sent to the constituency a fortnight ago to test political waters.
15-06-2020||Jalandhar||IMA threatens stir over clinical Act||Opposing the Clinical Establishment Act, the Indian Medical Association, Punjab, threatened to stage a weeklong protest. It declared to boycott all medical services, including emergency (barring Covid-19 cases), in the state on June 23, if their demands are not met.Members of the IMA said the protest was a reaction to government’s move of hastily bringing in the Act Ordinance on April 14 in the state amid the lockdown. They said they would hold a series of meetings, protests, press conferences and submit a memorandum of their demands to MLAs, MPs and ministers from June 14 to 16. After this they would suspend services if their demands are not met. Dr Paramjit Mann, Secretary, IMA, Punjab, said, “The Ordinance was brought by the government at the wrong time.” — TNS
15-06-2020||Muktsar||Random sampling challenge for Punjab health officials||Persuading locals to undergo Covid-19 test on a random basis is proving to be an uphill task for the Health Department officials.A case in point is an ASHA worker had to get her family members to the local civil hospital to undergo the test after she failed to achieve the target of motivating five persons at random to take the test.A senior official in the Health Department said they were facing problems as people showed reluctance and unwillingness to undergo the test. “We have to deliver lectures to motivate people to undergo the Covid-19 test. Some people agree to come to the hospital to give their sample, but change their mind at the last moment. It then becomes difficult for us to delete the name of the person from the web portal,” he said.The official said, “A person who was working at an industrial unit at Rupana village was brought to the hospital, but he ran away. Later, his seniors convinced him to take the test.” — TNS
15-06-2020||---||86-year-old's death: NCW chief alleges negligence, writes to Punjab CM||Jalandhar, June 14The chairperson of the National Commission for Women (NCW), Rekha Sharma, has written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh alleging negligence in the treatment of an 86-year-old man who died of Covid a few days ago. The letter has been posted by her on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. Sharma also said she shall be writing to the Governor on the issue.Alleging government negligence in treatment, Sharma said while her uncle and others who had lost their lives due to negligence won’t come back, she was writing the letter “as I don’t want others to lose their loved ones because of medical negligence and state government’s apathy”.Dev Dutt Sharma, who died of Covid in Jalandhar, was reported to have received treatment at a private hospital from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital. From there, he was taken to the IMA facility, where he died. Sharma’s letter also raises questions on the lab which tested him.In her letter, Sharma writes, “He (her uncle) had suffered a minor heart attack. He was shifted to a government hospital but no medication was given to him. Even the daily medicine was not given to him even when his sons requested the hospital staff to let them handover the medicine to their father.”Speaking to The Tribune, Rekha Sharma said, “There was negligence in the treatment of my uncle. The letter’s aim is to ensure that this shouldn’t happen to anyone else.”Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, said, “So far, a complaint hasn’t reached me through any patient for from the social media but if it comes, we shall definitely look into it and order an inquiry. I am personally not aware of any such negligence and shall have to ask the treating doctors about this.”The case
15-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Job exam next week, Patiala nurse tests +ve||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 14The dream of getting a regular job for a 29-year-old contractual nurse of Government Rajindra Hospital shattered on Friday when she tested positive for Covid-19. Reason: She will not be able to appear for her written examination for the regular post of nurse, which is scheduled to be held in Faridkot on June 21.The nurse, who joined the hospital in 2018 as a contractual employee, had been preparing for the exam ever since 411 posts of regular nurse were advertised by the Director, Research and Medical Education.The nurse, talking to The Tribune over the phone, said she would study regularly after her duty hours. “I am sad that I wouldn’t be able to appear in the exam for which I had been preparing for month.”Pleading for a chance to appear in the examination from the isolation facility, the nurse said, “Rajindra hospital is one of the centres for examination. Therefore, the authorities should allow me to attempt the paper from the isolation facility here. I don’t want to miss this long-awaited opportunity of taking the exam.”However, the nurse said she had not lost hope and would continue to prepare for the examination. “I asked my family members to provide me books so that I can continue with my studies,” she added.
15-06-2020||Manav Mander||Inside Covid wards, yoga, ludo keep patients in good spirits in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 14The major challenge for hospital authorities while dealing with Covid patients is to keep their morale high during their quarantine period. Instead of presenting a picture of fear and anxiety, hospitals are trying hard to make things look lively and cheerful. Regular counselling sessions are a part of the quarantine period of patients.The Mother and Child Hospital near Vardhman Mills has started a daily yoga session for patients in the evening and soon, it will be organising mind games for them.“Every day before the evening tea, I take a one-hour yoga session of patients. The aim is to keep them calm. In addition to this, I am also planning to start other activities,” said Dr Amita Jain, senior medical officer at the hospital.She said many patients wanted to play games like chess and ludo, so she was making arrangements for tables so that they could maintain social distancing while playing,” Dr Jain said.The hospital also organises musical programmes for patients in the Covid ward. Some patients are also busy with their office work while others are hooked to their phones. “I regularly counsel the patients to keep them in good spirits,” Dr Jain said.Recently, the hospital celebrated the birthday of staff nurse Rubina, who is on duty in the Covid ward ever since the outbreak of the virus and has not gone home. Her 10-month-old baby is being kept away from her. “We arranged a cake and the entire ward participated in the celebrations and wished her. Such occasions make the patient-and-nurse bond stronger,” the doctor said. On the other hand, the Civil Hospital, Khanna, where 16 patients are admitted, allows positive patients from the same family to stay together in a ward.“Ideally, there are separate male and female wards but we are allowing patients from the same family to stay together. This way, they do not feel alone. We have six patients from the same family and they are living together in one ward,” Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer at the hospital, said. In addition to this, two hours are reserved for a musical session where religious songs are played, he added.Simranjeet Kaur, a patient at the Mother and Child Hospital, said, “Seven from my family have tested positive. It sometimes becomes depressing as I can’t do my normal chores but then Dr Jain comes and lifts by spirits. Yoga is also helping us out as it keeps us engaged,” she said.Another patient Gagandeep Singh is admitted in the same hospital and said he was satisfied with the arrangements and the lively nature of the staff was helping him stay enthusiastic.
15-06-2020||---||Four more succumb, Punjab toll 68||Chandigarh, June 14Ludhiana and Amritsar continue to keep Punjab on the tenterhooks by leading the tally of Covid cases. While Ludhiana reported 22 new patients today, Amritsar added another 13 cases to its tally. The state witnessed a rise of 77 cases.As many as four deaths were reported today — one each in Amritsar and Pathankot and two in Sangrur. The total count of Covid deaths in the state has reached 68.The Sangrur administration said the deaths reported in the state bulletin today had taken place on Saturday, although 17 new cases were reported.Patiala recorded 10 new cases, including two nurses working in the emergency ward of Government Rajindra Hospital. A four-year-old girl, who had returned from Jhansi on June 8, has tested positive.In Ludhiana, of 22 patients found positive today, five have travel history. Nobody from the containment zones tested positive today. A 31-year-old man from Amarpura had returned from Mumbai a few days ago. Similarly, a 34-year-old man and a teenager from C Block, Raj Nagar, and two youngsters from Ranjit Singh Park, who had travelled to Delhi, have tested positive.Another 12 who tested positive are contacts of already positive persons. A patient from Bahadurke Bhattaian is suffering from severe acute respiratory illness and tested positive for Covid. Four persons with influenza-like illness are from Khanna, Chandigarh Road, Mohar Singh Nagar and Mayur Vihar.The local health authorities in Amritsar claimed that the total death toll was 20, while the state health bulletin mentioned the toll at 17, saying one duplicate death was excluded today. A 66-year-old man from Pandori Mehma village, who was admitted to a local hospital on June 12, passed away yesterday. Of the 613 tested positive so far, the district has witnessed 418 recoveries.In Mohali, 10 new cases came to the fore, taking the tally to 170. The active cases in the district rose to 50, while a total of 117 patients have recovered so far.Nearly 29 patients recovered from the disease.
15-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Staff crunch adds to Punjab Health Department’s woes||Fazilka, June 14With all posts of programme officer in the district lying vacant for long, the Health Department’s struggle to fight Covid-19 has compounded.Sources said among the posts that were lying vacant included that of civil surgeon, deputy medical commissioner, district immunisation officer, district family planning officer, district tuberculosis officer and district health officer (DHO).‘Making efforts’I have been trying my best to serve patients with limited doctors and staff — Dr Chander Mohan Kataria, Assistant Civil Surgeon, District HospitalThey said the district epidemiologist had been assigned the additional charge of medicine specialist at the district hospital, as the MD (Medicine) posted there had gone on a leave.The DHO and epidemiologist used to play a major role in spreading awareness among residents on ways to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Besides, many posts of medical specialists have also been lying vacant at the district hospital.The sources said the hospital had also been devoid of an eye specialist, an ENT doctor, a dermatologist and a blood transfusion officer. The dialysis unit had also been lying shut for more than a year for want of another medical specialist.Dr Chander Mohan Kataria has assumed the charge of assistant civil surgeon. With an additional charge of Fazilka civil surgeon, he alone has been holding the fort in the civil surgeon office. “I have been trying my best to fight Covid-19 with limited officials and staff,” said Dr Kataria.In rural areas, the situation is grave, as community health centres at Sito Guno, Khui Khera, Dabwala Kalan, Wahabwala and Ramsara in Fazilka are devoid of specialists.Rural situation worse
