15-04-2020||Jalandhar||82-yr-old man dies while out to withdraw pension in Kapurthala||An 82-year-old man died of a heart attack at a Kanjli Road private bank in Kapurthala where he had gone to withdraw his pension.A retired Army personnel, he was a resident of Model Town in Kapurthala, where he was staying with his 65-year-old sister. The man—who police said had a previous heart condition—collapsed in the bank soon after he withdrew his pension. SHO Kapurthala city police station Harjinder Singh said, “The man had gone to take his monthly pension when he suddenly sat down and asked for water. The bank manager soothed him and gave him water but he died soon after. The man had a pre-existing heart condition.”The SHO said so far the police have been able to trace only one relative of his – the sister he was living with. The body of the man was sent to the civil hospital Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/82-yr-old-man-dies-while-out-to-withdraw-pension%C2%A0in-kapurthala-71582
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 3,100 tonnes wheat procured in Punjab on day 1||Over 3,100 metric tonnes of wheat was procured on the first day of procurement in Punjab on Wednesday, an official statement said.The procurement agencies had purchased 18,309 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat on the corresponding day of last year.                       Different procurement agencies, including Food Corporation of India, procured wheat from the grain markets across the state.                     Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the state government has set up 1,867 procurement centres and 1,824 mandi yards for the purchase of crop.The state government is expecting to procure 135 lakh metric tonnes of wheat in the current Rabi marketing season.The Centre has fixed Rs 1,925 per quintal as minimum support price for wheat.                   Though the state authorities said they had made all arrangements for the smooth procurement of crop, farmers at many places were under the impression that there was a ceiling of bringing 50 quintals of crop per farmer.            However, officials made it clear that a farmer may bring as much crop as he wants to the grain market but he will be issued separate passes for each tractor trolley.    Around 6,200 passes were issued for the first day of procurement and 18,000 passes will be issued for Thursday and 42,000 for Friday, officials said.              The state government has decided to issue about 27 lakh passes to wheat growers for bringing their crop to the grain markets for procurement, as part of the measures to prevent overcrowding in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.The market committee is issuing passes to arthiyas (commission agents) who in turn give them to farmers for bringing their crop to mandis.                Meanwhile, the Punjab Mandi Board issued directions to all the secretaries of the Market Committees across the state to initiate strict action against any person found causing hindrance in the procurement operations.              The directions came after a section of arthiyas had threatened to boycott wheat procurement.                Ravi Bhagat, Secretary, Mandi Board, said it has come to their notice that a certain section of arthiyas had threatened to boycott the procurement operations during Rabi marketing season 2020-21, which would not be tolerated at any cost.He further pointed out that the Mandi Board had already issued necessary directions to cancel the licences of all such erring arthiyas and warned them of further action under the strict Disaster Management Act, 2005. In order to ensure that farmers do not face any harassment, Bhagat further directed immediate cancellation of all farmers’ passes issued to those arthiyas threatening to go on strike and re-issuance of an equivalent number of passes to other arhtiyas operating in the same mandi. Bhagat also said the crop arrivals were slow and in some mandis, there was no wheat arrival. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-3-100-tonnes-wheat-procured-in-punjab-on-day-1-71581
15-04-2020||Muktsar||Coronavirus: Muktsar SDM home quarantined, sample sent for testing||Muktsar Sub-divisional Magistrate Veerpal Kaur was tested for coronavirus after she had flu-like symptoms.She was among eight people tested for the contagion, officials said.Results of the test are still awaited. She has been home quarantined, officials said.    Meanwhile, five people who had reportedly came in contact with the coronavirus tested negative on Tuesday.Muktsar has reported one coronavirus case so far.Punjab meanwhile has 186 cases, with 13 recorded deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-muktsar-sdm-home-quarantined-sample-sent-for-testing-71575
15-04-2020||New Delhi||SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Pathankot Covid-hotspot districts in Punjab||SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Pathankot in Punjab have been identified as Covid-19 hotspot districts by Union Health Ministry.These are among 170 districts declared as COVID-19 hotspots. As many as 207 districts have been declared as non-hotspots, officials said on Wednesday, reiterating that there has been no community transmission of the disease in the country so far.In Haryana, four districts have been named as Covid hotspots. These are Nuh, Gurugram, Palwal and Faridabad.In Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar, Bandipora, Baramulla, Jammu, Udhampur and Kupwara have been identified as hotspot districts.Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said states have been asked to classify districts witnessing higher number of cases as hotspots, districts where some cases have been found as non-hotspots, and those which have reported no cases as green zones.Hotspots are those districts which are reporting more number of cases or where the rate of growth of COVID-19 cases is high, Agarwal said, adding a detailed direction has been issued to states stating consolidated efforts are required to utilise this period of lockdown to curb the spread of the virus."As per data till yesterday, 170 districts have been classified as hotspot districts. Non-hotspot districts where cases have been reported are 207 in number," Agarwal said. "Cluster containment plan needs to be implemented in those 207 non-hotspots as they can develop as potential hotspots," the official said. Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sas-nagar-sbs-nagar-jalandhar-pathankot-covid-hotspot-districts-in-punjab-71572
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two more COVID-19 cases surface in Punjab; total count 186||The number of coronavirus cases rose to 186 in Punjab on Wednesday with two more people testing positive for the infection.So far, the infection has claimed 13 lives in the state.The fresh cases were reported from Patiala and Sangrur, a medical bulletin said.Mohali is the worst-hit district in the state with 56 cases followed by Jalandhar from where 25 cases have been reported till date. The state government had started rapid testing, a kind of blood test that gives quick results, in both districts on Tuesday.According to the bulletin, 22 cases has been reported from Pathankot; 19 in Nawanshahr, 11 each in Ludhiana, Mansa and Amritsar; seven in Hoshiarpur; four in Moga; three each in Rupnagar, Patiala, Sangrur and Faridkot; two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala and Barnala; and one each in Muktsar and Gurdaspur. One patient is critical and is on ventilator support while 27 people have been discharged after treatment.A total of 5,193 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which 4,404 tested negative for the infection while reports of 603 are still awaited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-more-covid-19-cases-surface-in-punjab-total-count-186-71563
15-04-2020||Karam Prakash||Social worker tests coronavirus positive; 500 at risk of infection||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 15Around 500 people are on the risk of infection with Coronavirus after a 50-year-old social worker tested positive for the COVID-19, on Tuesday night. Reason: the said worker had been distributing ration at various places of the city — during the lockdown— before he fell sick.The health department has already advised around 479 people to stay in home-isolation, while high-risk contacts are continuously being tested for the deadly virus. The test results thereof (high-risk contacts) are awaited. The health department, now, faces a herculean task to identify the source of infection which still remains untraceable.Notably, a positive patient can transmit virus to around 406 people in 30 days, as per the ICMR.The health department informed that at least 480 people came into contact with the patient, however, the majority of them are said to be of low-risk contacts.In the wake of missing source, the threat of the community transmission looms large, say the experts.After the social worker tested positive, the health department has sealed the area — near the residence of the positive patient — and conducted a survey. His close contacts, who distributed ration and other essential items as a team with him, were being traced, and samples had been taken.Patiala SDM Charanjeet Singh, who went to the patient’s residence, on Wednesday, to seal the area, said that he (patient) was involved in distributing the food in some areas of the city. He said, “Until now, the source of infection has not been traced, however, it appears that he was exposed to the virus while distributing ration.”Meanwhile, the district health department said they were working hard to trace the source of infection.It is pertinent to mention that the health department has not been able to trace the source of infection of the Gardner, who was tested positive. The said gardener used to work at the residence of top bureaucrats — including Deputy Commissioner.Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra said, “Our teams are on job, including three senior medical officers and two district epidemiologists. We have already identified the high risk and low-risk contacts, and samples thereof have been taken, accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/social-worker-tests-coronavirus-positive-500-at-risk-of-infection-71561
15-04-2020||---||Punjab ties up with Ola for app to issue e-passes to farmers||Chandigarh, April 15The Punjab Government has collaborated with OLA to develop a platform to issue e-passes to the 17 lakh farmers in the state, besides regulating online the movement of trailers and other vehicles in grain markets.The app has been adopted by the Punjab Mandi Board to launch an e-pass system with the help of the Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances in view of the Covid-19 crisis, a press statement issued by the government said.The Ola app, to be downloaded the mobile phones of farmers, will also alert them of rush points in a mandi to check overcrowding. A dashboard in the app will also sends alerts on pass issuance, expiry and validation.This system enables secretaries of market committees to generate mobility passes for farmers by the Purchase Centres as well as by arhtiyas. The software generates the required number of passes automatically, based on the historical data available with the Mandi Board.All arhtiyas will be provided with one pass for each trailer of wheat. The passes for a particular day will be provided three days in advance to the arhtiyas to prevent rush. This technology is also expected to bring in transparency in the process of wheat procurement.The arhtiyas will distribute these passes to farmers to enable them to come to the purchase centre concerned on the designated date. The farmer will also receive an SMS with pass number, and a link to download the app.Vishwajit Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary, Development, said apart from the e-pass system, an m-pass system had also been developed in the ePMB mobile application. A Unicode SMS is sent to every arhtiya at the time of pass issuance. The arhtiya can allocate the passes to tractor-trailer drivers through the in-built m-pass system. The drivers can then download the pass using the SMS received on his number.The online management will help the Mandi Board maintain law and order as well as observe health guidelines.Ravi Bhagat, Secretary Punjab Mandi Board and Special Secretary, Governance Reforms, said with features such as geo-tagging, geo-hashing, alerts and emergency support, this technology would help manage mandi operations well.Pranay Jivrajka, co-founder of Ola, said, “By helping the government connect with farmers using our technology platform, we are able to put our capabilities to the best use when the country requires innovation to quickly come out of this crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ties-up-with-ola-for-app-to-issue-e-passes-to-farmers-71547
15-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus travel curbs: NRIs stuck in Punjab long to return home, say 'waiting for solution'||On a visit to connect with family and friends in Punjab, NRIs settled in the US, UK, Canada and Europe are finding it difficult to cope with the unplanned stay necessitated due to coronavirus travel restrictions worldwide.Thousands of Non-Resident Indians usually visit Punjab during winters London-based NRI Satnam Singh Birring, who came to meet his parents in Jalandhar on January 23, was all set to return on March 25 but a spike in coronavirus cases and restrictions on travel put a brake on his plans.“My wife was also planning to come to India on March 16 as we had plans to go back together. Neither could she come, nor was I able to go back to London. I even approached the British High Commission in India and the Indian High Commission in the UK for a ticket in the chartered flights arranged by the UK government but all the tickets were sold out within 15-minutes! I am eagerly waiting for some solution”, he said.US-based Avtar Singh Dhillon, who came on a 28- day leave to attend a wedding in Punjab in February, is among those stuck.“My family is stuck in Tracey city in California while I am staying with my parents. Thankfully, I didn't come on a return ticket as my father was unwell but I had plans to go back by April end but now I am stuck here. Even my family is living under lockdown in the US due to COVID-19 cases”, he added.US-based Sukhvir Singh said that his mother had travelled to San Francisco to attend his wedding and was planning to go back to India in April but was stuck now.“My brother back home in Jalandhar is eagerly awaiting my mother's return”, he said through email.NRI from Greece Ram Lubhaya, who is in Jalandhar to meet his family, said, “I came to India on January 28 and my return flight was on March 21 but by that time the Indian government imposed a ban on international flights"."The Greece government has announced some measures to assist its workforce and I could not even avail that,” he said.Another Jalandhar-based family, Rakesh Mahi, the father of Punjabi singer Ginni Mahi has been stuck in Rome since March 4. Mahi said that he was accompanying his daughter on a musical tour in Europe when the situation turned bad.“We would have landed in India by April 13 but all plans were changed due to COVID-19 pandemic...We are eagerly waiting for the situation to improve”, he shared through email.However, some NRIs were lucky enough to reach their destination well on time. Simran Kaur, who came from Canada to meet her parents in Hoshiarpur district in February, returned to Vancouver on March 15, the time when the Canadian government announced a ban on international travel.     “I am glad, I reached well on time and was able to resume my work too”, she quipped.Countries across the world including India have imposed travel restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-travel-curbs-nris-stuck-in-punjab-long-to-return-home-say-waiting-for-solution-71542
15-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab education dept converts meritorious schools into coronavirus isolation centres||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 15Apart from providing all government schools of the state to set up isolation centres, the Punjab education department has also put 10 meritorious schools at the disposal of deputy commissioners of all districts for use as Covid Care Isolation Centres.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements at Meritorious School, at Ghabdan in Sangrur.Singla said 8,346 beds are available in hostels of these residential meritorious schools and hundreds of classrooms could also be used by the medical staff for various other purposes.“To help authorities in containing Covid-19, the education department has given meritorious schools also, while earlier we had given all our other schools. Meritorious schools are situated in Amritsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali, Sangrur and Hoshiarpur districts,”  Singla said at Ghabdan after reviewing the arrangements.Singla, who also has the charge of PWD, said PWD officials had also told to cooperate with the local administration for any improvement, required to set up isolation or quarantine centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-education-dept-converts%C2%A0meritorious-schools-into%C2%A0coronavirus-isolation-centres-71536
15-04-2020||---||Despite govt order to ramp up coronavirus testing in Punjab, some districts lag far behind||Karam PrakashTribune News ServicePatiala, April 15Even two weeks after the state government announced to ramp up corona-testing in the state, nine of 22 districts couldn’t even touch the mark of 100. Though overall testing in the state has already increased, however, some district seems to be lagging far behind.As per the testing figures of the state health department, the worst districts, in the number of testing, are Ferozepur, Fazilka and Tarn Tarn.Worryingly, Ferozepur has tested only 11 people for the COVID-19 while Taran Tarn tested just 17.In Fazilka district, only 29 were tested for the COVID-19. Even Ropar, where two people have tested positive while one person has died due to the COVID-19, has tested 57 people so far.Moga has tested 41 people while Barnala tested 74 people until Monday. Muktsar tested 53 while Fatehgarh Sahib tested 95 people for the Coronavirus. Until Monday evening, as many as 4,480 people were tested in the state. Health experts say that low testing results in missing out COVID-19 positive persons, at the initial stage, and such patients stand chances of spreading the virus to others.On asking about the low testing, Ferozepur Civil Surgeon Dr, Navdeep Singh, said that they had tested all the suspected patients so far. He claimed that they were doing the best of their efforts to stem the spread of the virus. He said: “If we don’t have suspected cases, naturally the number will be less.”Mohali tops the state in testingMeanwhile, the Mohali district having got the highest cases of COVID-19 in the state has tested as many as 840 cases so far. In fact, of 22 districts. In Mohali, the health department even tested 11 dead bodies—who had, reportedly, died of other reasons—for the COVID-19, as a precautionary measure. The department claimed that every contact of the positive patient was tested for the Coronavirus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-govt-order-to-ramp-up-coronavirus-testing-in-punjab-some-districts-lag-far-behind-71505
15-04-2020||---||3-member panel meets Gujjars over ‘boycott’ by village residents in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 14A three-member committee, constituted by Punjab State Minority Commission Chairman Emanual Nahar, on Tuesday visited Timmowal village near here to investigate the incident of boycott of members of the Gujjar community by residents. The community members said residents were accusing them of spreading the coronavirus.The committee members included Lal Hussain, Satnam Singh Gill and Manga Singh Mahal who interacted with the village residents as well members of the Gujjar community.They informed the committee members that due to their boycott by the residents they were not even able to step out of their houses to buy grocery. Gullu Din, Roman Din and Saraj Ali said a buffalo, owned by their family, died on April 4 as they could not get medical help due to their boycott. “No doctor is ready to come to their homes even as a leg of another buffalo has been broken for the last few days,” they said.Punjab State Minority Commission member Lal Hussain said they had asked the district administration to submit its report within seven days.He said the SHO and the tehsildar concerned had been issued instructions to provide the community with essential items. As the members of the community were mainly depended on the sale of milk, the officials had been asked to ensure daily procurement of milk, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-member-panel-meets-gujjars-over-boycott-by-village-residents-in-amritsar-71429
15-04-2020||Amritsar||Donate generously for langar: SGPC||Baisakhi fair amid curfew curbsBathinda: In line with the state government’s directive of avoiding large gatherings during Covid lockdown, the SGPC and the Budha Dal, for the first time, jointly took out a procession on the second day of the Baisakhi fair at Takth Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo on Tuesday. On earlier occasions, the SGPC used take out a procession in the morning, while the Budha Dal did so in the afternoon. In Tuesday’s event, Akal Takth acting Jathedar Giani Harpeet Singh and Panj Pyaras, among othes, were present. TNSSanitary pads distributed in SirhindFatehgarh Sahib: SSP Amneet Kondal, in association with the Bharat Vikas Parishad, distributed about 2,000 sanitary pads, soaps and masks at Brahman Majra and adjoining slum areas in Sirhind on Tuesday. The Punjab IPS Officers’ Wives Association (PIPSOWA) donated sanitary pads to the district police. The SSP said the police had identified slum areas where sanitary pads and soaps would be distributed. Doctors and NGO volunteers delivered a talk on menstrual hygiene. OCOn video call, nurse briefs CaptMoga: A staff nurse, Pawandeep Kaur, posted in the emergency ward of the District Hospital in Moga, was surprised to get a video call from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who enquired from her about the well-being of the four Covid-positive patients admitted at the hospital. He also enquired about the Health Department staff working at the hospital. The Chief Minister told Pawandeep to exercise all safety measures to keep the disease at bay. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/donate-generously-for-langar-sgpc-71424
15-04-2020||Ludhiana||Post remark, Simarjit Bains’ guards to be replaced||Four gunmen posted with Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Bains were withdrawn on Tuesday after they wished to quit citing his word of favour for ‘Nihangs’ who attacked the police in Patiala.Although the security was immediately withdrawn, the Ludhiana police, as per the protocol, decided to provide other gunmen to the legislator.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said after the Patiala incident, the four gunmen had written to him and said being in Punjab Police, they felt insulted when the MLA spoke against the cops.“Nihangs attacked our counterparts in Patiala who were on curfew duty. They chopped off the hand of a cop who tried to stop them. All Punjabis showed sympathy with the injured but Bains favoured the Nihangs. Our heart and mind do not allow us to stay with him due to which we have sought withdrawal from his security,” the gunmen said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-remark-simarjit-bains-guards-to-be-replaced-71289
15-04-2020||Minna Zutshi & Manav Mander||Extensive sampling in Ludhiana’s risk zones||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 14With 11 positive cases and two deaths in Ludhiana, the district administration and health officials are closely monitoring the situation to check the spread of Covid in the district.Three positive cases have been reported in Amarpura and two in Gurre-Chowkimann, both declared as hotspots by the administration.In Gurre-Chowkimann, a 55-year-old man had tested positive for the infection on April 6. He had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi.Later, his 15-year-old nephew also tested positive. As a precautionary measure, extensive sampling of residents at these places is being carried out.In Amarpura Mohalla, 854 persons in 185 houses were surveyed till April 12, out of which one person was symptomatic and shifted to the Civil Hospital. The resident’s sample was sent for testing.In Chowkimann and Gurre villages, 823 persons in 153 houses and 1,233 persons in 295 houses, respectively, were surveyed and all were asymptomatic.“Both Amarpura and Gurre-Chowkimann are sealed and the people have been asked to home-quarantine themselves,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.Rapid response teams are visiting these areas and screening the people every day. Five persons from the hotspots are recuperating in the Civil Hospital.None of the Covid positive cases have overseas travel history, though they had travelled within the country.The 42-year-old woman from Amarpura, who had tested positive and later died, had visited Patni Top in Jammu a few weeks before she was confirmed positive.Her family, which includes two sons and a daughter, and her close relatives were isolated and all of them tested negative but later the test was repeated and one of her sons tested positive.On April 12, Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Agrawal chaired a review meeting at Bachat Bhawan in Ludhiana, which was attended by senior district administration officials.Meanwhile, one Covid patient has fully recovered and discharged from hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extensive-sampling-in-ludhianas-risk-zones-71288
15-04-2020||---||Gurdaspur sees first coronavirus case||Chandigarh, April 14  With eight new cases reported over the past 24 hours, the total number of cases has reached 184 in the state. One of the patients is critical and two are on oxygen support. Among fresh cases, four were reported from Pathankot, two SAS Nagar and one each from Gurdaspur and Jalandhar. Gurdaspur’s first Covid positive case surfaced at Bhaini Paswal village in Kahnuwan block, following which administration officials went into a huddle to put in place a mechanism to stop the spread of the disease.  Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq confirmed the development. “One person, aged 60 years, has tested positive. He was admitted to the civil hospital yesterday after showing Covid symptoms. His report came positive today. I have ordered the victim’s village and several localities in its vicinity as a containment zone.” The patient had been referred to an Amritsar hospital by doctors at Gurdaspur civil hospital yesterday. The victim had attended a cremation of one of his relatives in a Gurdaspur village. The deceased, a retired Army man, had reportedly tested positive on April 4, although his family members claim that his test result was negative. In Jalandhar a 72-year-old man from Guru Ravidass Nagar of Basti Danishmandan tested positive. He had reportedly gone to a private diagnostic centre for a check-up a few days ago. This is the 25th confirmed case of Jalandhar, yet again from the old city area. With the surfacing of two more coronavirus positive cases in Mohali district, the total count has gone up to 56. The two women who tested positive are 56-year-old from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi and 38-year-old from Mundi Kharar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-sees-first-coronavirus-case-71287
15-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||Punjab Health Department clueless on virus source in 25 cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14With a large number of unrelated cases reported in the past two weeks, the state seems to have already entered stage three (community spread) of Covid. Despite curfew, Punjab saw cases in which the source of infection couldn’t be traced on a daily basis.In terms of transmission of the disease, the World Health Organisation has defined Covid spread in four stages. The third stage is community transmission, where the source of the virus cannot be traced.Going by the media bulletins released since April 1 by the state government, 25 such cases were reported which neither had any travel history nor their source of their infection could be located. The state has been placing these cases either in category of ‘new cases’ or termed them Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patients.Last month, in Nijatam Nagar in Jalandhar district, a 72-year-old woman tested positive on March 26. District health officials claimed he had an Italian relative who visited her and she got the infection from him. However, her son categorically refuted the Health Department’s claim.After her son also tested positive on April 8, the department again made claims in the public about his Italian connection. However, the son refuted the claims again but the department never retracted the statement. The real carriers of infection were never traced.We are still between the second and third stage. The situation is under control.Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterThe biggest shock was Ludhiana’s Assistant Commissioner of Police (North), who was tested positive, but the source of his infection couldn’t be traced. He was on duty at a vegetable market for the entire last week of March where people came in large numbers.The same was the case with the gardener working at the Deputy Commissioner’s residence in Patiala who was tested positive recently. Similar cases have been reported from Pathankot, SAS Nagar and other districts.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab had not entered the third stage. “We are still between the second and third stage. The situation is completely under our control right now,” he said.(Inputs from Aparna Banerji in Jalandhar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-department-clueless-on-virus-source-in-25-cases-71286
15-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Hearing only urgent cases to slow down justice delivery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court’s decision to hear only urgent cases during the lockdown period through videoconferencing may further slowdown the dispensation of justice. But it is likely to rule out, to a great extent, the possibility of leaving the litigants dissatisfied.‘Can’t shift to virtual mode’ Urgent matters where it is imperative to keep anti-social elements behind bars can be heard through videoconferencing, but it is impossible for the courts to switch over to the virtual mode of hearing cases on a day-to-day basis.— Officer, Haryana Superior Judicial ServicesA substantial number of judicial officers believe that videoconferencing may be good enough for hearing urgent matters involving law and order issues. “Urgent matters such as cases where it is imperative to keep anti-social elements or treacherous outlaws behind bars can be heard through videoconferencing. But it is impossible for the courts to switch over to the virtual mode of hearing cases on a day-to-day basis,” says an officer belonging to Haryana Superior Judicial Services.The HC is working in a restricted mode following the Covid outbreak. It has also imposed restrictions on the functioning of subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The restrictions will remain in force till May 1.Former Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court Justice SS Sodhi believes: “Tardy justice is preferable to speedy injustice.”Delay in dealing with a case may be a cause of concern, but it is better than injustice as a wrong order passed in a hurry takes away from the litigant the hope for fair dealing.Even if the system of virtual hearing was to be extended to all other cases, the desired goal of speedy and acceptable justice may still remain elusive.A senior judicial officer belonging to Punjab Superior Judicial Services says the litigants like to be there during the course of hearing and the justice delivery mechanism is not averse to their presence, because it is essential that ‘not only must justice be done; it must also be seen to be done’.“The passing of orders through videoconferencing may leave them with an acute sense of dissatisfaction. Besides, it is virtually impossible to conduct a criminal trial through videoconferencing because of the vastness of the matter. Among other things, a witness has to be confronted with documents and judges like to gauge so many things through their expressions,” he adds.The total pending cases in Haryana are 8,92,041, while no less than 6,46,342 cases are awaiting adjudication in Punjab. Even a small Union Territory like Chandigarh has 49,268 cases pending. The solution appears to be regular hearing and not videoconferencing.“The trial court is not merely a recording machine. There are certain aspects that are required to be seen during the course of a trial. At best, the testimony of formal witness can be recorded through videoconferencing. For deposition of material witnesses, regular hearing is a pre-requisite,” a senior judicial officer asserts, adding written arguments can be submitted in civil matters, but of a specified length.National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal that the need for hearing cases is well-pronounced in the Punjab and Haryana High Court with more than 5.6 lakh pending matters. In March alone, no less than 1,07,079 cases were filed. The disposal was only 77,450 cases, indicating an addition in arrears.The situation will only worsen in the coming months with few cases being listed and fewer being decided. Post lockdown period will see a surge in filing and a corresponding reduction in disposal due to amplified pressure on the justice delivery mechanism.Some HC judges are comfortable with the idea of virtual hearing. “It is fine,” says a tech-savvy judge. But for some, traditional is the best way of hearing matters. The HC had, five years ago, booted the programme of digital courts, but with hiccups. To begin with, only urgent or new matters were taken up on screens placed before the Benches in the paperless courts.The process remained slow due to time taken in downloading the files, indicating the need for speeding up the system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hearing-only-urgent-cases-to-slow-down-justice-delivery-71285
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Exit strategy after panel report: Capt Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the state was awaiting the expert committee report which would suggest ways and means for regulated exit from the five-week lockdown.“The COVID curve may not flatten by May 3, but that does not mean that lockdown will continue. The Centre has already hinted at starting of labour-intensive industry,” he said at a videoconferencing with mediapersons.The Chief Minister said there was no option but to continue with the stringent restrictions for now. He, however, admitted that the lockdown could not continue till September, which was when experts say the curve was expected to come down in India.The relaxations would have to be staggered, in phases, and the way forward was being worked out by the task force set up for this purpose, he said. — TNS‘No plan to cut staff salaries’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exit-strategy-after-panel-report-capt-amarinder-singh-71284
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||School booked for taking fee||The Punjab Education Department has got an FIR registered against Ambrosial Public School in Zira, Ferozepur district, for charging fee and money for books during the lockdown. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said following complaints, the department wrote to the Deputy Commissioner, asking him to file an FIR.  The NOC of the school has been cancelled and the department has asked ICSE Board to cancel its affiliation too.  Sections 420, 120 B and 188 CrPC have been slapped on the authorities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/school-booked-for-taking-fee-71283
15-04-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Labour crunch may hit harvesting||Ferozepur, April 14The Centre’s assurance has failed to allay the fears of farmers, who have no idea how to go about things without labour and equipment.The district administration’s claims of making arrangements for smooth procurement of wheat too seem to have fallen flat, with a majority of the farmers saying harvesting would be delayed due to labour shortage.PAU advisory for farmersOn visiting villages, including Jhoke Harihar, Kaluwala, Tendiwala and Bhanewala, situated along the Indo-Pakistan border, it was learnt that the farmers were worried about the availability of labour.Malkit Singh, Jagsir Singh, Nirmal Singh and Gurwinder Singh, farmers from Jhoke Harihar village, said they did not think harvesting would start on time. “First, the crop was affected due to inclement weather and now we are worried about the labour. Also, we have to ensure that social distancing norms are followed while working in the fields,” said Gurwinder.“It will not be possible for the farmers to complete harvesting in the given time limit. We have to work work day in day out. But we can’t blame anyone as we understand how grim the the situation is,” said Nirmal Singh, another farmer.The situation of farmers in villages like Kaluwala, Tendiwala, Gatti Rajo ke and Basti Bhane Wali is no better.“We have to face a lot of restrictions since our land is situated across the fence,” said Darshan Singh.“Restrictions imposed by the BSF can’t be defied,” said Joginder Singh, a small farmer. Sandip Channan, DIG, BSF, said farmers whose land was across the fence were allowed to go to fields or limited hours only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labour-crunch-may-hit-harvesting-71282
15-04-2020||Ravneet Singh||Precautions in place as wheat procurement begins in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 14With new guidelines in place for market committees and arhtiyas, procurement agencies are all set to lift wheat from mandis from Wednesday. The Agricultural Marketing Board has notified 3,691 points for procurement.SAD for moratorium on farm loansSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to provide immediate relief to farmers by announcing a moratorium on all cooperative loans for six months, exempt the poor from electricity and water charges for six months and do away with paying of minimum charges for the industryCM writes to Modi for incentivesWith the harvesting and procurement season commencing on Wednesday, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reiterating his demand for incentive/bonus to farmers bringing their produce to mandis after April 30 to check overcrowding at the marketsApproximately, 135 lakh metric tonnes of the grain, amounting Rs 26,000 crore, is expected to reach the mandis and procured by agencies, including the FCI, Markfed, PUNSUP, Pungrain and Punjab State Warehousing Corporation.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Department of Agriculture, who visited the purchase centres in Rajpura today said, “The process to purchase the grain will begin on Wednesday. We have completed all preparations and issued directions to officials.”Of all, PUNSUP has set a target of procuring 29 lakh metric tonnes of wheat from its 297 exclusive mandis, 199 shared mandis, rice mills and sub-yards.Managing director, PUNSUP, Ramvir Singh said the corporation was providing masks, gloves and sanitisers to its staff for the lifting process. Meanwhile, the Agricultural Marketing Board, in its guidelines, has stated that district-level procurement committees, led by DCs, will oversee the entire process — from issuing passes to arhtiyas to movement of labour.The DCs will ensure the sold produce is lifted within 48 hours. Arhtiyas and farmers will be provided passes by the market committees, while police officials will be deputed at market yards and purchase centres to ensure social distancing.The board said village-level checkpoints would be set up to ensure farmers reached specified mandis as per valid coupons only. The arhtiyas have also been directed to avoid movement of labour in various mandis. “To contain the spread of Covid, the local police will be on guard,” the board said. The arhtiyas have been directed to provide masks and sanitisers to workers engaged by them.The guidelines include that special posters detailing Covid health advisories have to be pasted at mandi yards, storage points, shops of arhtiyas, committees and agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/precautions-in-place-as-wheat-procurement-begins-in-punjab-71281
15-04-2020||---||Upgrading health infra: Capt Amarinder Singh to parties||Chandigarh, April 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced that the state would follow complete curfew/lockdown till May 3, in line with the extension in the national lockdown, even as he assured all political parties in the state of aggressive measures, including large-scale testing, in war against the Covid-19 pandemic.Even as he appreciated the support extended by them to his government, the CM urged the parties to unitedly fight the battle rising above political considerations. He said the government would actively consider their suggestions on the current crisis.At an all-party videoconferencing meet to discuss the issue, the CM said the entire country was going through a rough patch with Punjab being no exception. The lockdown so far had helped curb the spread and the state’s count of cases was currently among the lowest in the country, he said. Pointing out that medical experts were suggesting that five weeks of lockdown could really improve the situation, he promised all-out efforts to succeed in the battle against the pandemic.The CM said all three medical colleges were now equipped to conduct the tests with a capacity of 1,200 a day. This was in addition to the tests being conducted by PGI Chandigarh, while the Ludhiana DMC and CMC were awaiting approval to commence testing. Capt Amarinder also assured leaders that random testingwould be expanded to all districts.Curfew in force till may 3‘Act against erring hospitals’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/upgrading-health-infra-capt-amarinder-singh-to-parties-71280
15-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Rapid coronavirus testing begins in Mohali, Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 14Taking its battle against Covid-19 to the next level, the Punjab Government on Tuesday launched rapid testing facility from two districts of the state with an aim to eventually cover all 17 hotspots in a phased manner.840 tests in SAS NagarMohali district, which has the highest cases of Covid-19 in the state, has tested as many as 840 persons so far. The Health Department has even tested 11 deceased, who had reportedly died of other reasons, for the virus, as a precautionary measure. The department said every contact of the positive patient was tested for Covid in the district.The facility was launched by the state’s Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu at Subdivisional Hospital, Dera Bassi.ACS Vini Mahajan said the state government had received 1,000 rapid testing kits today from the ICMR. SAS Nagar (Mohali) and Jalandhar have been given 500 kits each to start the testing process, she said, adding the facility was likely to be extended to other districts, according to the situation of suspected cases and availability of rapid testing kits.The testing would initially be done for all patients attending flu corners of government health facilities, who have symptoms for more than seven days. The test is done with a single prick to take a blood sample and the result is available in 15 minutes.Instructions have been given to districts to submit daily reports of the tests conducted along with the results. A portal has been created by the Department of Health — www.covid-19punjab.in —for gathering real-time information on testing and recording patients’ profile.The state government has ordered 10 lakh such kits from the ICMR, with enquiries raised for another 10,000 in the open market.However , even two weeks after the state government announced to ramp up testing, nine of the 22 districts couldn’t even touch the mark of 100. Though the overall testing in the state has increased, some districts seem to be lagging.The worst districts in testing are Ferozepur, Fazilka and Tarn Tarn. Worryingly, Ferozepur has tested only 11 persons for Covid-19 while Taran Tarn has tested just 17. Ferozepur Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh said they had tested all suspected patients so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rapid-coronavirus-testing-begins-in-mohali-jalandhar-71279
15-04-2020||---||Look for innovative solutions, urges Capt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to reconsider its directive asking the industry to continue paying full wages to workers during the lockdown as this could push them to bankruptcy.He has urged the Centre to look for innovative solutions to “protect the interests of the worker without causing irreparable damage to the industry/commercial establishments.” The CM has written to the PM, seeking reconsideration of the order issued by the MHA.The order reads: “...that all employers, be it in the industry or in shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages to their workers without any deduction for the period their establishment is under closure during the lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/look-for-innovative-solutions-urges-capt-71269
15-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Net speed puts brakes on online classes in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 14Compelled to sit at home, the slow speed of Internet has been creating problems for students in rural areas of Punjab. They are neither able to fully attend their online classes nor complete their homework.Vijay Inder Singla, Education MinisterI have spoken to a telecom companyA majority of the students in rural areas do not have computers. And, the availability of just a single smartphone with most families having more than one child is also creating hurdles in online schooling.“The Internet speed is very slow in our village. To complete the daily assignments given by several teachers, it takes 3-4 hours, while at school such work took only an hour,” said Gursimran Kaur, a Class IX student from Kapial village in the district.Students have demanded a special Wi-Fi Internet service in their villages as the mobile data is not enough for taking online classes.“The mobile data is not enough to open YouTube and many times I have to wait for long to even check content on Google. Since we are still not sure about how long the lockdown will continue, the Punjab Government should look into our problems to save our time,” said Gurinder Singh, a Class X student from Naraingarh village.Besides, parents complain the homework of just one child consumes a major portion of the daily data limit, and there is none left for the second child to complete his work.“When the government had announced online classes, we welcomed the decision. But the poor Internet service is coming in the way. The government should immediately launch Wi-Fi services in all villages,” said Narinder Singh, a farmer from Kahngarh village.Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said: “I have spoken to a telecom company and will also approach other companies to provide adequate Internet facility to children.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/net-speed-puts-brakes-on-online-classes-in-punjab-71203
