15-08-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab assembly monsoon session in last week of August||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 15Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government is expected to call the monsoon session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha in the last week of this month, amid strict adherence to COVID 19 norms.The issue is being tabled in the Cabinet meeting called on August 17, before the proposal is sent to the Punjab Governor to call the session.Sources in the government said the parliamentary affairs department in a communication to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker has sought calling of the session before September 6, as it was mandatory to call session within six months of previous session.Accordingly, the Vidhan Sabha session has tied up with health authorities for sitting arrangements of the MLAs during the session that is likely to be short as the government would avoid longer session to avoid the opposition benches from taking in the government on important issues like deaths due to spurious liquor.A senior government functionary said additional seats would have to put up to adjust the legislators keeping in mind social distancing norms.
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Record 40 fatalities push COVID-19 death toll in Punjab to 771||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab reached 771 on Saturday with a record 40 fatalities, while 1,033 new cases took the infection tally to 30,041, according to a medical bulletin.Twelve deaths were reported from Ludhiana, five from Tarn Taran, three each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala and Sangrur, two each from Amritsar, Kapurthala, Fazilka, Jalandhar, Moga and Mohali, and one each from Faridkot and Pathankot, the bulletin said.Among the 1,033 fresh cases, 202 were detected in Patiala, 150 in Ludhiana, 86 in Mohali, 81 in Gurdaspur, 72 in Amritsar, 56 in Barnala, 53 in Sangrur, 46 in Jalandhar and 45 in Hoshiarpur.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases for the past few days.A total of 535 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection on Saturday, taking the number of cured persons in the state to 18,863.There are 10,407 active cases in the state at present, according to the bulletin.Forty patients are critical and are on ventilator support, while 212 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.So far, a total of 7,59,990 samples have been taken for testing in the state, it said. — PTI
15-08-2020|| Mohali||Mohali reports two more coronavirus fatalities, 52 new cases||Mohali reported two more deaths from coronavirus and 52 new cases on Saturday---developments that come amid rising coronavirus cases in the tricity area.A 45-year-old woman from Kurali died in Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. She was diabetic, had hypertension, and also had severe depression, officials said.Saturday’s second fatality was a 35-year-old man from Phase 11 who was admitted to Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. Officials said he had tuberculosis.Mohali’s new cases included two from Dhakoli, three Kharar, four cases each from Nayagaon and Sector 70, five from Dera Bassi and six from Zirakpur. The district’s infection tally now stands at 1,741. More than half---807---- of the district’s cases are still active.The district’s death toll now stands at 33.Tricity’s case tally stood at 176 on Saturday---Chandigarh reported 81 new cases and Panchkula reported 43, apart from Mohali’s 52.
15-08-2020||---||Cong MPs Bajwa, Dullo seek independent probe into sand mafia operation in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 15Congress Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh dullo have welcomed the directives of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, ordering a preliminary inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the existence of the illegal checkpoints (nakas), near mining sites in Ropar district. They said it has been made abundantly clear that the State Department of Mines & Geology and the State Home Department "have failed in their responsibility in curbing illegal mining and the sand mafia in Punjab".On February 19, 2020, the Government of Punjab had informed the High Court that these ‘nakas’ or check-points do not exist in Ropar. An independent report submitted on August 11 by a judicial officer from the District Legal Services Authority, Ropar, disputed the submission by the Punjab Government, by proving that these nakas, in fact, do exist. “The report submitted by the DLSA and the actions taken by the Honourable Punjab & Haryana High Court reinforces the statements made by Shamsher Singh Dullo and I, regarding the activities of the sand mafia in Punjab,” Bajwa said.They have requested the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to not confine the preliminary inquiry by the CBI to just Ropar district, but to take suo motu cognisance and expand the ambit of the investigation to the whole state.To prevent further damage to the environment and erosion of public trust with the institutions that govern the State, an independent and fair inquiry must be ordered into the operations of the sand mafia in Punjab, the duo said.“Furthermore, the National Green Tribunal on July 10 had ordered the Punjab State Pollution Control Board to recover Rs 632 crore from three illegal mining sites in Ropar. Can the Chief Minister shed some light on the recovery proceedings against the contractors operating on those sites? The recovery of these funds would go a long way in helping the exchequer, since the Government is trying to save every penny and shilling,” the duo said.“The actions of the sand mafia not only cause an economic loss to the exchequer but also have massive negative consequences for the environment. In September 2019 for example, over 4,000 hectares of crops in six districts of Punjab was destroyed due to the flooding of the Sutlej river. Ropar, was the worst affected of all the districts, with nearly 1,715 hectares were completely destroyed. Illegal sand mining is one of the chief causes of flooding in the district. As long as illegal sand mining continues unabated in the State, our farmers and law abiding civilians are the ones who face the consequences,” they added.
15-08-2020||---||Will not rest till Punjab’s economy is back on track: Amarinder||Mohali, August 15Vowing not to rest till he had put the state’s economy back on the track of growth, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a slew of welfare measures for the people, including facilitation of another six lakh jobs for youth over the next two years, of which one lakh will be in the government sector, a press release by the state government said.In his Independence Day address, the Chief Minister announced that 50,000 government jobs will be provided to the youth in the financial year 2021 and another 50,000 in the financial year 2022. He also announced a virtual mega job mela next month with the target of placement of 50,000 youth in the private sector.He pointed out that his government had already helped 13.60 lakh youth get gainful employment/self-employment under its flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ scheme.Also read: Capt Amarinder calls for readiness to combat border threat from Pakistan, China on Independence DayPunjab CM Amarinder virtually inaugurates 2 major projects for Mohali on Independence DayWhile reiterating his government’s commitment to incentives for the industry to attract more investment to the state, he said Rs 63,000 crore investment had already been realised on the ground with the potential of two lakh jobs in the state.Over the next few months, the government would also give debt relief to the tune of Rs 520 crore to landless farmers and workers, said the Chief Minister, pointing out that Rs 4,700 crore had already been disbursed to 5.62 lakh farmers under the debt waiver scheme of the government.He also announced that his government will soon enact a new land leasing law, to secure land ownership of the farmers and the rights of tenants on agriculture land.Captain Amarinder further said that with the launch soon of the Smart Ration Card scheme, as many as 1.41 crore beneficiaries would become eligible to get rations from fair price shops.To further boost the infrastructure of the state, the Chief Minister announced the construction of 1,300-km of state and national highways with an investment of over Rs 12,000 crore in the next two years.While 28,830 km of rural links roads had already been repaired over the last three years, the next two years will see the repair of another 6,162 km of link roads with an investment of Rs 834 crore, he said, adding that patchwork of an additional 17,000 km of link roads will also be undertaken at a cost of Rs 82 crores.Underlining the need to take Punjab back to its lost glory in sports, the Chief Minister announced the construction of 750 rural sports stadiums across the state in the next two years.He also announced Rs 2,500 crore investment, over the next two years, in Phase II of the Smart Village Campaign (SVC), for which Phase I covering 19,132 rural works has already been completed at a cost of Rs 835 crores.“All rural households of the state will have piped potable drinking water connections in the next two years,” he added.Another Rs 1,046 crore will be spent under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UIEP) in the next two years while efforts will be made to make the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna universal, with coverage of all rural and urban households in the state for health insurance of Rs 5 lakh each, Captain Amarinder said.“Though work on the Mata Tripata Mahila Yojana and the Mata Kasturba Manila Yojna, aimed at social and economic empowerment of women, had been delayed due to COVID-19, the schemes will soon be back on track,” said the Chief Minister, adding that his government would also soon finalise a scheme for economic empowerment for persons with disabilities.Despite the economic slowdown resulting from the pandemic, which led to 50 per cent decline in revenue collection in the first quarter of the current year, the state government had successfully initiated several steps to combat the crisis, said the Chief Minister.Citing the importance of online education, Captain Amarinder said 1.74 lakh Class XII students of government schools were being given smartphones this year to facilitate their education.In addition to tax relief and concessions for the industry, several waivers and deferments of fees, taxes and loans payable by the individuals had also been announced, he said. Timely pensions and cash assistance had also been ensured for the poor and needy, said the Chief Minister.Expressing the confidence that Punjab would successfully overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, Captain Amarinder appealed to the people to continue to extend their wholehearted cooperation to his government to fight the crisis.He urged them to take special care of the elderly, while ensuring strict adherence to wearing of masks and other protocols, including avoidance of large gatherings and frequent washing of hands. Get yourselves tested the moment you see any symptoms, he appealed to the people, adding that early testing was the first step towards defeating the disease and winning the war.Highlights of the Chief Minister's announcements
15-08-2020||---||Capt Amarinder calls for readiness to combat border threat from Pakistan, China on Independence Day||Mohali, August 15Warning of continued threat from both Pakistan and China, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said Punjab would always be at the forefront of fighting the enemy at the borders.With tensions at the borders continuing, India had to be prepared to deal with any eventuality, said the Chief Minister in his Independence Day address, after hoisting the tricolour here to mark the historic occasion.“While Pakistan continues to resort to firing every day, China, on the other hand, talks about friendship but remains a danger to our nation,” said the Chie Minister, recalling the recent barbaric attack on the Indian soldiers by the Chinese forces. India had always given Pakistan a befitting response, which was the only way to deal with them, he said, adding that China, too, needed to be handled with the same iron hand.Also read: Punjab CM Amarinder virtually inaugurates 2 major projects for Mohali on Independence DayWill not rest till Punjab’s economy back on track: Punjab CM Recalling the contributions of the millions of Indians to the freedom struggle, the Chief Minister said: “Punjabis had always been at the forefront of every battle. The cellular jail in Kaala Paani (Andaman Islands) has the names of tens of hundreds of Punjabis etched in immortality. Even though the Independence Day celebrations this year were low-key due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this was the time to remember the sacrifices of all those who had made freedom possible for us. It was also the time to salute the defence forces guarding the nation’s borders against the enemy.”Paying his tributes to Punjab’s freedom fighters, Captain Amarinder reiterated his government’s commitment to extend all benefits of freedom fighters to their next generations (grandchildren).At the same time, Captain Amarinder saluted the health workers and paramedics who were continuously fighting the invisible COVID-19, along with the NGOs and religious organisations that have worked tirelessly to provide free food and medicine during the period of lockdown. He also acknowledged the great work done by farmers, who had produced the food that fed the nation during the lockdown period and government officials who were serving the people in these difficult times.The Chief Minister recognised the people of Punjab for their cooperation in observing precautions that were helping in containing the pandemic, the students who had marvellously adapted to the online teaching methodology, as well as the teachers who were working day and night to create online content to ensure that the studies of their students did not suffer.He also lauded the industrialists who had shown remarkable resilience in recovering from the extreme slowdown caused by the pandemic and the industrial labour which had placed its faith in the state of Punjab and returned to work with the same dedication as before after the initial panic which forced them to leave for their home towns through the trains arranged by the Punjab government.
15-08-2020||Mohali||Punjab CM Amarinder virtually inaugurates 2 major projects for Mohali on Independence Day||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, through virtual inauguration, has announced two major projects in Mohali, which includes a 66KV sub-station and construction of Punjab Biotechnology Incubator building.  The announcements were made on Saturday while speaking at the state-level Independence Day programme here. The announcements were made by the Chief Minister while speaking at the state-level Independence Day programme here.The 66KV Sub-station 1 will be set up at Sector 82 in IT City Mohali-2, while the Punjab Biotechnology Incubator building will come up is at a cost of Rs 31 crore in Knowledge City, Sector 81, said the Chief Minister.The construction of the Incubator has recently started by PWD (B&R). The basement work is in progress. The Chief Minister made a special announcement for the people who have performed exceptional service during the pandemic, and added that awards will be bestowed on these men and women by his government on January 26, 2021.  The Mohali district personalities, who were present at the function, were mentioned by the Chief Minister as exemplifying the dedication required to be shown by a Government servant in these difficult times. Dr. Manjeet Singh, Civil Surgeon Mohali, who led from the front and went personally to high exposure zones /containment zones despite battling leukaemia, and Dr. Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist, who had to move her one-year-old child back to her parental home to ensure safety as she worked day and night, going to the field, for extensive contact tracing, testing, and taking preventive measures. On the occasion, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, along with Mohali DC, presented to the Chief Minister a framed preamble of the Constitution on behalf of the people of the district.
15-08-2020||Amritsar||Hardliners to observe August 15 as ‘black day’||The hardline Sikh groups such as Dal Khalsa, SAD (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal have decided to observe August 15 as ‘black day’ and stage a protest across the state.Kanwar Pal Singh, spokesperson of the Dal Khalsa said they would stage protests on Independence Day against atrocities, political subjugation, agri ordinances and ‘denial of rights’ to the people of Punjab in the last seven decades.He said the indiscriminate use of black laws like UAPA on Sikh activists and anti-CAA protesters had raised alarm bells among the minorities, who are already at the receiving end of the oppressor state.He claimed that SGPC members Sukhdev Singh Bhaur, Karnail Singh Panjoli, and activists of the Rashtriya Muslim Morcha, Bhaujan Kranti Morcha, Sikh Youth Federation Bhindrawale and Akal Federation would also participate in the demonstration.He said the activists would hold a two-hour demonstration at 20 district headquarters. He said the flagrant manner in which desecration and vandalism of Guru Granth Sahib was taking place unabatedly had made Sikhs angry.He further said Sikhs and Kashmiris were not alone in this crisis of identity in India. All the minorities, including Dalits and Muslims, are also suffering. — TNS
15-08-2020||---||Ex-AAP Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh booked||Amritsar, August 14The local police have booked former AAP MLA from Delhi, Jarnail Singh, for alleged blasphemous social media post against Hindu community.A case was registered under Sections 295-A of the IPC and 67 of the IT Act following a complaint by Rani Ka Bagh resident Gaurav Sharma.He sparked a row after posting blasphemous and disrespectful comments against Hindu gods. He had, however, claimed that the comments were accidentally posted by his son during his online class. The party has suspended him from primary membership.Gaurav Sharma, the complainant in the case, registered with the Cantonment police here said the post had hurt sentiments of the Hindu community and was not only detrimental for the brotherhood of Hindu and Sikhs but would also deteriorate the peaceful atmosphere of the country.Sharma, an automobile spare parts exporter and member of the Mata Lal Devi Sewa Manch, said being a responsible person and former MLA, Jarnail Singh should not have indulged in such act which could hurt the peaceful atmosphere in the country. He said therefore we decided to lodge a complaint against him.
15-08-2020||---||High Court orders CBI probe into ‘illegal’ checkpoints near mining sites in Ropar||Chandigarh, August 14Taking on record a report establishing the existence and operation of illegal and unauthorised checkpoints near some mining sites in Ropar, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered a preliminary inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).‘Officials failed to discharge duty’In view of the findings in the report, we are inclined to initiate action against the officials, who have failed to discharge their obligations under the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957. — High Court BenchThe Bench also directed the initiation of action in accordance with the process of law on the basis of the preliminary inquiry’s outcome. “The outcome/action taken be apprised to this court on the next date of hearing,” the Bench added. The direction comes less than six months after the state of Punjab denied the existence of illegal checkpoints or barriers.“In view of the findings in the report, we are inclined to initiate action against the officials concerned, who have failed to discharge their obligations under the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957, and failed to preserve the supremacy and rule of law,” the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma asserted.The direction came after the Bench took into consideration the “established exceptional circumstance”, the stand of the state and its authorities, and the dimension of the lawlessness involved”.Referring to the report, the Bench said it established the existence and operation of the illegal and unauthorised checkpoints by private persons without any authority of law at various locations “with an instance where such illegal checkpoint is even nearby a police post”.Fixing the case for September first week, the Bench said it had no reason to doubt the report, supported by photographs and video clips filed by the Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Ropar.In his report, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Ropar, Harsimranjit Singh, had said that he interacted with local residents, passers-by and truck drivers without disclosing his identity. They unanimously confirmed that no truck carrying sand and gravel was allowed to cross the points without paying royalty.The judicial officer was asked to step in on a previous date of hearing after the state counsel’s claim regarding the absence of illegal checkpoints and barriers near the mining sites was “vehemently controverted” by counsel Mansur Ali on behalf of petitioner Bachittar Singh.
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Will lead mass stir if free power stopped: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today warned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh against the withdrawal of free power facility to farmers, introduced in 1997 by the Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD-BJP government.“If you take a single step towards discontinuing free power to farmers, you must prepare yourself and your government to face an unprecedented mass movement by the SAD for safeguarding the interests of the already beleaguered peasantry. We will never allow free power to be stopped,” Sukhbir said.Meanwhile, the party also slammed the government for deciding to abolish 40,000 posts in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. — TNS
15-08-2020||---||Beware of swindlers selling free smartphones: Minister||Chandigarh, August 14State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today cautioned people not to fall prey to online swindlers, who were promising free smartphones under the ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’.Taking strong exception to the messages being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media platforms, Singla said the scheme was solely for Class X students studying in government schools.He warned miscreants of dire consequences under the cyber crime prevention laws for indulging in this kind of “mischievous online fraud”. Singla asked people of the state not to follow any messages or click on any URL message being circulated via instant messaging services, such as, WhatsApp and SMS, which ask users to register themselves first to get free smartphones under the government scheme.
15-08-2020||---||Only symbolic I-Day celebrations on Attari-Wagah border||Amritsar, August 14No exchange of sweets this yearBorder Security Force (BSF) and Pakistan Rangers personnel did not exchange sweets and greetings on the occasion of Pakistan’s Independence Day on Friday. “As per Covid-19 guidelines, there was no plan to offer or accept sweets. This time, the traditional parade and hoisting of the flag will be held, but the occasion will be devoid of visitors,” a BSF official said.Due to the Covid-19 threat, the Independence Day celebrations on the Attari-Wagah border will remain a subdued affair this year. The decade-long tradition of holding a candlelight march up to the Attari-Wagah border has now been restricted. Peaceniks will carry out a symbolic march at the Integrated Checkpost (ICP) gate on the August 14-15 midnight.Last year, the Aaghaz-e-Dosti Yatra travelled from Delhi to Attari with 80 members from across India and finally joined around 100 people for a vigil at the border. Ramesh Yadav, president, Folklore Research Academy, said the vigil would be symbolic this time. “Pakistan peaceniks have been celebrating their Independence Day at SAFMA office in Lahore. We conducted a joint online session through video-conferencing and exchanged opinions,” he said.The peace activists paid tributes to 10 lakh people who lost lives on either side due to communal violence as a fallout of the Partition in 1947, and others who left their property and relatives behind. They resolved that the governments on both sides needed to start a comprehensive dialogue to bring their diplomatic, political and security agencies together to resolve the bilateral differences.
15-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Judiciary disposes of over 1L cases since virus outbreak||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14Despite the initial hiccups, the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh managed to dispose of, on an average, around 850 cases daily since the courts went into restricted functioning in March last week following the Covid outbreak.Available information suggests 2,69,069 cases were filed from March 24 to August 10 in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Of these, as many as 1,01,801 cases were disposed of.The High Court also disposed of, on an average, around 100 cases daily through video-conferencing during the period. No less than 35,257 cases were filed in the High Court, of which 11,484 cases were disposed of.In Punjab, 1,22,040 cases were filed in the district courts during the period, while 49,245 cases were disposed of. In Haryana, 1,07,424 cases were filed, while the disposal stood at 39,661 cases.In the UT district courts, 1,411 of the 4,348 cases filed were disposed of. “The number of cases filed and disposed of during the period is amongst the highest in the country,” a senior High Court official asserted. The numbers are significant, considering the fact that the High Court was hearing just about 10 cases a day through video-conferencing even after a lapse of about 50 days from the time it imposed restrictions on its functioning following the outbreak. Even till the first week of May, the High Court was hearing just about 100 cases a day, virtually turning it into a “denial of justice” phase.Over a period of time, the High Court restructured and re-organised the entire system, with more than 30 judges holding virtual courts daily. As of now, four Division Benches and about 29 single Benches are functioning on a rotation basis, taking the total number of cases being listed for hearing daily to about 1,000.This despite the fact that Covid has hit the judiciary hard during the past few days. Latest information suggests that two more High Court officials, one in the communication cell and another in the accounts branch, tested positive. The accounts branch has, as such, been closed for three days. As many as 12 officials have tested positive in the Faridkot District Courts and nine in Pathankot District Courts.More than 70 officers and staff members have been quarantined across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh since July 13. Prior to this, more than 500 judicial officers, their families and staff in the two states and Chandigarh were quarantined. The judicial officers who have tested positive include a district and sessions judge. Three additional district and sessions judges and judicial magistrates have also tested positive.
15-08-2020||---||Punjab releases Rs189 crore as pension for July||Chandigarh, August 14The Finance Department has released a sum of Rs 189.34 crore on account of social security pension and other financial assistance schemes to the beneficiaries for the month of July.The amount would soon be given through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme to 25.25 lakh beneficiaries, including elderly, widow and destitute women, dependent children and disabled persons.Giving the break-up, a spokesperson said Rs 127.80 crore would be disbursed among 17.05 lakh old-age beneficiaries, Rs 34.90 crore as financial assistance to 4.65 lakh widow and destitute women, Rs 11.37 crore to 1.51 lakh dependent children and Rs 15.27 crore to 2.04 lakh disabled persons.
15-08-2020||Archit Watts||Despite raids, no let-up in illicit liquor trade in Muktsar village||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 14Cops didn’t act on plaints: MajithiaChandigarh: Former SAD minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Friday claimed that complaints pertaining to the illicit liquor trade were sent to the Tarn Taran police. However, both Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and DGP Dinkar Gupta claimed otherwise. He alleged two written complaints were submitted to former Tarn Taran SSP Dhruv Dahiya regarding the illegal trade but no action was taken in this regard. tnsThe seizure of spurious liquor from Kattianwali village in the Lambi Assembly segment here continues unabated.A number of raids have been conducted in the village, with many cases having been registered against the accused under the Excise Act for allegedly preparing spurious liquor in the past.In the past week, three persons were arrested from the village and over 230 litres of liquor was seized from them. As per the police records, on August 11, a man was arrested for allegedly carrying 125 litres of hooch; on August 7, another arrest was made and 100 litres of liquor was seized; and on August 6, a man was nabbed for allegedly carrying nine bottles of illicit liquor.A senior police officer said thick vegetation along a canal was becoming a safe haven for people involved in the illegal activity. “We can’t even clean the dense wild growth as it is spread in a vast area, and requires huge funds. Some people are taking advantage of this and preparing hooch here,” said a police officer.Meanwhile, residents of some neighbouring villages said those involved in the illegal activity had a strong network, and they managed to escape from the site before the team of police reached there.Liquor contractors in the village have time and again informed the authorities concerned that they were suffering losses due to the sale of spurious liquor in the area.On June 1, the police had seized 400 litres of spurious liquor from the village. Earlier, on May 24, nearly 350 litres of spurious liquor was destroyed, and on May 20, nearly 30,000 litres was destroyed.
15-08-2020||Vishav Bharti||Freedom fighters, their kin getting meagre pension in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14In Chandigarh, amount not hiked for 12 yrsIn Chandigarh, there are just six eligible beneficiaries under the scheme. However, the UT administration pays just Rs2,500 to each of them. The pension for freedom fighters has not been increased for the past 12 years. The scheme was notified as the Chandigarh Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme, 1994.Though the Congress government had made many promises in the Assembly election manifesto, there seems to be no end to the wait of freedom fighters and their kin in Punjab for getting a hike in the meagre pension.In the state, there are 1,021 eligible beneficiaries under the Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme, but they get just Rs 7,500 monthly pension under the scheme. This pension was hiked way back in 2014, said Veerendra Kumar Meena, Principal Secretary, Freedom Fighters Department.Interestingly, in the neighbouring Haryana, the pension is Rs 30,000. Before coming to power, the Congress had made lofty promises to freedom fighters in its election manifesto. It had planned to hike the pension to Rs 15,000 three years back, but nothing was done. Even poorer states like Odisha pay more pension to their freedom fighters.Punjab had played an important role during the country’s freedom movement. Just after the Independence, the Government of India recognised 34,000 men and women from Punjab as freedom fighters. Over 2,000 laid down their lives in a long struggle for Independence. Of them, only a few survived. Now, the pension is being given to their eligible kin.
15-08-2020||Moga||‘Khalistan’ flag hoisted atop Moga mini sectt||Just a day before the Independence Day, unidentified persons hoisted a flag of ‘Khalistan’ atop the mini secretariat at the district headquarters in Moga.Preliminary investigations revealed that the flag was hoisted at 8.15 am. The youths also shot a video of the act and raised slogans.The security agencies sprung into action after the incident. Officials of intelligence agencies sent a report to the higher authorities, terming the incident a lapse on the part of security persons deployed on the secretariat premises. The SSP has marked an inquiry into the incident. District Magistrate Sandeep Hans and SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for giving information about the two youths who reportedly hoisted the flag. The Tricolour hoisted on the premises of the secretariat was also removed by the miscreants and thrown on the ground, a police official said.The police have registered a criminal case under relevant sections of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, and various other sections of the IPC. — TNS
15-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Flouting norms, Patiala doctors ‘working privately’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 14Violating government rules, some doctors at the Government Rajindra Hospital were allegedly found to be indulging in private practice. In fact, even the doctors who have been performing duties at the Covid ward were found to be practising privately at their homes.During a fact check by The Tribune, it was found that doctors of the medicine and orthopaedics departments of the hospital were practising at their residences after coming straight from Covid duties. In some cases, the doctors have openly advertised their services outside their homes while some of them disguise themselves behind different clinic names. In another instance, a senior doctor of the orthopaedics department was seen attending the patients at the spouse’s clinic.Sources said many hospital doctors were even performing surgeries at private hospitals in the city. Besides, some of the doctors were on-call consultants in many private clinics. However, the names of the doctors are not mentioned in the patient’s treatment file.A retired professor at the Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, said, “It is an open secret that government doctors indulge in private practice. Sadly, the government has failed to take action against these doctors as they are part of the wider net.”Surbhi Malik, incharge, Covid ward, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “As I have been assigned duty for the Covid ward only, I cannot comment on the issue.” Dr Harjinder Singh, Principal, GMC, said, “Private practice is strictly banned by the government. We have been issuing directions regularly to doctors to refrain from such practices. I will take action if anyone is found practising privately.”
15-08-2020||Muktsar||Ex-sarpanch booked for Rs22 lakh fraud||The police have booked a former sarpanch of Chak Motlewala village here for allegedly embezzling grants of Rs 22.65 lakh. It was only after the executive engineer of the Rural Development Department conducted an inquiry into the case for a second time that the accused was booked. The accused, Hukamjit Singh, allegedly forged some bills to embezzle the development funds during the previous SAD-BJP government.  A source in the district administration said the order to conduct an inquiry against the accused had come from the head office in Chandigarh. The role of the then panchayat secretary was also  under the scanner. — TNS
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||25 more succumb in Punjab, toll 731||Punjab today saw the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day with 1,077 more people contracting the virus while 25 persons died after getting infected with the disease.Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala continued to report maximum number of cases, with 296 being reported from the industrial town. Patiala reported 135 new cases and Jalandhar reported 134 cases. The highest death toll was reported from Ludhiana with seven casualties while Patiala and Sangrur reported four deaths each.The total number of cases in the state is 29,013 while the total deaths are now 731.In Ludhiana, those who lost their lives today included a 27-year-old from Haibowal, a 33-year-old from Shimlapuri, who was admitted at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and a 35-year-old from Khanna, who was patient of TB. — TNS
15-08-2020||Bathinda||Tiwari to be VC of Bathinda central varsity||Dr Raghavendra Tiwari will be joining as the new Vice Chancellor of the Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda. Tiwari is presently serving as the Vice Chancellor of Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya in Madhya Pradesh. He will replace Prof RK Kohli.As per a university official, the Union Human Resource Development Ministry issued a notification on Thursday after President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Dr Tiwari as the CUP Vice Chancellor. Dr Tiwari completed his MTech in applied geology from Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya and specialises in palaeontology, stratigraphy and seismology. — TNS
15-08-2020||Sangrur||Eight more cops infected in Sangrur||With eight more police officials posted in different branches testing Covid-positive, the authorities have closed all offices located in the Police Lines, Sangrur, for three days. Health department officials are conducting tests of all contacts of positive patients.Sources said till date, 150 police officials of various ranks, including SPs, DSPs and inspectors, have tested positive. Of the total number, 38 are under treatment at isolation centres while others have recovered and resumed their duties. — TNS
15-08-2020||---||Night curfew extended in Punjab cities||Chandigarh, August 14Nodal officers to assist health teamsHe announced weekend ‘Stay at home’ to avoid unnecessary movement and socialising in Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar for the next fortnightAs Covid cases continue to spike, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced extension of night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in all cities, along with a slew of other measures, to control the further spread of the pandemic.The night-time curfew will now be applicable in all cities, with exemption for industries, said the Chief Minister, while announcing sector-based division of big cities, with a nodal officer to be appointed in each to assist the health teams in contact-tracing.He also announced weekend ‘Stay at home’ to avoid unnecessary movement and socialising in Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar for the next fortnight, after which the situation will be reviewed.In another major decision, it has been decided that every marriage palace, restaurant or office, where more than 10 people gather, will appoint a Covid monitor to ensure full compliance of masks, sanitisation and social distancing, Capt Amarinder said at his weekly Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. He warned that teams would inspect such places and violators would be penalised.The directions came amid a continuing spike in Covid cases, with an average of 1,000 cases being reported in the past seven days. The maximum cases last week came from Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Mohali.
15-08-2020||---||Eight from Punjab to get I-Day awards||Chandigarh, August 14Eight persons from the state are set to get awards on the occasion of Independence Day tomorrow.Harmanjeet Singh, Deputy Commandant General, Punjab Home Guards and Civil Defence (HG & CD), would receive the President’s Medal for Distinguished Service.The Punjab Government said seven more personnel would be awarded Home Guards and Civil Defense Medal for Meritorious Services. These officials are Gurinder Pal Singh, JSO Civil Defence (CD); Anil Kumar District Commander, Home Guards (HG); Rajender Krishan District Commander; Sukhnandan Kaur Senior Assistant (HG & CD); Nirmal Singh, Platoon Commander (HG & CD); Gurcharan Singh, Chief Warden; and Rachhpal Singh, Platoon Commander (HG).
15-08-2020||Sangrur||Class X students stage protest||Irked over the Punjab School Education Board’s delay in declaring the results, students of Class X studying in open schools staged a protest in front of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla’s local residence. — TNS
15-08-2020||---||Manpreet to kickstart LED project in Bathinda today||Bathinda, August 14The city roads here are all set to be illuminated with LED lights as Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal would start the project at the local Fire Brigade chowk on Independence Day.Under this project, 23,254 LED streetlights will be set up in the city at an estimated cost of Rs 16 crore, which also includes the cost of operation and maintenance work for eight years.The LED lights would have SIM cards to provide real-time information about the functioning of lights, for which a dedicated monitoring room would also be set up. A faulty streetlight would show in the monitor room, resulting in early resolution of the problem.Pertinently, the project has been hanging fire for the past many years. Earlier, in February last year, a tender was floated but in the pre-bid, many bidders demanded a change in the tender norms. Later, it was delayed due to the model code of conduct for the General Elections.MCB Commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill said: “The LED streetlights will save 57 per cent electricity bill of the MC and will also enhance the beauty of the city”. Besides, the MC would also install pop up sprinkling system at a cost of Rs 1.25 crore in various parks of the city, Shergill added.
15-08-2020||Bathinda||Capt promoting SAD as main Oppn party: Mann||AAP MP Bhagwant Mann has accused the Capt Amarinder Singh government of promoting SAD as the main opposition party. He alleged that cases were being registered against AAP leaders for staging protests during Covid whereas SAD workers were being allowed the same.Mann alleged that no action had been taken against the Congress MLAs over their role in the illicit liquor trade in the Majha area, which led to killing of more than 100 persons.All kinds of mafias were enjoying government patronage from the past many years as both CM and Badals were hand-in-glove with each other, the MP alleged. — TNS
15-08-2020||Balwant Garg||Pupils shun non-clinical PG courses, many seats vacant in Punjab medical colleges||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 14Microbiology branch most favouredIt is first time in the last many years that medical students have shown some interest in the microbiology branchMicrobiologists are in high demand after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in the countryThe Health Department is contemplating to shift its priorities vis-à-vis microbiology research to deal with new virusesUntil recently, this branch had few takersIn most of the medical colleges in the state, students have shunned non-clinical post-graduate (MD) courses as they are not as lucrative as the clinical courses.As many as 89 of the total 124 MD seats in six non-clinical branches are still vacant in seven medical colleges in the state. In an endeavour to fill these seats, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Friday invited the candidates for the fourth round of admission to these seats.Experts in the medical education field said the response and demand for non-clinical courses, including anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, microbiology and community medicine, was coming down and this year it had slipped further.For the admission to 23 MD seats in the anatomy branch, there is not even a single candidate this time. In the biochemistry branch, 15 of the 17 seats are lying vacant presently.Similar is the situation in pharmacology, physiology and community medicine branches.It is first time in the last many years that medical students have shown some interest in the microbiology branch. Microbiologists are in high demand after the Covid-19 outbreak in the country.The Health Department is even contemplating to shift its priorities vis-à-vis microbiology research to deal with new viruses, so many students have shown interest in the microbiology branch this time. Otherwise, until recently, this branch failed to attract many students.Experts said one of the reasons for students not opting for the non-clinical branches was that there were BSc and MSc courses available in pharmacology, anatomy, physiology and biochemistry. Though pathology is also a non-clinical branch and has weightage equal to biochemistry and microbiology, but many doctors opt for MD in pathology since MSc in the subject is not available.Of the 40 seats in the pathology course in Punjab, only one seat has remained vacant.
15-08-2020||Sangrur||Government schools of Punjab being upgraded for quality education: Minister||School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said the state was upgrading government schools to provide quality education to children.He was here to inaugurate smart schools at Kalajharh and Phagguwala villages of the district.The Cabinet minister also laid the foundation stones of several developmental works at Rajpura, Masani, Phagguwala and Roopaherhi. He also visited the court complex to attend a function organised by the local Bar association.“Government Elementary Smart School, Kalajharh, has been upgraded at a cost of Rs 67 lakh while around Rs 54 lakh has been spent on Government Senior Secondary School, Phagguwala,” said Singla.He said these schools would now be equipped with modern teaching techniques, including smart classrooms, educational parks, wall paintings, CCTV cameras, etc. He said with the efforts of Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government, the Education Department had succeeded in increasing the enrolment of students up to 13 per cent.“There will be no dearth of funds for developmental works required in Sangrur. I will also ensure the quality of the projects being implemented by various government departments,” said Singla. — TNS
15-08-2020||Bathinda||BKU protests Centre’s farm ordinances||Members of the BKU Krantikari Union took out a flag march at different villages in Mansa to protest against the Union Government’s “anti-farmer” ordinances.The march was carried out at Malakpur Khiala, Khiala Kalan, Khiala Khurd, Bhupal, Ralla, Joga, Buraj Jhabbar, Ubha, Burj Hari and Tamkot villages in the district.Ughar Singh, president of the union, said, “We will observe the Independence Day as black day to express our resentment towards the Centre for introducing farm ordinances. If the ordinances and the decision to impose GST on agricultural land leased on contract for cultivation is implemented, then the farming community will be further pushed down to its lowest ebb.” — TNS
15-08-2020||Abohar||Rehab centre attacked||Over 10 armed miscreants attacked a private de-addiction centre in Hathianwali village on the Abohar-Sadulshehar road and abducted Kulwant Singh (23) of Pakki Tibbi village, Muktsar, who was under treatment there for the past three months.  Preliminary probe indicated that the miscreants had also planned to kill a patient, but he managed to escape. The miscreants vandalised the centre and fired shots, injuring four persons. They took away Rs 10,000 and important documents.  A FIR has been registered against Gagandeep Singh, Robin Singh and Joban Singh of Muktsar and Balwinder Singh of Abohar’s Daulatpura village. — OC
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dhillon writes to Punjab CM over CSAT||Brinder Singh Dhillon, chief,  Punjab Youth Congress, today wrote to CM Capt Amarinder requesting him to make the CSAT qualifying in Punjab Civil Services exam. Handing over the letter to Special Principal Secretary to CM Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, Dhillon said the CSAT in Punjab Civil Services preliminary examination was discriminatory in nature and needed to be reviewed. Gurkirat Kirpal Singh said as the guidelines and procedure for Punjab Civil Services Exam 2020 were already advertised, it wouldn’t be possible to change them now. — TNS
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t let anyone disturb peace in Punjab: CM||Even as he directed the police to take strict action against the miscreants responsible for hoisting a ‘Khalistan’ flag atop the Moga administrative complex, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today appealed to the youth not to get swayed by the vicious propaganda of anti-India elements like Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and his Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).“You try to come to Punjab and I will teach you a lesson,” the Chief Minister dared Pannu, adding that any attempt to disturb the state's peace would be dealt with an iron hand. Capt Amarinder said he had directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure that the two miscreants identified in the Moga incident were arrested at the earliest so that a deterrent action could be taken against them as per the law. Reacting to Pannu’s call for raising black flags to mark India's Independence Day, the Chief Minister said Punjabis in India were prosperous people and were not interested in indulging in such acts. — TNS
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Decorated Air Marshal PP Singh passes away||Air Marshal PP Singh, who was decorated with the Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest gallantry award during the 1965 Indo-Pak war, passed away at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, after a brief illness. He was 92. Commissioned as a Pilot Officer in the Indian Air Force on April 15, 1950, the veteran officer had an illustrious career spanning nearly 38 years. He had the privilege of serving as the ADC to the first President of India, Dr Rajender Prasad.The start of hostilities with Pakistan in 1965 saw then Wing Commander PP Singh lead No.5 Squadron (The Tuskers) out of Agra on numerous successful night air strikes into the Pakistani territory. For his exemplary leadership and valour displayed beyond the call of duty he was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra on September 6, 1965. In 1971, he was awarded the Ati Vishist Sewa Medal for distinguished services. On promotion to the rank of Air Marshal he was posted as Senior Air Staff Officer, in-charge (Operations), Eastern Air Command, Shillong. Thereafter, he served at the Air Headquarters as Vice-chief of Air Staff and awarded the Param Vishist Sewa Medal in March 1985. He was appointed as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, South Western Air Command, in 1986 and held that position till his retirement in February 1987.
15-08-2020||Mohali||77 ambulances for Punjab||Independence Day sale at ElanteChandigarh: Over 100 brands at Elante Mall would be offering flat 50% off during I-Day sale. Elante was recently declared “Safe and Secure” by Bureau Veritas. TNSScooterist killed in hit- and-runZirakpur: One person was killed while another injured when a car coming from the wrong side hit their scooter near Sohi Banquet on Panchkula Road on Friday. The duo was rushed to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where driver Narinder Singh, was declared brought dead. The car driver fled from the spot. A case was registered against an car driver at the Dhakoli police station. TNS
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Stay on Panjab University exams till August 20||The Punjab and Haryana High Court extended by another week the stay on holding the final examinations by Panjab University (PU). The direction came after the university counsel told the Bench that he would get instructions over whether PU was taking online examinations or not.At the very onset, the counsel for the parties submitted that the issue regarding guidelines issued by the UGC to conduct examinations was pending before the SC.Fixing the case for August 20, Justice Ritu Bahri directed the continuation of interim orders against holding the examinations.The direction by Justice Bahri came on a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners through counsel Harlove Singh Rajput.The petitioners were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby final-year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations. — TNS
15-08-2020||Ruchika Khanna||Punjab CM  firm, free power to farmers to stay||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 14The group of experts led by eminent economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia has suggested radical policy changes in agriculture, industry, skill development and digitisation to propel growth in Punjab.Edit: Montek’s prescriptionThe first report, submitted to the Punjab Government last week, was discussed by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh with the experts through video-conferencing. He reiterated that free power to farmers would stay. He agreed with the recommendation that diversification in agriculture was the way forward. The final report is to be submitted by December 31.Montek panel’s key recommendationsA perusal of the report reveals that it mirrors the policies of the NDA government at the Centre. It favours corporatisation and encouraging private parties to buy grain. It talks of rationalisation of power subsidy to the farm sector through the “Pani bachao, paisa kamao” campaign and segregation of agriculture feeders. It wants the salary of employees capped which could affect 7.50 lakh employees and their families. It also calls for “better realisation” of revenue from the sale of sand and liquor through higher royalties and taxes. The report says that farmers should shift to high-value crops and that Punjab should become a farm machinery-manufacturing hub.Hinting at corporatisation in agriculture, the report recommends creating a framework that allows land to be leased for 15-20 years for plantation and orchards, 5-10 years for other agriculture purposes on renewable terms. It favours change in land laws for allowing agriculture land for non-agriculture use and cash subsidy for farmers.Interestingly, the ruling Congress government in Punjab has opposed the three farm ordinances of the NDA government, calling these as “attempts to corporatise agriculture.” For reviving industry, the expert group has recommended using the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre, doing away with the two-tier power tariff for a year and allowing vertical development.It calls for embarking on the road to digitisation in developing agriculture value chains and building the-state-of-the-art startup ecosystem with the setting up of “Punjab Innovation Fund”. The biggest challenge, the report says, is to go in for skill development and bringing social sector reforms, especially for the migrant labour.Acknowledging that some of these recommendations may be tough to implement, the report says: “If we really want to restore Punjab to its earlier, position, that objective calls for a radical break from past trends and this cannot be achieved by proceeding on a business-as-usual basis.“It calls for radical new policy initiatives and if we cannot take these difficult decisions, we must be content with the more limited objective of getting out of the current severely depressed economic situation as quickly as possible.”
