15-10-2020||Islamabad||Pak to celebrate Guru Nanak’s 551th birth anniversary from November 28-30||Pakistan will celebrate the 551th birth anniversary of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak Dev from November 28 to 30, the Foreign Office said on Thursday.Every year, a large number of Sikh pilgrims from India and different parts of the world gather at the Gurdwara Janamasthan Nankana Sahib, the birth place of Guru Nanak, in Pakistan’s Punjab province to mark his birth anniversary. However, the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to affect festivities this year.Addressing a media briefing here, Foreign Office Spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri said that the 551th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak would be celebrated from November 28 to 30.He said that Pakistan reopened the Kartarpur corridor on July 29, but India has not yet opened from its side.The corridor – which allows Indian pilgrims to undertake visa-free travel to the historic Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara - was closed on March 16 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.India has said a decision to re-open the Kartarpur corridor would be taken in accordance with the protocols relating COVID-19 and easing of restrictions. Chaudhri expressed the hope that India will review its decision in view of the upcoming 551th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.The corridor links Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur in India to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan — the final resting place of Guru Nanak.      In response to a question about the construction of a bridge on the Ravi river, Chaudhri said that Pakistan has already started the construction work on its side of the bridge, but “India has not yet provided engineering design of its side of the bridge”.Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the river Ravi, about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine.In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative. PTI
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 29 more COVID-19 deaths, 511 new cases||Punjab’s COVID-19 death toll rose to 3,954 on Thursday after 29 more coronavirus-related fatalities were reported in the state, while 511 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,26,230.Nine deaths were reported from Mohali, five from Rupnagar, three from Ludhiana, two each from Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Kapurthala and one each from Amritsar, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Muktsar and Patiala, according to a medical bulletin.The places which reported new coronavirus cases include Ludhiana (81), Mohali (66) and Jalandhar (64).There are 7,090 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,111 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons in the state to 1,15,186.Thirty-two critical patients are on ventilator support, while 167 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 22,47,431 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Data on Delhi-NCR pollution vindicates Punjab govt’s stance: Amarinder||With the Centre saying stubble burning contributed only 4 per cent to pollution in Delhi, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday stressed the latest data has vindicated his government’s stance. Flaying his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, the Punjab chief minister asked him to “stop lying” to divert attention from his “failure” to protect the national capital’s environment.Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar in Delhi said stubble burning contributed only 4 per cent to the Delhi-NCR pollution with the rest caused by local factors. The Punjab CM slammed Kejriwal for refusing to accept results of comprehensive studies on the issue.In fact, it is Kejriwal who was in denial, said Amarinder Singh in a statement.             If Kejriwal is serious about addressing Delhi’s crisis, he should stop being in denial immediately and get down to the task of finding solutions, the chief minister said.Kejriwal, said the CM, had been spreading “misinformation” on the issue with the sole agenda of keeping people of Delhi in the dark about the actual situation, which his government had “failed miserably” to handle over the years.The fact is that there is absolutely no data to support the claims of the Delhi chief minister, he said, adding that in contrast, studies showed that stubble burning was only a miniscule part of the national capital’s problem.The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in a research paper based on data for 2018 and 2019 has found that Delhi’s pollution is localised and not attributable to farm fires in Punjab or the NCR.It pointed out that the air quality index of Punjab is much better than Delhi.Amarinder Singh said this is something Punjab has been maintaining for the past several years.The chief minister said Kejriwal had been taking refuge in “brazen falsehoods” to divert public attention from the AAP government’s “total failure”.“Even today, the skies in Punjab are clear and the AQI levels much better than those in Delhi,” Amarinder Singh said.The Punjab CM said the main cause of Delhi’s pollution was construction and demolition activities. The Punjab CM claimed that his government is doing its best to reduce stubble burning to cleanse the air.Unfortunately, farmers are facing a massive problem in managing paddy straw in the absence of fiscal aid from the Centre despite repeated pleas, he stressed.He reiterated his demand for Rs 100 a quintal as financial support from the Centre to eliminate the problem in Punjab. — PTI
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul to launch phase 2 of Punjab’s Smart Village Campaign||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will flag off the phase 2 of Punjab’s Smart Village Campaign virtually on Saturday.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will join Gandhi in the virtual launch of the campaign. It will be launched simultaneously from 1,500 rural locations in the state, according to a government statement.The campaign will pave the way for the next phase of the holistic development of the 13,000 plus villages across the state, it said.The chief minister said after the successful completion of phase 1 of the programme, the launch of the second phase will mark the initiation of around 50,000 development work worth approximately Rs 2,700 crore.These will include streets and drains, water and sanitation, ponds, community centers, cremation grounds/graveyards, schools/anganwadis, among others. — PTI
15-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Malerkotla woman, daughter dead in suicide pact; son critical||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 15A woman mother and her daughter were killed while her son was battling for life after they allegedly consumed some poisonous substance over some monetary dispute with locals.Kavita Jindal (55), her daughter Shivangi (19) and son Shivam (23) allegedly consumed suspected poison at their house in Malerkotla city today.After seeing their condition worsening, neighbours took them to hospital. Police also reached hospital, where Kavita was declared brought dead. Shivangi and Shivam were referred to Patiala hospital.Shivangi died on the way, while the condition of her brother is stated to be critical.“SHO has gone to Patiala to record the statement of Shivam as his mother was declared brought dead while his sister died on way to Patiala hospital,” Malerkotla DSP Pawanjit said.Sources said police have also recovered a suicide note, in which the three have allegedly blamed some locals for misappropriating their gold and silver. They have also blamed some people for inflating their Rs 4 lakh debt to Rs 22 lakh. The name of a DSP has also been mentioned in the note for allegedly threatening them to pay Rs 22 lakh, sources added.“Without recording the statement, we could not say whether the suicide note is genuine or not. We are conducting thorough investigations and would take appropriate action,” the Malerkotla DSP said.
15-10-2020||Ravi S Singh||Farmers’ agitation: AIKSCC lauds Punjab farm bodies||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 15The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Thursday doubled down on its plan for a face-off with the Union government “march to Parliament” on November 26 and 27 against the three farm laws passed by Parliament during the Monsoon Session.The AIKSCC, a joint platform of About 250 farm workers’ organisations, got a boost with 10 Central Trade Unions (CTUs) including rescinding of the laws in its charter regarding their joint call for a nationwide general strike on November 26.The unions had earlier called for the strike for repeal of the four Labour Code Laws.“The AIKSCC will not budge from its call for the march,” Ashok Dhawale, president of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), said.The AIKS, a constituent of the AIKSCC, congratulated farmers’ organisations from Punjab for their yesterday’s walk-out of the meeting with the Union Agriculture Secretary.The delegation members staged a walkout when the government side did not accede to the demand to repeal the farm laws. A delegation of 29 organisations from Punjab took part in the meeting. “The unity and determination expressed by the Punjab leadership of the AIKSCC and other unions’ associating in the struggle is inspiring to the peasantry across the country,” Dhawale said. The Agriculture Secretary was not able to answer the question why the legislation for assuring price does not have any clause on guaranteed procurement with MSP at C2+50%, he added. The delegation demanded that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar should call all Kisan organisations for discussion if they were keen to resolve the issue.AIKS accused the Union Government of trying to put the wrong notion that the farmers struggle was limited to Punjab only.
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||OPDs, elective surgeries to resume in Punjab; govt schools to open from Monday||With Covid cases showing a marked decline in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered resumption of normal OPD service and elective surgeries, with extensive precautions in place, but warned against any complacency given the projections of a possible second wave of the pandemic.The Chief Minister has also allowed opening of government schools from Monday, October 19, after due sanitation and disinfection procedures, and with clear SOPs mandating parents’ consent, as well as ceiling on number of students and hours of operation. Some of the private schools in the state have opened today.Read also: Punjab not to open multiplexes, cinema halls and entertainment parks yetPunjab students may attend schools and institutions only with written consent of parentsExpressing concern over the warnings by health and medical experts of the grave possibility of the second wave hitting the state in the festival season or during the winter months, the Chief Minister directed the departments concerned to take all steps to ensure that things remain under control in the festive times ahead. He asked the Health and Medical Education departments to work with the market committees to ensure widespread distribution of masks with steps to encourage people to wear them, and also follow social distancing norms.The Chief Minister, who was chairing a virtual review meeting of the Covid situation, also asked the departments to ensure that the medical staff is kept motivated and all vacancies of technicians, etc., are filled up immediately so that normal OPD services and elective surgeries can be carried out seamlessly amid the pandemic situation.Secretaries of the Health and Medical Research Departments briefed the Chief Minister on the steps being taken to ensure full precautions in OPDs, Wards and Operation Theatres as per SoPs and guidelines for Infection Prevention and Control.DGP Dinkar Gupta told the meeting said the Punjab Police were gearing up to manage the festival season, during which security would be beefed up and all efforts would be made to ensure strict adherence to Covid norms at marketplaces, Ramlilas, etc. The DGP said the police were also currently focused on handling the increasing number of farmer protests, as well as picketing by BJP and RSS.According to the DGP, the force had lost 22 personnel to Covid in September, taking the toll to 39. As of date, 434 cops were positive, with an average of 72 cases being reported among the Punjab Police every day during September. However, the figure was now down to about 10.Even as he termed the decline in positivity rate to 2.60 as a good sign, Dr KK Talwar, head of the state government’s expert advisory committee on health, warned of a second wave hitting Punjab during the festival season. With just about 500 plus cases a day at present, the projections for the next few days were positive, he said, but added that with the spate of upcoming festivals and the fatigue in the health system, Punjab could see the next wave hitting soon.Citing the incidence of the second wave in various countries, and even in Delhi, Dr Talwar said Punjab should learn lessons from their experience and prepare accordingly. Dr Rajesh Kumar, a member of the Health Department’s Covid Expert group, said that even if the situation remained under control through November, the onset of the winter season could trigger a spurt in cases.Dr Talwar suggested giving Pulse Oxymeters to Asha workers to enable them to keep a check in their respective areas. He added that teams of experts were being formed to conduct a mortality audit of every hospital to identify gaps, since the fatality rate in the state continued to be high (at 3.1%). This is despite the fact that the recovery rate has gone up from 82% on October 1 to 90.3% as of October 13, when the total number of confirmed cases in the state stood at 1,23,211.Health Secretary Hussan Lal pointed out that Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was still high at 131 against the national average of 81. He added that to ensure adequate availability of oxygen supply in the coming weeks and months, tendering for first phase for augmenting the supply was in process. The Government of India had fixed the rates of Medical Oxygen, including that of transportation of oxygen cylinders, though liquid oxygen transportation rates were yet to be fixed, he added.
15-10-2020||Faridkot||Punjab students may attend schools and institutions only with written consent of parents||School education department Punjab has asked all schools to prefer online, and distance learning mode of education.While allowing the opening of schools from Thursday, the department has conveyed that where some schools are conducting online classes, and that some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.Students may attend schools and institutions only with the written consent of parents, reads the order, issued by the secretary, school education department.Schools, that are being allowed to open have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by the Department of School Education in consultation with the Department of Health & Family Welfare, Government of Punjab.
15-10-2020||Jalandhar||Armed men kill guard, loot Rs 6.5 lakh from bank in Punjab’s Adampur||Armed robbers on Thursday afternoon stole cash worth Rs 6.5 lakh, and gunned down a guard at UCO Bank branch of Kalra village in Adampur.As the assailants tried to enter the premises, the guard—Surinder Singh—resisted their entry. The robbers snatched his weapon, and took out the bullets.The guard continued to fight, during which, the three other robbers reportedly tried to terrorise the manager, staff, and customers present at the spot with their revolvers.They asked the cashier to handover the cash.The assailants were reportedly leaving the premises with the cash when the guard continued to fight them.The robbers allegedly first shot at his legs, and then fired another shot at his forehead, leaving him dead on the spot.Senior police official reached the spot, and began interrogating the eyewitnesses and the staff.They also looked through the CCTV footage to identify the robbers.
15-10-2020||Bathinda||Arhityas from cotton belt staged protest outside Cotton Corporation of India||The arthiyas from the cotton belt in Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan on Thursday staged a protest outside the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) office in Bathinda.The protestors raised slogans against the government, and the CCI here.Alleging to benefit the private player, the CCI is not making direct purchases from the market, citing low quality or high mositure content.They stated, that either citing low moisture content or low quality of cotton, private procurement agencies force farmers to sell their produce at a much lower rate than the MSP.The MSP for cotton is Rs 5,725 per quintal, and farmers in the region have been selling their produce at Rs 5,000 and even as below Rs 4,600.With government agencies dragging their feet on procurement of cotton, it is the cotton-sowing farmers who have been subjected to open loot by the private traders by quoting a price below the MSP fixed by the Centre.Vijay Kalra, president of the Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab, alleged, that the agriculture input was increasing day-by-day while governments, and procurement agencies in connivance with private companies were looting farmers.He said, that the commission agents also have many committed expenses and we have only a source of earning through commission of the crop, but CCI makes direct purchases from the farmers, which is also wrong.Lashing out at the Narendra Modi led union government, Kalra said: "Now these three farm laws will directly affect the farmers and commission agents as Punjab and Haryana are the two states where mandi system exists and this is the reason that paddy and wheat is procured by the government agencies on MSP here, where in Bihar, there are no mandi system, due to which farmers go to the market with his produce as there is no buyer, he has to sold at the price whatever he gets".He said, thate these laws would not only render the commission agents, but will also affect the farmers who will not get the financial help as and when they need it.A CCI official said: “We purchase cotton with a moisture range of 8-12 per cent, but as of now the crop being brought by farmers has a moisture content ranging from 16-22 per cent. We are repeatedly appealing to the farmers to adhere to guidelines.”
15-10-2020||Faridkot||Punjab education dept exempts over 8,000 education providers in govt schools from TET||The Department of School Education, Punjab, has exempted over 8,000 educational volunteers and education providers in government schools from the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET).As per a notification issued by the department, the educational volunteers, who were appointed before August 23, 2010, and had acquired the requisite qualification (BEd or ETT) are not required to pass Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) as required under the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE).Working on a contract basis for the past 16 years, these teachers were recruited under the Alternative Inclusive Education (AIE) and the Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS) of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. They have been demanding regularisation of their services from the past decade.The state has seen many agitations by teachers, and there have been incidents where some of them allegedly ended their lives during protests. These teachers have been demanding the state to accommodate them as regular employees in pre-primary classes started under the 'Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab' project.To ensure that all children go to schools, these educational volunteers were engaged under the SSA in 2003-2004. There was no demand for formal qualification from these volunteers at that time. After their services were no longer needed under the SSA, the Education Department started retrenchment in 2010-2011. This had resulted in a long-protracted agitation by these volunteers.In the last 10 years, most of these volunteers attained the required qualification (BEd and ETT). After the School Education Department started working on its plan of filling over 9,000 vacancies of pre-primary teachers in government schools, most of these teachers got online nursery teacher training diplomas. Presently these teachers are working on contractual basis and drawing a salary of Rs 5,000.
15-10-2020||Bathinda||'All stakeholders were taken into confidence on farm laws,' says Smriti Irani||BJP leader and Union Textile Minister Smriti Irani on Thursday revealed, that "all stakeholders were taken into confidence on the farm laws" via a virtual interaction.When The Tribune asked, that "why the government quickly brought the ordinances on this issue without taking the stakeholders, and its oldest allay SAD into confidence", Smriti replied, that "detailed discussions were held with all the stakeholders."Smriti added, that what was the hurry, several decades in a free country, farmers were not free. It is too late, that we brought about a bill that ensures farmers' rights, protection of farmers', refund, and land."Moreover, when the entire global economy was struggling under the impact of a pandemic, and at that time every citizen around 80 crores residents received free rations," said Irani.She stated, that the government reform agenda continues to ensure, that in the pandemic every citizen is protected and provided relief.Although, Smriti remained tight-lipped about SAD.The BJP leader said AICC president Sonia Gandhi and former AICC president Rahul Gandhi were 'missing' from the Lok Sabha when issues related to the farm bills were being discussed.She lashed out at the Congress party, saying: "Congress party, whose son-in-law has taken lands of the farmers, is now talking about the welfare of the farmers".Claiming, that Congress party in 2014 has allocated only Rs 21,000 crore for agriculture in the budget, which was raised to Rs 1.34 lakh crore when the Narendra Modi led-BJP government came to power. This clearly, states that who thinks more and better for the farmers. Moreover, even the Prime Minister has taken a 'sankalp' to double the income of the farmers.The BJP event faced protests from 'Arthiya'.They were called to interact with the Union Minister, but returned as they refused to talk to the minister, along with the BJP leaders, ad they are against the three bills. President of the Federation of Arhtiya, Punjab, Vijay Kalra, said that "they were called by BJP leaders to come here as Union Minister Smriti Irani would interact with, but when the reached they found out that, it is a BJP event, in which she was trying to justify, that the farm bills are for betterment of the farmers, but we were opposing it."Even, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders staged a protest with black flags, outside the venue, where the virtual interaction with the interaction with the Smriti Irani was going on.They shouted slogans against the Union government, and BJP over these three farm-related laws.
15-10-2020||New Delhi||Farmers' issues discussed in unions' meeting with Agriculture Secretary: Ministry||Stating that agriculture is the top priority for the union government, Agriculture Ministry officials on Thursday said various farmers' issues were discussed in Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal's meeting with representatives of 29 farmer unions from Punjab on Wednesday.Responding to the farmers' criticism that no Minister was present at the meeting, officials said the meeting was scheduled to be held at the level of Secretary Agriculture (AC&FW), and the farmers were aware of that."The meeting continued for about two hours and was attended by representatives of the aforesaid farmers' unions of Punjab."In this meeting, various issues related to farmers welfare were discussed for about two hours. At the end of this meeting, two memorandums on behalf of the Farmers' Unions were given to Secretary (AC&FW)."The Government of India is always committed to protecting the interest of farmers and is always open for discussions," they saidFarmers’ organisations yesterday walked out of the meeting with Agarwal stating that while union ministers were holding meetings in Punjab, the leaders were called for a meeting where not even one minister was present.
15-10-2020||Peshawar||2 Sikh women face acid attack threat online in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa||Two Sikh women in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province have filed a court case against alleged threats and harassment on social media.In the complaint, filed under 22A of Pakistan Penal Code on Wednesday, the plaintiffs alleged Shah Alam Masih and Manmeet Kaur from Christian Colony Shoba Chowk in Peshawar were sending them intimidating messages on social media through fake accounts.The complaint mentions the accused as of Christian faith. The women said that the accused were also calling them from unknown numbers and threatening them with acid attack.The women said their complaint was ignored by the Federal Investigation Agency. The complainants are from Gulshan-e-Rahman Colony in Peshawar.The sessions court asked the local police to file a report in the matter.Additional Session Judge Zeba Rasheed will hear the matter on October 26. The accused have been summoned for the hearing. PTI
15-10-2020||New Delhi||Youth Akali Dal activists protest against farm laws outside Delhi's Krishi Bhawan||Activists of Youth Shiromani Akali Dal on Thursday staged a protest outside Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi over the contentious farm laws and MSP.Also read: Furious over 'ill-treatment' by Centre, Punjab farmers to intensify stir, hold BJP leaders captive in housesSAD leader Harsimrat Badal had resigned as Union Minister in protest against the three laws.The President gave assent to three bills in September: The Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020.Also read: BJP leader Vijay Sampla detained after he sits on dharna in Punjab's MuktsarThe Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to permit the sale of agricultural produce outside the mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) constituted by different state legislations. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, provides for contract farming. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 deregulates the production, supply, distribution of food items like cereals, pulses, potatoes, onion and edible oilseeds. Even NDA's oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has parted ways on the issue of these farm bills as farmers in Punjab and Haryana intensify protest. —with PTI
15-10-2020||Patiala||'No work to do': sole neurosurgeon at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital offers resignation||In a big blow to Patiala's Government Rajindra Hospital, a super-specialist has offered his resignation claiming that he had "no work to do", said sources.The neurosurgeon is said to have been fed up over the lack of work and submitted his resignation after serving a mandatory one-month notice period.The doctor, however, refused to comment on his resignation and is said to have officially cited personal reasons while resigning.Notably, there are only a few neurosurgeons in the government sector in Punjab. The doctor, who has completed his neurosurgery (MCH) from AIIMS Delhi, had joined the hospital last year to cater to patients of the newly-constructed super speciality ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital.The Rs 150 crore super-speciality block, which was inaugurated on November 5 last year, has been non-functional since.The doctor couldn’t perform even a single surgery since his joining, evidently due to the lack of a functional OT, said sources.Passing the buck to the district administration, hospital authorities said that the Super speciality ward was taken over by the district administration, under the Epidemic Act, during coronavirus.Dr Rajan Singla, principal, Government Medical College, said that his resignation had already been forwarded to higher authorities but has not accepted so far.As to the super speciality ward, the principal said, “All the preparations have been already made to run the super speciality ward. As soon as the COVID gets over, we will start the ward.”
15-10-2020||Muktsar||Former Cabinet minister Vijay Sampla freed; returns to Hoshiarpur||Former Union Minister-cum-senior BJP leader Vijay Sampla was freed from detention after being gheraoed by farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws at Maha Badhar village here.Sampla returned home to Hoshiarpur.Earlier, he was on his way to visit a Dalit youth's house at Chak Janisar village in Jalalabad sub-division in Fazilka district, who was allegedly forced to drink urine.Also read: Furious over 'ill-treatment' by Centre, Punjab farmers to intensify stir, hold BJP leaders captive in housesThe BJP leadership said the incident was orchestrated by Congress leaders.Rajesh Pathela, district president, BJP, said, "Vijay Sampla, some of us are being arrested and taken away. The farmers were adamant that they won't give us a way to go ahead. We requested them to let us go ahead and visit Dalit youth's family at Jalalabad. However, now police are arresting us. We are nearly 15 people."Also read: SAD activists protest against farm laws outside Delhi's Krishi BhawanSampla, along with others, sat on a dharna terming the agitating farmers anti-Dalit. Later, the police took them into custody.Sampla told The Tribune, "The protest was led by a youth Congress leader. He, along with others, blocked our way. When we objected and started a parallel protest on the road, seeking a way to go ahead to meet a Dalit youth's family, a police party arrived and took us into custody. We are now being taken to some undisclosed place on a police bus."Faridkot police took Sampla into custody near Khara village in on the border of Muktsar and Faridkot districts. Other BJP leaders of Muktsar district were released there."We have been released by Muktsar police on the boundary of Faridkot district. Now, a DSP of Faridkot district police is taking Samplaji in his official vehicle ahead towards Kotkapura. Samplaji's personal vehicle is also moving along," said Sandeep Girdhar, vice-president, Muktsar district, BJP."However, despite all this, we will come again in two-three days to visit the Dalit youth's family. I have informed our state president about today's incident."He further said that the Congress' act today has proved that it was anti-Dalits.Meanwhile, BJP activists burnt effigies of the Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh against the arrest of former cabinet minister Vijay Sampla by the Punjab police. Similar protests also took place in Jalandhar and Hishiarpur.
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Furious over 'ill-treatment' by Centre, Punjab farmers to intensify stir, hold BJP leaders captive in houses||Irate over the treatment meted out to them by the BJP government in Delhi yesterday, leaders of farmer unions in Punjab have vowed to intensify their stir in the coming days. The unions will be continuing their protests on the railway tracks till October 20, where Rail Roko campaign is on since October 1, while taking the fight to the streets of urban areas. The BJP leaders — district presidents, MPs, MLAs — both present and past — will be gheraoed and held captive in their residences as farmers move to start “pucca dharnas”.Also read: BJP leader Vijay Sampla detained after he sits on dharna in Punjab's Muktsar OPDs, elective surgeries to resume in Punjab; govt schools to open from Monday'All stakeholders were taken into confidence on farm laws,' says Smriti IraniFarmers’ agitation: AIKSCC lauds Punjab farm bodiesYouth Akali Dal activists protest against farm laws outside Delhi's Krishi BhawanBusinesses owned by two large corporate houses, including their petrol pumps, will not be allowed to operate. Their retail businesses will also be gheraoed by farmers, as will the toll plazas on national and state highways operated by these corporate giants. While BJP leaders are at the farmers’ receiving end because of the agriculture laws, especially The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, enacted by their party’s government at Centre, the action against corporate houses is being taken on the apprehension that they are the intended beneficiaries of the laws aimed at corporatisation of agriculture.Other than this, some farmer unions have also decided to burn effigies of BJP leaders in urban areas, on October 17. A final decision on these was taken by the unions, after their marathon meeting, held here today.Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, vice president of Kirti Kisan Union, said they have once again allowed the re-entry of Lakhowal faction of Bhartiya Kisan Union into the fold of the 30 farmer unions.This faction was earlier dropped from the consortium after they approached the Supreme Court of India against the agriculture laws, without the consent of other unions.Efforts will also be made to involve all workers’ unions in the state to support farmers in their protest. Already several unions, including teachers unions, some employees unions, arhtiya unions etc., have been extending support to farmers. The largest farmer union — Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) — has already intensified its stir by launching pucca dharnas outside the residences of BJP leaders.Farmers are just sitting outside, restricting the entry and exit of these leaders from their houses.
15-10-2020||Faridkot||Baba Farid University cancels exam for dental medical officers after question paper leak||Two days after there were allegations of "leakage" of a question paper for the recruitment of medical officers (dental) in the state health department, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) which had conducted this test on October 11, announced the cancellation of the test.The test will now be conducted on October 22. New admit cards examination will be uploaded on the university website, said the registrar.On October 11, BFUUHS had conducted a test for 1,017 posts of medical officers (general and dental) and pharmacy officers.About 11,000 candidates had appeared in the recruitment test for 500 posts of medical officers (general), 35 posts of medical officers (dental) and 482 posts of pharmacists.After the test, there were allegations of leakage of a question paper for the post of medical officer (dental) from an exam centre at Goindwal Sahib in Tarn Taran district. It was alleged that one of the candidates gained entry into the exam hall with a mobile phone. He allegedly used WhatsApp to send the question paper outside the exam hall. While the BFUHS has already lodged a complaint with Tarn Taran police against the dentist, who could score only 0.5 marks in the test out of 90 marks.The BFUHS had approached the state government and suggested cancelling the exam as the police investigation will take some time. After getting permission from the state government, the university cancelled the medical officer(dental) test and announced the new date for this exam.While the BFUHS had withheld the result of medical officer (dental) test. The result of the medical officer (general) and pharmacists was declared.The medical university on Thursday started the verification of documents of all candidates for Medical officer (general)) posts who have qualified the test held on October 11. Only those candidates who have scored a minimum of 33 per cent marks in the written test are being considered as eligible for document verification.The total number of candidates called for document verification is 3 times the number of vacancies.Keeping in view COVID-19 pandemic, candidates alone are allowed to attend the document verification. Wearing of face mask by all candidates is mandatory and thermal screening of each candidate has been made mandatory. Candidates have been asked to carry their own drinking water and they are required to bring their own hand sanitizer.
15-10-2020||Jalandhar||Former Punjabi University vice chancellor Joginder Singh Puar dies at 87||The former vice-chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala, Joginder Singh Puar, died on Thursday. He was 87.He had served as the university V-C from 1993 to 1999.A Leftist ideologue and a promoter of Punjabi language, he began serving the Punjabi University in the Languages Department in 1972. He moved to Guru Nanak Dev University in 1986 as a professor. He returned to Punjabi University as V-C in 1993.In an attempt to inculcate the habit of punctuality in students, he was often known to close down the gates of the university for the latecomers.He penned books on Punjabi grammar. He also served as editor of Deshsewak newspaper.Puar did his schooling from a government school at Ladhewali village in Jalandhar after which he moved to England for higher studies.His last rites will be performed at his native place here at 2 pm on Thursday. He is survived by wife Ratnesh and daughter Maninder.
15-10-2020||---||Punjab not to open multiplexes, cinema halls and entertainment parks yet||Chandigarh, October 15The Punjab government has decided not to open multiplexes, cinema halls and entertainment parks in the state yet.However, staging of Ramlila will be allowed with strict Covid protocol.Details will be announced after Covid review meeting by the CM.This was announced in a tweet by the CM’s media adviser.The Punjab government has allowed schools to reopen. However, the date of reopening will be announced after the Standard Operating Procedures are announced.The Centre has allowed cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes to reopen with up to 50 per cent seating capacity across the country from October 15 in areas outside the containment zones.
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Farmers to intensify stir as talks with govt fail||With farmers’ association leading the protest against three agriculture-related Acts passed by the Union government recently, boycotting the meeting with representatives of the government today, the agitation is expected to be prolonged. The 31 farmers’ associations have already called in a meeting on October 15 to chalk out the future course. Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said: “The government has shown its non-seriousness, as no minister capable of taking the decision was present in the meeting.” He said the government officials present in the meeting could not have been able to take any decision if the talks had progressed.Ajnala said the farmers’ associations would intensify the protest and a programme would be announced after meeting on October 15. Meanwhile, the sit-in at the Buttari railway station, near Beas, being held under the banner of All-India Kisan Coordination Committee, has entered its 14th day. — TNS
15-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Agri laws: People from all walks of life feel heat of protest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14With the railway lines blockade by farmers entering third week, people from different walks of life have started feeling the heat.Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said the rail blockade affected has had a far-reaching effect as far as the trade and industry of the border district was concerned. The loss of local businessmen was gain of their counterparts from Ludhiana, Panipat and Ambala where train and road connectivity remain uninterrupted.“Earlier, we lost trade in hilly states and now in the plains as well. Local market is the main supplier of warm clothes like shawls, blankets, tweeds, blazers, suiting shirting and other merchandise to the mountainous states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. But that season was lost as summer vacations were consumed by the pandemic. Now, the demand for the product of winter season is expected from central Indian states,” he said.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association in a communique to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh requested them to pacify the agitating farmers soon to bring back the wheels on the track.He said the deplorable state of tourism due to the pandemic first and now the railway blockade arecausing great harm to the hotel occupancy.
15-10-2020||Vijay C Roy||Punjab’s third food park to open soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14The food processing sector in Punjab is likely to get impetus as the third mega food park will be partially operational in the state by next week. Set up at an investment of Rs 135 crore in Phagwara, Sukhjit Mega Food Park & Infra Ltd will create a huge demand for maize. The company will set up a maize-processing facility with a daily grinding capacity of 600 tonnes.Bhavdeep Sardana, CEO, Sukhjit Starch & Chemicals LtdDaily grinding capacity 600 tonnesWe are hopeful of commencing operations by the third week of October. As the demand is sluggish amid the pandemic, we will utilise 60% of our installed capacity initially and scale up production later“We are hopeful of commencing operations by the third week of October. As the demand is sluggish amid the pandemic, we will utilise only 60% of our installed capacity initially and scale up production later,” said Bhavdeep Sardana, CEO, Sukhjit Starch & Chemicals Ltd.It is anticipated that this park, besides improving the eco-agricultural system of the state will also supplement the state’s efforts in crop diversification by breaking the wheat-paddy cycle.Currently, the state has a food park in Fazilka which is operational. It was set up by International Mega Food Park Ltd with an investment of around Rs 140 crore. The second park set up by Punjab Agro Industries Corporation in Ludhiana (with an investment of Rs 120 crore) is partially operational. These facilities will not only attract investment in the food processing sector but also benefit farmers of the region. Once all the three parks are fully operational, they will play a pivotal role in increasing the farmers’ income and promoting crop diversification.The growing demand for the processed and convenience food is creating a demand for modified starch. According to Sardana, the food processing sector will continue to do well and demand will pick up eventually. “We see a wider adoption of ready-to-eat food, takeaways, foods having long shelf life and more importantly packaged and safe foods,” he said.
15-10-2020||---||Farmers turn heat on state BJP leaders||Sangrur/bathinda, October 14Members of various farm organisations today kept senior BJP leaders confined to a private school for three hours and broke two police barricades to reach the spot where the leaders had organised a virtual meeting of Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary with some farmers of the area.“We gheraoed BJP leaders during their meeting for the second time. We will not allow them to organise any meeting in the future till they roll back the farm laws. The leaders passed the black laws but now, they want to fool farmers by giving excuses,” said Chhaju Singh, a protesting farmer.Don’t fool usThe BJP government at the Centre passed the black laws but now, its leaders want to fool farmers by giving excuses. —Chhaju Singh, FarmerAfter getting information about the virtual meeting at the local sarvhitkari school, hundreds of members of the Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab Kisan Union, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha (Ajay Bhawan), Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, BKU (Sidhupur), BKU (Rajewal) and Kul Hind Kisan Federation reached at the front gate of the school by breaking two barricades. “Since various farm organisations have already announced opposing the meetings of BJP leaders, the latter should not test our patience by holding these,” Bhupinder Singh, state convener of the youth wing of the Kirti Kisan Union, said. BJP district president Randeep Deol alleged the police did not stop protesters from reaching the spot.“We remained confined to the school till 3 pm as the cops did not stop farmers from reaching the venue of our meeting. It shows that policemen are helping farmers,” Deol alleged. Tarun Chugh, BJP national general secretary, alleged some persons wanted to turn farmers’ agitation violent to defame them. Sangrur DSP (Rural) Satpal Sharma said they had deputed adequate number of police officials and the situation was under control.Meanwhile, alleging that the police had been helping BJP leaders in organising the meetings, members of various farm organisations refused to attend a gathering called by the police in the evening. They demanded action against the police officers who “were helping the BJP”.Meanwhile, members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta Ugrahan) gheraoed residences of BJP leaders from noon to 3 pm in Bathinda district. A large number of BKU members staged a protest outside the residences of BJP Bathinda president Vinod Kumar Binta in Bhucho Mandi and Rampura Municipal Council vice-president Makhan Jindal in the district.‘Waive debt’In Bathinda, the protesters demanded that debts incurred by poor farmers and labourers should be waived. Crop rates should be fixed on C2 formula along with 50 per cent profit for farmers at remunerative prices, they said
15-10-2020||---||‘Rail roko’ stir extended till Oct 17||Amritsar, October 14The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has declared extension of its ‘rail roko’ agitation till October 17. For the past 20 days, the members have blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi rail track near Devi Daspura village in protest against the newly constituted farm laws.Committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the organisation did not accompany farmers to New Delhi for a discussion with the Centre.“It was expected that talks with the Centre will remain inconclusive because the invitation was received twice from a Secretary-level officer who will never be in a capacity to take decisions. He can only be a messenger of the government,” he said.“The Prime Minister said in Maharashtra that the new laws were formed to make farmers prosperous and they aimed to double their income by 2021. But these laws don’t say anything about the roadmap that could bring the prosperity. The condition of farmers has become worse,” he said.
15-10-2020||---||Why minister wasn’t sent to hold parleys, asks Harsimrat||Bathinda/Muktsar, October 14Former Union Minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal today expressed displeasure over the meeting of farmers with the Centre in New Delhi.After the meeting, she tweeted, “It’s shocking that the Government of India called farmer organisations to Delhi to hold sham talks to discredit them. This is no way to behave with farmers agitating for three months. If the Government of India did not have any solution to the impasse with farm organisations, it shouldn’t have called them to the Capital (sic).”In another tweet, she wrote, “I commend farm leaders for walking out of the meeting after realising a bureaucrat was going to take it even as the MoS, Agriculture, had been deputed to explain to the farmers of Punjab on how the new laws would benefit them. This is sheer skulduggery (sic).”Dialogue a sham It is shocking that the Union Government called farm organisations to Delhi for holding sham talks to discredit them. This is no way to behave with farmers. —Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Bathinda MPFurther, she tweeted, “If the Government of India is serious about resolving grievances of farmers, it should approach the talks with a clean heart. Repeal the farm laws which have been rejected by the ‘kisan’ and ‘khet mazdoor’ and frame new ones keeping in view the interests of farmers and not of corporates (sic).”Earlier in the day, Harsimrat had tweeted, “Today is a day of reckoning for the NDA government. It has to conclusively prove it truly listens to ‘jan ki baat’ and is ready to resolve grievances of farmers by acceding to demands of farm groups during the scheduled meeting with Central representatives. Let’s hope the voice of farmers is heard and the slogan of ‘Jai Kisan’ raised by the Shiromani Akali Dal while voting against the agriculture Bills and leaving the NDA resonates”(sic).
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hold all-party meet, says AAP||AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema and state general secretary Harchand Singh Bursat today said as the meeting of farmers’ organisations with the Centre had remained inconclusive, it had proved that the Modi government was forcing its decisions on people.In a statement issued from the party headquarters, Cheema said AAP had been fighting for the cause of farmers from the beginning and won’t budge till the laws were scrapped. He said the Punjab Government should convene an all-party meeting and based on the outcome of the meeting, a session of the Vidhan Sabha should be convened for at least seven days. — TNS
15-10-2020||---||CM: Centre insulted farmers at meeting||Chandigarh, October 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said he was shocked by the “humiliating” treatment meted out to farmers by the Centre.“The Centre has rubbed salt into the wounds of farmers by sending a bureaucrat to meet them. Don’t our farmers deserve even the courtesy of the Agriculture Minister meeting them personally?” the Chief Minister said.Humiliated by GovernmentThe least the Centre could have done was to empathise with farmers. Instead, it chose to insult them. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CM“The least the Government of India could have done was to empathise with farmers and share their pain. Instead, it chose to insult the farm unions. After today’s fiasco, can the BJP ever expect farmers to trust it? On the one hand, it claims to be going all out to convince the farmers on the benefits of farm laws but on the other, it treats farmers badly. This has totally exposed its malice and ill-intent towards farmers,” the Chief Minister said.
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP repeating Cong blunders: Sukhbir||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today condemned the “gross betrayal” of farmers and their organisations by the BJP government in Delhi “on the pretext of the so-called talks” between representatives of the two sides. He warned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the BJP against betraying farmers.Sukhbir said the BJP was repeating the past blunders of the Congress in Punjab and was “resorting to the same anti-Punjab and anti-farmer conspiracies to provoke farmers and youth”. The Akali leader said the Prime Minister should have taken out time to meet the “annadata” of the country. “If the PM was too busy, the meeting could have easily been rescheduled. The farmers did the right thing by coming out and refusing to get trapped in the conspiracy,” Sukhbir said while addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters. — TNS
15-10-2020||Bathinda||Agriculture laws will render youth jobless: Teachers||Members of the TET Qualified Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union continue to lend support to 30 farm unions in their struggle against the farm laws. Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president of the union, said: “With new farm laws in effect, scores of youth employed in the agriculture sector will be rendered jobless, as a sizeable chunk of them is connected with the farm sector in one way or the other.” — TNS
15-10-2020||---||Multani Murder Case: SC asks Punjab to respond to Sumedh Saini’s plea for quashing FIR||New Delhi, October 14The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the state of Punjab to respond to a petition filed by former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing the FIR in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case.A Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, which asked the Punjab Government to file its response to Saini’s petition in three weeks and gave one week to the former DGP to file his rejoinder, posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks. Saini was represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, while senior advocate Gopal Subramanium appeared for the state of Punjab.Earlier, the matter was adjourned as the impugned order of the high court was not on record.Saini had moved the Supreme Court last month challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing of the FIR in the 1991 Multani murder case.The Supreme Court had on September 15 granted him interim protection from arrest and posted his plea for anticipatory bail for hearing after four weeks. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on September 7 dismissed his anticipatory bail plea.“This case is of 1991. After 30 years, what is the hurry to arrest him... We will grant you time to file a reply,” the Bench had said, adding he would not be arrested till further orders. However, the top court had asked Saini to cooperate with the Punjab Police in the investigation.Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.
15-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Stir reaches foreign soil, NRIs seek revocation of Acts||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 14Non-Resident Indians (NRI) have come out in support of farmers and are staging protests on the foreign soil against the three farm laws. The protests have been held in Canada, Italy, USA, UK and France.A few days ago, a ‘kisan march’ was held from Dashmesh Darbar Gurdwara to Holland Park at the Surrey City Centre in British Columbia, Canada, in which NRIs from the Punjabi community lashed out at the Modi government for “targeting” farmers during the Covid pandemic.Similarly, a rally was held in Toronto on October 11. The protesters rode motorcycles, cars and trucks and held placards and flags against the farm laws. The rally started from Gurdwara Guru Nanak Mission Centre, Brampton. It passed through Ontario Khalsa Darbar at Mississauga and ended at Sikh Spiritual Centre in Toronto. The protesters stated that they were fighting for their rights, respect and freedom.A demonstration was held in Calgary too, where the participants raised slogans against the Union Government over passing the three Bills. They demanded that the laws be revoked at the earliest.In France, NRIs raised ‘Kisan Bachao-Punjab Bachao’ slogans and also questioned the Modi-led NDA government over passing the Bills.Even in California, Punjabis held a protest outside the Indian consulate in San Francisco on October 4. Similarly, at Milan in Italy, Punjabis organised a march and announced that if the farm laws were not revoked, they would hold a protest outside the UN office in the coming days. At a ‘kisan rally’ organised in west London in solidarity with the farmers, the NRIs announced widespread protests against Prime Minister Narendra Modi if the laws were not repealed. Rajwinder Singh from Vancouver in Canada said: “I came to Canada five years ago and have land in Punjab. I feel the farm laws have been passed to crush the small farmers, so there is need for everyone to come out and support the farming community.”
15-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Centre being arrogant, will step up stir: BKU (Lakhowal)||Ludhiana, October 14The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Lakhowal) has termed the failed meeting of protesting farmer organisations with the Union Agriculture Secretary in New Delhi as an ‘insult’ of food providers. He said the farmers would pay back to the Modi government.Parminder Singh Palmajra, BKU general secretary, said now, the protesting bodies ought to unite on a single platform and fight the “high-handedness” of the government tooth and nail.Even though the government was well aware of the staunch opposition of all farmer bodies to the laws, it was adamant and had purportedly invited the representatives of the unions to ‘educate’ them about the new laws.Laws will ruin USThe protesting farmers are well aware of the adverse effects of the new laws, which are bound to ruin farmers, arhtiyas, small traders and farm workers. —Parminder Singh , General Secy, BKU“The protesting farmers are very well aware of the adverse effects of the new laws, which are bound to ruin the farmers, arhtiyas, small traders and farm workers while turning the country into a food-deficit nation once again,” the BKU leader said. The absence of any Cabinet Minister in the meeting was evident of the arrogance of the BJP and PM Narendra Modi, he said.Palmajra urged all agitating farmer bodies to get together on a single platform in order to further intensify the agitation, not only in Punjab but in other states as well, so that the NDA government and BJP could be “taught a lesson”.
15-10-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet nod to 33% women quota in direct recruitment||Chandigarh, October 14The state Cabinet today approved 33 per cent reservation for women in direct recruitment to posts in government departments as well as boards and corporations for Group A, B, C and D posts.An agenda on the Punjab Civil Services (Reservation of Posts for Women) Rules, 2020, was today presented by Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary.The Cabinet approved a state employment plan for 2020-22 to fill jobs in government departments, boards, corporations and agencies in a phased and time-bound manner. The recruitment will be done on the Central Government pay scales.A state-level function will be held on Independence Day next year for formal joining of the selected candidates in government posts during 2020-21. As per the plan approved by the Cabinet, all departments may advertise their respective vacancies by October 31 to take forward the process of recruitment. The administrative departments will be solely responsible to ensure transparent and fair recruitment within the stipulated time schedule.Land rights for slum dwellersThe Cabinet gave approval to notify the Rules of the Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act-2020 for the purpose of giving proprietary rights of land to slum dwellers.Seed potato BillThe Cabinet has allowed the production of quality seed potato through the tissue culture-based technology, using aeroponics/net house facilities, along with the certification of seed potato and its successive generations to boost the income of farmers. It approved the Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Bill, 2020, to meet the demand of potato farmers for quality seed potato.Regular desilting of riversTo ensure a regular de-silting of major rivers and reduce flood intensity in the state, it has been decided to make such exercise part of the contracts allotted for mining blocks. The major rivers where de-silting will be carried out as part of the amended contracts are the Sutlej, Beas and Ravi, besides seasonal rivulets Ghaggar and Chakki.Ration card beneficiariesThe government will undertake a massive exercise to re-verify all recently deleted and left-out beneficiaries under the smart ration card scheme to ensure that the eligible persons get the benefits.Bill on vigilance commissionThe Cabinet has approved the conversion of the Punjab State Vigilance Commission Ordinance, 2020, into a Bill for enactment in the next session of the Vidhan Sabha.State employment plan for 2020-22The Cabinet has okayed a state employment plan for 2020-22 to fill posts in government departments, boards, corporations and agencies in a phased and time-bound manner. The recruitment will be done on the Central Government pay scales.
15-10-2020||---||Farmers cultivating land for 12 years to get ownership right||Chandigarh, October 14The state government has decided to allot land to small and marginal farmers, who have been occupying and cultivating it for more than 12 years, at a reasonable pre-determined price. The decision was taken by the state Cabinet, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, today.The Cabinet approved the Punjab (Welfare And Settlement of Small and Marginal Farmers) Allotment of State Government Land Bill, 2020, thus ensuring the protection of interests of both farmers and the government. The farmer-friendly step will go a long way in settling pending litigations in the court.The previous SAD-BJP government had in 2016 enacted the Punjab Allotment of State Government Land Act 2016 (Punjab Act No. 54 of 2016), but not one parcel of land was allotted to farmers under this Act. The incumbent government has thus decided to amend the law as a one-time welfare measure for small and marginal farmers.Local body polls soughtMinister Sunder Shyam Arora and other ministers have sought elections to 126 urban local bodies in December. As Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra could not attend the meeting due to health issues, the Chief Minister assured his Cabinet colleagues of discussing the issue with him.Earlier, it was decided to hold the elections in the second week of October, subject to the emerging Covid situation. A Cabinet sub-committee of ministers, comprising Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora, had agreed to recommend the State Election Commission to hold the elections tentatively on October 11, but no decision has been taken so far
15-10-2020||---||Punjab to launch SC scholarship scheme||Chandigarh, October 14The Council of Ministers today approved the Dr BR Ambedkar SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, which will be effective from 2021-22. It will be formally launched on October 17.The scheme will come as a relief to nearly 2 lakh SC students pursuing post matric education in government and private educational institutions.Apart from ensuring 25 per cent admissions in all educational institutions, the income criteria for both parents for a student has been enhanced from Rs 2.50 lakh to Rs 4 lakh. A recommendation in this regard was made by a committee comprising ministers Charanjit Channi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Chairman of the Technical Education Board Mohinder Kaypee.The scheme will be applicable to persons belonging to the SC category, who are domiciled in Punjab and have done matriculation from Punjab and Chandigarh. All Central, state government and private institutions in Punjab and Chandigarh will be covered under the scheme.The total financial implication of the proposal is estimated to be about Rs 600 crore. Of this, the tentative liability of the government institutions will be about Rs 168 crore and the remaining Rs 432 crore will be borne by the private educational institutions and the government. Since the revised scheme envisages reimbursement of 60 per cent to the private institutions by the state, the liability of the government on this account will be 60 per cent of Rs 432 crore ie about Rs 260 crore.There shall be no burden of course fee on SC students, who shall be provided free education.Eligibility criteriaThe scheme will be applicable to the SC category students domiciled in Punjab who have done matriculation from Punjab and Chandigarh. All Central, state government and private institutions in Punjab and Chandigarh will be covered under the scheme.
15-10-2020||---||Khalistan flag: NIA conducts searches||New Delhi, October 14The anti-terror probe agency NIA today said it had conducted searches at six locations in Ferozepur, Ludhiana and Moga districts of Punjab in connection with cases related to cadres of banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).Officials in the NIA said during searches the agency sleuths seized a host of electronic items, including pen drives, laptops and hard discs, besides incriminating documents.They said the case related to hoisting of Khalistani flag by SFJ cadres at the Moga Deputy Commissioner’s Office on the eve of Independence Day. The crime was committed by miscreants who were offered cash reward at the behest of designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the outfit.The officials said the raided premises belonged to accused Akashdeep Singh, Jogwinder Singh, Inderjeet Singh, Jaspal Singh and Ram Tirath. A cyber cafe belonging to accused Jaspal Singh was also searched, they added.
15-10-2020||Moga/Ferozepur||Heroin worth Rs 50 cr seized near border||The Ferozepur CIA staff and 29 Battalion of the BSF seized 9.42 kg heroin from near the border-observation post Lakha Singh Wala on the India-Pakistan border in Ferozepur district today.The estimated value of the seized heroin is over Rs 50 crore in the international market. Earlier, Kishan Singh of Lalu Wala village had revealed that a consignment of heroin was hidden near the border fencing.Kishan Singh was taken into custody a couple of days ago in connection with a drugs case.— TNS
15-10-2020||GS Paul||Missing 'saroops': SGPC again moves Takht to punish guilty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14The SGPC, which is facing the heat from several quarters for acting ‘arbitrarily’ against those involved in the gross misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, has again approached the Akal Takht on the issue of awarding exemplary punishment to the guilty.Earlier, the SGPC had stepped down from conducting an inquiry into the issue and urged the Akal Takht to do the same. The Akal Takht-appointed probe panel, headed by Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh, zeroed in on 16 officials and staff members of the publication department responsible for the misappropriation of ‘saroops’.SGPC FACES WRATH OF SIKH ORGANISATIONSThough the SGPC immediately terminated the services of six officials and suspended others fearing ‘external interference’, it back-tracked from its decision of initiating criminal proceedings against them.The SGPC’s U-turn after nine days of passing a resolution on August 27 invited the wrath of several Sikh organisations.The Dharam Parchar Committee (DPC) of the SGPC has urged Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh, to award stern religious punishment to the culprits.The DPC, at its meeting held recently, said it was unfortunate that the erring officials and staff members of the SGPC misappropriated the ‘saroops’ and pocketed ‘bheta’.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said a resolution was passed appealing Giani Harpreet Singh to pronounce ‘misali saza” (exemplary punishment) so that a similar incident was not repeated in the future.He said the SGPC executive had withdrawn its decision of taking criminal action against the accused after receiving numerous messages from Sikh intellectuals and the Sant Samaj that the police or any external agency should not be involved in the religious affairs. “That’s why we have sought the Akal Takht’s intervention again. Earlier also, the inquiry was conducted by the Akal Takht only”, he said.
15-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Two magazines, followers carry forward Ambedkar’s legacy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 14The ‘Pravartan divas’ on October 14, 1956, when Dr BR Ambedkar embraced Buddhism at Deekshbhoomi, Nagpur, along with 60,000 of his followers, sparked a revival of the religion in Punjab.One of his oldest living associates, Lahori Ram Balley, began publishing the Bheem Magazine in 1958. It is the legacy of these Ambedkarite Buddhists which continues in the state even after all these years.However, of the 37 per cent Dalit population in Doaba, very few are Buddhists. An event held at Ambedkar Bhawan to commemorate the event today saw a gathering of 40 to 50 people.As many as 5,000 people embraced Buddhism at a huge event frequented by Ambedkar’s associates at Chak Hakim village in Phagwara on June 17, 1963.Lahori Ram Balley, who himself embraced Buddhism at the 1963 event, said: “After that, a ceremony in such huge numbers hasn’t happened. Buddhism is the voice of rationality and logic which Babsaheb advocated.”Balley added: “A handful of loyal Buddhist Ambedkarites carry forward the message. But it is a trying time for minorities in the country and Buddhists also undergo a similar crisis.”Ramesh Sidhu (75), an Ambedkarite Buddhist and editor/publisher of Bodh Dharm Pracharak (started in 1987), said: “There was a Buddhism revival following Ambedkar’s embracing of the religion. The Dalit Ambedkarite identity is intact. But it would be wrong to say the Buddhist Amedkarite legacy is doing as well.”
15-10-2020||Bathinda||SOPs issued for reopening schools||The district administration today issued SOPs to be followed for reopening schools for classes IX to XII and coaching centres from October 15 onwards outside containment zones.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said, “The schools and coaching centres outside containment zones will be allowed to operate from October 15 onwards. Students from classes IX to XII can start attending their classes, but only after getting approval from their parents for the same.”The DC added schools that were allowed to operate would have to comply with the SOPs issued by the Health Department. “Wearing of masks and ensuring proper sanitisation measures will be mandatory. To ensure social distancing, space of rooms, open spaces must be considered and punitive action will be taken against those found violating the directions,” said the DC. — TNS
15-10-2020||Bathinda||Talwandi Sabo cops accused of thrashing scribe||A scribe of a vernacular daily has accused the Talwandi Sabo police of taking him and his brother into police custody and illegally beating them in a land dispute case with his neighbour.The victims have been identified as Ram Ramesh of Nathea village and his brother Gopal.The medical report shows that the victims have suffered injuries.Talwandi Sabo SHO Maninder Singh, however, has refuted the allegation leveled against him by the journalist. — TNS
15-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Channi lays stone of ITI in Fatehgarh Sahib||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had decided to launch a scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste (SC) pupils via which their education will be funded till their PhD is complete.The scheme would be launched soon, as the state government was concerned about the future of SC students hailing from poor families, said Minister for Technical Education, Industrial Training, Employment Generation, Tourism and Cultural Affairs Charanjit Singh Channi after laying the stone of ITI, which is to be set up at a cost of Rs 8 crore at Bhagrana village here.The state government was committed for the overall development of the district, the land of martyrs. Modern machinery would be installed at a cost of Rs 4 crore for imparting technical training to students, Channi said. — OC
15-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Right to travel abroad fundamental, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 14In a significant judgment that will change the way NRIs and other accused are prevented from taking a trip to a foreign country during the pendency of criminal cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the right to travel abroad was a part of the fundamental right to personal liberty. This and other rights of an accused do not get automatically suspended merely because he is being prosecuted in a criminal case.What court saidJustice Anil Kshetarpal also ruled that one could not travel abroad in the absence of a valid passport and such facet of personal liberty could be curtailed only in accordance with the law, which was required to satisfy the test of reasonableness of one or more rights under the Constitution.Justice Kshetarpal also rapped Nawanshahr Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate for committing a “material irregularity” while refusing to issue necessary directions to the Regional Passport Officer to renew the passport of a “green card holder having permit to reside permanently in the USA, particularly when the trial of a criminal case involving the petitioner is pending in the court”.Laying down the principles for deciding pleas for passport renewal, Justice Kshetarpal said an accused was presumed to be innocent until convicted. The courts were required to take into account the nature of allegations, the conduct of the accused and the need to ensure he did not pose the risk of evading prosecution.Ensuring speedy trial of a criminal case and avoiding the possibility of accused fleeing the reach of law ought to be the court’s only concern, the judge ruled. The liberty of a citizen, or even a non-citizen, could not be unreasonably curtailed, except in the circumstances elaborated.The ruling came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Harvinder Singh Bajwa “struck” in the country because he was an accused in a minor offence and the trial’s conclusion was taking “a lot of time”.
15-10-2020||---||Sumedh Saini tried to mislead court: Government||Chandigarh, October 14More than a fortnight after the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered the issuance of a week’s notice in case former top cop Sumedh Singh Saini was to be arrested “in any case pertaining to any incident during his entire service”, the state government today filed a 360-page reply claiming his plea was liable to be dismissed “given the deliberate and wilful suppression of material facts and attempt to mislead the court.Elaborating, the state submitted the prayer for the transfer of investigation in the Multani case to the CBI, also made in the present petition, was there in another petition. Its filing and pendency has been wilfully and deliberately suppressed.“The applicant’s conduct disentitles him from seeking any protection of the nature sought...,” the reply added. The case will now come up for hearing on November 3.In his earlier order, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi had made it clear that the only exception would be the Multani case registered by the Punjab Police on May 6.
15-10-2020||Faridkot||TET exemption for 8,000 education volunteers||FazilkaTender cancelled over tardy lifting of paddyThe state government has cancelled the tender of loading contractor Nishant Gumber on account of tardy lifting of paddy. Gurpreet Singh Kang, District Food and Supplied Controller (DFSC), said, "It would take 3 to 4 days to complete the re-tendering process and in the meanwhile, the commission agents and rice millers could lift the paddy of their own resources.” OCChandigarh4,000 take test for 39 posts of dentistThe Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, held an examination on Sunday where more than 4,000 aspirants appeared for 39 posts of dentist advertised by the state government. Every year around 50 per cent of the 1,100 BDS seats in state's 12 dental colleges remain vacant. Besides, heavy concessions in fee offered by the colleges is not helping. tns
15-10-2020||---||549 fresh cases, 31 succumb in Punjab||Chandigarh, October 14The state reported 549 fresh cases of Covid and 31 deaths today, taking the tally to 1,25,760 and toll to 3,925. Bathinda topped the chart with 68 cases, followed by Ludhiana (64), Patiala (51), Hoshiarpur (47) and Jalandhar (37).The number of active cases has declined to 7,760. At least 1.14 lakh people have recovered from the disease.Currently, 176 patients are on oxygen support while 32 are on ventilator support. Nine deaths were reported in SAS Nagar, five in Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana reported three deaths each, Ferozepur, Muktsar and Pathankot two deaths each and Sangrur, Amritsar, Barnala, Hoshiarpur and Faridkot reported one death each.Sampling at grain marketsMoga: The state Health and Family Welfare Department has set up Covid-sampling corners in eight grain markets of Moga district.District Magistrate Sandeep Hans said that officials had been directed to take samples of farmers, commission agents, drivers and labourers.
15-10-2020||---||Can’t blame farm fires for Delhi air pollution: Punjab Govt||Chandigarh, October 14The government today denied any role of Punjab farmers in the rise of particulate matter in Delhi.Armed with a study by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), the state said the pollution in Delhi was localised and could not be attributed to farm fires in the National Capital Region, or Punjab.The Air Quality Index (AQI), as pointed out in the research paper after studying data for 2018 and 2019, is much better in Punjab than in Delhi.Study reportAmid allegations levelled by the Delhi Government over the past few days, blaming farm fires in Punjab and Haryana for deteriorating air quality in the national capital, the Punjab Pollution Control Board also cited the AQI at various places in Punjab and Delhi, to drive home the point.“If farm fires are the reason behind the deteriorating air quality in Delhi, should the air quality in Punjab not be worse than Delhi?” asks Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board.The AQI in Delhi was 179, with just 2.5 per cent particulate matter. Comparatively, the AQI in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar was 161, 156 and 159 respectively.If farm fires are the reason behind the deteriorating air quality in Delhi, should the air quality in Punjab not be worse than Delhi?  — Krunesh Garg, Pollution Board Member SecyThe state government claimed it had been successful in implementing its stubble-management plan. Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Anirudh Tiwari said besides providing machines to farmers at subsidised rates, it had also been persuading panchayats to pass resolutions against stubble burning. As many as 9,217 panchayats had already passed such resolutions and another 3,805 would do so soon, he said.Air Quality IndexDelhi 179Ludhiana 161Jalandhar 156Amritsar 159
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t allow farmers’ arrest for cavalcade attack: Bittu||Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu today said he would volunteer to get arrested in place of any farmer union member for the attack on BJP state president Ashwani Sharma’s cavalcade.Instead of taking on the protesting farmers, the BJP state president should go and sit with agitating farmers and convey their concerns to the central leadership of his party, Bittu said.He said if anyone came to arrest farmers for the attack on Sharma’s cavalcade, he would stand against such a move. “The BJP is trying to create a law and order problem, besides creating a fear that Governor’s rule can be imposed in the state. The incident has been blown out of proportion,” he said.He said the BJP should not mistake Punjab with Jammu and Kashmir or Ladakh where it could use force to have its way. People of Punjab were known for making sacrifices and taking on their tormentors, he said. The BJP was pushing Punjab towards dark days by abusing law, he said. — TNS
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 of ‘Bishnoi gang’ held, four booked||Seven alleged members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang have been booked by the Chandigarh Police in two cases on the charge of making extortion threats to businessmen, club and hotel owners.One of the suspects, identified as Javed Jinjha (26), an alleged close aide of Bishnoi, was arrested and a country-made pistol seized from his possession.According to the police, they had received a tip-off that members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang — Rajesh Paswan of Sector 56, Rinku of Dadu Majra, Javed Jinjha residing in Sector 37, Deepak Kundu, alias Billa, a resident of Sector 26, Vikramjeet Singh Kular, a resident of Sector 71, Mohali, and Jackie, a Panchkula resident — are active in the tricity and had been demanding extortion money from businessmen, liquor contractors and hotel owners. Rajesh Paswan was an Independent candidate in one of the MC elections.“We had a tip-off that gang members were intimidating the victims by having them speak with Bishnoi, who is lodged in a jail at Rajasthan, through a WhatsApp video call,” said a police official.The police said the suspects were also involved in other criminal activities in the region and possessed automatic, semi-automatic and country-made weapons, besides drugs.Javed Jinjha was nabbed on the road separating Sector 55 and 56. A country-made pistol and a cartridge was seized from Jinjha.A case under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion) and 386 (extortion by putting any person in fear of death or grievous hurt) of the IPC, Section 22 and 29, NDPS Act, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, has been against suspects at the Sector 39 police station. Meanwhile, a case of extortion has also been registered against Rinku and another suspect, Chetan Munjal, at the Sector 36 police station for allegedly demanding Rs20,000 from a man who operates a hotel in Kajheri. Both of them have been arrested.Three booked in F Bar firingThree from among the suspects — Rajesh Paswan, Rinku and Chetan Munjal — were also booked in the case of firing at F Bar, a night club in Sector 26, during the birthday bash of Sahdev Salaria, an aide of MP Kirron Kher, in 2018.School connectionOne of the suspects, Javed Jinjha, was Bishnoi’s junior at a school in Abohar. Jinjha was earlier arrested by the UT crime branch in 2018 while possessing a country-made pistol.On listThe UT police have prepared a list of 25 persons, who are alleged members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||ABVP demands inquiry into scholarship scam||The Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) Punjab called for an immediate and impartial enquiry against Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was given a clean chit in the multi-crore SC post-Matric scholarship scam in the state recently.The ABVP submitted a memorandum to the Punjab Governor and demanded resignation of Dharamsot. The ABVP state joint secretary, Diksha, said, “An additional chief secretary of the department concerned exposes the whole trail of corruption in this particular scholarship scheme, which is around Rs64 crore.”“The scheme is a platform to provide quality education to students. Anti-Dalit and anti-education face of this government has been exposed by this scam as they don’t want students to get good education and have a better future,” Diksha added.The ABVP Chandigarh secretary, Ajay Sood, said, “The government should conduct an open investigation under the supervision of a sitting High Court judge. Until then Dharamsot should resign.”
15-10-2020||Mohali||Seven farmers honoured for not burning stubble||Seven farmers of Badanpur village, who did not indulge in stubble burning, were today honoured by the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Association. An awareness camp was organised by the department at Badanpur in Kharar block to curb the trend of burning straw in fields.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Rajiv Kumar Gupta handed over certificates of appreciation to seven farmers of Badanpur village, who managed the straw with machinery for the last five years and did not indulge in burning the crop residue.Addressing farmers, Gupta said , “The district administration is providing machinery to farmers on subsidised rates for stubble management.” — TNS
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gurlal Brar murder case: Gangster Dilpreet Baba’s role to be probed||The UT police are probing the role of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, in the murder of Gurlal Brar. Police officials said Baba would be brought on production warrant for interrogation.Baba is at present lodged in a jail of Punjab.Baba came to the limelight in the city after he, along with his accomplices, shot dead a sarpanch in broad daylight outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 in 2017. Dilpreet was again in news after he shot at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma in Mohali in 2018.He was nabbed by a joint team of personnel from the Punjab and Chandigarh police in July 2018 outside the ISBT, Sector 43.
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||To counter farm laws, Punjab calls session on Oct 19||The Punjab Government has decided to convene a special Vidhan Sabha session on October 19 to bring in a legislation to counter the contentious farm laws. A decision to this effect was taken at a virtual meeting of the Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here on Wednesday.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMShocked at the humiliating treatment by the BJP. The Centre has rubbed salt into the wounds of farmers by sending a bureaucrat to meet them.The Chief Minister had earlier said he would call a special Assembly session to bring in necessary amendments to state laws to negate the “dangerous impact” of the Central legislations, which “are designed to ruin the farmers as well as the state’s agriculture and economy”.In the last Assembly session on August 28, a resolution was passed by a majority to reject the three farm ordinances, which later took the shape of the laws.Opportunity lostSukhbir Badal, SADHe Centre has missed a great opportunity. By provoking farmers and the youth, the BJP is repeating mistakes that the Congress had made. This can vitiate the atmosphere in Punjab.The Opposition parties and farmers have also been urging the government to convene a special session of the Assembly to counter the laws. — TNS
15-10-2020||---||At 5.7%, Punjab positivity rate lower than national average||New Delhi, October 14Ahead of the rollout of unlock 5.0 guidelines starting tomorrow, India today clocked 7.24 million Covid-19 cases with 63,509 daily new infections and 74,632 recoveries.A consistent surge in recoveries—63,01,927 people of the 72,39,389 confirmed cases nationally have been discharged—has given the government the confidence to allow virtually every activity to open from tomorrow, with states to take a call on whether to restart schools. Russia okays 2nd vaccineMoscow: Russia has granted regulatory approval to a second Covid-19 vaccine, according to its register of authorised medicines. The vaccine completed early-stage human trials last month. ReutersNearly 77 per cent of the 63,509 new confirmed cases over 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs with Kerala (8,764) today outnumbering Maharashtra (8,522) in posting the highest number of new cases.The national recovery rate reached 87.05 per cent today.Punjab, Haryana, J&K and Uttarakhand are among the 20 states and UTs with lower positivity rate than the national average of 8.04 per cent.The corresponding rates are 5.70 per cent in Punjab, 6.10 per cent in Haryana, 6.80 per cent in Uttarakhand and 7.10 per cent in J&K. India’s positivity rate had declined despite massive increase in testing with the country crossing the nine crore test mark today after 11,45,015 tests were conducted in 24 hours.
