16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 9 deaths and 298 COVID-19 cases; state's death toll at 230||Punjab reports nine deaths and 298 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state's death toll to 230.With 298 infections, Punjab COVID-19 tally stands at 9,094.In the last 24 hours, Ludhiana recorded 49 cases whereas Jalandhar reported 39 infections.Both Amritsar and Patiala recorded 28 cases.The infections of 17 positive COVID-19 cases is out of Punjab.About 6,277 patients have recovered from the deadly disease and discharged.Now, Punjab has 2,587 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-9-deaths-and-298-covid-19-cases-states-death-toll-at-230-113834
16-07-2020||---||Punjab CM asks DGP to create special covid reserves, withdraw cops from non-essential duties||Chandigarh, July 16Expressing concern over the increasing cases and fatalities in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the DGP to create special Covid Reserves by withdrawing police personnel deployed on non-essential duties for the next few months.Chairing a Covid review video conference, the Chief Minister also asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to tighten the noose against violators of safety norms, especially those found not wearing masks. He further directed the DGP to instruct the SSPs of cities with large caseloads to strictly enforce all curbs and norms to check further spread of the disease.As deaths per million in Punjab increased to 7.7, Amarinder directed the health department to identify containment and micro containment zones more quickly and clamp down on them with speed to check the spread of the pandemic. The state currently has 38 micro containment zones in 12 districts and 7 containment zones in 6 districts.The Chief Minister also called for immediate action to increase testing as per the targets already decided by the state government. Underlining the need for extreme caution, even though the state’s figures were still better than the national average, he also asked district administration to strictly enforce all the latest guidelines, especially with respect to restriction of 5 persons in gatherings.Seeking the support of the people to win the fight, the Chief Minister said district administrations and the health department should work actively with local leaders to drive a community-led effort to check the spread of Covid. He pointed out that in Amritsar, the work done by District Administration, Police, Govt Medical College Community Medicine Department, Health Department and other experts was showing good results. He also lauded the work done by private institutions such as DMC Ludhiana, which had tied up with Ram Shriram Society to arrange more beds for Level 1 patients, with DC Ludhiana and CP Ludhiana playing a key role in facilitating the partnerships.The DGP earlier said action was being taken against all violators by the police, who were also keeping a close check on the incoming travellers. Around 40% of the entrants were daily travellers, he said, adding that close tabs were being kept on all, with follow-up action. A total of 125 active cases of Covid were currently present in the police force, with 161 of their family members also testing positive, he told the meeting, adding that all infected personnel were being kept in isolation.Earlier, Dr KK Talwar, who heads the expert committee advising the state government, for tele-monitoring of home isolation/ home quarantine cases, tenders have been floated by PHSC and bids have to be submitted by Friday. Further, 17 ALS Ambulances have been ordered by PHSC and 5 are expected to be delivered by the end of this week, he revealed in the Action Taken Report (ATR) of the committee.As a follow-up of the Chief Minister’s approval to setting up plasma banks in the state, Dr Talwar said Dr Neelam Marwaha, Former Head Blood Bank & Transfusion Medicine PGIMER, Chandigarh, has been engaged to look after these banks. He added that after discussion with ADGP (Prisons), it has been decided to keep COVID positive prisoners for 17 days in isolation facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-asks-dgp-to-create-special-covid-reserves-withdraw-cops-from-non-essential-duties-113813
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 16 fresh COVID-19 cases; district total climbs to 472||Mohali reports 16 COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the district total to 472.The death toll stands at nine.After making a complete recovery, seven coronavirus infections were discharged.Earlier, Eight people were discharged from the hospital.Mohali now has 160 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-reports-16-fresh-covid-19-cases-district-total-climbs-to-472-113803
16-07-2020||New Delhi||Sikhs protest against Pakistan spy agency ISI for backing pro-Khalistan activities||Members of the Sikh community on Thursday held a protest near the Pakistan High Commission here against ISI for backing pro-Khalistan activities and the ‘Khalistan Referendum 2020’, police said.The protest, led by Sardar Manjit Singh GK, international president of Jag Assara Guru Ott (Jathedar Santokh Singh), began around 11.30 am, a senior police officer said. There were around 50 to 60 Sikh protestors who tried to march towards the Pakistan High Commission from Teen Murti. However, they were stopped near Chanakyapuri police station, he said.The protestors were shouting slogans against Pakistan’s spy agency ISI for promoting pro-Khalistan activities and supporting the ‘Khalistan Referendum 2020’, an online campaign to demand a separate homeland for the Sikhs.The ‘Referendum 2020’ is an initiative of pro-Khalistan group Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), which has been banned by the Indian government for advocating a separate homeland for the Sikhs.The Centre in a July 10, 2019 notification had declared the SFJ as an unlawful association and had banned it for five years, saying the group’s primary objective was to establish an “independent and sovereign country” in Punjab and it openly espouses the cause of Khalistan, challenging the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhs-protest-against-pakistan-spy-agency-isi-for-backing-pro-khalistan-activities-113801
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab caps COVID treatment rates for private hospitals||To check profiteering by private hospitals during the current pandemic, the Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab Government has fixed their COVID treatment rates.The decision was announced on Thursday after a COVID review Video Conference (VC) meeting chaired by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The rates, finalised for Private Hospitals and Medical Colleges by Dr K.K. Talwar Committee, cover isolation beds, ICU treatment and hospitalisation charges, per day of admission.For Moderate Sickness requiring Isolation Beds, including supportive care and oxygen, the rates per day of admission are fixed at Rs 10,000 for all Private Medical Colleges / NABH Private Hospitals with teaching programme from NBE, Rs 9000 for NABH accredited Hospitals (Including Private Medical Colleges without PG/DNB Course) and Rs. 8000 for Non- NABH accredited Hospitals.The rates across these categories of hospitals for Severe Sickness (ICU without need for ventilator) have been capped, respectively, at Rs. 15,000, Rs. 14,000 and Rs. 13,000, while for Very Severe or Critical patients, these are fixed at Rs. 18,000, Rs. 16,500 and Rs. 15,000 respectively.All these rates are inclusive of PPE cost, according to an official spokesperson.In order to encourage private hospitals to cater to Mild Sickness cases also, the Dr Talwar Committee has also fixed per day admission rates for such cases at Rs. 6,500, Rs. 5,500 and Rs. 4,500 respectively.The move comes amid several complaints received by the state government of private hospitals charging exorbitantly for COVID treatment.The Chief Minister, who had personally also received complaints on this count, had asked the Dr Talwar committee and the state health and family welfare department to look into the matter and work out the rates after discussions with private hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-caps-covid-treatment-rates-for-private-hospitals-113798
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM approves health insurance cover for Rs 9.5 Lakh farming families for 2020-21||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday gave the go-ahead to bring a total of 9.5 lakh farmers and their families into the ambit of the health insurance coverage under the ‘Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana for the year 2020-21, as against around 5 lakh covered in the previous year.The scheme, launched by the state government on the Rajiv Gandhi birth anniversary on August 20, 2019, with 45 lakh families covered for 2019-2020, has proved to be highly beneficial to people of Punjab during the COVID-19 crisis. The state government has also capped charges for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.The Chief Minister said that the beneficiaries can approach any of the 546 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment facility of up to Rs.5 lakh for 1,396 diseases, including major surgical treatments such as heart surgery, cancer treatment, joint replacement and accident cases under the health insurance scheme.The number of farmers covered during the first year of the scheme stood at around 5 lakh, as these had been issued 'J' forms in 2015 by the Mandi Board. With 8.7 lakh farmers and 80000 cane growers now registered with the Mandi Board as 'J' form holders, having sold their agricultural produce on/after January 1, 2020, and on November 1, 2019-March 31, 2020 sugar season, respectively, the farming families eligible for cover during 2020-21 has now gone up to 9.5 lakh. With the Chief Minister approving their inclusion in the scheme, all the 9.5 lakh will now be covered with effect from August 20, 2020, according to an official spokesperson.The Mandi Board will pay the entire premium for the insurance cover of all the farmers, who will get cashless treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. All the eligible farmers having ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weightment slips’ would be required to submit their duly filled self-declaration, along with the other necessary documents, at the concerned Market Committee office or with the Commission Agent (Arhtiya) till July 24, 2020. The Chief Minister has asked Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh to direct the Market Committees to facilitate every farmer to avail this cashless treatment facility in a seamless manner.ACS Development Anirudh Tewari said that the Mandi Board has invited applications from the eligible farmers so as to ensure that every farmer is benefitted. The interested farmers can collect self-declaration form either from the office of Market Committee or Commission Agents (Arhtiyas) or download the same from the website of the Mandi Board www.mandiboard.nic.in. The Mandi Board shall upload the data on the specially designated portal after receiving applications from the farmers and subsequently "Health Insurance Cards" would be issued to eligible farmers. He further stated that scheme is cashless and all the ailments which require hospitalization of more than 24 hours or listed daycare procedure are covered under the scheme.Tewari said that besides the family head, Husband/Wife, Father/Mother, Unmarried Children, Divorced Daughter and her minor children, Widowed Daughter-in-Law and her minor children would be considered eligible to derive benefit under the scheme. Any further information can be sought from the toll-free no. 104 in this regard, added ACS Development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-approves-health-insurance-cover-for-rs-9-5-lakh-farming-families-for-2020-21-113794
16-07-2020||New Delhi||Northern Railway completes electrification work on 130 km line in Punjab, Haryana||The Northern Railway has completed the electrification work of 130 km section in Punjab and Haryana which will ensure that no more diesel locomotives are used in the stretch, officials said on Thursday.The electrified lines include 62 km-long Dhuri (Punjab)-Jakhal (Haryana) line and the 68 km Dhuri-Lehra Mohabbat single line in Ambala Division, a statement from the Northern Railways said.A speed trial for up to 120 kmph was also done in these sections.The Dhuri-Jakhal section in the significant Ludhiana-Dhuri-Jakhal line is a railway line connecting Ludhiana in Punjab and Jakhal in Haryana. The Dhuri-Lehra Mohabbat section falls in the Rajpura-Bathinda line and will be significant as it will improve mobility."While we have electrified major routes on northern railways, there are patches where our trains get delayed because the electric locomotive has to be changed to diesel on them. With the electrification of these sections, it will be a seamless travel, there will be no delays and above all, it will save energy. This is a significant move of the railways towards 100 per cent electrification," an official said.Intensive inspections of the sections were carried out by Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety Shailesh Kumar Pathak.Pathak conducted detailed safety inspections of Dhuri-Jakhal and Dhuri-Lehra Mohabbat sections using motor trolley. Later, current collection tests and speed trials by electric locomotive were also done. The speed trial between Jakhal-Dhuri and Lehra Mohabbat-Dhuri sections with up to 120 km per hour was recorded successfully, the statement said.The tests were done using Oliver-G technology which is a type of 'over-head line' inspection with video recording and GPS marking system for current collection. It is a highly reliable technology for ensuring spark-free current collection.Several other structures like ROBs, RUBs, level crossings and FOBs on the line were also checked during the inspection. The CCRS also inspected the railway stations and their amenities located on the sections.Rajiv Chaudhry, General Manager Northern and North Central Railways, said the CCRS expressed satisfaction over the electrification work done and has accorded approval for the use of the sections by Railways. The railway lines have been put to use and Northern Railway has started train operations on them.As of now, more than 40,000 Route km (RKM) has been electrified, which is 63 per cent of broad gauge routes.During 2014-2020, 18,605 km has been electrified and the Railways has set a target of achieving electrification on 7,000 RKM in 2020-21.All routes on BG network are planned to be electrified by December 2023. Amid the coronavirus pandemic in which all passenger services remained suspended, the Railways commissioned 365 km route for electrification. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/northern-railway-completes-electrification-work-on-130-km-line-in-punjab-haryana-113784
16-07-2020||Patiala||Patiala police books rumour monger for spreading fake information related to COVID-19||Expressing its solidarity with frontline COVID-19 warriors active to contain the pandemic in Patiala, Patiala police have registered an FIR against a social media rumour monger for spreading fake information regarding the COVID-19 pandemic.Divulging the details, SSP Patiala Mandeep Singh Sidhu said as per information received from the office of the Civil Surgeon, some persons were spreading fake information related to COVID-19 near Topkhana containment zone on social media platforms.A case had been registered under Section 188, 186 of the IPC and Section 51 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act at Kotwali police station on Wednesday night.The SSP said from a Facebook address by the name of “Ronak Estates”, some unknown persons were provoking people against the health officials and the administration. As a result, hindrance was being caused in the working of the medical staff, who had been deployed at the containment zone.Reiterating the district police’s commitment, the SSP said all frontline warriors were working day and night to ensure the safety of people. The rumours and fake information not only cause hindrance in their work but also lower their morale.Patiala police is fully committed to take stringent legal action against these rumour mongers, SSP Sidhu said. He further appealed to all residents to work as a team and refrain from sharing unauthentic and fake information at any platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-police-books-rumour-monger-for-spreading-fake-information-related-to-covid-19-113740
16-07-2020||---||Punjab minister Tript Bajwa's wife and son also test Covid positive||Chandigarh, July 16The wife and son of Punjab Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa, too, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday.Bajwa had tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder tweeted wishing Bajwa good health.The development came a week after Director Rural Development Vipul Ujjwal tested positive.Director Health Services Dr Avneet Kaur said that Bajwa’s swabs taken last week after Ujjwal tested positive had come back.“However, he developed flu like symptoms. So, we repeated the test today, which was found positive,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-minister-tript-bajwas-wife-and-son-also-test-covid-positive-113736
16-07-2020||Harshraj Singh||Girls show the way, outperform boys in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 15Girls from the Ludhiana district excelled once again as the CBSE declared its Class X results on Wednesday. Anhad Gill of Sacred Heart Convent School got 98.6% marks (aggregate of five main subjects). Her total aggregate score with best of five subjects, including vocational subject was 99.4%.Anhad said she wants to be a doctor. “My complete focus was on studies in classroom and doing homework at home in routine. I did extra studies during exams. To keep myself stress free, I used to talk with my parents and spend time on hobbies like calligraphy and reading books,” said Anhad. “I have obtained 100 marks in IT, a vocational subject. I have taken admission in Class XI medical stream and want to become a doctor,” Anhad added.Two more students of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, — Mansa Mahendru scored 98.4% while Pankhuri Dawar got 98.2% marks. Mansa wants to become an engineer and is interested in studying environment. Sharing his happiness over daughter’s performance, Parveen Mahendru, Mansa’s father, said she worked hard and studied subjects in depth.Pankhuri Dawar said she wants to become a doctor. “I was regular in studies and did routine revision of subjects at home. My focus was on self-studies. I have taken admission in Class XI medical stream. I like to listen to music and play badminton in free time.”Anushka Jha of DCM Presidency School has scored 98.2%. She wants to become a software computer engineer. She said, “I usually did regular studies. I took short breaks during study. I have taken admission in Class XI non-medical stream.”Village girl shines, wants to become IAS officerGurleen Kaur of Sant Ishar Singh Ji Memorial School, Rara Sahib, Ludhiana district, has scored 98.2% marks. She is a football player. Belonging to Jhammat village, Gurleen said she did not take any coaching or tuition for any subject. “After attending classes at school, I used to do self-study at home. My teachers are very encouraging,” Gurleen added. “I want to become an IAS officer and will prepare to fulfill my dream. Now, I have taken admission in Class non-medical stream. I have played in a state-level football tournament,” said Gurleen. Gurleen’s father Tirath Singh, “We are happy with achievement of our daughter. I want that she fulfills all dreams in her life. I want to thank all her teachers.”Anhad Gill 98.6%School: Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, LudhianaAim: Wants to become a doctorSuccess mantra: Extra studies during exam. Focus on classroom studies & daily revision at homeAbout parents: - Father Dr Sandeep Singh Gill and mother Dr Amanjot Kaur Gill, both are professors.Mansa Mahendru 98.4%School: Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, LudhianaAim: Wants to become an environmental engineerSuccess mantra: Studying subjects in detail & routine revisionAbout parents: Father Parveen Mahendru is LIC Development Officer and mother Ritu Mahendru is teacher.Pankhuri Dawar 98.2%School: Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, LudhianaAim: Wants to become a doctorSuccess mantra: Regular self-study & routine revision of all subjects at homeAbout parents: Father Kamal Dawar is businessman and mother Kavita Dawar is homemaker.Anushka Jha 98.2%School: DCM Presidency School, LudhianaAim: Wants to become a software computer engineerSuccess mantra: - Regular studies. Short breaks during studyAbout parents: Father Nagendra Jha is businessman and mother Shweta is housewife.Gurleen Kaur 98.2%School: Sant Ishar Singh Ji Memorial School, Rara Sahib.Aim: Wants to become an IAS officerSuccess mantra: Self studies, regular at school & no tuitionsAbout parents: Father Tirath Singh is teacher at Government School (Jartauli) and mother Jagdeep Kaur housewife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girls-show-the-way-outperform-boys-in-ludhiana-113646
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||DSP, RTA staff among 92 test positive in Jalandhar||Days after a judge, an SSP, an SDM, a former minister, the secretary at the RTA office and a Bishop tested positive in the district, a DSP and six employees of the RTA office are among the 92 persons who tested positive on Wednesday in the district.With the 92 new cases, the tally of cases has risen to 1,433 in the district. There are four women employees among the six persons of the RTA office who tested positive. Notably, the RTA office had already been sealed for 72 hours after the secretary of the office tested positive.With six employees of the RTA office tested positive, the RTA office and the driving track would further be closed until Friday. The office and the track will now open on Monday.The District Administrative Complex has already been under the scanner with the DC already issuing orders restricting the number of visitors to the office after the last spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar.Of the 92 fresh cases, 49 are contacts of previous positive cases and 43 are new cases. A number of cases were reported from Kartarpur and others from Randhawa Masandan, Shahkot and other areas.Two cops, 1 NRI among five new cases in HoshiarpurThe number of patients affected by the coronavirus in the district has increased to 215 with the arrival of five new positive cases in the district.Among the new patients are two policemen and a person who returned from abroad.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 31-year-old woman of Seehwan village and a 32-year-old NRI of the area under PHC Hajipur have been found positive. Also, two policemen and a person from the area under PHC Chakkowal have been found positive. He said 588 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Wednesday. Five persons were reported positive out of the 551 reports received from the lab today. Dr Singh said total 19085 samples have been taken so far and according to the reports received from the lab, 17,702 samples have been reported negative, while the reports of 1,160 samples are still awaited. As many as 30 samples have been found invalid, 183 patients have cured, while active patients are 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsp-rta-staff-among-92-test-positive-in-jalandhar-113666
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||Meet Jhanvi, a national-level Jalandhar swimmer and 88.6% scorer||Coursing through her studies swiftly as she does her butterfly stroke when she swims, 16-year-old Jhanvi Sharma, a city-based national-level swimmer, has done her parents and school proud by striking the perfect balance between her studies and game as she scored 88.6 per cent in the Class X CBSE results announced on Wednesday.“I was under a lot of stress in the beginning to perform in studies too. But as time advanced, I managed to survive the pressure through my dedication, time management and consistency,” Jhanvi, who is a student of DAV Police Public School, shares.She has five to six national championships in her kitty and is rated among the top swimmers of the district. Having a knack for tasting victory, she is a winner of gold and silver medals in several championships, including, Sub-Junior Swimming Championship held in Mohali, CBSE National Swimming Championship, Tandrust Punjab, CBSE cluster-level Championship, National School Championship among others. “Parents and teachers remained a great source of motivation and support. I neither took sports nor studies as burden. I devoted equal time to both,” she says.While she practiced swimming for four to five hours daily, self-studying in academics helped her obtain a good score, but she had been expecting a much better outcome. “I have always scored above 90% marks in my previous results. I was expecting a better result,” says Jhanvi, who started her day early for swimming and ended it late with studies.She is the daughter of Mohinder Pal, a swimming coach and a Punjab Police employee. She is full of praise for her parents’ guidance both on-field and off it as well. “With the help of my mother and father, I focussed on carving out dedicated time for studies when out of on-field schedule and engaged in art and craft too to relieve stress,” she says.She added more feathers to her cap when she won a gold in a national-level tournament last year. With over 100 medals and several trophies, she is also the sports captain of her school.“I will carry on the groove in the future too,” she pledges, before adding, “I sure have an eye on achieving the satisfactory result come next board examinations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meet-jhanvi-a-national-level-jalandhar-swimmer-and-88-6-scorer-113669
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||CM lauds Hoshiarpur girl on getting admitted to Oxford University||On getting admitted to Oxford University, the CM congratulated Hoshiarpur girl, Pratishtha, who is physically disabled but full of potential. The CM not only bucked up the girl’s confidence but also ensured of providing assistance in the future. “I couldn't believe when I got to know the Chief Minister wants to talk to me on phone,” said Pratishtha.76 from MGN score above 90%As many as 76 students of MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, scored above 90 per cent marks. City topper Maanya got 99 per cent marks, Manisha got 98.2 per cent, Samarth got 97.4 per cent and Jigyasu 97.4 per cent.Police DAV Public SchoolAs many as 35 students from the school scored above 90 per cent marks. Eight students scored 100 marks in social science, two students scored 100 marks in mathematics and seven students scored 100 marks in Punjabi. Swapnil Chhiber got 98.8 per cent, Arshdeep K Pawar 98.6 per cent, Srijan Sehgal 98.4 per cent, Priyansha 97.6 per cent and Mannat 96.8 per cent.Sanskriti KMV SchoolAnupama scored 98.6 per cent marks. The other students who excelled in the examinations were Gunpriya 97.8 per cent, Dhriti Pandey 97.4 per cent, Sargunpal Kaur 96.8 per cent, Lovish Bansal 96.8 per cent and Navjot Kaur 95.4 per cent.Swami Sant Dass SchoolArushi Midha has brought laurels to the school by scoring 98.8 per cent marks. Mankirat Singh got 97.4 per cent, Prabhnoor Kaur 97 per cent, Pritika 96.2 per cent and Anshita 96 per cent.MGN Public School, Urban EstateNearly 26 students of the school got above 90 per cent marks. Gurmehar scored 98 per cent marks, Kajal Dhanjal 96.6 per marks and Sehajpreet Kaur 96.2 per cent.Delhi Public SchoolAs many as 23 students got above 90 per cent marks. Uday Arora topped the school with 96.8 per cent followed by Ananya Mayor and Bhavya Jain who secured the second and third positions with 96.4 and 96.2 per cent marks, respectively. Five students scored a perfect 100 in different subjects.Apeejay SchoolAs many as 58 students scored above 90 per cent marks. Sarthak Kapoor got 97.6 per cent marks, Aarush Mahajan 96.4 per cent, Anmol Garg 96.2 per cent and Aditya Chauhan 96 per cent.Innocent Hearts SchoolMridul Gupta topped the school with 97.4 per cent marks. As many as 82 students got more than 90 per cent marks. Kanan Pathak secured second position with 96.8 per cent marks. Paramvir Singh and Sneha got 96.6 per cent marks each to bag the third position. Prakriti Sharma and Sahil Goswami secured 96.4 per cent and Anushka Chodha and Ekampreet got 96 per cent marks.St Soldier SchoolManinder Singh of St Soldier School bagged 97 per cent marks. Chairman Anil Chopra and vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra congratulated all the students.Mayor World SchoolNimish Mahajan and Sarisha Arora secured 97 per cent and 96.8 per cent to bag the first and second positions, respectively. On the whole, 37 students scored 90 per cent and above.Eklavya SchoolNine students got above 90 per cent marks. Parmeet Kaur topped the school with 96 per cent marks. The management, principal and staff congratulated the toppers.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolMoksha topped the school with 96.8 per cent. Twentyfour students got 90 per cent and above marks.Dayanand Model Sr Sec School, Dayanand NagarRishabh Mital topped the school with 92.6 per cent marks followed by Muskan Nayyar, Prince and Pinak Gupta who secured the second position with 91.8 per cent marks. Gurasees Kaur secured the third position with 89.2 per cent marks. The principal congratulated the students and their parents and wished them a bright future.DRV DAV Centenary School, PhillaurAs many as 13 students got above 90 per cent marks. Priyal Arora scored 96.4 per cent and Harpinder Kaur 96.2 per cent marks. Principal Yogesh Gambhir congratulated the toppers.DAV School (Nawanshahr)Armaan Singh and Kashish Markanda got 95 per cent marks each.Cambridge International School (Nawanshahr)Anika Dugh topped the school with 94.2 per cent marks while Radhika secured the second position with 92.8 per cent marks. Navdeep Kaur and Vishal Jain got 91.2 and 91 per cent, respectively.Cambridge International School (Phagwara)Harnoor Kaur topped the school with 97 per cent marks. Akashvi Chauhan and Samridhi secured the second position with 94.8 per cent marks each followed by Sreejan and Ansh Arora who secured the third position with 94.6 per cent marks. Principal Jorawar Singh said the excellent results reflected the perseverance and hard work of the students and the faculty. Out of the 97 students who appeared in the exams, 17 students secured 90 and above marks. Sixtyfive students got 75 and above marks.Swami Sant Dass Public School (Phagwara)Out of 129 students who appeared in the examination, 19 scored 90 per cent marks. Hiya Syal topped the school with 96.8 per cent marks followed by Aryan Gaba who secured the second position with 95 per cent and Lokesh Sharma third position with 94 per cent.Kamla Nehru Public School (Phagwara)Harleen Kaur, Harshdeep and Tanvir Kaur secured the first, second and third positions with 97.2 per cent, 94.6 per cent and 89.4 per cent marks, respectively. Seventy-three students out of the 114 scored above 90 per cent marks in different subjects. Principal PK Dhillon congratulated the achievers.— TNSCIS Dasuya students shineHoshiarpur: Students of CIS Dasuya brought laurels to the school in the CBSE Class X results that were declared on Wednesday. Sohvat Saini came first with 97 per cent marks, Arin Aggarwal, Anureet Kaur Dhatt and Bhavya secured the second position with 96.6 per cent marks and Anureet Kaur and Harshit Chaudhary shared the third position with 96 per cent marks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-lauds-hoshiarpur-girl-on-getting-admitted-to-oxford-university-113680
16-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||CBSE Class X results: Chandigarh behind J&K, Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15How Chandigarh fared2017-18: 66.21%2018-19: 84.05%2019-20: 86.21%The city stands at the second last spot in the region in terms of pass percentage in the CBSE Class X results, which is a cause of worry for local educationists.According to the regional data, UT’s pass percentage remained at 86.21, which is marginally better than Ladakh’s 86.02 per cent — the lowest in the region.Though there is a huge gap between the numbers of students appeared, other states did quite well to remain ahead of Chandigarh.Jammu & Kashmir is the top performer with a pass percentage of 98.29 and Punjab also fared well with 92.12 per cent (average).In Chandigarh, a total of 15,759 students appeared for exams out of which 13,586 passed. As many as 85.44 per cent boys passed while girls have a pass percentage of 86.71. In Ladakh, a total of 640 students passed the exams out of 744 who appeared. The pass percentage for girls is 91.14 and 80.23 for boys.“The Administration and private schools have to take this record into consideration. We have the second highest number of students in the region, as per the CBSE bifurcation. Having a vast infrastructure, management and expertise, we should have been on the top,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Region-wise 9th spotThe Chandigarh region, which includes Punjab, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, remained at the 9th spot with a passing percentage of 91.83, while the Panchkula region, which includes Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, bagged the 6th position with 94.31 per cent.Girls outshine boys — marginallyIn Chandigarh, 8,083 boys and 7,676 girls appeared for the exams. As many as 6,930 boys (85.44 per cent) and 6,656 girls (86.71 per cent) passed the exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbse-class-x-results-chandigarh-behind-jk-punjab-113658
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod to hiring 798 domain experts in Punjab Police||The Punjab Police will hire as many as 798 civilians as domain experts in IT/digital, legal forensics and finance to give a cutting edge to its investigations.Posts for sportspersonsSports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi hailed the Cabinet’s move to allow recruitment of international and national-level medal winners on group A and B posts. This has become possible following an amendment to The Punjab Recruitment of Sportsmen Rules, 1988.The approval to hire the civilian support staff was granted in today’s Cabinet meeting. The Cabinet also approved restructuring of the Punjab Bureau of Investigation that was set up in 2015. As part of the move, the bureau would recruit 4,251 personnel across different ranks and positions, while abolishing 4,849 existing posts so that there is no additional financial burden on the state exchequer, said a senior government functionary.As per the provisional plan, the direct recruitment of police officers will be undertaken across ranks. This will bring about a qualitative change in the investigation process. It would also help improve the quality of investigations in NDPS cases.The fresh recruitments would be done through the Police Recruitment Board, after taking these posts out of the purview of the Subordinate Service Selection Board.Social media outreach||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-nod-to-hiring-798-domain-experts-in-punjab-police-113422
16-07-2020||Faridkot||SIT charges ex-SHO in Behbal Kalan case||A special investigation team (SIT) of the police today nominated Gurdeep Singh Pander, the then Kotkapura SHO, as an accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of October 14, 2015. Pander is already in jail for the past 20 days after he was arrested by the SIT on June 25 in the 2015 firing incident at Kotkapura.During arguments in the court of the District and Sessions Judge, the SIT said other than his active role in the firing incident, Gurdeep had also played a role in hatching a conspiracy along with other police officials.The SIT alleged that after the Kotkapura firing incident on October 14, 2015, a police team led by former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma had a meeting at the Kotkapura police station and he allegedly went to Behbal Kalan to use force on the protesters. Being the SHO, Kotkapura, at that time, Pander was an active member of this team.After the incident, the team returned to the police station and planned fabrication of evidence by creating a false self-defence theory, the SIT alleged in the court. It alleged that Pander actively facilitated other cops in the fabrication of evidence. The court rejected the regular bail plea of Pander and the anticipatory bail of the then Kotkapura DSP, Baljit Singh Sidhu, another accused in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-charges-ex-sho-in-behbal-kalan-case-113423
16-07-2020||Mohali||Babbar Khalsa International operative’s house raided in Mohali||A team of the NIA on Tuesday raided the residence of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) militant Paramjit Singh Pamma at Phase 3B2 here and interrogated his parents.Reportedly, Pamma has been abroad for a long time. He is currently working in close association with Gurpatwant Singh Pannu.The NIA team carried out the raid with the help of the Mohali police. As per information, the Punjab Police are continuing to arrest the activists of Referendum 2020.Pamma’s parents, Amrik Singh and Ratan Kaur, said the search went on from around 10.30 am till 4 pm.The NIA team searched the entire house and also seized the passbooks of bank accounts in which Pamma was depositing money. They also inquired about Pamma’s remittances and other foreign funds and noted the details of the fixed deposit (FD) accounts of the elderly couple.Ratan Kaur said she had met Paramjit in a Portuguese jail in 2015 and since then, she had not spoken to her son.Pamma is their youngest child. Their eldest son, Parminder Singh alias Raja, was allegedly killed by the Punjab Police in a fake encounter in 1991 and Pamma was arrested and allegedly implicated in a false case of illegal arms. He spent 10 months in the Sangrur Jail then. He moved abroad in 1999 after his release from prison and is currently living in London with his family, Ratan Kaur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/babbar-khalsa-international-operatives-house-raided-in-mohali-113427
16-07-2020||Fazilka||Heroin worth Rs2.5 cr seized in Ferozepur, two arrested||The police have arrested two persons for allegedly peddling drugs from Pakistan, and seized 500 gm of heroin from them.On a tip-off, police officials intercepted Sukhwinder Singh, of Lalchian village, and Ranjit Singh, of Gatti Rajoke village in Ferozepur at a barrier on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway. On a search, 500 gm of heroin worth Rs 2.5 crore was seized from them. Their bike was also impounded.Investigating Officer Jalalandhar Singh said the accused had confessed that they were in touch with Pakistani smugglers, and had brought the consignment from Pakistan through a river route in Ferozepur. Further probe is on. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs2-5-cr-seized-in-ferozepur-two-arrested-113469
16-07-2020||Sangrur||Moosewala gets bail in arms case||A local court has granted regular bail to Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala in an Arms Act case. Today, the police claimed that Moosewala had joined the investigation on July 7, but on July 9, they had said the singer had not joined the probe.While granting him interim bail on June 30, a local court had directed Moosewala to join the police investigation within seven days in a case registered at the Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5.“Since the police said Moosewala had joined the investigation, the court has granted him regular bail,” said Mahesh Goyal, Additional Public Prosecutor.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district went viral on social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and eight others.Within 24 hours, another FIR was registered against all of them under the same sections at the Dhuri Sadar police station after a second video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced.On May 17, the police added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act, 1959, to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others. All policemen were suspended after the registration of the FIR.Gurmeet Singh, SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, Sangrur, said, “On July 7, we could not question him as after signing the papers, he started coughing and showed symptoms of Covid-19. We asked him to get medical aid. Since he was wanted in the Barnala case, we informed the Barnala police also about his presence in Sangrur. I also underwent a Covid test and was found negative. He sent his formal statement three days back,” the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moosewala-gets-bail-in-arms-case-113475
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab RERA puts off case hearings||Keeping in view the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) has adjourned hearings in all complaints till August 17. All the hearing between listed between July 15 and August 14 would resume on August 17.In case any party wishes to have a matter heard early before the date fixed for it, an email may be sent at helprera@punjab.gov.in mentioning the complaint number and the reasons for seeking an out-of-turn hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-rera-puts-off-case-hearings-113477
16-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Not allowed to hold dharna, farmers fume||The district administration today thwarted an attempt of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, an organisation comprising representatives of various kisan unions, to organise a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office to protest the “anti-farmer ordinances” of the Union Government.As soon as the kisan union leaders gathered on the premises of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib to hold the meeting, a contingent of police, led by Harpal Singh, SP (Investigation), reached there.While talking to mediapersons on the premises of the gurdwara, Jagjit Singh Dalewal, state president, criticised the union and state governments for their dictatorial and anti-farmer policies.He alleged that the Union Government had brought three ordinances, which were anti-farmer, and there was resentment among the farmer community as now the traders would procure the produce at their own rates. Kisan unions would organise a “Jail Bharo Andolan” from August 10 and members would visit all villages to apprise the farmers about the ill effects of the ordinances, Dalewal added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-allowed-to-hold-dharna-farmers-fume-113478
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||No help, growers forced to sell maize below MSP in Punjab||The state government has been actively promoting maize cultivation as part of its crop diversification plans. However, its own agencies have failed to come to the rescue of maize growers, who are forced to sell their produce at 40-60 per cent less than the minimum support price (MSP) of the crop.As spring maize starts arriving in mandis, farmers are getting just Rs 600 (with high moisture content) to Rs 1,100 (dry crop) per quintal from private traders. The MSP of maize, announced by the government this year, is Rs 1,850 per quintal.State government officials try to shirk their responsibility by saying they are not intervening in the mandis for spring maize, as it is not promoted by the state. Just like ‘saathi dhaan’, spring maize is a water-guzzling crop and is thus not promoted, a senior official in the Agriculture Department told The Tribune. Farmers, however, are not impressed with this ‘lackadaisical’ government response.Gurcharan Singh, who has grown maize on 3.50 acres in Varoke village near Bagha Purana, says he is waiting for buyers. “I have been offered a low price, almost 50 per cent of the MSP. I have not harvested the crop as last year, I got a price of Rs 30,000 per acre while the crop was standing in the fields. We have decided that in case we do not get a reasonable price, we will extract corn kernels and then sell it. That will ensure slightly better prices. Considering the market situation, I am glad I sowed maize on only a portion of the land, and paddy on the other. At least the MSP on paddy is assured,” he says.Farm activist Randeep Singh Sangatpura says the Agriculture Department and PAU have been actively promoting diversification, but in spite of MSP being announced for maize, no one is buying at that price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-help-growers-forced-to-sell-maize-below-msp-in-punjab-113518
16-07-2020||---||Clear village ponds of  encroachments in 6 months: High Court||Chandigarh, July 15Taking cognisance of encroachments and unauthorised constructions on a “maximum number of village ponds” in the state, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today set a six-month deadline for the removal of the same. Mining activity of “any nature whatsoever” in the village ponds throughout the state was also banned and directions issued for the initiation of stringent action against defaulters.The Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu issued four commandments after observing that a startling revelation had been made in a petition regarding illegally mining sand from a pond in Kang Araya village in Phillaur, Jalandhar.Enlarging the scope of the writ petition after taking into consideration larger public interest to save the village ponds throughout the state, the Bench also asked the Punjab Pollution Control Board to monitor the quality of water in the bodies. The Deputy Commissioners across the state were also directed to ensure untreated sewerage/sewage was not let off in village ponds.The Bench also directed the state to ensure that all village ponds were revived, repaired, renovated and rejuvenated after restoration. Directions were also issued for upgrade of the revenue record of all village ponds. For both purposes, the Bench set a six-month deadline.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Sharma asserted the catchment areas had also been encroached upon and untreated sewerage/sewage was permitted to flow in the ponds, affecting the fragile ecology of the area.Justice Sharma added the modus operandi adopted by encroachers was that they filled up the ponds with soil before encroaching upon the area and raising construction on it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clear-village-ponds-of-encroachments-in-6-months-high-court-113520
16-07-2020||Moga||Gangster Sukha Gill Lamme claims he shot Moga trader||Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukha Gill Lamme, an aide of gangster Mandeep Singh Dhruv who is lodged in a jail, today claimed the responsibility of the murder of Moga trader Tejinder Kumar by posting a message on the social media.Sukha claimed that he, along with his associate Harwinder Singh Sandhu, had murdered the trader over some dispute, which was going on between them for the past few days.SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said the police was working on all angles to solve the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-sukha-gill-lamme-claims-he-shot-moga-trader-113521
16-07-2020||Patiala||Suspension of Patiala Bar association chief’s licence revoked||Two days after it suspended the licence of Patiala District Bar Association chief Jatinderpal Singh Ghumaan, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana today revoked its order stating that the controversy had been resolved.Chairman Karanjit Singh said, “Today, an application was filed by Jatinderpal Singh Ghumaan, stating that he had already handed over the entire records to the ad hoc committee.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspension-of-patiala-bar-association-chiefs-licence-revoked-113522
16-07-2020||Abohar||Rain damages canal banks in Ferozepur, farmers edgy||Due to heavy rains, the Ferozepur feeder canal has got damaged at some places. In turn, the discharge of water in the Gang Canal main feeder, which irrigates a large tract of land in Sriganganagar, has also been reduced from 2,500 to 1,800 cusecs.The Ganganagar Kisan Mazdoor Samiti today urged Water Resources Department officials to visit Fazilka and Ferozepur to take stock of the situation. The samiti’s legal adviser Harvinder Singh Gill said efforts should be made immediately to expedite the repair work being carried out by the Punjab Irrigation Department.Gill said due to the rainfall, brick-lining of the canal had got washed away, many trees had fallen in the canal, tracks on both sides had caved in, and there was a possibility of rupture of the canal. This had impacted Gang Canal, which passed through the Abohar-Fazilka area to irrigate Sriganganagar. The discharge of water is diminishing. On Wednesday morning, about 1,800 cusecs was released from the Ballanwala headworks near Ferozepur, while only about 1,500 cusecs was received at Khakha headworks on the Rajasthan-Punjab border near Abohar.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti spokesman Subhash Sehgal said Gang Canal was set to receive 2,500 cusecs from Punjab, but due to the damage of the Ferozepur feeder, many sub-canals had to be closed. The repair work should be completed at the earliest, because if the problem of water shortage persisted for too long, cotton crop might get affected.Sehgal said Ferozepur feeder’s renovation work had been hanging fire due to lack of coordination. In 2016, Rajasthan officials had requested their Punjab counterparts to provide a project report on the Ferozepur feeder. The state government had agreed on it in principle, but no progress was made. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-damages-canal-banks-in-ferozepur-farmers-edgy-113523
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Court stays orders on denial of pay protection||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the operation of orders whereby pay protection was denied to the teachers on appointment as headmasters and headmistress in January, after working in the Punjab Education Department for more than a decade as computer faculty.The order by Justice Ritu Bahri came on a petition filed against the state government and other respondents by Duryodhan Gurdial Singh and other petitioners through Kapil Kakkar and Hema Kakkar.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Kapil Kakkar submitted that the petitioners were aggrieved by the orders dated November 7, 2017, and June 12, 2020, whereby they were denied the benefit of pay protection upon appointment as headmaster and headmistress, despite working in the department for the past 10-14 years as computer faculty.Referring to a plethora of judgments, Kakkar contented that the issue related to the pay protection had attained finality. “The pay has to be protected, if an employee is transferred to another department,” he argued. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-stays-orders-on-denial-of-pay-protection-113526
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh tells ministers to get tested for Covid||A day after Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested positive for Covid-19, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday underwent the test and was found negative, an official spokesperson said.Read also: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh tests COVID-19 negative, urges all ministers to get testedCapt Amarinder urged all ministers as well as MLAs and department secretaries to get themselves tested for the virus. Two ministers — Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Aruna Chaudhary — also got themselves tested today, while some had undergone the test yesterday. Two Congress MLAs also gave their samples. The reports of all of them are awaited.During the Cabinet meeting today, Capt Amarinder said all ministers and officials of various departments, especially those who might have come in contact with the IAS/PCS officers who had been tested positive for Covid-19, should get themselves tested.Bajwa was doing well, he informed the meeting, reiterating the need for extreme caution by all ministers and others engaged in any kind of public dealing.Capt Amarinder has been calling upon everyone in the state to go for testing at the first sign of symptoms.Meanwhile, 288 fresh cases and eight more deaths due to Covid were reported in the state. Three deaths each were reported from Amritsar and Jalandhar and one each from Ludhiana and Pathankot. With these deaths, the number of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 221. Besides, 46 persons are on oxygen support and nine are on ventilator support. Jalandhar is the worst affected district with 92 cases. A DSP and eight employees of the RTA office were among 92 who tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-tells-ministers-to-get-tested-for-covid-113397
16-07-2020||Patiala||Officials collect samples of MLA, kin from home in Patiala||Dr Satinder Sandhu, SMO, said: “Some of the MLA’s workers came to our centre for treatment. So, we took the samples of the MLA as well.”She agreed that the MLA was asymptomatic and he had not come in contact with any positive patient. Sources said rules were violated.The MLA said: “As a public representative, I meet hundreds of people. So, I got myself tested for Covid-19. I and my wife are suffering from other diseases and did not want visit the health centre.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-collect-samples-of-mla-kin-from-home-in-patiala-113411
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court stays final semester exams by Panjab University||Taking into consideration the continuous increase in Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered interim stay on the final examinations to be conducted by Panjab University this month.The direction by Justice Ritu Bahri came on a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners through counsel Harlove Singh Rajput.The petitioners were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby the final year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, the counsel referred to the notification dated June 19 before submitting that the university was to conduct the final semester examinations in July.He also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi High Court before contending that guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission and the ministries were unanimous that there was no compulsion on the university to conduct the final year examinations.He further referred to another notification dated March 18 passed by Symbiosis International (Deemed University), whereby it had taken a decision not to conduct the final examinations. The students were to be given grades on pro-rata basis on their current semester’s internal continuous assessment.“Keeping in view the continuous increase in the number of Covid-19 patients, there shall be an interim stay of final examinations in the month of July,” Justice Bahri concluded, before fixing July 23 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-stays-final-semester-exams-by-panjab-university-113412
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Meet on civic polls tomorrow||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called a meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee on Friday to decide on the schedule of elections to 126 of the 167 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state.The six-month extended term of most of the ULBs under administrators is ending in September. The five-year term of the ULBs had ended in March and April this year after which additional deputy commissioners/SDMs were appointed as administrators.The issue was raised by Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra in today’s Cabinet meeting. In reply, the Chief Minister announced calling a meeting of Cabinet ministers, comprising Mohindra, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and others representing urban areas. “The meeting will deliberate upon the schedule of the elections. The government has to take call on the elections as further extension will have legal implications,” a Cabinet Minister said. As per the Municipal Corporation Act, 1911, civic bodies must go to the polls within six months of expiry of their terms.Sources said conducting the elections amid the Covid pandemic would be a challenge for the government. However, top government functionaries said the CMO was regularly reviewing progress of various development works of the Local Government Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meet-on-civic-polls-tomorrow-113413
16-07-2020||Ludhiana||Class X: It’s girls all the way in Ludhiana||Anhad Gill of Sacred Heart Convent School here scored 98.6 per cent marks in the CBSE Class X examination. Her total aggregate score with best of five subjects, including vocational subject, is 99.4 per cent.Anhad said she wanted to be a doctor. She has taken admission in the medical stream. Both her parents are professors.Mansa Mahendru scored 98.4 per cent while Pankhuri Dawar got 98.2 per cent marks. Both are from Sacred Heart Convent School. Mansa wants to become an engineer, while Pankhuri wants to be a doctor.Gurleen Kaur of Sant Ishar Singh Ji Memorial School, Rara Sahib, has scored 98.2 per cent marks. She is a football player. She wants to become an IAS officer. Anushka Jha of DCM Presidency School has scored 98.2 per cent. She wants to become a software engineer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/class-x-its-girls-all-the-way-in-ludhiana-113414
16-07-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda girl gets 98.4%||Armanveer Kaur of Saint Xavier Convent School here scored 98.4 per cent marks in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X examination, the results of which were declared on Wednesday.Garima from Saint Joseph Convent School secured 98 per cent marks. Sehajdeep Singh from Saint Xavier School secured 97.8 per cent, Jasleen Kaur from Silver Oak School secured 97.4 per cent and Liza Garg from Saint Xavier School secured 97 per cent marks. Samiksha from Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School secured 95.2 per cent and Ishika Jaura from Saint Kabir School secured 92.4 per cent marks. The overall results in the district remained excellent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-girl-gets-98-4-113415
16-07-2020||Muktsar||Gidderbaha event violators booked||After a news report titled “Safety norms go for toss at Cong’s Gidderbaha event” was published in one of these columns on July 14, the Gidderbaha police have booked unidentified people for violating the social distancing and other Covid safety norms.The event dates back to July 13 wherein the recently appointed chairman and vice-chairman of the Congress had assumed their charge. A large number of people had gathered at the market committee office in Gidderbaha.Among the attendees included MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Zila Parishad chairman Narinder Singh Kaoni, SDM Om Parkash and DSP Gurtej Singh. Despite the social distancing norm having gone for a toss, the event was conducted successfully, with no one having bothered to raise questions on the violation of the Covid safety guidelines. A number of people were not even wearing masks.MK Aravind Kumar, District Magistrate-cum-DC, Muktsar, has even issued show-cause notices to SDM Om Parkash and DSP Gurtej Singh, who had attended the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gidderbaha-event-violators-booked-113416
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||In Jalandhar, Maanya tops with 99% marks||Maanya Sekhri, a student of MGN Public School, bagged the first position in the district with 99 per cent marks. She secured a perfect 100 each in social studies and information technology, 99 each in English and mathematics and 97 in science.Read also: Maanya tops in Jalandhar with near-perfect score of 99%Daughter of a doctor couple, Vineet Sekhri and Poonam Sekhri, Maanya is fond of reading books. “I dedicated three to four hours to self-study each day. My parents were supportive and always motivated me to study for being successful in life, not for securing good grades,” she said. However, not interested in the stream in which her parents were topper, Maanya said, “I do not like biology much. I am interested in mathematics and I have now taken the non-medical stream in Class XI”. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-jalandhar-maanya-tops-with-99-marks-113417
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||Ration stocked at MLA aide’s hotel, Oppn leaders fume||While the Opposition has already been raking the issue of siphoning off of ration and its selective distribution, a video of ration kits supplied by the Centre for distribution among poor being found from a local hotel has further added fuel to the ongoing controversy.The video surfaced last evening and the ration kits were found in a hotel owned by an aide of Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri. The MLA went on record saying that he had got the ration, meant for distribution in his constituency, stocked at the hotel.SAD and AAP leaders have already been alleging that the Congress leaders have been getting the ration distributed in the wards of their favourite councillors and were ignoring areas which have more supporters of the Opposition parties.Former minister Manoranjan Kalia has also demanded action against his opponent Beri for openly confessing that he had kept the ration supplies in his custody.AAP leader Dr Sanjeev Sharma said, “We have been raking up the issue that the deserving poor were not getting their actual share from 450 metric tonnes of supplies that Jalandhar has got. With this video, our stand is vindicated.”Meanwhile, MLA Beri said: “We have been distributing all ration, including the stock we got from NRIs and donors, from this hotel. The distribution has been fair and the Opposition cannot cite a single instance when we indulged in any favouritism.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ration-stocked-at-mla-aides-hotel-oppn-leaders-fume-113418
16-07-2020||Kapurthala||Post-Covid coaches flagged off from Kapurthala||The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has rolled out four post-Covid coaches to fight the menace of Covid-19.As of now, two AC and two non-AC sleeper coaches with several new facilities have been rolled out. In the coming days, more such coaches will be developed to build confidence among the passengers after further directions from the Railway Board.The specially-designed post-Covid coaches have several hands-free amenities, such as foot-operated water tap, soap dispensers, lavatory doors, compartment doors, latches of doors, flush valves, all foot-operated, to mitigate the spread of virus. Besides, forearm-operated handles on compartment doors in AC coaches too have been fixed to curtail the spread.All coaches have been endowed with copper-coated handrails and latches, as copper is learnt to have anti-microbial properties, and hence, it degrades the virus on it within few hours, said General Manager, RCF, Ravinder Gupta, while rolling out the four coaches in the presence of other senior officials. Provision of plasma air equipment will sterilise air and surfaces inside the AC coach.Nano-coated titanium dioxide coating has been applied on the post-Covid coaches, which is eco-friendly. The water-based coating kills viruses, bacteria, mould and fungal growth, and more importantly enhances the indoor air quality. Besides, stickers have been pasted at several places in coaches as a constant reminder to passengers to observe precautionary measures against the virus, said senior publicity inspector, RCF, Rajinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-covid-coaches-flagged-off-from-kapurthala-113419
16-07-2020||Amritsar||Rs 30 per patient, Amritsar doctor sets example||A doctor in Majitha has been selflessly serving patients for the past four decades. Dr Sudesh Kumar runs a private nursing home in the rural belt of Majitha. He has been prescribing generic medicines, a much-talked about terminology these days vis-a-vis ethical practices in medicine.Dr Kumar, who studied at Government Medical College, Amritsar, charges not more than Rs 30 from a patient, which includes the cost of consultation, diagnosis and medicines.“I am a doctor of the ‘masses’ and not the ‘classes’. I grew up in a humble environment. I used to pedal to DAV College from Majitha daily in 1964 and then to the medical college in 1968. My father was a tailor and I could realise how hard it was for him to afford my course fee. I completed my MBBS in 1974 and could not join the government duty in Kapurthala and Sarangdev as there was no bus service. So, I started private practice at my hometown in 1975. I started from charging just Rs 2-3 per patient in the 1970s. Presently, I charge not more than Rs 30 for a two-day antibiotic dose,” he said.Today, the doctor is successful and owns a full-fledged nursing home at Majitha. “I examine patents from 7 am to 8 pm daily. Both my sons and daughter are also doctors and work independently,” he said.Dr Kumar procures generic medicines directly from renowned pharmaceutical manufacturers. “I use generic ones the most. It solely depends upon your doctor’s prescription and integrity. The doctors, on many occasions, get swayed by medical representatives of big pharmaceutical companies who allure them to prescribe their brand of medicines. Ultimately, the burden falls on the patient’s pocket,” he said.When asked about the difference between generic and branded medicines, he said, “The difference is of price. The generic medicines are at least 90 per cent cheaper than the branded ones. Unlike generic, the branded drugs are priced exorbitantly due to marketing. They are protected by patents for several years whereas the fact is that pharmaceutical ingredients and potency of both medicines are exactly the same for diabetes, viral fever, cough cold and other diseases,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-30-per-patient-amritsar-doctor-sets-example-113420
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s medal winners eligible for Group A posts: Sports Minister||Punjab Cabinet today approved the policy wherein the international and national-level medal winners of the state will be eligible for the Group A and B posts, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said in a statement.He added that the cabinet has decided to amend the Rule 2 (d) (a) of “The Punjab Recruitment of Sportsmen Rules, 1988”, to update the definition of sportsman. With this decision, gold, silver and bronze medallists in National Games/senior national championships/recognised international tournaments would be eligible for recruitment for Class I and II posts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-medal-winners-eligible-for-group-a-posts-sports-minister-113574
16-07-2020||Ruchika M Khanna and Rajmeet Singh||Punjab to recover Rs 223.75 cr from 7 private sugar mills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15The Punjab Government today decided to recover Rs 223.75 crore from seven private sugar mills, most of them owned by politicians. This recovery is to be made as land revenue arrears for the largesse extended to them by the previous SAD-BJP government.A subsidy of Rs 50 per quintal on the State Advised Price (SAP) of Rs 280-Rs 295 per quintal of sugarcane was extended not only to the seven private mills, but also the nine cooperative mills in the state in November 2015 as the sugar prices in the market plummeted to a record Rs 2,400 per quintal.However, within months the sugar prices in the market rose to Rs 3,800-Rs 4,300 per quintal, but the then SAD-BJP government continued to give the cash assistance to the mills. The issue of this largesse to private mills owned by a former Congress minister, Akali leaders, the family of a deceased liquor baron and an adviser to the previous government was raised by The Tribune following which a committee was set up.The committee concluded that the seven private sugar mills made a huge profit running into crores after the sugar prices zoomed in the market, while pointing out that the subsidy was required to be given only when the wholesale sugar prices varied between Rs 2,500 and Rs 3,000 per quintal.The then government started issuing notices for recovery and the mills approached the judiciary on whose directions a committee was formed under the Chief Secretary in November 2017. In its report submitted in April 2018, this committee concluded that the cash aid was given as a temporary support to alleviate farmers’ suffering and that the amount paid to the mills must be recovered.Farmers await dues||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-recover-rs-223-75-cr-from-7-private-sugar-mills-113451
16-07-2020||Sameer Singh||Life an ordeal in Punjab CM’s ancestral village Mehraj||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 15Mehraj — Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestral village in Rampura block of Bathinda — presents a picture of utter neglect these days.Streets are inundated with sewer water and residents have to wade through it to move in and out of their houses. Interestingly, the foundation stone for the sewerage was laid by Capt Amarinder himself in 2002. It worked fine for initial few years, but started developing problems due to lack of proper maintenance. The situation becomes terrible during the rainy season.Villagers have repeatedly brought the matter to the notice of the authorities concerned, but to no avail.A villager said: “Nagar panchayat members tried to put things in place, but nothing much could be achieved. Many residents blame the present situation on the replacement of drainage pipes during the SAD-BJP regime, but there has been no improvement even after the Congress returned to power in 2017.”Singh said, “Wading through knee-deep stinking water has become a daily ordeal. There may be an outbreak of waterborne diseases in the village.” Even the Yadavindra Stadium, named after the CM’s father, is inundated with water, Gurtej added.Sewerage board SDO Gurcharan Singh said, “The work for the installation of a new treatment plant is underway. There are no separate pipelines for the drainage of rainwater. Moreover, we have not received any funds for the cleaning of pipelines.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan could not be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/life-an-ordeal-in-punjab-cms-ancestral-village-mehraj-113421
