16-06-2020||Gurdaspur||Two brothers shot dead over land dispute in Punjab’s Gurdaspur||A man was arrested for allegedly killing two brothers over a land dispute in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district on Tuesday, an official said.Dilpreet Singh (28) and Gagandeep Singh (25) had a dispute with Jaswinder Singh over the boundary of their farmland, he said.Jaswinder allegedly opened fire at the two brothers with his 12-bore rifle when they were working in their fields in the morning, the official said.Both Dilpreet and Gagandeep died on the spot and Jaswinder had allegedly dragged one of the bodies into his house, he said.Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said the rifle used in the commission of crime had been recovered.A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act against Jaswinder and four others in Dhariwal Police station, the Senior Superintendent of Police said. PTI
16-06-2020||Patiala||Patiala: Health department stops marriage at last moment after family members of groom test positive||Fearing the spread of coronavirus, Patiala health department here on Tuesday, deferred a marriage because two members of the groom’s family had tested positive for the coronavirus, and the groom was home quarantined as a high-risk contact.The two family members — aunt and brother of the groom — had tested positive on Sunday and the marriage was to be solemnised today.The groom, a resident of Ghuman Nagar, was scheduled to tie the knot on Tuesday in Patiala.The five family members of the groom had visited New Delhi for personal reasons following which they were tested for the virus. The two positive patients are in isolation at a Covid Care Centre. Dr Kiran, Medical Officer, informed that they had to defer the wedding as the 21-year-old groom was already home quarantined as a high-risk contact of the positive patient.She said as per the protocol some family members, including the groom, were home quarantined and not supposed to move around, therefore, they did not allow the marriage to take place. The family members are said to have been insisting throughout the day to let the groom tie the knot and continued their preparations, consequently, the health department had to inform the police. ASHA workers were also keeping a vigil, said health department. The bride belonged to Ludhiana, and the groom’s family had said not to bring the bride to Patiala, informed the health department.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the groom was one of the high-risk contacts, therefore, they could not take even the slightest of risk at any cost and did what we did.
16-06-2020||Faridkot||Behbal Kalan police firing case: One arrested on charge of ‘faking bullet marks’||The Special Investigation Team of the Punjab Police probing Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases on Tuesday arrested Sohail Singh Brar, a resident of Faridkot, in the Behbal Kalan case for allegedly fabricating evidence.Brar has been charged with creating fake bullets marks on the pilot Gypsy of former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma (also an accused) at his (Brar’s) residence.Confirming Brar’s arrest, Inspector-General Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, chief investigator of the SIT, said the suspect would be presented in a Faridkot court tomorrow. “We have been conducting the investigation in a fair and impartial manner,” the IG said.The SIT found that after the Behbal Kalan firing incident, a pilot Gypsy was taken to Brar’s house, where fake bullet marks were created on the vehicle to show that the police had fired in self-defence at the protesters participating in a sit-in at Behbal Kalan (Faridkot) in October 2015. The SIT has been probing the role of another accused, SP Bikramjit Singh, also in the matter of fake evidence.IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had filed challan against six persons, including former Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar; IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal; former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma; SPs Paramjit Singh Pannu and Baljit Singh Sidhu; and SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher in the Kotkapura firing case in May last year.In the Behbal Kalan matter, the SIT filed challan against then Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma in April last year.
16-06-2020||---||Probationary Punjab sub-inspector terminated from service for `criminal acts’||Chandigarh, June 16A probationary sub-inspector has been terminated from service on charges of `sexual misconduct’ and unauthorized absence from duty.A police statement issued here stated that the Patiala IGP, Jatinder Singh Aulkah had taken serious note of the spate of `criminal acts and indiscipline’ shown by the sub-inspector Aditya Sharma and issued the termination orders.Sharma has been at the centre of controversy, with two FIRs filed against him by a woman who he allegedly sexually assaulted and then married, apparently to escape disciplinary action. The police spokesman further alleged that the officer had also failed to complete `Basic Training’ at the Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur.In his brief period of probation, Sharma had remained suspended for a total of 109 days, and was absent from duty for 65 days, alleged the spokesman.The IGP, in his discharge orders, further said Sharma had even failed to respond to two earlier show-cause notices issued to him by the Senior Superintendent of Police, Patiala. Giving details of the charges against Sharma, the spokesperson revealed that an FIR was first registered against the officer at PS Sadar, Hoshiarpur, in September 2019 on a complaint by a woman, who alleged that she was sexually assaulted and beaten by the said officer.However, subsequently Sharma submitted an application to SSP Patiala stating that he had entered into a settlement with the woman complainant and had also solemnized marriage with her. But some months later the woman lodged yet another complaint of `cruelty and domestic violence’ against the officer.
16-06-2020||---||PM Modi asks other states to adopt Punjab’s COVID-combat model of micro-containment, house-to-house surveillance||Chandigarh, June 16Appreciating Punjab’s COVID micro-containment and house-to-house surveillance strategy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Tuesday, asked all other states to adopt the model, which was helping Punjab successfully in controlling the spread of the pandemic, a press release by the state government read.The Prime Minister intervened as Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh was describing the state’s model to combat COVID-19 and suggested that all states should follow the same strategic approach to effectively counter the pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted a video-conference meeting with the Chief Ministers as part of his scheduled two-day interactions to review the COVID-19 situation and management strategies of all states.During the meeting, Captain Amarinder Singh suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up a group which should include a few Chief Ministers to discuss and formulate a coordinated Centre-State response to the devastating impact of the pandemic on the economy and governments across the country.During the video conference, which was joined by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh requested that the Centre should work closely with the states to ease the distress caused by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.While living with the pandemic was the new normal since the lockdown could not continue indefinitely as the cycle of the economy, once broken, took a long time to restart, the need of the hour was to take care of both lives and livelihoods, as the Prime Minister had himself said in his video-conference in April, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh pointed out, the press release by the state government further read.Calling for urgent steps to mitigate Punjab’s financial stress, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said a detailed memorandum had already been sent to the Government of India, listing out the impact of COVID-19 and also seeking fiscal and non-fiscal assistance.Even as he thanked the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister for the release of GST payment of around Rs 2,800 crore in early June, Captain Amarinder said while he appreciated that the Government of India was also under financial stress, he had to request for release of the state’s pending share of taxes to tide over the fiscal crisis. The crisis in Punjab was likely to be acute with around Rs 25,000 to 30,000 crore shortfall in revenue collection on various counts, he said.Even though Punjab’s contribution to the all-India cases was less than 1 per cent (at 3,140 cases) at present, with a mortality rate of 2.1 per cent and recovery rate of 75 per cent, the curve was rising as a result of the inbound travellers and the easing of restrictions and more mixing of people, the Chief Minister said, giving a status update on the COVID-19 situation prevailing in the state.On the state’s preparedness to tackle the further spread of the pandemic, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh informed the meeting that 5,000 isolation beds were ready in Government Level 2 and 3 facilities, in addition to 10,000 to 15,000 beds in Level 1 COVID Care Centres for mild patients. These Level 1 beds could be scaled to 30,000 if the need arose, he said, adding that for tertiary level care, the state government had also secured the participation of private hospitals for tertiary level care.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the state government was working on a multi-pronged strategy to fight the pandemic. Some restrictions had been imposed over the weekends and holidays, and strict enforcement of all protocols was being ensured through fines. The focus was currently on the micro-containment strategy to isolate small ‘mohallas’ or village wards rather than close down larger areas, he said, adding that a special app had also been launched for house-to-house surveillance to detect any possible cases and persons with co-morbidities to catch high-risk patients early.Captain Amarinder also spoke about the Mission Fateh launched to generate public awareness and the focus on facilitating a behavioural change through celebrity endorsements, videos, on-ground activities and through fines.
16-06-2020||---||SC gives parole to Punjab businessman Jagjit Singh Chahal||New Delhi, June 16The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, extended the parole granted to Punjab businessman Jagjit Singh Chahal in view of worsening COVID-19 situation.“It doesn’t make sense to send someone back to an overcrowded jail when he can be out on parole,” a Bench headed by Justice RF Nariman said.The Bench, which perused the affidavit filed by Punjab government, took note of the fact that Chahal had been on parole since February 19 this year and his appeal against conviction in a criminal case was coming up for hearing on July 16.“The parole is to continue until the appeal is heard and finally decided provided that the petitioner cooperates and does not ask for any adjournment on any ground when the appeal comes up for hearing,” it ordered.During the hearing on Chahal’s parole plea, the Bench said the COVID-19 situation wasn’t getting any better with each passing day but only getting only worse.”Chahal, who is also an accused in the Jagdish Bhola drug racket case, had moved the Supreme Court seeking an extension of his parole.The Supreme Court, in May, had issued notice to the Punjab government asking it to respond to his petition.
16-06-2020||Chandigarh/Sangrur||Coronavirus: Punjab reports four deaths, 104 new cases; toll rises to 75 from over 3,300 infections||Punjab reported 104 new coronavirus cases and four more deaths within span of 24 hours since Monday, the state’s official health bulletin showed on Tuesday.Amritsar reported three of the four deaths and Ludhiana reported one. Sangrur also reported one death, but this has not been taken into account in the state's COVID tally on Tuesday. In Amritsar, a 49-year-old man from Haripura, a 51-year-old woman from Bhushanpura locality and 66-year-old resident of Ajit Nagar died.The woman had suffered from hypertension, while the man from Haripura was diabetic and had hypertension.An ex-serviceman from Ludhiana’s Mansuran village died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. He had been admitted to the hospital on Sunday and was on ventilator. Medical Superintendent of DMCH, Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said he was diabetic and had had heart problems.In Sangrur, a man who was diabetic and had hypertension died at the COVID care centre at Ghabdan. The development takes the state’s coronavirus count to 3,371.  The death toll now stands at 75.Jalandhar and Ludhiana together accounted for more than half of Tuesday’s cases. Jalandhar reported 31 cases on Tuesday and Ludhiana reported 22.Patiala (9), Amritsar (9), Pathankot (6), SAS Nagar (4), Kapurthala (4), Sangrur (4), Hoshiarpur (3), Fazilka (3), Gurdaspur (2), Faridkot (1),Ferozepur (1), Tarn Taran (1), and Fategarh Sahib (1) made up the rest of Punjab’s numbers on Tuesday, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.   Of the new cases, 12 had travel history to other states, 12 were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness), one was a case of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and significant proportion---over 50 cases--- were categorised as new cases with no contact history.  Thirty of Jalandhar’s 31 COVID-19 infections were categorised as new cases. One was a contact of an already reported case.In Jalandhar, five police personnel posted at the Punjab Armed Police campus tested positive. The others who tested positive are people from different localities of the city and satellite towns, including Shahkot.Of Ludhiana’s 22 new cases, 13 were contacts of already diagnosed cases, three had travel history, and two were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness). The last one was a policeman testing positive. Ludhiana’s has over 400 cases now.Five of those who tested positive were from Chawni Mohalla---a containment zone.Three people were from Sanhewal. Habib Ganj, Daba Lohara Road, Islamia school Road also reported positive cases. A 52-year-old sub-inspector from Shimlapuri police station tested positive. He reported he had fever. He had recently travelled to Delhi. Of Amritsar’s nine, three were contacts of already diagnosed patients, six were categorised as ILI.In Kapurthala, two prison inmates were among four positive cases.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (642), Ludhiana (409), Jalandhar (378), SAS Nagar (179), Patiala (178), Gurdaspur (171), Tarn Taran (169), Hoshiarpur (144),  SBS Nagar (121), Sangrur (162), Pathankot (151), Faridkot (88), Ropar (82), Fatehgarh Sahib (78), Muktsar (73), Moga (71), Bathinda (57), Fazilka (53), Ferozepur (52),  Kapurthala (45), Mansa (34), and Barnala (31).    The state's death toll stands thus: Amritsar (24), Ludhiana (11), Jalandhar (10), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (5), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Patiala (2), Tarn Taran (1), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar account for 42 per cent of Punjab’s cases and 60 per cent of its deaths.Punjab has been seeing a steady rise in coronavirus cases in June. The state reported 32 per cent of the state's 3,371 cases in June alone.  Punjab now 838 active cases---more than thrice the number at the end of May.
16-06-2020||Patiala||ED takes over probe in Ghanaur illegal liquor distillery case||Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday took over the probe into the Ghanaur illegal liquor distillery case.ED officials in Patiala met SSP Mandeep Sidhu to get information on the case.Also read: Illegal liquor trade issue snowballs into political rowThe controversy erupted in May when the Patiala police and the Excise Department raided an illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant, which was making huge money during the lockdown by selling illicit liquor under the guise of popular brands. The accused, operating the distillery from a cold store, were making liquor by diluting extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which was available at a cheaper price. They were then selling it at exorbitant rates.The recovery of liquor in has snowballed into a political controversy with Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders blaming each other for “being involved in illegal liquor trade”.
16-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports three more coronavirus cases||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus in Mohali on Tuesday, district officials said.  A 22-year-old youth from Sector 70 has been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, officials said.Mohali Deputy Commissioner said later in the day that two more men, ages 22 and 44,o tested positive.The 22-year-old man, a resident of Sector 127 in Kharar, had recently returned from Ahmedabad. The second patient has renal transplant complications and had recently returned from Delhi.  He is now at Ivy Hospital, Mohali.Two people---a 31-year-old-man and a 57-year-old woman---who had previously tested positive were released from Gian Sagar Hospital on Tuesday.  District officials say that Mohali how has 182, 52 of them still active.Three people have died of COVID-19 in Mohali since the infection first broke out.
16-06-2020||---||Diabetes major health problem in Punjab: Experts||Amritsar, June 15Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a major health problem in Punjab. The finding was result of extensive research published by the Department of Human Genetics of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) in reputed international journals.In a statement to the media here on Monday, GNDU authorities said the research was based on the data which had been collected in the past 20 years for assessing modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors that contribute to T2D and its major complications such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy and end stage renal disease in population of Punjab.The investigations carried out in various ethnic groups from Punjab revealed that prevalence of higher obesity profiles and poor glucose control along with physical inactivity in the population as major factors that gave higher susceptibility to T2D and accelerate progression to complications.Prof Vasudha Sambyal, coordinator of research, said the study was conducted on different endogamous groups like Banias, Brahmins and Jat Sikhs for susceptibility to diabetes had observed that ethnicity contributes differentially to development of T2D probably due to differences in the nature of work, diet and cultural practices. Complications owing to the sedentary lifestyle and high calorie diet mostly comprising fried and junk food consumption in the population of Punjab.Prof Badruddoza, Prof Bhanwer and Dr Kawaljit Kaur of the Human Genetics Department of the GNDU were among other contributors in this research.The department has pioneered the genetic research on diabetes complications especially on diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy in the population of Punjab.
16-06-2020||Ludhiana||Varsity develops Covid-safe touchless key||To go touchless amid the Covid-19 pandemic, CT University’s Robotics and Automation Lab has developed a 3D printed Covid-19 safe key. This key can work on L and U-Shaped door handles. This safety key can be used on ATM buttons, lift buttons and even on toilet flush buttons.Dr Harmeet Singh, Assistant Professor, said: “The main idea behind this key is that if we are going to any crowed places such as malls, hospitals and banks, this key will protect us from Covid-19 by keeping our hand away from any potential contaminated surfaces. The cost of the key is less than Rs 50 which is very less as compared to various keys that are already available in the market.” — TNS
16-06-2020||Mohali||Intra-state bus service from Mohali ISBT begins||The Covid-19 pandemic came as a blessing in disguise for the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter-State Bus Terminal in Phase 6 here as the Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) started operating buses to various destinations in Punjab from Monday.The decision was taken after the UT Administration closed its operations from the ISBT-43 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.Passengers will have to buy tickets from counters. The authorities have made it mandatory for passengers to wear face mask at all times.The ISBT was inaugurated by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on December 17, 2016. However, only one terminal was made operational at the bus stand.After the Congress came to power in the state, it abandoned the terminal terming it a white elephant. The company, which constructed and operated the ISBT, also fled after it went bankrupt.Jasbir Singh Sahota, who is supervising the operations at the ISBT, said not more than 25 passengers would be allowed in a bus with a total capacity of 52 seats. Two passengers would be accommodated on three seats, with the middle one kept vacant, while one passenger would occupy the adjacent row with two seats.Sahota said the terminal became operational with the first bus leaving for Ferozepur in the morning. Buses to Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, Bathinda and other cities of the state would also ply from the terminal.Commuters complained of lack of basic facilities such as safe drinking water and fans at the ISBT.
16-06-2020||Mohali||Hearing on transfer plea in Sumedh Saini case on June 23||The decision on a transfer application filed by Palwinder Singh Multani in the case involving his brother Balwant Singh Multani, a CITCO employee, who went missing 29 years ago, was deferred today.Palwinder had filed the application for transfer of the case from the court of Additional District Judge Monika Goyal.District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai issued a notice to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and the next hearing would be on June 23. The sessions court has also restricted the ADJ’s court from pronouncing the final order till the decision on the transfer application.Palwinder's counsel Pardeep Singh Virk, said, “The order of granting anticipatory bail to ex-DGP under Section 302 of the IPC which is yet to be added to the FIR was arbitrary. We have contested the order and sought the transfer of the case from the ADJ's court.”Special Public Prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula along with District Attorney Sanjiv Batra, Palwinder along with his counsel Pardeep Virk appeared in the court. SIT head Superintendent of Police Harmandeep Singh Hans and ex-DGP's counsel HS Dhanoa also appeared before the court.Palwinder had sought transfer of the case from ADJ Monika Goyal’s court alleging that he feared unfair proceedings in the case. The arguments on the statement of whistleblower and former cop Gurmeet Singh Pinki, who had recorded his statement under Section 164 of the CrPC, would also come up for hearing.Earlier, he had also appeared before the SIT and recorded his statement alleging that Balwant Multani had died due to torture while in Saini’s custody .An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani following the complaint of his brother Palwinder Singh Multani under sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC on May 6, at police station Mataur after which DGP moved court seeking anticipatory bail. — TNS
16-06-2020||Minna Zutshi---||Need to replenish soil health, says food prize awardee||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, June 15 Distinguished pedologist Dr Rattan Lal has become this year’s recipient of the $250,000 World Food Prize for promoting soil for sustainable development.  Stressing the basic interconnectedness of life, Dr Lal says: “Our scripture says that there are 84 lakh life forms. Science has determined that there are 87 lakh. How can only one life form (human) consume 40 per cent or more of what the Earth produces? We must be fair to other species and return some land back to the nature for other species to survive.” Dr Lal, now a US citizen, was born at Karyal in erstwhile Punjab and graduated with major in soil science from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). He was conferred the honorary degree of doctor of science by the PAU in 2001. Talking to The Tribune about the basic philosophy of his research, Dr Lal said: “The basic philosophy comes from our scriptures, including Gurbani and Prasana Upanishad, according to which health of soil, plants, animals, people and environment is one and indivisible.” He said: “Regardless of what religion one believes in, each scripture teaches us the importance of sustaining and protecting natural resources and not wasting food.” “Pandemics such as Covid-19 are aggravated because we encroach upon nature. Soil and nature have rights. The Ganges and the Himalayan mountains have the right to be protected, restored and managed judiciously,” he said. Talking about carbon count, Dr Lal said: “Agricultural soils of India are severely depleted of their organic matter content. The focus should be on CNPK (carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium) rather than just NPK.” “This is also based on the law of return. It states that we must return to the soil whatever is removed from it. The burning of crop residue and using animal dung for cooking rather than putting it back on land are not good for soil.” Dr Lal said: “Punjab and Haryana have been, are and will be the bread basket of India. However, these states and India must reconcile the need to produce food with the absolute necessity to improve the environment. It is not either-or. We must have both.” “Tragic as it is, restrictions imposed during the pandemic show that air and water quality can be improved. We must learn how to work in symbiosis with nature rather than against nature,” he added.
16-06-2020||---||Capt seeks Rs 80K crore aid, writes to PM Modi||Chandigarh, June 15Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sent a memorandum to Prime Minister Narenda Modi, seeking fiscal aid of Rs 80,845 crore along with non-fiscal assistance on various counts in order to save lives and secure livelihoods amid the ongoing pandemic.‘Waive CCL debt’Listing out the detailed support measures needed, the Chief Minister said a direct fiscal stimulus of Rs26,400 crore, waiver of the long-term CCL debt and 100 per cent funding of all Central schemes were necessary.The aid sought by the Chief Minister includes waiver of long-term CCL debt, upward revision of capital outlay and targets under MGNREGA and other major flagship programmes of the Union Government such as the Smart City programme, AMRUT, National Urban Employment Guarantee Scheme, etc.He said, “The Punjab Government, despite all-out efforts to contain the pandemic in keeping with the guidelines issued by the Centre from time to time, feels that states alone cannot meet the new challenges. In the true spirit of cooperative federalism, the Union Government must assist the states in an unusually big way, which the country has never seen since the Independence.”Listing out the detailed support measures needed, the Chief Minister said a direct fiscal stimulus of Rs 26,400 crore and waiver of the long-term CCL debt and 100 per cent funding of all Central schemes was necessary. For the state’s public health infrastructure, Rs 6,603 crore was needed. Further, the state would need an estimated Rs 15,975 crore for upgrading farm infrastructure, one-time farm debt waiver, providing income support, interest subvention, etc.For housing and urban affairs, Capt Amarinder has proposed a National Urban Employment Guarantee Act (NUEGA) for which an annual outlay of Rs 3,200 crore would be required. He has also solicited additional capital outlay of Rs 6,670 crore under schemes like AMRUT, Smart City, PMAY, etc.He has also sought Rs 3,080 crore for the education sector with another Rs 8 crore for online training and stipend at Rs 1,000 per month for students during the lockdown period; Rs 575 crore to boost the new and renewable energy sector in Punjab; Rs 2,571 crore for border area development; Rs 326 crore for the transport sector; and Rs 5.40 crore for migrant labourers.
16-06-2020||---||Another spike, 4 cops among 127 +ve in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 15As many as 127 new Covid-19 cases came to the fore on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 3,267. With three more deaths due to the virus reported from Amritsar, the toll has risen to 71.A government spokesperson said 2,443 persons had recovered so far, while nine patients were on oxygen support and one was in critical condition.Ludhiana reported the highest number of 33 cases, including 22 contacts of previously positive cases, five new patients and six TB patients. Jalandhar reported 23 cases, including four cops and a jail inmate. One patient had a travel history to Pune, while eight were new cases and nine contacts of already positive patients.Amritsar reported 20 cases, of which 16 have no travel or contact history, while four were contacts of positive cases.The new cases without any known contact with a positive person may be due to the possible community spread, said officials. Sangrur district recorded 15 cases in the past 24 hours. All of these are contacts of previously positive cases.Mohali witnessed 11 new cases, including nine with travel history of Delhi, UP and Mumbai. Patiala added 10 cases, including three with travel history of Delhi and Rajasthan.A police official from Moga district has also tested positive.
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh: Farmers apprehensive||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the three recently issued Union Government ordinances related to the farming sector in the interest of farmers.In a letter, the Chief Minister said the agriculture produce marketing system in Punjab had stood the test of time. However, the changes as per the ordinance dated June 5, 2020, had led to widespread apprehension among the farmers that the Centre was planning to withdraw from the assured procurement of foodgrain. — TNS
16-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Nurse to take job exam in isolation ward||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 15Taking cognisance of The Tribune report, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has allowed a 29-year-old nurse to appear for her written examination for a regular post.Also Read:  The nurse is Covid positive and was about to miss her exam, which is scheduled for June 21. The BFUHS, which is conducting the exam for regular posts of nurse, has granted permission to her to take the exam from the isolation ward itself. The woman is admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS, who came to Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “The university has decided to make special arrangements so that she does not miss the examination. The young woman will take her exam from the isolation ward.”Meanwhile, Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “Her exam centre has been changed and a special caretaker will be provided to conduct her examination at the isolation ward.” The 29-year-old nurse said, “I am thankful to the authorities for allowing me to take the exam as it has always been my dream to get a regular job. I have already been preparing for the exam at the isolation centre.”
16-06-2020||Jalandhar||Two with fever not allowed to appear for nursing exam in Jalandhar||Amid Covid scare, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) today conducted supplementary practical examination for its students at Mahatma Hans Raj DAV College of Nursing here. As the examination was held, two of 20 students who had come to appear were found to be running high fever and hence were not allowed entry. A student of the college from Himachal Pradesh, who was to appear for examination today, could not turn up as the e-pass for inter-state travel, which she had applied for, did not get an approval by the administration.There were at least six more students, including those from J&K and HP, who could not turn up owing to similar reasons. Students from outside have shared that they were scared of the 14-day quarantine restrictions. “We need lodging arrangements as the examinations are being held for five subjects in continuity from Monday to Friday. We had to look into so many things to take the final call of giving it a miss,” said a student from HP who could not appear for her exam today. Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS, said, “Students who could not appear for the examination need not worry. We will give them a chance in the second round after we are done with the first one.” — TNS
16-06-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Quiz to evaluate results of online school teaching||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15With an aim of self-evaluation, the Education Department has introduced a weekly quiz for students from Classes III to V to ascertain their level of understanding in the ongoing online classes. The numbers of students in the three examination conducted on their mobile sets since May 17 have increased from 2.16 lakh to 3.10 lakh.The state has 5.40 lakh total students enrolled from Classes III to V. This means about 57 per cent of the total students are currently availing the facility of mobile sets for their classes. “There has been an increase of nearly one lakh students during the past one month indicating increasing student interest. The test is being conducted making use of the YouTube and Google applications,” said Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab programme coordinator Devinder Boha while talking to The Tribune. Students are asked 15-20 questions regarding subjects they had studied during the previous week before examination. These lessons, largely based on NCERT syllabus, are given on Doordarshan, YouTube, Siti Channel and 30 more sites.“The questions for ‘learning outcome exercise’ are based on online classes they attend. They get their evaluation marks on the same day. These are then forwarded to their teachers concerned who revise their teaching strategies accordingly,” said Neel Kamal, assistant district coordinator, Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab.A senior programme planner said, “We know all students are not able to avail the benefits of the quiz. Our biggest interest was to evaluate the kind of reception our lessons had among students. We are satisfied, but will continue with our endeavour to innovate. More and more students are interested in appearing for the quiz as was relevant from the increasing numbers.” To increase the gambit of the programme for junior classes, the department has started ‘Aitvaar de rang sikhan sikhaun de navein dhang’ (innovation for Sunday classes). This week, for example, students were exposed to classes on food and impact of Covid.
16-06-2020||---||High Court questions parents on their ‘hardships’||Chandigarh, June 15Less than a week after private-unaided schools undertook to reduce, waive or defer fee payment in case of parents in dire straits following the Covid outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today verbally asked the parents why they should not be asked to demonstrate the hardships faced by them.The verbal query came in response to the demand by the parents that the schools should be asked to come out with their balance sheets. Taking up the matter through videoconferencing this afternoon, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur verbally questioned the parents why they should not be asked to come out with their balance sheets for ascertaining whether they were indeed facing hardships.The verbal query by the Bench came during the course of arguments and cannot be construed as a comment on the merits of the case. The matter is still pending before the Bench and is scheduled to come up for further hearing on June 19.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, during the course of arguments, also asked the state government to clarity whether it was in favour of deferring or waiving the remaining fee after its orders on schools charging just the tuition fee.Appearing on behalf of the parents, advocate Charanpal Singh Bagri argued that a person nowhere in the world could be compelled to pay for services not utilised by him. In his written statement placed before the Bench, Bagri, among other things, stated the pandemic had resulted in “severe job losses across different sectors” in the country. It may take about two to three years for different businesses to recover from the impact.“A majority of the respondents/parents of wards, who are studying in private unaided school, have lost their businesses, jobs or were not paid wages/salaries due to lockdown by their companies, organisations,” he added.In one of the petitions, Independent Schools’ Association through counsel Aashish Chopra had contended the directives on charging only the tuition fee were illegal arbitrary, without jurisdiction and rationale. Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda, on the other hand, claimed there was no question of financial hardship since schools conducting online classes would continue to charge fee “in respect of such classes”.Representing no less than 3,500 schools, senior advocate Puneet Bali had, meanwhile, submitted the cases of parents in genuine distress would be considered on individual basis for fee waiver, reduction and deferment.
16-06-2020||---||‘Ordinance to put farmers at mercy of corporates’||Chandigarh, June 15The state Congress on Monday announced to launch a ‘jan andolan’, which will be a statewide campaign against the “anti-farmer” ordinance brought out by the Modi-led BJP government at the Centre for reforms in the agriculture sector.The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), led by its chief Sunil Jakhar, has called a meeting of Cabinet ministers and 20 MLAs to strategise the campaign that will be launched at the block and village levels.“We want to expose the anti-farmer face of the Centre. The ordnance will sabotage and undermine the existing mandi system, which is the backbone of the agricultural economy in the country. It will also put the farmers at the mercy of the corporate houses,” said Jakhar, while reading out the memorandum sent to Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore.Jakhar said the main focus of the party was to make the farming community and farm associations aware of the provisions of the ordinance. “What was the emergency for bringing an ordinance which will have long-term implications at a time when the country is fighting an existential crisis caused by the pandemic?” he asked.
16-06-2020||Patiala||Thermal plants yet to pay Rs 14 crore fine||None of the thermal power plants in Punjab, whether private or government owned, have deposited a single penny with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) despite the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) levying a fine of Rs 18 lakh per month per unit.Last month, the CPCB had asked the PPCB to collect the fine for the first five months by June 5. Sources said thermal plants were still trying to find legal remedies to escape the heavy penalty and buy additional time to adhere to new environmental guidelines.In May, the PPCB had written to these plants to deposit the fine, called ‘environmental compensation’, which will remain in force till the units comply with norms. The fine, which has been piling up since January, will have to be deposited by the fifth of the succeeding month. This means that roughly Rs 14 crore for the first six months is pending now and the units continue to pollute the environment.Industry insiders say the conversion cost will be around Rs 73 lakh per MW. “The high cost may trigger a tariff hike from 32 to 72 paise per unit. Even the running cost of the new technology will add to power production and rates will have to be revised,” an expert said.“We had written to all power plants of the state to deposit the fine pending from January, which was over Rs 11 crore till June 5,” said PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg. “Now, we will apprise the CPCB that none of them have replied to the notice and haven’t deposited the fine. Action will be taken as per guidelines,” he said. — TNS
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Petrol, diesel to cost more||The state government increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, effective midnight. This will lead to an increase in petrol price by Re 1- Rs 1.20 per litre and that of diesel by Rs 0.53 per litre.The VAT on petrol has been increased from 23.30 per cent to 26.43 per cent and that of diesel from 15.15 per cent to 15.98 per cent. A notification in this regard was issued by the government late tonight.The measure has been necessitated in order to increase the state’s falling revenue collections, mainly because of the Covid-induced lockdown.“The hike will help us realise an additional Rs 250 crore to Rs 300 crore per annum,” A Venu Prasad, Financial Commissioner, Taxation, told The Tribune. It may be noted that the annual sale of petrol in Punjab is estimated at 120 crore litres and of diesel at 400 crore litre. The state earns Rs 4,000 crore per annum as VAT on fuel. It was in February last year that the government had reduced the price of petrol by Rs 5 and that of diesel by Rs 1 per litre. This was done in the hope that it would lead to an increase in volume of sale of retail fuel. However, according to official sources, it did not increase any volume in sales and the state lost over Rs 800 crore in revenue.Gurmeet Monty Sehgal, spokesperson, Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association, said the move would lead to shift in business to neighbouring states and also encourage the smuggling of fuel, besides hitting the sale of automobiles in Punjab. — TNS
16-06-2020||---||ED chargesheet against Mohali firm in PMLA case||New Delhi, June 15 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against Mohali-based Seabird International Pvt Ltd and its directors before a special PMLA court in Punjab on the charges of money laundering linked to a case of alleged possession of government seals and stamps.  In a statement, the agency said, the prosecution complaint (chargesheet) had been filed before “a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Punjab against the firm Seabird International Pvt Ltd and its directors Pirtpal Singh and Gurinder Singh”. It said the agency had attached assets worth Rs 6.93 crore of the two in the past.  The ED filed the case against the accused after going through two FIRs registered in 2017 by the Mohali Police for alleged possession of counterfeit seals and stamps of government agencies and another for alleged possession of a German-made handgun replica. During the investigation, it was found that Pirtpal Singh and Gurinder Singh   used to forge educational and financial documents of visa aspirants to meet the required standard set by overseas institutions and later these were submitted to foreign embassies and high commissions for grant of visas, the ED claimed.
16-06-2020||---||Punjab not to import coal for power plants, to save Rs100 cr||Chandigarh, June 15Punjab will not be importing any coal to run its thermal power generation plants to optimum capacity as the power demand in the state peaks during the ongoing paddy season. Instead, the state is getting an enhanced supply of domestically produced coal from Coal India Limited.HOW PSPCL IS SAVING MONEY“The decision will help the cash-strapped state government save a whopping Rs 100 crore as it will use the cheaper coal from Coal India. The latter has agreed in principle to give additional coal to the government as well as private thermal power plants in the state under the import substitution policy,” A Venu Prasad, chairman and managing director of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), told The Tribune.Punjab’s reliance on imported coal for running its power plants during the paddy season is huge. Over 15 per cent of the coal used during this time is imported from Indonesia. Last year, 18.89 lakh metric tonnes of coal was imported while 14.74 lakh metric tonnes of coal was imported in 2018-19 to meet the surge in power demand during the paddy season. Power demand in the state yesterday was 2,457 lakh units (LU).The CMD of the PSPCL said this year, they had also witnessed a plunge in demand from industrial and commercial consumers by an average of 2,000 MW per day. “This is because the industry is not running to its optimum capacity and because many commercial establishments have not started operations. The additional coal allocation from Coal India and the fall in demand from other two categories of consumers will help the state meet its power demand without importing the expensive coal,” he said.Interestingly, the maximum per day demand of power this year has touched a high of 11,151 MW as against the peak of 11,472 MW last year. With paddy sowing this year being advanced by 20 days, the peak power demand has come early, Prasad said, adding that no power cuts were being imposed on any category of consumers..
16-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Father jobless, judokas forced to sell fruit||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, June 15 Three teenaged brothers, all medals winners in the National School Games, have been forced to sell watermelons after their father, the sole bread earner of the family, became jobless in the Covid lockdown. Rajesh Sharma used to drive a mini auto-rickshaw for a tent shop owner and earned enough to sustain his family comprising three sons — Shivnandan (17), Abhinandan (16) and Raghunandan (13).  All of them have won medals in judo in different weight categories in various editions of the national games conducted annually by the School Games Federation of India. At the end of March, at a time when the first of the multiple lockdowns kicked in, Rajesh’s employer asked him not to report for work anymore because “his tents are no longer in demand”.  The brothers now ply their ‘rehri’ near their school on the Dorangla road. “Being poor is no crime but it hurts when your poverty gets displayed in the public,” says Shivnandan. “On the one hand, I find it difficult to make both ends meet while on the other, I have to go through the ignominy of seeing my starry-eyed sons plying a fruit cart. Coach Amarjit Shastri used to tell me that both Shivnandan and Raghunandan have the potential to represent the country, “ Rajesh says.   Before the virus played a spoilsport, the boys used to train at the Judo Federation of India adopted coaching centre at Government Senior Secondary School.  “The brothers are talented and Abhinandan is really good due to his technique, versatility and speed. Their time will come. After all, you are never too old to set another goal,” Shastri said.
16-06-2020||---||High Court notice to Anushka, others||Chandigarh, June 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to Bollywood star Anushka Sharma, Amazon Prime Videos, the Union Government and 15 other respondents on a petition alleging that a web series, Paatal Lok, had seriously defamed the Sikh community.In his petition placed before the Bench of Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi, petitioner-advocate Gurdeepinder Singh Dhillon contended that he started watching the web series “Paatal Lok”. Its episode number three on “A History of Violence” was set in a village in Punjab. “The respondents/ Amazon Prime Videos have purposely and maliciously within intent of creating communal disharmony and caste-based clashes have shown two communities in bad light.”His counsel Ravinder Singh Randhawa added that the web series had also seriously defamed the members of the Sikh community and hurt the religious feelings of the Sikhs at large. Among other things, Randhawa contended that they used a caste-based slur repeatedly for a particular community.Besides, a boy from the community was also shown brutally murdering three boys from other community. “They have glorified caste and religion based hatred and violence,” he added. Describing the community as “protectors” since centuries, Randhawa added that it had the history of safeguarding the feeble and the incapable people, especially women. The case will now come up for hearing on July 2.
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to hold protest over cancellation of blue cards||The SAD today announced that it would hold a symbolic protest across the state on June 18 to demand restoration of all blue cards.Party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said thousands of blue cards had been cancelled due to “petty political considerations” by Congressmen.— TNS
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||FIR over fake police jobs ad||The Punjab Police today lodged an FIR against unknown persons for circulating a fake advertisement for recruitment of constables. The FIR has been registered under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 120-B, IPC, read with Sections 66-C, 66-D of the Information Technology Act, 2000, at the  State Cyber Crime Cell. The FIR lists charges of forgery, using a forged document as a genuine one, identity theft and cheating by personation by using computer resources. Investigations were in progress to identify and trace the culprits, said a spokesperson. — TNS
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eviction of UP Sikh farmers irks Akalis||The SAD today announced that it would take up the issue of displacement of around 1,000 Sikh farmers from four different places in UP with CM Yogi Adityanath and would also approach Home Minister Amit Shah to ensure that the farmers weren’t subjected to any injustice.AAP slams YogiThe state AAP chief and MP Bhagwant Mann said, “Thousands of Sikh farmers living in the UP’s Terai region for 70 years now are being evicted by the Yogi government. It is being done the same way the BJP government had displaced Punjabi farmers from Gujarat’s Kutch region.”At a press conference here, senior party leader and former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra said SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had formed a three member committee, which included MPs Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Naresh Gujral and him, to take up the issue with the UP government. The party’s core committee had also resolved to ensure justice to the affected Sikh families of UP.Professor Chandumajra said the families were being forcefully displaced at Bijnore, Lakhimpur Kheri, Rampur and Nanakmata.He said: “The SAD expresses solidarity with the affected farmers, most of whom had settled in Uttar Pradesh after being displaced during the Partition in 1947.”He said at Champatpur in Bijnore and Rananpur in Lakhimpur Khiri, the farmers had cultivated barren land to make it fertile. And now when the time had come for them to enjoy the fruits of their labour, they were being ousted. — TNS
16-06-2020||---||Certificates to incomplete realty projects cancelled||Chandigarh, June 15A month after suspending the Zirakpur Executive Officer (EO) in case involving issuing illegal completion certificates, the Local Government Department has issued a public notice informing that all such documents for residential-cum-commercial projects issued between January 28 and May 29, this year, have been cancelled.The notice issued by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO), Local Government Department, has warned the promoters of the projects not to use the illegally issued completion certificates in any public office. The Executive Officer (EO), Manvir Gill, was placed under suspension last month by Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Sanjay Kumar, as the certificates in question were issued during Gill’s tenure in Zirakpur.Affecting over a dozen projects, the department in an internal probe found a lot of discrepancies in issuing of the completion certificates. The case files were never sent for approval to the secretary and the minister incharge.A probe by the CVO revealed that despite instructions from Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra that technical approval for completion/occupation certificates had to be given at the level of the government, the EO continued to issue certificates illegally. Pointing to a larger builder-official-politician nexus, the certificates issued to incomplete projects by the Zirakpur MC were meant to be used by builders to stop payment of assured monthly returns to their investors.Though the projects are still incomplete on the ground, the certificates managed by the builders help them stop the assured returns to the investors. The EO did not even carry out physical verification of the projects for issuing fire safety no-objection certificate or giving permissions for sewerage and water connections and setting up of sewage treatment plant. Official record pertaining to some of the projects is said to be missing.
16-06-2020||Ropar||Renovate NFL Hospital in Nangal: MP||Anandpur Sahab MP Manish Tewari has sought the revival and renovation of NFL Hospital in Nangal.  In a letter to NFL chairman Virendra Nath Datt, the MP said NFL Hospital had the potential to become an excellent medical resource for the people of the region, including areas such as Anandpur Sahab, Banga, Garhshankar in Punjab and Una in Himachal Pradesh. “NFL Hospital building is spread over 16,000 sq m approximately, with a total capacity of 100 beds on two floors, an isolation ward and private rooms,” he said in the letter.  — TNS
16-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Photos of runaway couple a distraction: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 15Photographs of runaway couple distract the court’s mind and have the potential of inviting needless comments from the Bench and waste its time, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted. Describing it as a “diversion” that can bring cases to “momentary standstill”, Justice Rajiv Narain Raina also directed the High Court Registry not to insist on photographs along with the protection petitions filed by the runaway couples.Dubbing the task of hearing such matters as childlike, Justice Raina also suggested that an alternative system was required to be put in place for reducing the burden on the courts. Justice Raina asserted dealing with these petitions at the financial expense of runaway couples, actually believing that they would get a marriage certificate from the High Court, was no pleasure.Making it clear that the practice deserved to be curtailed, Justice Raina asserted it was a big burden on the staff and drained the High Court resources from the filing stage to uploading the order.The High Court was not built or meant for dealing with the parasitical non-litigation, Justice Raina asserted. “I believe it to be the most demeaning childlike work High Court judges have been forcibly tasked with by a creation of the ingenious Bar. A solution needs to be devised to cast the burden on some other alternative mechanism of redress, including amending the law and conferring such power on the subordinate judiciary etc”.In its detailed order, Justice Raina asserted the court had no interest in looking at the pictures of the runaway couples, except curiosity. It needlessly brought the case to a brief halt even though a simple direction was sought and mechanically issued by the Bench based upon Article 21 of the Constitution. It was for saving from distress young couples apprehending physical harm from angry parents and families opposing the marriage. The truth of it was impossible to reach.Justice Raina added a cottage industry had grown around these petitions over the years and time had come to trim them. The runaways may have little resources in their pocket. “The money spent abundantly on the thriving industry could well last the couple their necessities for quite a long time or at least till they live on love and fresh air,” Justice Raina asserted.
16-06-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal||Canals running dry, Fazilka farmers claim crop loss||Tribune news serviceFazilka, June 15Resentment is brewing among a large number of farmers who own land at the tail end of canals, particularly in the border areas of Fazilka district, due to shortage of canal water.Notably, the non-perennial eastern canal system provides irrigation water to the Fazilka subdivision. However, according to farmers, the eastern canal and its branches, including the Bandiwala, Lakhewali and Jandwala minor canals, have not been carrying water to their optimum capacity.“We have been facing scarcity of canal water for the past few days as a result of which the standing cotton and paddy crops have been affected. The cotton crops need canal water in hot weather when mercury hovers around 45°C,” said Hardeep Dhaka, sarpanch of border village Khanpur, adding that the brackish subsoil water was not fit for irrigation purposes.One of the reasons behind scarcity of water is stated to be its theft by farmers. “Some affluent farmers, particularly in the Jalalabad segment, have been stealing water for several years allegedly in connivance with officials, resulting in scarcity of water in the tail-end villages,” alleged farmer Raj Singh of Kerian village.Executive Engineer (Canals) Jagtar Singh said teams had been constituted to check the water theft. Sources said the worst affected villages were Khanpur, Churiwala, Kerian, Bandiwala, Sivana, Muradwala, Bareka, Shahtirwala, Kheowali Dhab, Lakhewali Dhab, Kabulshah, Jandwala and Rampura.XEN Jagtar Singh said a technical snag had developed at the Ballanwala headworks near Ferozepur, which had been fixed. He said the water would be released in a couple of days.
16-06-2020||Moga||Govt steps in, Moga panchayat takes back boycott resolution||Following the intervention of the state government, Tarewala panchayat today withdrew its controversial resolution to boycott the landless Dalit labourers who were demanding exorbitant rates for transplantation of paddy seedlings in the fields.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, said after coming to know about the controversial resolution, he sent a team of officers to convene a joint meeting of the panchayat and the representatives of the landless labourers to find out an amicable solution to this socio-economic crisis, which, otherwise, could have had a larger impact on Punjab’s rural society.The social ‘tussle’ between the landlords and labourers over rates for transplanting paddy seedlings has been reported at many places in the state.In a rare decision, the panchayat of Tarewala village passed a resolution of social boycott of the Dalit labourers who were demanding high rates for the work.In a message to all district agriculture officers, Pannu said, “The transplantation of paddy is in full swing. As was expected, local labourers have filled the vacuum caused by non-arrival of migrant labourers to some extent. However, in a few villages some differences among farmers and labourers have been reported over wages. All officers are requested to take proactive steps to bring about reproachment in such villages.” — TNS
16-06-2020|| ---||SC commission member, kin held in suicide abetment case||Sangrur, June 15 Almost 10 days after the registration of abetment to suicide case, the Sangrur police arrested state Scheduled Castes (SC) Commission member Poonam Kangra, her husband and their son, while two other sons are absconding.  “A police team arrested Commission member Poonam Kangra, her husband Darshan Kangra and their son Vikasdeep near Ladda village bus stand last night. However, their two sons — Rajan and Anmol — are absconding. All five have been booked for abetment to suicide on June 4 after Sanjeev Kumar allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison,” said Satpal Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) (Rural), Sangrur.  Family members of the deceased alleged that Kumar allegedly consumed poison on June 4 after he failed to trace his 27-year-old daughter, who had allegedly eloped with Kangra’s son on June 4. Kumar died at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. His family members and neighbours had staged a protest at Mahavir Chowk demanding arrest of the accused. “We had registered a case against all five after the wife of the deceased alleged that the accused had been threatening to marry her daughter forcibly to their son. After his daughter disappeared, the victim took the extreme step. We have procured their three days police remand and conducting raids to arrest the remaining two accused,” the Deputy Superintendent of Police said.
16-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No test, migrant workers in Punjab head straight to fields||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 15Farmers in Punjab’s Malwa region are bringing migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for transplanting paddy, most of whom have not been screened for Covid-19. Neither are these farm labourers placed under quarantine, as is mandatory. Even more alarming, there are reports that some of them had earlier worked on farmlands in Maharastra, the state worst hit by the pandemic.A farmer in Bathinda, Gurmeet Singh, said they did not have the option of getting the workers screened as time was running out. “Also, in the absence of experienced farmhands, we are sending buses to UP and Bihar to gather more workers, offering them much higher wages this paddy season”, he told The Tribune.Mohan, a migrant labourer from UP, said he had planned to return by March-end for harvesting wheat, but could not do so owing to the nationwide lockdown. “As soon as transport services were resumed, I boarded a bus for Punjab for transplanting paddy as there is hardly any employment opportunity at my village,” he said.Pointing out that migrants were arriving in the state in large numbers every day, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said the farmers engaging them for work faced the risk of being infected. “However, faced with labour shortage, these farmers have no other option,” he observed.He lashed out at the Punjab Government for failing to come to the aid of the farming community. When contacted, Bathinda Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said they had begun random sampling. “For now, we are taking samples of migrants showing Covid-19 symptoms,” he said.
