16-09-2020||Chandigarh||78 deaths, record 2,717 Covid cases in Punjab||Seventy-eight people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday as a record 2,717 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 87,184.According to a bulletin, the state has reported 2,592 deaths so far.The previous highest daily figures were reported on September 13, when the state recorded 2,628 cases.On Wednesday, 15 fatalities were reported from Ludhiana; 11 from Patiala; 10 from Jalandhar; nine from Bathinda; six from Bathinda; five each from Hoshiarpur and Sangrur; and three from Moga.Two deaths each were reported from Fazilka, Kapurthala, Muktsar and Rupnagar and one each from Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Mansa and Pathankot, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported 562 infections, followed by Mohali (272), Amritsar (267), Patiala (247), Jalandhar (209), Hoshiarpur (206), Gurdaspur (144), Faridkot (131) and Bathinda (119). There are 21,022 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, the bulletin said. A total of 2,756 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, it said, adding that so far, 63,570 people have been cured of the contagion.Eighty-eight patients are on ventilator while 451 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 14,67,301 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/78-deaths-record-2-717-covid-cases-in-punjab-142104
16-09-2020||---||10 farmer bodies announce ‘Punjab bandh’ on September 25 against agri Bills||Chandigarh, September 16As many as 10 farmer organisations in Punjab have announced ‘Punjab Bandh’ on September 25, in protest against, what they allege, anti-farmer Bills being enacted by the Parliament.A decision to call a statewide bandh was taken in a meeting of the organisations, held in Ludhiana today. The meeting was attended by Kulwant Sandhu, general secretary, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha; Nirbhai Singh Dhurdike, president, Kirti Kisan Union; Buta Singh Burj Gill, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakonda) and Jagmohan Patiala, general secretary; Manjit Dhaner, president of Krantikari Kisan Union; Dr. Darshanpal, general secretary and Gurmeet Mahima, president of Punjab Kisan Sabha;  Ruldu Singh Mansa, Surat Singh of All India Kisan Sabha; harjit Ravi, general secretary of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, besides leaders of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee; Jai Kisan Andolan; Punjab Kisan Sabha Sambar and All India Kisan Sabha Punnawal.These farm leaders decided that in September 25, all businesses, road and rail transport would be completely shut down across Punjab. To make the bandh a success, a joint meeting of all the farmers’ organisations of Punjab has been convened on September 19 in Moga to bring all the farmers’ organisations of the state on one platform and intensify the farmers’ movement.The farmer leaders said the Modi government was hell bent on destroying farmers, labourers and consumers of the entire country. Farmer leaders said despite the fall in oil prices across the world, the Modi government was raising oil prices. The leaders said the struggle would continue till these disastrous laws were abolished and oil was reduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-farmer-bodies-announce-punjab-bandh-on-september-25-against-agri-bills-142080
16-09-2020||New Delhi||SAD decides to oppose three agriculture-related Bills in Parliament||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday decided to oppose the three agriculture-related Bills in Parliament.Party chief Sukhbir Badal issued a note to party MPs to this effect.These Bills are to replace the Ordinances and include Essential Commodities (Amendment), The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce Promotion and Facilitation, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services.Naresh Gujral, Party Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha, today issued the notice. The party has three MPs including Gujral, Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Balwinder Singh Bhunder.The SAD, an ally of the BJP, is a member of the governing coalition at the Centre.It remains to be seen whether the party would vote in case a division is sought by the Opposition on any of the Bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-decides-to-oppose-three-agriculture-related-bills-in-parliament-142079
16-09-2020||New Delhi||Farmers are upset, please talk to them and allay their fears, Fathegarh Sahib MP Amar Singh tells govt||Urging the government to talk to farmers and allay their fears, Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh on Wednesday said the highways in his constituency are blocked by farmers upset over the three agriculture ordinances  “Farmers in Punjab have made the country surplus. I have received phone calls from my constituency that national highways are blocked by protesting farmers.  “In all the three ordinances, MSP has not been mentioned. Please talk to farmers,” he said speaking during the Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-are-upset-%C2%A0please-talk-to-them-and-allay-their-fears-fathegarh-sahib-mp-amar-singh-tells-govt-142047
16-09-2020||Mohali||National award-winning writer accuses SHO of fraudulent marriage, rape||A national award-winning writer from Kharar has alleged inaction regarding her complaint against an Inspector of Punjab Police whom she accused of fraudulently marrying and establishing a sexual relationship with her.Addressing a press conference, the writer alleged that Gurmit Singh, SHO, Sambhu police station, had married twice before marrying her. She alleged he had gotten a divorce from one marriage but not from the second. He also has one daughter from one of these marriages.He hid facts from her and married her in February in a Gurudwara in Phase-8, Mohali. He forged signatures of his mother and brother at the time of marriage, she alleged.The writer further alleged she found Gurmit on a matrimonial site ‘Sangham.com” and informed him that her divorce case was pending in a court, the last date of which was March 24, 2020.Gurmeet told her that he too was divorced and had a daughter but he gave no information about his second marriage. Her first meeting with Gurmit was on February 15, 2020, in Mohali phase 6.According to the author, she came to know about him when the Inspector left her after having beaten her on July 9. He never returned home."When I called him, he answered the calls abruptly and said he has done this with many women like me and there is no need to follow him from today onwards. He threatened that he was a police officer and could do anything to her, " she alleged adding he asked her what proof she had of their marriage.When she went to the Gurdwara to get the marriage certificate, the manager of Gurdwara Sahib said that Inspector Gurmeet Singh had not given them the required documents regarding the marriage certificate, due to which they could not issue the certificate.According to the author, she has illicit chats of Gurmit Singh with other women and girls on Facebook. The main interest of his chats was tricking and luring the girls and women into marrying him.The writer, through her lawyer Lalit Sood, has lodged a written complaint against him with IG Ropar seeking registration of a case of fraud and rape against him. Her lawyer said the Hindi author has won Rajiv Gandhi and Bhaskar Pride national awards. She has written 11 books.The author has also sent a copy of the complaint to the Punjab Chief Minister, Principal Secretary Home), Principal Secretary (Personnel) and Punjab Women's Commission. The IG has handed over the investigation of the complaint to woman IPS officer from Mohali.Meanwhile, when Chandigarh Tribune contacted the Inspector, he denied the allegations. "Whatever I have to say, I will before the authorities," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-award-winning-writer-accuses-sho-of-fraudulent-marriage-rape-142038
16-09-2020||New Delhi||Farmers from Punjab, Haryana stage protest in Delhi over agricultural bills; detained||Farmers from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against bills on food and agriculture reform on Wednesday.Police detained the farmers while they were protesting. The Centre introduced the Bills on food and agriculture reform in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The proposed legislations seek to provide barrier-free trade for farmers’ produce outside notified farm mandis, and empower farmers to enter into farming agreements with private players before production for sale of agri-produce.The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill were introduced in parliament on Monday.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.Tribune photo: Manas Ranjan Bhui Farmers have maintained that they are being forced to take to streets because of the apathetic attitude of the central government over their demand for the withdrawal of the Bills.Farmers have expressed apprehension that these would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-from-punjab-haryana-stage-protest-in-delhi-over-agricultural-bills-detained-142034
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder leads PPCC delegation to meet Governor on Centre's Agriculture bills||Warning that the enactment of the farm ordinances would lead to resentment and unrest in Punjab, which was already at the receiving end of Pakistan’s concerted efforts to foment trouble, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday led a Congress delegation to submit a memorandum to Governor VP Singh Badnore, seeking his intervention for non-pursuance of the Agriculture Bills by the Centre in Parliament.Flanked by PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and other members of the delegation, the Chief Minister told the Governor that the party felt that any move to tinker with the present procurement system, and that too in the times of nationwide crisis, may deepen social unrest amongst the farmers in the state. “It may not be conducive for the peace and development of the region, which faces serious challenges of public order due to a live international border,” he stressed.[Live] From Punjab Governor house to submit our petition against the Central Govt’s anti farmer ordinance. Punjab will speak against this ordinance because it threatens our Agriculture. #PunjabBolda https://t.co/un1hvj58Qj  Pointing to Pakistan’s bid to disturb the state’s peace and stability through narco-terror and other anti-India acts, the Chief Minister later told media persons outside the Governor House that this anti-farmer legislation would lead to a rise in the people’s anger. “Why are we playing into the hands of Pakistan?” he asked.These Bills, one of which has already been passed in the Lok Sabha yesterday, are against national interest, and particularly detrimental to Punjab, where the majority of the farmers tilled less than 5 acres of land and would be the worst-hit, warned Captain Amarinder. Hoping that the Centre will back out of pursuing the remaining two Bills and not get them passed in Parliament, he said the Centre had failed to take the interest of the farmers into account in introducing these Ordinances and instead, took a stand in favour of corporate houses.The Chief Minister said he had written to the Prime Minister thrice on the issue but had not received any response to far. The enactment of the remaining two Bills would ruin Punjab, he said. If MSP ends, which is what the Centre seems to be moving towards, the agriculture sector will be ruined in Punjab and across the country, he added.Taking on the Akalis and Sukhbir Badal, the Chief Minister pointed out that all except the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were on board at the all-party meeting he had convened on the issue. “We passed a resolution in the State Assembly, we talked to all political parties and farmer unions…and all were on board except the Akalis, who are now pretending to be opposed to the Ordinances,” he said.“Isn’t Harsimrat Badal a member of the cabinet? Why didn’t she protest there and why doesn’t she speak outside either on the issue? What did the Akali Dal do in the assembly?” asked the Chief Minister, terming their U-turn a total farce and nothing more than a face-saver.The Congress, and his government, had been vocally and vehemently opposing the Ordinances all through, Captain Amarinder pointed out, adding that the Union Minister in charge of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution had made a misleading and incorrect statement in Parliament claiming that Punjab was on board the move.The Chief Minister said that Punjab was in fact excluded from the high-powered committee on agricultural reforms constituted by the Government of India and it was included after his government protested. One meeting was attended by Manpreet Badal and at the second meeting of officers, the states were clearly told that their opinion was not being sought but they were only being apprised about the proposed reforms. No mention was ever made of the Ordinances, he added.Termed the passage of one of the Bills in the Lok Sabha yesterday a black day in the history of Parliament, Jakhar warned that under pressure for the farmer unions, the Akalis may even go to the extent of enacting the drama of resigning from the Central Government but it would be another farce on the part of the party. He saluted the farmers of the country, especially Punjab, who had compelled the Akalis to change their stance on the issue. He also categorically denied Union Minister Raosaheb Patil Danve’s claim and said Punjab was never consulted on the Ordinances.Besides Captain Amarinder and Jakhar, the delegation that met the Governor today comprised Cabinet Ministers Manpreet Badal, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLAs Rana Gurjit Singh, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Dr Raj Kumar Verka and PPCC Secretary Capt Sandeep Sandhu.The delegation requested the Governor to “recommend to the Union Government not to pursue the Bills recently introduced in the Lok Sabha further to convert these ordinances into legislation.” They urged the Governor to take up the matter with the central government for urgent attention and action, pointing out that the new changes in the agricultural marketing system have led to apprehension amongst the farmers that the government is planning to withdraw from the assured procurement of every grain produced by them.The memorandum further urged upon the Union Government to review and reconsider the measures introduced by the Bills, “as these are unlikely to deliver on the promises made out of them. Agri-marketing should be left to the States as envisaged in our Constitution.”The Bills relate to the three ordinances issued by the Union Government on June 5, 2020, for permitting trade in agricultural produce outside the physical boundaries of the set-up agricultural market under APMC Act, easing restrictions under the Essential Commodities Act and facilitating contract farming.The memorandum noted that the Agriculture Produce Marketing System in Punjab has served its purpose well for the last 60 years. “It has stood the test of time. It has ensured food security on one hand and livelihood of millions of farmers and workers on the other.” It further said that a well-developed state of the art infrastructure has also been created in Punjab, both for open marketing and storage of produce and seamless transportation of produce from farm-gate to mandi and godowns.The Punjab State Legislative Assembly has also, in its sitting on 28th August 2020, passed a resolution urging upon the Union Government to reconsider these decisions and instead promulgate another ordinance making the MSP a statutory right of the farmers, the delegation submitted to the Governor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-leads-ppcc-delegation-to-meet-governor-on-centres-agriculture-bills-142017
16-09-2020||---||Amarinder announces withdrawal of FIRs filed against farmers, no fresh cases to be registered for violation of Section 144||Chandigarh, September 16Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to farmers not to stop traffic or violate Section 144 in the state over the agriculture Bills, but made it clear that no cases would be registered against them for violation of Section 144 as they were fighting for their lives.FIRs already registered against farmers protesting in violation of Section 144 would be withdrawn, said the Chief Minister, talking to mediapersons outside the Governor’s House after submitting a memorandum against the “anti-farmer” Bills on behalf of the Punjab Congress. The farmers are violating the law as the ordinances would ruin them and their families, he said in response to a question.The state Congress and his government were with the farmers, the Chief Minister asserted, adding that the Centre’s legislations would ruin Punjab and its agriculture, which was the backbone of its economy. The ordinances would pave the way for ending the MSP regime, which would spell doom for Punjab, and in fact the whole nation, he added.Amarinder urged the farmers to take their protests to Delhi, at the doorstep of the central government, and assured them that the Congress would stand with them in their fight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-announces-withdrawal-of-firs-filed-against-farmers-no-fresh-cases-to-be-registered-for-violation-of-section-144-142014
16-09-2020||---||Cricketer Suresh Raina visits Pathankot as kin's attack-murder case cracked||Chandigarh, September 16Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the case of attack and murder involving cricketer Suresh Raina’s kin has been “solved” with the arrest of three members of an inter-state gang of criminals.Eleven other accused are yet to be arrested, DGP Dinkar Gupta said, giving details of the arrests in the case, which took place on the night of August 19 in Tharyal village in Pathankot.Meanwhile, the cricketer also visited the village on Wednesday.Raina’s uncle Ashok Kumar, a contractor, had died on the spot, while his son Kaushal Kumar succumbed to injuries on August 31 and wife Asha Rani is in a hospital in critical condition. Two others injured in the attack had been discharged from the hospital.Soon after the incident, the Chief Minister had ordered the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under IGP Border Range, Amritsar, with SSP, Pathankot, SP Investigation and DSP, Dhar Kalan, as its members, to investigate the case thoroughly and expeditiously.On September 15, the SIT received information that three suspects, who were seen at the Defence Road on the morning after the incident, were staying in Jhuggis near the Pathankot Railway Station. A raid was conducted and all three were nabbed.According to the DGP, two gold rings, one gold chain and Rs 1,530 were recovered, along with two wooden sticks from the arrested accused. They have been identified as Sawan, Muhobbat and Shahrukh Khan. They are residents of Chirawa and Pilani jhuggis in Rajasthan.Initial investigation has revealed that they were operating as a gang along with others and had committed several such crimes earlier in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and various parts of Punjab, moving to the crime spots in groups of 2-3 following the natural land marks like Canals, railway lines, high-voltage electricity wires, etc.Sawan, originally a native of Uttar Pradesh, has told the SIT that on August 12, they had moved as a group from Chirawa and Pilani in an auto, owned by one Nausau, also living in the Chirawa jhuggis. Nausau accompanied the trio, along with Rashid, Rehan, Jabrana, Waphila, Tawajjal Bibi and an unknown person.      They reached Jagraon, Ludhiana, where they were joined by three others – Reenda, Golu and Sajan. They left for Pathankot after committing a robbery in Jagraon on the night of August 14.In Pathankot, one Sanju, who knew the area well, also joined them, said the DGP.On August 19, around 7-8 pm, they moved in groups of 2-3 persons, as per their modus operandi, and reached a designated spot in the open field where Rashid, Nausau and Sanju @ Chajju went to bring wooden sticks, which they cut from Safeda (Eucalyptus) tree.They had already identified a shuttering shop during recce of the area earlier, where the bamboo ladders were tied up using chains. The first two houses where they put the ladders turned out to be a godown and an empty home, while the third was of Ashok Kumar. Five of the accused entered the house using the ladder from the side of the roof, where they saw three people lying on the mats. The suspects hit them on the head before moving into the house, where they attacked two others before escaping with cash and gold ornaments, said the DGP.The accused then crossed the high-tension electricity wires through the open field to reach the Canal, where they separated in groups of twos and threes to reach the railway station. After distributing the cash and jewellery among themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cricketer-suresh-raina-visits-pathankot-as-kins-attack-murder-case-cracked-142007
16-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Apple shows diversity in launch event; Sikh man and daughter feature in introduction||A Sikh father-daughter duo made it to Apple’s introductory theme at a virtual event organised by the tech giant to make key announcements regarding the launch of its 8th gen iPads and other gadgets in near future.Called ‘Time Flies’, the event, however, did not witness the launch of iPhone 2020, as was being anticipated by many. Among the other gadgets the company showcased were Apple Watch Series 6, Apple Watch SE and Apple Fitness Plus, an assisted fitness guidance package.The Sikh restaurateur, Harjinder Singh Kukreja, took to Twitter and highlighted the development by Apple and applauded them.Kudos & thanks to @Apple for Diversity in the #AppleEvent Absolutely happy to see a Sikh father and daughter in Apple’s introduction of the 8th generation iPad.Representation matters!Black, Sikh, Hispanic, Latino & many more faces are so important for generations to come. pic.twitter.com/XpgdpdWAJ9  “Kudos & thanks to @Apple for Diversity in the #AppleEvent Absolutely happy to see a Sikh father and daughter in Apple’s introduction of the 8th generation iPad. Representation matters! Black, Sikh, Hispanic, Latino & many more faces are so important for generations to come,” tweeted Kukreja as he highlighted the development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apple-shows-diversity-in-launch-event-sikh-man-and-daughter-feature-in-introduction-141998
16-09-2020||---||Ludhiana ‘most romantic’ Indian city||Ludhiana, September 15Ludhiana has emerged as the most romantic Indian city on Twitters’ Conversation Replay in 2019.A study commissioned by Twitter India shows that Indians found joy in everyday conversations last year. The team analysed 8,50,000 Tweets across 22 cities in the country from September to November 2019.In addition to ‘romance’, Ludhiana was among the top three cities across themes of ‘doing good deeds’ and ‘food’. Other themes of joy that saw interest and contribution from people of Ludhiana were: ‘Animals’, ‘friendship’ and ‘humour’.With Conversation Replay, Twitter is doing a throwback to those joyful conversations from 2019, so that people can revisit little pleasures of life again.The study found that the 10 most talked-about themes included: Animals, celebrations, celebrity content, doing good deeds, family, food, humour, nostalgia, romance and sports (listed in an alphabetical order).Manish Maheshwari, managing director, Twitter India, said: “Twitter is a modern public square where diverse voices discuss and share their views on topics and conversations that interest them. Last year, people were celebrating and revelling in many joys of life, and with Conversation Replay, our intent is to throw back to those vibrant conversations, across varied themes of joy from diverse parts of the country, to encourage people to celebrate life. Sharing these conversations is our way of giving people of the country a moment of happiness and reminding them that joy can still be found in little pleasures.”“On Twitter, we see people celebrating moments of romantic love. These include vibrantly coloured pictures of couples smiling, laughing, embracing, or posing together during holidays. Images are usually decorated with stickers and text, showing a touch of playfulness and light-heartedness,” he said.Twitter is also the space for celebrating friends and documenting memories made with them. Likewise, friendship was also one of the top themes of joyful Twitter conversations in Ludhiana last year.Humour on Twitter is candid, deadpan and without restraint, and was one of the top conversation themes that brought joy to people in Ludhiana last year. While Ludhiana topped the charts for conversations on romance and Raipur-led conversations around animals. Bhubaneswar had the most conversations around family and doing good deeds, whereas Mumbai led conversations on nostalgia.Findings of study by Twitter IndiaThe study reveals Ludhiana tweeted the most about romance in 2019, followed by Ahmedabad and Kolkata. In doing good deeds theme, Ludhiana is one of the top three cities that contributed to it. It was also one of the top three cities that tweeted about food on Twitter in 2019. It also found that ‘animals’ was one of the top conversation themes that brought joy to people from Ludhiana in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-most-romantic-indian-city-141960
16-09-2020||Vijay C Roy||Northern states laggard in startup rankings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15The northern region has to work hard to attract startups as no state from the region has been ranked as top performer in the second edition of Ranking of States on Support to Startup Ecosystems released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) recently.Senior govt official‘Need to build robust ecosystem’The need of the hour is to build a robust ecosystem and closely monitor futuristic measures to spur the growth of startupsPunjab and Haryana were placed under the Aspiring Leaders’ category along with Jharkhand, Telangana and Uttarakhand. They are a notch above Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, which were ranked at the bottom in Emerging Startup Ecosystems as per the States Startup Ranking Report 2019.Gujarat topped the list as the best performer. The ‘top performers’ include Karnataka and Kerala while Bihar, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan were put in the ‘Leaders’ category.As many as 22 states and three Union Territories participated in the ranking. For the purpose of ranking, the states were classified into five categories: Best Performers, Top Performers, Leaders, Aspiring Leaders and Emerging Startup Ecosystems.The startup ecosystem in the country is replete with growth stories due to the role of stakeholders but it is mainly due to lack of ecosystem the northern states seems to be laggard.“In the northern region, access to seed capital and venture funding support is difficult as compared to top-performing states. This is the main reason behind lower rankings,” said a senior government official.Besides, there is a need for robust policy framework and complete transparency in the policy implementation. “The need of the hour is to build a robust ecosystem and closely monitor futuristic measures to spur the growth of the startups,” said another official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/northern-states-laggard-in-startup-rankings-141679
16-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Govt apathy forced this visually impaired cricketer to quit game||Jalandhar, September 15Every time his cell phone rings, Tejinder Pal Singh (35), a tailor’s son at Guru Nanak Pura here, answers at the first beep.Reason: He’s expecting an important call from the Punjab Sports Department, but each time he is disappointed.Tejinder was the only player from Punjab, who got selected in India’s blind cricket team in 2014 that won the Blind Cricket World Cup in South Africa in 2014 and the England World Cup in 2015, but despite this, his achievements and efforts never got recognised. At present, he does not even have money to buy a bat of his own.No help from govt so farOn being asked whether he tried approaching the Punjab Government, Tejinder said, he approached the officials of the Sports Departments many times in the past, but to no avail. “I urged them to at least provide me a job, if not any monetary benefit so that I can keep on promoting blind cricket in the state, but leave alone a job, I didn’t even get a reply,” he said.He said though his counterparts in states such as Haryana and Delhi got Rs25 lakh to Rs50 lakh each along with government jobs, he was still awaiting help from the Punjab Government. Besides, it’s been five years now that he has quit the game. Reason: lack of rewards and recognition from the state Sports Department. “I belong to a poor family and after losing my eyesight, making a career in sports was the only option left with me to support my family and make them proud, but it seems even after proving my mettle in the world of cricket, I failed as a son and I’m not able to financially help my father.”Tejinder said unlike other cricketers, it was never a run for name, fame, recognition, glittering award ceremonies and loads of financial opportunities. For him, it was a lone struggle to fight for his existence in this world and not be a burden on his family. “I always thought that if I win the World Cup one day, I will be offered a government job and then I would finally retire my father from his tailoring job, but unfortunately, my dreams are still dreams and I am now working as a Class III employee in PAP here to make both ends meet,” he said.Down memory lane...On being asked how he lost his vision and what all challenges he faced as a blind cricketer, Tejinder said he lost his eyesight at the age of six, when a medicine given to him by a doctor at Nawanshahr had an adverse reaction. “My family after that took me to a number of hospitals. I even got a lot of surgeries done, but doctors said my vein in the retina has been blocked and my eyesight could never be restored now,” he said.Sharing his cricket journey, he said since his childhood, he was interested in cricket and had this aim to make a career in cricket only. “After I lost my vision, someone suggested that I take admission to a blind school in Dehradun. And, it was there, my game found a vision, and I started playing district, state and national-level cricket tournaments. Also, while studying at DAV College in Chandigarh, I represented the state twice in various tournaments. Besides, I also had the opportunity to play from Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.”Talking about challengers, Tejinder said, the biggest challenge for him was to carry forward the game, when there was no governing body for the blind in the state.“During every international tournament, instead of concentrating on my practise sessions, I had to spend time knocking at the doors of various industrialists and politicians to sponsor my kits and my air tickets. It was only due to the NRIs, among other persons, who sponsored my air tickets that I could play in the Cricket World Cup,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-apathy-forced-this-visually-impaired-cricketer-to-quit-game-141899
16-09-2020||Amritsar||GNDU ranks 17th among 415 state universities in country||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) is the only university of Punjab which has bagged any position among the top state public universities in the country in the recent survey released by the ‘Outlook’ magazine.It is ranked at 17th position amongst 415 public universities of the country, said GNDU spokesman in a statement issued here today. Recently, it has also bagged 7th position among 10 top state public multidisciplinary universities as per "Week-Hansa Research Survey- 2020". This is a biggest honour for the University as it bagged the top position among the state funded universities.Fared well in other surveys tooThe spokesman pointed out that only Panjab University, Chandigarh, which is funded by the Government of India figures before it. He said on the various parameters as far as academic and research excellence is concerned GNDU bagged 281.77 points which is highest among the neighbouring universities.One of the major initiatives taken by this university in the recent past which has also been adopted by the University Grants Commission is the online viva for its doctoral students which not only reduces the timelines but also helps the university to get its students examined by eminent academicians from Institutes of National Repute.In departments which have tremendous rush for admission in the current academic year 2020-2021, the entrance test is being conducted by the National Testing Agency via NTA Remote Proctored Online Based Test which would be conducted on 18 th of September. The advantage of this test is that students can appear in the test while sitting in their homes with utmost propriety. This is again the only university which has tied up with National Testing Agency for such an activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndu-ranks-17th-among-415-state-universities-in-country-141857
16-09-2020||Amritsar||400 Indian nationals return from Pakistan, thank authorities||Around 400 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan returned on NORI (No Obligation to Return to India) visa at Atari border here today. The persons who returned from Pakistan after seven months thanked the Indian High Commission and government for help them to return home.Arunpal Singh, protocol officer, Punjab Police, stated that health teams had been deputed to conduct the Covid-19 test. The results were provided on the spot. The persons, found negative, were asked to stay quarantined for 10 days at their residence. Those, who were positive, would be treated at local hospitals”. Shdmani, a resident of Indore, who returned from Pakistan said, “My family went Pakistan on March 8 to attend a marriage. They were stranded in the Pakistan for seven months due to covid-19. Shankar Lalwani our MP from Indore helped us a lot and made it possible to return my family to home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/400-indian-nationals-return-from-pakistan-thank-authorities-141861
16-09-2020||Amritsar||Govt will make arrangements for education of Manpreet, 2 sisters: CM||The Chief Minister on Monday talked to Manpreet Singh, a young child, whose video of selling papad and roasted chana went viral on social media recently.Capt Amarinder Singh talked to him through three video calls on the mobile phone of Deputy Commissioner Gurdeep Singh Khaira. He assured him of all types of help.‘A true example of Punjabiyat’Appreciating Manpreet Singh, the CM said he was a true example of Punjabiyat as he was striving to earn a livelihood for the family and refused to take offerings. He instructed the Deputy Commissioner to help the family in every possible way. Impressed by his grit of selling roasted chanas, papad and golgappas to earn a livelihood rather than having easy money, the CM announced a Rs 5-lakh grant for him.The government would also make arrangements for the education of Manpreet Singh and his two elder sisters, said the CM.Appreciating Manpreet Singh, he said he was a true example of Punjabiyat as he was striving to earn a livelihood for the family and refused to take offerings. He instructed the Deputy Commissioner to help the family in every possible way.Impressed by his grit of selling roasted chanas, papad and golgappas to earn a livelihood rather than having easy money, the CM announced a Rs5-lakh grant for him. Manpreet Singh said he felt very happy talking to the CM who appreciated and encouraged him. He said he would work hard and study to strengthen the economic condition of his family.He also expressed his gratitude to the Punjab CM for providing financial support to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-will-make-arrangements-for-education-of-manpreet-2-sisters-cm-141863
16-09-2020||Amritsar||A tale of 250 yrs: From Bagh Akalian to Akali Market & now, a multi-storey inn||The historic Akali Market which was once one of the most visited places in the holy city lies in utter neglect now.The market was constructed in the 1930s to generate revenue for the Akal Takht.A triple-storey ‘deodhi’ in the chowk of Paparan Walla and Misri Bazaar, still manages to attract visitors, but the inside picture of the market and the Bagh is disappointing.A few metres away from the Darbar Sahib complex, the market has over 100 shops and most of the traders deal with the iron and steel. Both the market and Bagh Akalian are neglected by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which is the custodian of the property. Shopkeepers alleged that the SGPC wants to get rid of from the 90-year-old tenants to fulfill its desire to construct inns and rest houses.Shopkeeper in the market claimed that the place used to have a glorious past.Shopkeepers claim that roads outside the shops remain filled with the debris and garbage. There are no arrangements to drain out the rain water, they said.Bagh AkalianBefore the annexation of Punjab by Britishers, the city was known for its beautiful gardens and ponds. Anand Gabha, in her book “Amritsar, a study in Urban History”, mentioned that Bagh Akalia was attached to Akal Bunga (Akal Takht). The Bagh was one of the most prominent gardens in the city. It was also shown in the map of 1849 prepared by the British administration. The Bagh was developed in the Misl period and later renowned Sikh warrior Akali Phoola Singh used to take care of it. Later, the garden became the assembling point for the Akalis activists, who used to take part in the ‘morchas’ (political movement against British rule) during the early nineteenth century.Akali MarketAfter taking possession of gurdwaras from mahants in 1920, the SGPC was formed to manage historical Sikh shrines in the country. The Bagh Akalian belonged to the Akal Takhat. Dr Joginder Singh, a historian and former head of history department, Guru Nanak Dev University, says: “There were not many income resources to gurdwaras soon after the Akalis took possession from the mahants. Then, Akal Takhat Jathedar Mohan Singh Nagoke took the initiative and constructed a big market in Bagh Akalaian in the late 1930s.”Plan to build multi-storey inn in limboThe SGPC is making efforts to construct a multi-storey inn with a parking facility adjoining the Bagh Akalain but to no avail. On April 23, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal again laid the foundation stone of the Mata Tripta Niwas, which has been dedicated to the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Spread in an area of five acres, the new inn with 1,000 rooms has been proposed in the market. Earlier, the SGPC kept an amount of Rs10 crore in the 2018-2019 budget to carry out the first phase of the project but it could not take off as a dispute arose with tenants who had moved court.ShopkeeperspeakMy father was the first tenant in the market when it was established. We are earning our livelihood from this small shop for the past 90 years. Earlier, the Bagh was managed by the SGPC. There were mashkis (persons for watering the plants) and gardeners were deployed. The SGPC used to take care of market. Now, the garden and market has turned into garbage dump. — Vaid Parvesh Kumar, a tenant at shop number 1 at main DeohriMost of the traders have left, but they still claim possession on the shops. Now, the SGPC is forcing us to leave. SGPC officials deliberately dump debris and garbage on the roads. There is no sewerage system inside the market and even the Municipal Corporation can’t help as it is private property. — Joginder Singh (80), an iron wire trader in the market||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-tale-of-250-yrs-from-bagh-akalian-to-akali-market-now-a-multi-storey-inn-141865
16-09-2020||Faridkot||Mystery shrouds death of patient||Mystery shrouds the death of a Covid patient after he allegedly fell from the balcony of the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here. Sandeep Singh (38), a truck driver from Mudki town, was admitted to the hospital four days ago and was shifted to the isolation ward today after he developed some complications. However, his body was later found near the balcony. The family members accused the hospital authorities of negligence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mystery-shrouds-death-of-patient-141764
16-09-2020||Abohar||Woman held for hatching conspiracy to kill spouse||A woman was arrested by the Sriganganagar police on Tuesday for hatching a conspiracy to get her husband murdered by her alleged paramour.   Investigation Officer Chanderjit Singh said Chak 25-PTD village resident Sulochana (25) was arrested and produced in a court, which sent her to judicial custody.   Ram Lal, alias Ramu Nayak (22), who owns a barber shop in the village, was earlier arrested for allegedly killing Kheta Ram Naik (28), Sulochana’s husband, on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Investigations into the incident revealed the victim and Ram Lal were close friends and the latter frequented Kheta Ram’s house. He allegedly started an illicit relationship with the victim’s wife about eight months ago. Last week, Kheta Ram told Ram Lal to stop visiting his home. Sulochana and Ram Lal then allegedly conspired to eliminate him.  On Thursday, around 7 pm, Ram Lal took Kheta Ram to a link road on the pretext of having liquor. When the victim was under the influence of liquor, Ram Lal allegedly attacked him with a club and left. Kheta Ram was found dead on Friday. The police examined phone records of Sulochana, which revealed she was in touch with Ram Lal till the time of the murder. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-held-for-hatching-conspiracy-to-kill-spouse-141766
16-09-2020||---||Two booked in fraud case||Sangrur, September 15 The police have booked the secretary and the salesman of the Gandhua Multipurpose Agriculture Service Society for allegedly misappropriating Rs 19.99 lakh. “During an inquiry by our special committee, it has come to light that the embezzlement of Rs 19.99 lakh had taken place in the Gandhua society. Secretary Chamkaur Singh and salesman Kulwinder Singh collected loan instalments from the area residents, but didn’t deposit the money,” said HS Sidhu, assistant registrar of the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-booked-in-fraud-case-141768
16-09-2020||Mansa||Mansa cops return 212 stolen, lost mobile phones||The district police have returned 212 lost or stolen mobile phones to residents who had lost them during the lockdown. SSP Surendra Lamba said: “A special team of officers, headed by SP (Headquarters) Satnam Singh, had been constituted to trace the stolen or lost mobile phones using traditional and latest scientific techniques. So far, the results have been great.” The SSP said of the 212 recovered mobile phones, 10 were seized from other states. Besides, some of the phones found were expensive and of renowned brands. The police were performing a vital role in recovering stolen or lost mobile phones, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-cops-return-212-stolen-lost-mobile-phones-141770
16-09-2020||---||Agriculture university to educate farmers on pesticide use||Faridkot, September 15To make farmers more self-reliant so that they don’t have to rely solely on the advice of pesticide dealers, the district Agriculture Department has taken an initiative of providing various periodicals, published by Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), to them.Harnek S Rode, Chief Agri OfficerPlans periodicalsBy reading the periodicals, farmers will become wiser with respect to the use of chemicals and pesticides.The department has made the periodicals available at various pesticides, fertilisers and seed shops in the district. Besides, it has approached all agricultural cooperative societies in the district to promote the study material among the farming community.Farmers tell shopkeepers about the kind of pests they are having to deal with in their fields, and based on this the dealers suggest them pesticides.By reading the material published by the PAU, the farmers would become wiser with respect to the use of chemicals and pesticides. It would help them save money and protect ecology, said Harnek Singh Rode, district Chief Agriculture Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agriculture-university-to-educate-farmers-on-pesticide-use-141771
16-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Huge amount deposited in accounts of dead, High Court told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15A scam, allegedly involving deposition of a “huge amount” in the bank accounts of the dead after being withdrawn from other accounts without the knowledge of the holders, has been brought to the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s notice.Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi was told about the scam during the hearing of a petition filed by Kulwinder Pal Singh against the State of Punjab and other respondents. He was seeking the grant of anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on May 17 last year for criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery and other offences under Sections 408, 409, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sultanwind police station in Amritsar district.The petitioner’s counsel argued he had been wrongly roped in the matter as all acts of forgery, illegal withdrawal and deposit of the amount in the accounts of the holders were done by Magwinder Singh, secretary, Cooperative Society, Sultanwind.The state counsel, on the other hand, submitted the petitioner was not named in the FIR but was part of the scam, where a huge amount was withdrawn from the accounts of the holders without their knowledge and deposited in the accounts of the dead. Thereafter, it was withdrawn by Magwinder in connivance with the petitioner working as a manager.Justice Sethi asserted the court was required to give a prima facie view whether the custodial interrogation of the petitioner was necessary to unearth the scam where innocent accountholders were duped of their money without their knowledge or amount deposited in the accounts of the holders was withdrawn by accused Magwinder in connivance with others, including the petitioner, after the death of the accountholders.Referring to the submission of the petitioner’s counsel that the accounts of the dead were opened when the petitioner was not posted in the branch concerned, Justice Sethi asserted it could not be the grounds to grant the benefit of anticipatory bail.“The petitioner might not have been posted in the branch at the time of opening of accounts, but admittedly those accounts were operated after the death of the accountholders and the illegal operations of the accounts were done during the tenure of the petitioner,” Justice Sethi asserted, while dismissing the petition.Coop society scam: bail plea dismissed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/huge-amount-deposited-in-accounts-of-dead-high-court-told-141772
16-09-2020||Vijay Mohan---||High Court stays transfer of first ‘Colonel couple’||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 15 The first “colonel couple” in the Army is dogged by transfer woes as the husband and wife, both officers in the Judge Advocate General’s (JAG) Department, have been posted to far-off places.  From their present place of posting at Jodhpur, Col Amit Kumar has been posted to Port Blair, while his wife Anu Dogra, who picks up her rank of Colonel this month, will move to Bathinda. They are the first couple to serve in the JAG Department. There are many other couples serving together in the forces, but not at the rank of Colonel so far.  In a petition that came up for hearing before the Delhi HC today, Colonel Kumar averred that the posting orders, issued by Army Headquarters, were arbitrary and in complete violation of the standard operating procedure on the subject. A Division Bench, comprising Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon, stayed the posting orders till further directions and sought a detailed response from the Army in this regard.  The petitioner had contended that the basic criteria of spouse posting, especially in case where both husband and wife happen to be serving officers, was not taken into consideration, which was a violation of service norms as well as in contravention of the Supreme Court directives.  Further, while issuing the posting order for officers of the rank of selection grade colonel and above, the order of preference of station submitted by the officer concerned ought to be considered, but no such recommendation was sought from him.  He has also stated that certain events transpired during the course of their present posting, due to which he had filed a statutory complaint against senior officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-stays-transfer-of-first-colonel-couple-141773
16-09-2020||Harshraj Singh---||Recruitment of disabled in Local Bodies Dept hangs fire||Tribune News Service LUDHIANA, SEPTEMBER 15 When the Department of Local Government, Punjab, invited applications for a special recruitment drive for the disabled in May 2019, many with disabilities had pinned hopes on getting a job after a long wait.  But even more than a year after the advertisement was published, the wait is only getting longer as the process to fill 350 vacancies for disabled persons in various municipal corporations, councils and nagar panchayats is hanging fire. Facing a tough time amid the pandemic, many with disabilities are demanding that vacancies be filled at the earliest.  Goldy Vig, a polio patient, had filed the job application in June 2019 but is still waiting for the recruitment drive to take place.  Satish Thaman, a member of Ludhiana West Grievances Redressal Committee, said: “The Department of Local Government had invited applications for 350 posts of different categories for the disabled but these posts are not being filled. I have written to the CM in this regard and requested him to order the department concerned to fill the vacancies at the earliest.” Rakesh Garg, Joint Director of Department of Local Government, said they would take a decision soon to start the recruitment process to fill these vacancies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/recruitment-of-disabled-in-local-bodies-dept-hangs-fire-141774
16-09-2020||---||Angry farmers lay siege to highways||Chandigarh/Bathinda/Patiala, September 15Farmers across Punjab today upped the ante against the farm Bills presented by the Central Government in Parliament and blocked the Bathinda-Amritsar National Highway, the national highway to Delhi at Rajpura and Khanna and state highways at several places.Farmers vowed to make “any sacrifice” to stop the controversial Bills, which allegedly threaten the MSP regime, from being implemented.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, General Secretary, BKU (lakhowal)‘There’s no looking back now’The Centre is forcing the farmers to become the slaves of multinational companies… let’s unite and speak up, once and for all. There’s no looking back for us now.In Bathinda district, agitating farmers blocked the Bathinda-Amritsar National Highway (NH-54) and demanded that the Bills be withdrawn immediately.Farmers under the aegis of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) took out a march from Ghudda to Badal village and laid siege to the residence of Union Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Kaka Singh Kotra, secretary, BKU (Sidhupur), feared that after the implementation of these Bills, the minimum support price and assured market systems would be dismantled, and farmers would be at the “mercy” of big corporates. Lashing out at the Centre for it’s “anti-farmer” decisions, the BKU (Lakhowal) claimed that they blocked roads at 35 points in the state against the ordinances.Bhagwant Mann, AAP MPAkalis must vote against Bills: AAPThe anti-farmer Bills are a step towards privatising the farming industry. The Bills will give a free hand to the private players. If the Shiromani Akali Dal really wants to support farmers’ rights, then it must vote against the Bills.In Patiala too, the anger against the Bills spilt on to roads, with over 5,000 farmers raising slogans against the state government and the Centre for their “anti-farmer decisions” in the recent past. Members of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), along with their family members, started their six-day agitation against the state government.Senior farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said they stood with the farmers and not with any political outfit. He said the farmers would continue their protests till the Central Government rolled back the new Bills.“The Capt Amarinder Singh government had promised to wipe out drug, mining and liquor mafias and waive farm loans, but it has failed to implement any of its pre-poll promises,” he said. Ugrahan added that the Badal clan too had also failed the farmers by not opposing the new ordinances, despite protests by the farming community.All Covid-19 related guidelines went for a toss as thousands gathered at the PUDA ground and raised slogans throughout the day. Food for was prepared at a makeshift kitchen set up at the venue.Traffic was also disrupted in Khanna, Khamano and Neelon as farmers blocked the highways. Traffic from Doraha-Neelon had to be diverted via Bija-Samrala routes and that of Ludhiana-Patiala via Payal-Malerkotla routes. The BKU (Lakhowal) claimed farmers halted the traffic on 25 highways with the support of 11 farmer organisations.Meanwhile, several farmer organisations under the aegis of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Committee, are meeting in Ludhiana on Wednesday to chart their plan of protest against the farm Bills.Earlier, the Centre had tabled the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill in the ongoing session of Parliament. The last one was passed by the Lok Sabha today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/angry-farmers-lay-siege-to-highways-141737
16-09-2020||---||Capt: Conspiracy 
to destroy farmers||Chandigarh, September 15Terming the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, which was passed in the Lok Sabha today, a direct and deliberate assault by the Centre on the interests of farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said the state Congress will challenge it in the court of law.Demands apology from Union MinisterCM Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded an unconditional apology from Union Minister Raosaheb Patil Danve for allegedly misleading the nation on the farm ordinance issue.Asserting he will not allow the interests of the farmers to be compromised, the CM said the enactment of the legislation was clearly a step towards abolition of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. “It is a conspiracy on part of the BJP-led NDA government (of which the SAD is a constituent) to destroy Punjab and its farmers,” he said, declaring the Congress would fight the attack on the state’s interests tooth and nail.Says SAD enacting farce on billsThe Chief Minister has said tabling of the farm Bills in Parliament had exposed the SAD which was giving contradictory versions on the MSP. He said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal knew all along that the Bills would be presented in the House.“The legislation talks of encouraging competition among farmers. Do they really expect the poor farmers, who are only competing with themselves for survival every day, to rival big corporates for protecting their interests?” said the CM.Noting that the enactment, along with the other two farm Bills that the Centre had tabled in the Lok Sabha, was in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, he pointed out the same committee had also suggested dismantling of the MSP regime. It was evident the Centre was moving towards the elimination of the MSP system, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-conspiracy-to-destroy-farmers-141739
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers being
misled: BJP||abolish the minimum support price (MSP) provision, said BJP state unit president Ashwani Sharma here on Tuesday.“It’s unfortunate that the Opposition parties are misleading the farmers by spreading a false propaganda by saying that the ordinances on agriculture will do away with the MSP,” said Sharma.“On the contrary, I want to reassure the farmers that the BJP will never take such a decision. The party believes in improving the lot of the peasants and wants them to have a choice to sell their produce at the highest price available anywhere in the country,” the BJP leader said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-beingmisled-bjp-141740
16-09-2020||---||SGPC men clash with protesters over missing ‘saroops’, many hurt||Amritsar, September 15 Turbans were tossed and several persons received injuries at the Golden Temple complex today when the SGPC taskforce attempted to prevent activists from joining a sit-in against the alleged inaction in the missing ‘saroop’ case. Even mediapersons were manhandled by the SGPC taskforce, which damaged their cameras.  Numerous passages leading to the shrine and SGPC-run inns were obstructed since early morning with tin sheets.  Activists of the Satkar Committee and other Sikh bodies staged a protest throughout the night outside the main entrance gate of Teja Singh Samundri Hall. Their talks with SGPC officials failed to yield any conclusion yesterday.  The situation took an ugly turn in the morning when some Sikh activists and Nihang organisations, which were to join the agitation, were intercepted by the SGPC taskforce.  Much to the inconvenience of devotees, the three sides that lead to the Golden Temple were blocked. Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee head Balbir Singh Muchhal claimed the manager of the Golden Temple had submitted an apology on behalf of SGPC men who misbehaved with his colleagues. The protesters demanded that the SGPC should disclose the whereabouts of 328 missing ‘saroops’, initiate criminal proceedings against the erring officials and make the investigation report public as they feared that many influential officials and political leaders were involved in the issue.  SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh said, “There were five or six persons donning the ‘Nihang bana’ who created a ruckus in the Golden Temple complex. When they were intercepted by the taskforce, they used abusive language which ultimately led to the clash.”  The Satkar Committee members who were conducting the protest in a peaceful manner are in contact with the SGPC management and talks are on to clarify their queries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-men-clash-with-protesters-over-missing-saroops-many-hurt-141742
16-09-2020||---||Harish Rawat to visit Punjab on Sept 20-21||Chandigarh, September 15AICC general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat will meet party leaders during his visit to the state on September 20 and 21. Interacting with the media in Delhi, Rawat said internal differences among state party leaders was a big issue and there should no communication gap among them.He is learnt to have met Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who was on a short visit to Delhi today, besides party MPs to elicit their response on the issues related to the state.Sources close to the CM said he was on a personal visit to Delhi. In the coming days, Rawat is expected to meet party workers, besides MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-to-visit-punjab-on-sept-20-21-141743
16-09-2020||---||Include Punjabi as J&K’s official language: Sukhbir||New Delhi, September 15SAD chief Sukhbir Badal today accused the government of “deleting” Punjabi from the list of official languages of Jammu and Kashmir. This comes a day after Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari raised the issue of not including Punjabi as an official language in the Union Territory.“It used to be an official language of J&K, Farooq Abdullah will confirm,” Badal said pointing towards Abdullah, senior National Conference leader in the Lok Sabha. “He also speaks excellent Punjabi,” Sukhbir said in his brief statement in the language.Supporting him, Abdullah said Punjabi was spoken by many in J&K. He urged the government to also consider adding Pahari and Gujari as official languages of the UT.Tewari had yesterday said though many of Punjabi dialects were spoken in adjacent Jammu and Kashmir, the government “deliberately” kept Punjabi out as the official language in the UT.Discrimination against Punjabi should be stopped in Jammu and Kashmir and the language should be included as the official language, Tewari said. The Union Cabinet recently approved a Bill under which Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the Urdu and English, would be the official languages in J&K.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/include-punjabi-as-jks-official-language-sukhbir-141745
16-09-2020||---||Agricultural university conducts entrance exam||Ludhiana, September 15The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) conducted the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020 on Tuesday for admission to various undergraduate programmes.Dr NK Khullar, Controller of Examinations, PAU, said a total of 2,239 students, out of 3,007, appeared for the CET. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the university set up eight examination centres in different parts of the state, including Amritsar, Abohar, Bathinda, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Sri Muktsar Sahib, for the convenience of the students and smooth conduct of the exam.”“It is for the first time that the university had set up examination centres outside the campus. At Ludhiana, four centres were set up at PAU and one each at RS Model School and KVM School,” he stated. Dr RS Sidhu, Registrar, PAU, said the results would be posted on the university website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agricultural-university-conducts-entrance-exam-141747
16-09-2020||Bathinda||Woman dies of ‘drug overdose’ in Bathinda||A woman has allegedly died of drug overdose. The deceased has been identified as Karamjit Kaur (30), alias Kareena, of Mohalla Kikar Dass.In his statement to the police, brother of the deceased Harjinder Singh said his sister was working in a Punjabi cultural group. Around 8.30 pm, his sister’s friend Aman called up to tell that she was lying in an unconscious state at her residence.Subsequently, he and his mother found Kareena lying in an unconscious state, and Aman and another woman in an inebriated condition.Kareena was taken to a private hospital, where she was declared dead. Singh alleged that Aman and the other woman had given drugs to his sister. Both women have been booked under Sections 304 and 34 of the Inidan Penal Code. However, no arrests have been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-dies-of-drug-overdose-in-bathinda-141749
16-09-2020||Abohar||4 booked for torturing man||Four persons have been booked a day after Haripura village residents sat on a dharna demanding action on the complaint of Santosh Kumar, a Dalit. Santosh had alleged that one Ved Parkash had abducted his wife and two children sometime ago. Besides, he was “tortured” by the family members of the accused. Rajinder Kumar and his brother Mohan Lal, Ashok Kumar and Sushil Kumar of have been named in the FIR. No arrest has been made. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-booked-for-torturing-man-141750
16-09-2020||---||Bathinda e-challan project in limbo||Bathinda, September 15The Bathinda police e-challan project has been lying in abeyance since it was started with much fanfare on August 15 last year by the then Inspector General of Police (IGP), Bathinda Range, MF Farooqui and then SSP Nanak Singh.The trial run was conducted at Hanuman Chowk and within 2 months, 128 hi-tech optical cameras were to be installed at 44 points across the city. But the company which was given the contract installed low-quality cameras.The district police conducted a trial of these cameras in November and concluded that they were of poor quality as vehicle number plates were not visible in the video. So, the company was told to remove them and install new good-quality cameras after getting their quality checked from the department.A control room was made for the project at Police Lines and the company got the new cameras approved from the Police Department. However, till date, these have not been installed. The department has spent Rs 1 crore on this project while Guru Gobind Singh Refinery gave Rs 20 lakh for the project under its Corporation Social Responsibility (CSR).SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said he had recently joined and in between, he was down with Covid-19, but he would take up the matter soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-e-challan-project-in-limbo-141753
16-09-2020||---||Court allows key Behbal Kalan firing accused to turn approver||Faridkot, September 15The District and Sessions Court today allowed the request of a special investigation team (SIT) seeking pardon for Inspector Pardeep Singh, a prime accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.On September 10, IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had appeared in the court and claimed making Pardeep an approver would strengthen the prosecution’s case against the main culprits.Will help unravel firing case: SITResham Singh, brother of one of the persons killed in the firing, and Charanjit Singh Sharma, a former SSP and one of the prime accused in the case, had opposed the SIT move to make Pardeep an approver.The SIT had claimed it was up to the probe agency, prosecution and court to take a call on whether to allow an accused to turn approver in a criminal case. Neither Resham nor the other accused had the right to raise an objection.The duty magistrate had on September 3 recorded Pardeep’s statement, a day after the SIT moved court seeking pardon for him.Sources said in his 18-page statement in the court, Pardeep had named a DGP-rank officer and a senior Akali leader as accused who allegedly played an instrumental role in the police firing at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, in the aftermath of the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages.The SIT had claimed Pardeep would be a key witness for the prosecution to unravel the sequence of events relating to the incidents and also unmask the perpetrators at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.Opposing the SIT, Resham Singh had claimed Pardeep had played a major role in the police firing, so he could not be granted pardon. The counsel for Charanjit Singh Sharma had said proper procedure was not followed in recording Pardeep’s statement in the court.The IGP, who is leading the SIT probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases, said they had moved an application under Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the Behbal Kalan firing case, which had been accepted by the Faridkot court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-allows-key-behbal-kalan-firing-accused-to-turn-approver-141754
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Terror module busted, 2 held||The Punjab Police have busted yet another pro-Khalistan terror module with the arrest of two persons allegedly operating in connivance with five criminals, including a Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) operative currently lodged in an Amritsar jail.The Pakistan-backed module was busted on the basis of inputs about the nefarious designs of certain pro-Khalistan elements trying to disturb peace and harmony in the state by launching terror attacks, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.Gupta said following the inputs, the police launched a drive to ensure thorough frisking and checking of those entering the state from various parts of the country. This led to the arrest of Harjeet Singh, alias Raju, and Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, both residents of Mianpur village in Tarn Taran district.Six sophisticated weapons — a 9mm pistol, four .32 calibre pistols and a .32 revolver — eight live rounds of ammunition, several mobile phones and an Internet dongle were seized from the two, who were nabbed at a checkpost near Hotel Jashan on the Rajpura-Sirhind road by a police team comprising ASI Gurdarshan Singh, Head Constable Jora Singh and Home Guard Pritpal Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/terror-module-busted-2-held-141756
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Judge infected, 2 in isolation||Covid-19 continues to hit the judiciary hard. A Punjab and Haryana High Court judge has tested positive for the virus, while two other judges are in quarantine after staff or close family members were found to be infected. Besides, 31 judicial officers and officials in the subordinate judiciary across Punjab and Haryana have tested positive in the past three weeks. No less than 85 other judicial officers and officials have been quarantined. Apart from this, 42 officials in the Punjab and Haryana High Court have tested positive and several others have been quarantined. Prior to this, nearly 800 judicial officers, their families and staff in the two states and Chandigarh were quarantined, indicating the impracticality of permitting physical functioning of the courts. Besides, 44 judicial officers and court officials have tested positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/judge-infected-2-in-isolation-141757
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t go on strike again: Nurses||Members of the Nursing Employees’ Union at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Hospital, Amritsar, have promised Medical Education Minister Om Prakash Soni that they won’t go on a strike in future.A meeting regarding the demands of nurses was held under Soni’s chairmanship today. After receiving a memorandum, Soni lauded the role played by the nursing staff in the fight against Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-go-on-strike-again-nurses-141759
16-09-2020||Abohar/Fazilka||Minister: New equipment at Abohar hospital soon||Heath Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today visited the Civil Hospital in Abohar and reviewed the arrangements to prevent the spread of Covid-19.  At a meeting with doctors and paramedical staff, he promised that necessary equipment would be provided soon and there was no need to panic. “You are doing your work with dedication. Many patients have recovered and returned home,” he said.  Sidhu said an ambulance equipped with a ventilator would be made available to the Civil Hospital besides other facilities. About the problems being faced due to staff shortage, he said doctors and medical staff were being recruited all over Punjab and soon, the gap would be bridged.  Meanwhile, Sidhu directed officials to drain out the rainwater from fields in Fazilka district. He was responding to the demands of farmers at a district grievance redress committee meeting at the camp office of Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu.  He also directed expediting development works being carried out in different parts of the district to remove the tag of Fazilka being one of the dirtiest towns in the country. Earlier, he took a round of the local district hospital, met patients and enquired about their well-being. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-new-equipment-at-abohar-hospital-soon-141761
16-09-2020||---||90 more succumb, 2,481 fresh cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 15The spread of Covid-19 continues unabated with 2,481 fresh cases being reported in the past 24 hours. As many as 90 deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 2,514.The Covid count now risen to 84,482. Of these, 60,814 patients have recovered. Among the districts, Ludhiana topped the list with 409 cases, followed by Jalandhar (261), Amritsar (214), Patiala (204), Gurdaspur (197), Pathankot (189), SAS Nagar (188), Hoshiarpur (154) and Bathinda (120).Ludhiana reported 19 deaths, followed by Jalandhar (12); Amritsar (10); Gurdaspur and Kapurthala (eight each); Hoshiarpur (six); Ferozepur (five); Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala (four each); Muktsar (three); SBS Nagar, Pathankot and Ropar (two each); and Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran (one each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/90-more-succumb-2-481-fresh-cases-in-punjab-141763
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||From today, board CTU buses to Punjab, Haryana||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume its inter-state bus service in Punjab and Haryana from tomorrow.Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, CTU, said buses would operate from both bus stands — the ISBT, Sector 17, and the ISBT, Sector 43.In Punjab, the buses will cover major destinations such as Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar and Bathinda. In Haryana, the buses will ply to Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi (up to the Kundli border).The tickets can be purchased online on CTU website http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through the mobile app, “CTU Musafir”, dedicated for the purpose. Tickets can also be purchased from the conductor during the journey.The buses will operate with 50 per cent passenger occupancy in view of the social-distancing norms and guidelines issued by the UT Administration from time to time.Following the nationwide lockdown, the CTU had suspended the bus services on March 23. However, the CTU briefly resumed the inter-state bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10, but suspended these after a few days following a sudden rise in the coronavirus cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/from-today-board-ctu-buses-to-punjab-haryana-141688
16-09-2020||Mahesh Sharma||Fearing shortage, locals stock up medical oxygen cylinders||Mandi Ahmedgarh, September 15Alarmed over the trouble faced by the family of his friend, who got infected with Covid-19, in arranging a medical oxygen cylinder, Rajesh Kumar (name changed), a local resident, bought two such cylinders to meet any emergency situation.He said: “I saw the plight of my friend’s family members in the wake of shortage of oxygen and his deteriorating condition. I thus decided to keep a couple of oxygen cylinders at home.”Rajesh is not alone. The Tribune has found that a number of residents are stocking medical oxygen.A local chemist said: “The demand for medical oxygen and other equipment required with it has gone up. Fearing shortage, locals are buying it even if there is no requirement as of now.”Giving in to the panicky situation, another local resident, Piyush Goyal (name changed), has also kept an oxygen cylinder at his home. He said: “Given the rise in the number of cases, it is better to be prepared for any situation. Many people suffering from flu-like symptoms have installed the facility at their homes.”Epidemiologist Dr Surveen and District Nodal Officer for the pandemic Dr Upasna Bindra claimed that there was no reason to worry.Dr Surveen said: “There is no scarcity of medical oxygen in the district. There is also no restriction on residents wanting to install the facility at their homes.”Meanwhile, suppliers are finding it difficult to meet the rising demand. “It is profitable for us to sell medical oxygen in retail. We have started getting orders to install the facility from neighbouring areas. We are thus finding it a little difficult to meet the demand,” said a supplier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-shortage-locals-stock-up-medical-oxygen-cylinders-141726
16-09-2020||New Delhi||Sumedh Saini gets protection from arrest in  ’91 Multani case||The Supreme Court today granted interim protection from arrest to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani murder case.“This case is of 1991. After 30 years, what is the hurry to arrest him... We will grant you time to file a reply,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, adding he would not be arrested till further orders.Saini was, however, asked to cooperate in the probe.Saini has challenged the Punjab and Haryana HC’s September 7 order dismissing his anticipatory bail plea in the Multani case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-saini-gets-protection-from-arrest-in-91-multani-case-141727
16-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||Lok Sabha clears one of 3 farm Bills, SAD says wasn’t consulted||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 15The Lok Sabha today cleared the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, amid strong objection from Opposition MPs, who termed the move “anti-farmer and pro-hoarder and pro-corporate”.In a surprise move, BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal said it was “not consulted” before introducing the three contentious farm ordinances. Party president Sukhbir Badal said when the Centre brought the ordinances in June, his party’s representative in the Union Cabinet had “expressed reservations”.Will move court: CaptThe state Congress will challenge the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Riding roughshod over farmers’ concerns, the government has imposed a Central law on a state subject, thus eroding the federal structure of the country.— Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CM“These ordinances should not have been brought without discussions and allaying the fears of the farming community,” he said, invoking the contribution of his father Parkash Singh Badal as a farmer leader to press his claim.Sukhbir said: "Before bringing the ordinances, parties and groups representing farmers should have been consulted. In the past two months, I have talked to many farmer organisations and listened to their concerns over the matter.”He said the ordinances would affect farmers in Punjab and Haryana where the mandi system existed. “I don’t know about others, but our concerns have not been addressed,” he said, urging the Union Government to reconsider the matter.Sukhbir’s assertion was ridiculed by AAP’s Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, who said: “I am surprised he (Sukhbir) is objecting to the Bills, while his wife is occupying a ministerial berth at the Centre. They (Akalis) should have sacrificed the ministry if they were against the Bills.”In his reply, Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Raosaheb Patil Danve claimed that the legislation would help farmers progress. He said the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act were made in accordance with recommendations of the high-level committee, of which states like Punjab and Haryana were a part. “Before bringing the ordinances a high-power committee of chief ministers of states like Punjab, Odisha, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh was formed,” he said, adding that Punjab was represented by its agriculture minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lok-sabha-clears-one-of-3-farm-bills-sad-says-wasnt-consulted-141730
