17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports record 51 coronavirus deaths, nearly 1,500 fresh cases||Punjab on Monday reported its highest single-day spike of 1,492 COVID-19 cases and a record 51 deaths due to the disease, the state health department said.The COVID-19 death toll has mounted to 862 and the infection tally reached 32,695.Fourteen new deaths were reported from Ludhiana, six from Patiala, five from Jalandhar, three each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Bathinda, two each from Amritsar, SBS Nagar and Sangrur, and one each from Barnala, Moga, Pathankot, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Faridkot and Kapurthala, a medical bulletin said.One death that was reported from Amritsar on Sunday was removed from the list as it was counted twice, it said.Among districts which reported the fresh cases are Jalandhar (298), Ludhiana (220), Ferozepur (153), Bathinda (153), Patiala (130) Moga (91), Mohali (65), Barnala (62), Rupnagar (55) and Amritsar (50).On Sunday, Punjab had reported 41 fatalities and 1,165 new coronavirus cases.A total of 749 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection on Monday. So far, 20,180 people have been cured of the infection.The state has 11,653 active COVID-19 cases, the bulletin said.Thirty-eight patients are critical and on the ventilator, while 345 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 7,82,463 samples have been taken for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
17-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali administration imposes stricter restrictions as district reports new high in COVID cases||Mohali reported 102 new coronavirus cases on Monday, district officials said---the biggest single-day spike the district has seen since it saw its first COVID-19 case in March.The development took the district’s coronavirus count to 1,911 cases, 47 per cent of which are still active. The district has seen 36 COVID-19 deaths so far.The alarming rise of Mohali’s cases has led to Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan announcing some additional restrictions with the municipal limits. These include a ban on all movement of people except for those involved in offering essential services between 9 pm to 5 am---night curfew hours in Punjab---and imposing new closing time for shops and commercial establishments that offer non-essential services. According to the new order, the hospitality industry---restaurants and hotels--- as well as liquor shops must close by 8:30 pm. Shops and shopping malls cannot stay open beyond 8 pm.Those involved in essential services as well as industries---including those working in shifts ---and those travelling to their destinations from bus and train stations and airports will be exempted from the new movement restriction. This will also not apply to the movement of people and cargo on national and state highways.The new order says any violation is punishable under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 as well as the Indian Penal Code.
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Not averse to imposing stricter restrictions to check further COVID-19 spread: Punjab CM||Amid a spike in COVID-19 infections and deaths, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said he was not averse to taking harsher measures to check further spread of the virus.Though Singh did not rule out a fresh lockdown, especially in areas witnessing a surge in cases, he made it clear that economic activities would not be allowed to suffer.The Punjab cabinet, in a virtual meeting chaired by the chief minister, reviewed the pandemic situation in the state.The chief minister, in response to a suggestion from Expert Health Advisory Committee chairman K K Talwar, said, if needed, the state government would consider going in for strong measures to combat the novel coronavirus.  Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who is heading the expert group for revival of the state’s economy, also said any measures to check COVID-19 spread should not impact economic activities, according to a government release.Ahluwalia also reiterated that there had been no suggestion by his panel for withdrawal of free power to farmers, as was being projected by a section of the media.He clarified this after the chief minister said that a lot of misinformation was being spread on this count.Ahluwalia said the group was in favour of diversification to reduce dependence on paddy, and wanted Punjab to spend 20 per cent more annually, for the next five years, on public health infrastructure.Warning that the state must also be ready for a second spike in COVID-19 infections, the noted economist said if lockdown had to be introduced in certain areas then strict protocols should be put in place to ensure that there is no impact on industrial and income generating avenues.The chief minister said the Ahluwalia-led group’s recommendations would be circulated among all ministers and a detailed discussion will be held thereafter on the issue.In his presentation on the COVID-19 situation, health expert Talwar said the four districts—Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar and Patiala—were witnessing the highest surge in infections and deaths and needed stricter preventive measures to control the situation.The situation in the state, he said, was grim with over 31,000 cases and more than 800 fatalities.Deaths per million had also gone up to 27.2, and as many as 265 patients were on oxygen and 20 on ventilator support at present, he said, underlining the need for early testing and treatment for saving lives.The state had reached 20,000 tests per day, including rapid antigen testing, he said.Talwar cited various researches to point out that strict adherence to wearing masks for the next four weeks could help control the pandemic.Singh said the district and police officials had been given strict directives to enforce COVID-19 protocols such as wearing of face mamsks and maintaining social distancing. PTI
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||One-day Punjab Vidhan Sabha session on August 28 to meet constitutional requirement||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha will convene on August 28 for a one-day constitutionally mandated session, for the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic broke out.The go-ahead for the session came on Monday during a video conference (VC) meeting of the state Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The Cabinet noted the constitutional requirement to hold a session within 6 months of the previous session and decided on a day-long session within two sittings on August 28, to be followed by a regular/longish session later, when the Covid situation improves.With the Cabinet decision, Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore has been authorised to convene the 12th Session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha, as per clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution of India.The session has been scheduled to open with obituary references, after which it will adjourn for a while and reconvene for the next sitting, during which legislative business will be conducted.It may be recalled that the 11th session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha concluded on March 4, 2020.As per clause (1) of Article 174 of the Constitution of India, the Governor is authorised to summon the State Legislature to meet at such time and place, as he thinks fit.Six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session. Therefore, the 12th Session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha is to be summoned before September 4, 2020.According to the Rules of Business of Punjab Government, 1992, the approval of Council of Ministers is necessary for summoning of the session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha.
17-08-2020||New Delhi||CBI books Ludhiana-based SEL Textiles Ltd, directors in Rs 1,530 crore bank loan fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday said it has booked a Ludhiana-based company—SEL Textiles Ltd—and its directors for allegedly defrauding a consortium of 10 banks to the tune of Rs 1,530.99 crore.Officials in the agency said the directors of the conglomerate—Ram Sharan Saluja, Neeraj Saluja and Dhiraj Saluja—have also been named as accused in the FIR registered by the CBI along with a number of unidentified others.They said the probe agency acted following a complaint submitted to it by the Central Bank of India, which alleged that the company and its directors indulged in criminal conspiracy to defraud the banks and divert loan funds with an intention to misappropriate them between 2009-13, causing a loss of Rs 1,530.99 crore to 10 public sector banks of the consortium.According to the complaint filed by the Central Bank of India, the officials said besides the complainant having exposure of 26.41 per cent of the total Rs 1,530 crore others include Allahabad Bank with 13.80 per cent, Punjab National Bank 7.08 per cent, Indian Overseas Bank 7.08 per cent, Bank of Maharashtra 6.04 per cent, Punjab & Sindh Bank 4.20 per cent, Corporation Bank 7.23 per cent, Union Bank of India 3.08 per cent, United Commercial bank 7.22 per cent and United Bank of India 1.39 per cent.
17-08-2020||---||Amritsar: COVID-19 patient jumps off hospital building||Amritsar, August 17A COVID-19 patient admitted at Government Medical College here allegedly died by suicide by jumping off the hospital building on Monday morning.The deceased has been identified as Swaran Singh, a 46-year-old resident of Sandhpur village near Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district.The victim was admitted to the hospital on August 15, after which his swab sample was taken and tested positive. Though the authorities presume that he might have been upset due to his disease, the exact reason behind his suicide is still unknown.The victim had survived the fall but succumbed to his injuries and trauma after 15 minutes.The hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr Raman Sharma, stated that the patient was an opium addict and an alcoholic. He added that he had interacted with the deceased during his round to the ward on Sunday evening.“The patient had complained of breathlessness and stomach ache,” he said.The authorities stated that a psychiatrist had also provided counselling to the patient on Sunday evening to uplift his morale.The hospital authorities stated that the deceased broke a windowpane of the washroom to get to the balcony.The officials said: “The deceased was sharing the room with two more positive patients. The iron grills will be fixed alongside all glass windows to prevent such mishaps in the future.”
17-08-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Manpreet Badal, Bathinda DC go under home quarantine after Bathinda SSP tests coronavirus positive||Tribune News Service Bathinda, August 17Minutes after Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk tested positive for COVID-19, Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Bathinda Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan went under home quarantine as a preventive measure.SSP Virk was present with Manpreet Badal, DC Srinivasan and IGP Jaskaran Singh at the stage during the Independence Day function in Bathinda on Saturday. He had also come in contact with other officials and persons.Manpreet Badal has also posted on his Facebook account: “Our SSP from Bathinda has been tested as corona positive. I met him on August 15 for the Independence Day function. On medical advice and for the safety of my family and workers, I am going in self-quarantine and as such, no public meetings will be held by me during this period.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “I was present with the SSP during the Independence Day function and am going under home quarantine. I appeal to people, who came in contact with the SSP to get their test done.”The Congress leader and halqa in-charge of Talwandi Sabo, Khushbaz Singh Jattana, also tested positive for COVID-19 today.
17-08-2020||Karam Prakash||COVID-19 deaths on rise at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 17The COVID-19 deaths percentage at Government Rajindra Hospital, a tertiary healthcare institution, has been increasing with each passing day. The daily deaths count has now reached around 12.The increasing death rate at the hospital has already raised alarm bells for the hospital authorities, the state health department and patients. Until August 15, as many as 155 COVID-19 deaths were reported in the hospital of the 1,075 patients admitted in the COVID ward of the hospital.The sources at the COVID ward revealed that daily death count had increased from an average of five to seven to 12 in a week.Meanwhile, the hospital authorities attributed the spike in COVID-deaths-rate to the referral of only more severe COVID patients to the hospital. The authorities claimed that more sick patients from other parts of the state had been referred to the hospital that soared the death rate.A hospital official at the COVID ward, on anonymity, said: “There is a lack of patient care at the COVID ward. The doctors (consultants), in person, are not visiting the patients, thereby, creating a sense of negligence in the mind of the patients.”In fact, the nurses have already alleged that doctors don’t enter the COVID ward. The sources informed that nurses had complained to the hospital authorities against the doctors for failing to address the problems of the patients.Surbhi Malik, COVID ward in charge at the hospital, is said to have already issued a warning to all department heads to ensure that their consultants, senior residents and junior residents were present at the isolation facility for the entirety of their shift — as per the roster.“Any lapses in the duty have to be seriously viewed by HODs and the accountability will be fixed within 24 hours of the incident,” reads the orders.When asked about the allegation of consultants not visiting the patients, Surbhi Malik said: “Patient, in fact, can’t recognise the visiting person if that is a doctor or not because one has to wear PPE Kits. The consultants are regularly reaching out to the patients. I can categorically say that my consultants are visiting patients.”
17-08-2020||---||Support pours in for health warrior manhandled at Ludhiana dera||Amritsar, August 16Different associations of the Health Department employees have demanded a strict action against the persons who manhandled a multipurpose health worker on the Covid-19 duty, at a dera, in Ludhiana district.Health employees stated that the multipurpose health worker Mastaan Singh had visited the dera on instructions of the senior officials after some patients tested positive there. “Instead of cooperating with the health employees, a sadhu and his followers at the dera manhandled him and recorded the incident. They even uploaded the same on the social media,” said Shamsher Singh Kohri, Convener, Punjab State Pharmacy Officers Association.Ashok Sharma of the association said if the government failed to take action, it would send a wrong message. “Why would an employee risk his life and put his dignity at stake if such incidents take place. The government should take the strictest possible action against the culprits,” said Sharma.Coordination Committee of Paramedical and health employees unions has also condemned the incident. President Narinder Kumar said, “Government does not seem to be concerned about the incidents of violence against health employees. The Ludhiana incident is shameful and government should ensure dignity and safety of health workers.” The nursing association at Government Medical College has also demanded action against the culprits.Meanwhile Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandak Committee (SGPC) has also demanded action against the culprits stating that the health worker’s turban was removed by the culprits and his religious symbols were desecrated. He added that government should take action in this regard so that the employees don not feel disheartened.“Besides, the government should also take action against the culprits as they had hurt the religious sentiments and sensibility of the masses,” he said, while making an appeal to the Chief Minister for the immediate arrest of culprits.
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Government notifies school fee waiver||The state government has issued a formal notification, waiving fee for students studying in government schools for the ongoing academic year.The announcement to waive the school fee was made by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in July. He had said government schools would not charge any admission, readmission and tuition fee from students for the 2020-21 academic session on account of the Covid crisis. — TNS
17-08-2020||---||6L jobs, Rs 2,500 cr for rural areas in 2 yrs : Punjab Chief Minister||Mohali, August 16Vowing not to rest till he puts the state’s economy back on the track, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a slew of welfare measures for people, including facilitation of another six lakh jobs for the youth over the next two years, of which one lakh would be in the government sector.‘Ready to tackle Pakistan, China’Punjab will always be at the forefront of fighting the enemy on the borders. While Pakistan continues to resort to firing every day, China, on the other hand, talks about friendship but remains a threat to the nation.— Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterIn his Independence Day address at Phase 6, Mohali, the Chief Minister said 50,000 government jobs would be provided to the youth in the financial year 2021 and another 50,000 in the financial year 2022. He also announced a virtual mega job mela next month with a target of placement of 50,000 youth in the private sector. He said his government had already helped 13.60 lakh youth get gainful employment/self-employment under the flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ scheme. While reiterating his government’s commitment to incentives for the industry to attract more investment, the Chief Minister said Rs 63,000-crore investment had already been realised on the ground with a potential of two lakh jobs in the state.Over the next few months, the government would also give a debt relief to the tune of Rs 520 crore to landless farmers and workers, the Chief Minister said, pointing out that Rs 4,700 crore had already been disbursed to 5.62 lakh farmers under the debt waiver scheme of the government.Capt Amarinder said with the launch of the Smart Ration Card scheme, as many as 1.41 crore beneficiaries would become eligible to get ration from fair price shops. He also announced the construction of 1,300 km of state and national highways with an investment of over Rs 12,000 crore in the next two years. The Chief Minister announced the construction of 750 rural sports stadia across in the next two years. He also announced Rs 2,500-crore investment over the next two years in the phase II of the Smart Village Campaign. Another Rs 1,046 crore will be spent under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme.Key announcements
17-08-2020||---||Industrial park in Bathinda soon: Finance Minister||Bathinda, August 16An industrial park spread over 1,320 acres will be set up in Bathinda soon to boost the overall development of the Malwa region and it will also make the district industrial hub of the state.This was stated by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Saturday after inaugurating various development projects.Inaugurating the LED lights project at the Fire Brigade chowk on Independence Day, the Finance Minister said under the project, 24,000 LED streetlights were being installed in the city at a cost of Rs 16.6 crore. The project, which was being developed with the help of the Bathinda Municipal Corporation, would reduce electricity bills and enhance the beauty of the city, he said.He also inaugurated a water treatment plant constructed at the cost of Rs 1.91 crore at the Industrial Growth Centre. This plant would clean 5 million gallons of water per day and with the commissioning of the plant, it would provide potable water to 1.5 lakh people.Earlier, the Finance Minister inaugurated a newly constructed park with pop-up sprinkler systems and CCTV cameras at Guru Ki Nagri. He also inaugurated a retail market constructed for 273 new retail vegetable sellers at the cost of Rs 155 lakh at the grain market.
17-08-2020||---||Sell leased out land to raise revenue, says Montek report||Chandigarh, August 16A group of experts led by eminent economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia has recommended that the Punjab Government sell off its leased out land and parcels of land in major cities to immediately enhance the state’s revenue in the short run.The group, entrusted by the Capt Amarinder Singh government to suggest a post-Covid economic strategy, has recommended that Punjab needed to immediately cut down its expenditure, including by deferring salaries and pending dearness allowance and stopping all recruitment in the police. It said the government must enhance its income. It said the state government faced a 25 per cent shortfall in the budgeted revenue because of the lockdown.The report said while the state government should join other states to pressurise the Centre to release the promised compensation for goods and services tax, it should immediately sell off its leased out properties. “An inventory of parcels of land in Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Amritsar be made for selling it off. Karnataka has initiated this measure and hopes to get Rs 15,000 crore this year itself,” said the first report of the group.Other recommendations are to increase the revenue, including revising the ceiling of professional tax from present Rs 2,500 to Rs 20,000; upward revision of excise duty on the sale of Indian-made foreign liquor, beer and wine and increasing their rates for two years; and revising fee and royalties collected through mining of minor minerals (sand and gravel). All these suggestions can be a political hot potato for the government, considering the “influence” of the liquor and mining lobbies.The report accepted that it was “difficult to implement” the power sector reforms (free power to farmers), but the state could easily accept the three other conditions laid by the Government of India for availing an additional borrowing limit of two per cent of the GSDP. These include: One nation, one ration card, improving the ease of doing business and urban local bodies reforms, mainly increasing the property tax.Key suggestionsCutting costs
17-08-2020||---||To boost trade, PPCB eases clearance norms||Patiala, August 16The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has decided to provide relief to the industry by allowing extension to already procured sanctions till March 2021.The move will help many industrial houses continue their operations without worrying about renewing their sanction or licences, which expired during the lockdown period from March to June.As per official documents accessed by The Tribune, in view of the hardships faced by the industry, the PPCB had decided to provide relief to entrepreneurs by allowing them to “extend the validity of consent for establishing, authorisation, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances” which come under the domain of the PPCB. “The industries, having expiry on and after March 15, 2020, up to June 30, 2010, have now been allowed to operate till March 31, 2021,” the documents read.The Covid-19 pandemic has already affected new investments in Punjab. As compared to over 1,000 applications for new investments in 2019, only 90 proposals were received for major expansion and modernisation projects till June this year.During the same period last year, various departments had received and processed 475 applications of which 300 were for new investments, 92 for expansion and the remaining for modernisation.Of the 90 applications received this year so far, 70 were for new investments, but a number of applicants were not keen on pursuing those projects now, an official said.The new guidelines by the PPCB state that the existing industry was complying with effluent or emission standards at all times. “Further, site inspection shall be carried out in due course of time. In case of any violations, appropriate action shall be taken under the relevant provisions,” said PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg.“The decision will give a breather to many industrialists who are facing losses due to the Covid scare,” said an industry association. “Things will take another six months to get back on track. Any relief at this point of time is a welcome step by the government,” it said.
17-08-2020||Amritsar||Sikh activists protest Tytler hoardings||Activists of Sikh organisations today protested after hoardings carrying ‘birthday wishes’ for Congress leader Jagdish Tytler emerged in the holy city.Tytler’s role is under the scanner for his alleged role in the November 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi and other parts of the country. As soon as the news spread, Sikh activists lodged a strong protest. The hoardings were fixed atop the roadside buildings with Tytler’s picture being displayed, and carried birthday wishes prominently. The agitating leaders removed the hoardings and blackened the picture of the Congress leader.Sadar SHO Parveen Kumar said no complaint had been received in this regard so far. “The incident occurred early in morning. The activists lodged their protest and removed the hoardings,” he said. — TNS
17-08-2020||---||Ordinances anti-farmer, says Bharatiya Kisan Union||BATHINDA, AUGUST 16Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) took out a protest march carrying black flags on the Independence Day in Mansa district. Among other concerns, the march was primarily against the farm ordinances announced by the Union Government recently.After carrying out the protest in the city, the members gathered at the grain market where leaders delivered speeches on the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the government. Later, they burnt the Centre’s effigy at Thikri Wala Chowk.Sukhdev Singh Kotli, a union leader, said: “With new farm ordinances in place, the farming community, which is already grappling with deep-seated crisis, will be doomed further.”“Not only farmers, others associated with the agricultural sector, such as arhtiyas, farm labourers, mandi board workers, procurement agency workers, transporters and ‘palledars’, will also be equally affected. Only big corporate houses will call the shots in the agriculture sector,” he added.Earlier, members of the BKU, Krantikari Union, took out a march in different villages of Mansa to protest against the ordinances.
17-08-2020||---||Congress MPs, SAD seek CBI probe into ‘illegal’ sand mining||Chandigarh, August 16Days after cornering the Capt Amarinder Singh government on the tragic deaths due to spurious liquor, two Congress Rajya Sabha MPs and Opposition parties have now demanded a CBI probe into the alleged illegal sand mining operations in the state.Welcoming the directives of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which ordered a preliminary inquiry by the CBI into the existence of illegal checkpoints (nakas) near mining sites in Ropar, Congress MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo said it was clear that the state Department of Mines and Geology and the Home Department had failed in curbing illegal mining and sand mafia in Punjab.AAP: Congress aiding mafia like AkalisThey said they had requested the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court not to confine the preliminary inquiry to just Ropar district, but take suo motu cognisance and expand the ambit of the investigation to the whole state. To prevent further damage to the environment and erosion of public trust with the institutions that governed the state, an independent and fair inquiry must be ordered into the operations of the sand mafia in Punjab, the duo said.MLA Sukhpal Khaira also urged the High Court to expand the scope of the CBI inquiry.Meanwhile, the SAD welcomed Punjab and Haryana High Court’s decision of handing over ‘goonda tax’ scam probe in the district to the CBI.SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema said the court’s decision would be a big step towards putting a check to illegal mining prevalent all over the state. Chandumajra said his party would move an application soon in the court seeking expansion of CBI probe in this regard to all parts of the state.
17-08-2020||---||NGO rescues leader’s mom living on roadside||Muktsar, August 16The mother of an SAD (Democratic) leader was found lying abandoned on the Bura Gujjar road here on Saturday.The woman, identified as Mahinder Kaur, was living in a 2x3-ft semi-constructed structure. The woman’s granddaughter is a PCS (Executive) officer and her grandson is a PCS (Judicial) officer. The woman was rescued after someone informed the Muktsar City police about her plight. A police team and some social activists took her to a hospital. Sanjeev Kumar Tinku, a social activist, said, “The woman’s head was partially infested by maggots.” Rajinder Singh Raja, son of the woman, said, “We have brought her back home after treatment. She is mentally unstable.”
17-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Twin islands in Pathankot set to boost tourism||Tribune News ServicePathankot, August 16The district is all set to get a major fillip in the tourism sector with the Union Ministry for Forests, Environment and Climate Change giving the long-awaited signal to develop the twin islands of Kalara and Palangi, located in the midst of the Ranjit Sagar Dam Lake, as world class tourist spots.Dr Sanjeev Tiwari, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), confirmed the development and added that the ball was now in the court of the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB).A senior officer said the PIDB was in the process of finalising a global tender after which work would commence. The project, which will be replete with water sports facilities, is expected to bring the city’s sagging economy back on the tracks.It was conceived in 2014 when the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal ferried top hospitality honchos to the lake in a chartered flight from New Delhi.The red carpet was rolled out, crores were spent from the state exchequer, but beyond that the venture failed to move ahead as the Union Forest Ministry took its own time to give its nod. In 2017, during his Independence Day speech in Gurdaspur, Capt Amarinder Singh tried to plug the gaps by announcing a fiscal package.However, everything remained in the realms of speculation as the Forest Ministry wanted to ensure that no damage would be caused to the ecosystem during the setting up of the mega venture.Locals, however, remain sceptical. They claim that till the Ranjit Sagar Dam Lake is provided proper connectivity, the venture will remain a mirage.
17-08-2020||Bathinda||AAP panel meets Jathedar over missing ‘saroops’||A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) met Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday over the issue of 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Sri Guru Granth Sahib at Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo.The delegation comprised MLAs Baljinder Kaur, Kultar Singh, Budh Ram, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, Kulwant Singh, Rupinder Kaur Ruby and other local leaders. — TNS
17-08-2020||Ferozepur||BSF seizes Rs15 cr heroin, firearms||Pakistan-based operatives continue to make efforts to push drugs through the riverine gaps along the border in this sector. In the latest seizure, the troops of the 136 Battalion, BSF, on Sunday recovered three packets of heroin weighing 3.26 kg, worth Rs 15 crore, near border outpost Shameke along the zero line. Besides, a China-made pistol (.30 bore) and a magazine was also recovered.Several such attempts have been made by cross-border drug operatives to smuggle heroin through the river route and have been thwarted by the BSF troops in the recent past. Earlier on August 1, 2.98 kg heroin was recovered near BOP Old Mohammadi Wala. This consignment was also pushed through the river channel with the help of plastic bottles tied to water hyacinth.Till date, around 339.063 kg heroin has been seized by the BSF along the Pakistan border in the state, including today’s seizure. — OC
17-08-2020||Amritsar||Widow: Aid denied for speaking against MLA||Sarabjit Kaur (42), who lost her husband Parkash Singh in the liquor tragedy, claimed that she was denied ex gratia aid of Rs 5 lakh, announced by the Chief Minister.Sarabjit had gone to attend a programme scheduled to hand over compensation cheques to kin of victims at Khadoor Sahib on Independence Day. She claimed that she did not receive even a single penny. Sarabjit’s sister Kamaljit Kaur was vocal against Congress MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki and his PA Germanjit Singh for “patronising” illicit liquor trade.Kamaljit had accompanied a SAD-BJP delegation that met the Governor over the issue. She claimed Sarabjit and her mother-in-law were shunted out of the programme, which was attended by Sikki, MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa and other Congress dignitaries. Sikki could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. His PA claimed he was not present at the programme. — TNS
17-08-2020||---||Punjab  Vidhan Sabha Session by month-end likely||Chandigarh, August 16The Congress government is likely to call the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha in the last week of this month amid strict adherence to the Covid-19 norms.The state Cabinet, which is meeting on Monday, would be discussing the schedule of the upcoming session before sending its recommendations to the Punjab Governor for approval. The duration of the session would depend on the business to be transacted. It is likely to be held between August 24 and August 28, it is learnt.Expecting it to be a stormy session as the Opposition parties are preparing to take on the government on the issue of spurious liquor tragedy and illegal sand mining in wake of the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordering CBI probe into the existence of illegal checkpoints (nakas) near mining sites in Ropar district, the government is in favour of keeping the session shorter, say sources.The Parliamentary Affairs Department, in a communication to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker, has sought calling of the session before September 6, as it is mandatory to call the session within six months of the previous session.Accordingly, the Vidhan Sabha session has tied up with the health authorities for seating plan of the ministers and MLAs during the session.
17-08-2020||---||Minister, Deputy Speaker among 1,165 test +ve||Chandigarh, August 16In the steepest ever single-day spike, 1,165 Covid cases, including that of a Cabinet Minister and the Deputy Speaker of Vidhan Sabha, were reported in Punjab on Sunday. Besides, 41 deaths were also reported.Deputy Speaker-cum-Malout MLA Ajaib Singh Bhatti was tested Covid positive. His personal assistant said the MLA complained of high blood pressure and was taken to Civil Hospital, Bathinda. “He is now being taken to the PGIMER, Chandigarh,” he said. Notably, Bhatti had hoisted the national flag on Independence Day in Faridkot.Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar was found positive hours after hoisting the Tricolour and inaugurating a few projects in Mansa. The minister got his test done on Saturday evening and has been in home isolation at Kangar village in Mansa district since.The news of the minister testing positive led to panic among district officials who came in contact with him during the Independence Day function. Some administration officials and political leaders were reportedly getting themselves tested.As far as the worst-affected districts are concerned, Ludhiana remained on the top with 315 cases, followed by Jalandhar (187) , Ferozepur (96), SAS Nagar (91), Gurdaspur (74) and Moga (64). Ludhiana also reported the maximum 14 deaths, followed by Patiala (7), Jalandhar (4), Sangrur (3), Ferozepur (2), and Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Moga and SAS Nagar (1 each).Meanwhile, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said just as Punjabis had won the war of Independence, the war against Covid would be won with the same courage under 'Mission Fateh'. “In order to contribute our bit to the war, we need to follow social distancing and wear masks,” he said, while delivering his message here after hoisting the national flag at Raja Bhalindra Singh Sports Complex, Polo Ground, Patiala.
17-08-2020||Muktsar||‘Strange’ requests: Raja Warring and Akali leaders engage in war of words on Twitter||Mission: Freedom from drugsFazilka: The district administration launched “Nasha Mukt Bharat” campaign on Independence Day. The campaign will continue till March 31 next year. On this occasion, six vehicles were dispatched to different areas by Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu to acquaint the residents of the adverse effects of drugs. Several pamphlets were released in this regard.Recognising good deedsChandigarh: Fazilka-born businessman and chairman of PHD Chamber Karan Gilhotra has been commended by the Governor on Independence Day for services rendered by him during the Covid times. Gilhotra had been proactively involved in arranging food and shelter for the migrants during the lockdown period and for those whose subsistence lay in daily labour. He, along with his good friend and actor Sonu Sood, had recently donated a tractor to a farmer in Chitoor district of Andhra Pradesh, who was forced to take the help of his daughters to pull the plough. TNS
17-08-2020||Sangrur||Tipsy man attacks wife in public, locals come to her rescue||A drunk man allegedly attacked his wife with a sickle in a market in Sunam before he was overpowered and thrashed by locals.“After a tiff with Veerpal over some petty issue, her husband dragged her out of the house, tied her hands and legs and took her in his modified motorcycle to the market. No one helped her,” said Amarjeet Kaur, mother of Veerpal. As Veerpal bled in the vehicle, Ajaib kept on drinking liquor and announced that he would teach her a lesson. When locals tried to intervene, Ajaib started threatening them also. Later, locals called the police. Despite assurances from the police to resolve the situation, Ajaib neither allowed people nor cops to come near him for more than 30 minutes. When he started attacking Veerpal with a sickle, passersby pounced on him and thrashed him mercilessly.“Had the cops not intervened, the people would have killed him. Our PCR and other cops tackled the situation carefully. Had they acted in haste, Ajaib would have caused more serious injuries to Veerpal,” said Mehtab Singh, ASP, Sunam. The police took both Ajaib and Veerpal to the Civil Hospital.“Ajaib is an alcoholic and was not having cordial relations with his wife for past some time. Veerpal is under treatment at Sunam while Ajaib has been referred to Patiala. We have registered a case against him and conducting further probe,” said Jatinderpal Singh, SHO, Sunam. — TNSAccused thrashedThe injured woman was admitted to a Sunam hospital while Ajaib, who was thrashed by the locals, has been referred to a hospital in Patiala where his condition is critical
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||ICUs full, Punjab struggles to cope with caseload||With a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, intensive care units in Punjab seem to be bursting at the seams. With most of these already full, patients requiring treatment in ICUs are reportedly being turned away.The state has reported around 14,000 cases in the first 15 days of this month. The number of deaths during the period was around 400, which was more than the deaths witnessed between March and July. Sudden Spurt Gian Sagar Medical College, which provides ICU facility to patients from Fatehgarh Sahib, Mohali and Ropar districts, has started sending back such patients. The hospital has 20 ventilators and 300 other beds. Over the past two weeks, the hospital authorities sent back two ambulances carrying high-risk Covid patients on the pretext of non-availability of beds, said a senior health functionary in Mohali district. A doctor posted in the Covid ward at the Ropar district hospital said earlier they were referring high-risk patients to Gian Sagar Hospital, but not anymore as not enough beds were available there.Even the authorities at government hospitals in Chandigarh seem reluctant to take patients from Punjab. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid, could not be contacted for comment.
