17-07-2020||---||20 fresh COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, July 17Twenty fresh cases of COVID-19 positive cases surfaced on Friday, taking the total count in the district to 492.Meanwhile, 16 patients were also cured and discharged from the hospital today.The health authorities have also sealed the Kharar Civil Hospital after a 52-year old woman staffer tested positive today. The authorities also sealed a private bank where a 25-year-old woman working as a cashier and a public sector bank in Zirakpur after a 43-year-old manager tested positive.The other positive patients include an 18-year-old woman of Phase-3, 28-year-old woman from Banur, 54-year-old woman from Sector 71, 28-year-old woman from Phase-1, 29-year-old man from Aerocity, 36-year-old woman from Kharar, 64-year-old man from Baltana, 23-year-old woman from Lalru, 75-year-old woman and 36-year-old woman from Kharar, 24-year-old man from Phase-5, 65-year-old woman from Zirakpur, 16-year-old boy from Kharar, 33-year-old woman and 37-year-old woman from Sector 80, 61-year-old man from Baltana and a 37-year-old woman from Mohali.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients have been admitted to the COVID Care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said 16 patients were cured and discharged from hospital today.The discharged patients include five women aged 20 years, 43 years, 12 years, 48 years and 22 years from Kharar, two men aged 38 years and 57 years from Derabassi, two men aged 20 years and 18 years from Jawaharpur, a 19-year-old man from Mohali, 73-year-old woman from Mohali, 25-year-old man from Dera Bassi, 43-year-old man from Mohali, 50-year-old man from Baltana, 48-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 30-year-old man from Sector-80.As of now, 310 have been cured to date and discharged from hospital.The active cases in the district stands at 173 while nine people have died from the virus so far.
17-07-2020||---||348 new cases, nine deaths reported in Punjab; tally reaches 9,442||Chandigarh, July 17A total of 348 COVID-19 positive cases and nine deaths surfaced in Punjab on Friday, taking the state tally to 9,442.Jalandhar reported the maximum number of cases at 78 followed by Ludhiana (62), Patiala (56), Hoshiarpur, Amritsar (34), Moga (15), SAS Nagar (14), seven each in Faridkot and Ropar, six each in Muktsar and Gurdaspur, Fazilka (4), three each in Pathankot Kapurthala, two each in Bathinda and Mansa, Ropar (4), one each in Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Tarn Taran and SBS Nagar.The state has 2,830 active cases while 6,373 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the state.Of the 9,442 cases, the maximum number of cases have been reported from Ludhiana (1,695) followed by Jalandhar (1,545), Amritsar (1,194), Patiala (832), Sangrur (698), SAS Nager (492), Gurdaspur (303), Pathankot (267), SBS Nagar (255), Hoshiarpur (246), Tarn Taran (222), Ferozepur (200), Fatehgarh Sahib (192), Faridkot (190), Moga (184), Bathinda (173), Muktsar (168), Ropar (151), Kapurthala (148), Fazilka (142), Barnala (79) and Mansa (66).Meanwhile, with nine more deaths reported, the death toll in the state has climbed to 239. The nine deaths are reported include one each from Ferozepur, SBS Nagar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar, and two each from Ludhiana and Patiala.Of the total deaths, Ludhiana has reported 41, Jalandhar (33), Amritsar (60), Sangrur (21s), Patiala (15), SAS Nager (9), Gurdaspur (10), Pathankot (9), Tarn Taran (6), Hoshiarpur (7), SBS Nagar (2), Ferozepur (4), Faridkot (0), Muktsar (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Moga (4), Bathinda (4), Kapurthala (7), Ropar (1), Fazilka (1), Barnala (2) and Mansa (0).Meanwhile, 96 more patients were cured and discharged today. They include 47 from Sangrur, four from Pathankot, 10 from Moga, one from Muktsar, six from Ferozepur, seven from Kapurthala, two from Barnala, six from Bathinda and 10 from Moga.
17-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Coronavirus: 31 BSF personnel among 34 new cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur on Friday reported 34 new cases of coronavirus, taking the total in the district to 246.Among those who tested positive are 31 BSF personnel of the Sub Training Centre Kharkan Camp in Hoshiarpur. The other three are a patient each from areas under PHC Mand Pandher, PHC Posi and PHC Paldi.On Thursday, the state reported 298 cases and nine deaths. Four deaths were reported from Ludhiana, two from Jalandhar, one each from Gurdaspur, Patiala and Kapurthala.
17-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||SIT begins probe into ‘fake’ Covid reports in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe into the alleged fake Covid reports racket started its probe on Thursday. The three-member probe team, headed by Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, held its first meeting.Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal and Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh are other members of the SIT. The Punjab government announced formation of the SIT into the case on July 12, after victims of the ‘racket’ criticised the abrupt shifting of probe from the Vigilance Bureau to the local police. The victims had alleged that it would give “undue benefit” to the suspects.The Vigilance Bureau has booked five doctors of a private laboratory and owner of a private hospital on charges of murder bid, forgery and corrupt practices. The victims had alleged that the laboratory made fake Covid reports only to fleece them and put their kin in the isolation ward where Covid patients were admitted, as a result of which their kin also contracted the infection.Raj Kumar Khullar, one of the victims, pointed that though the SIT has started a probe, the suspects had not been arrested. The racket was busted when the Vigilance Bureau lodged an FIR in the case on June 25, after the victims approached them.Khullar alleged that the influential and rich doctors and hospital owner filed three separate petitions in the Punjab and Haryana High Court to hoodwink the judiciary. However, on Wednesday, the court clubbed all the three plaints which would now be heard on August 6.
17-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||13 test +ve  in Fatehgarh Sahib||Thirteen more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Fatehgarh Sahib today.Four members of the family of a goldsmith, who had earlier tested positive, are among the cases that surfed today.Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said 13 new cases were reported today. He said the infected persons include a 30-year-old woman from Amloh town, 55-year-old woman from Aman Colony in Sirhind, a 68-year-old from Fatehgarh Sahib, a 31-year-old employee of the Khamano SDM office, 36 and 50 years old from Bassi Pathana, a 16-year-old from Mandi Gobindgarh, a 43-year-old woman from Samsher Nagar in Sirhind and a 39-year-old from the Zirakpur area. He said 282 samples were collected today. So far, the district has reported 191 positive cases of which 59 are active and two deaths have been reported. — OC
17-07-2020||---||Create Covid reserve force, Capt Amarinder Singh tells DGP||Chandigarh, July 16Expressing concern over the increasing cases and fatalities in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the DGP to create special Covid reserve unit by withdrawing police personnel deployed on non-essential duties for the next few months.Chairing a Covid review video-conference, the Chief Minister also asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to tighten the noose against violators of safety norms, especially those found not wearing masks. He directed the DGP to instruct the SSPs of cities with large caseloads to strictly enforce the curbs and norms to check the spread of the disease.As deaths per million in Punjab increased to 7.7, Capt Amarinder directed the Health Department to identify containment and micro-containment zones more quickly and clamp down curbs to check the spread of the pandemic. The state currently has 38 micro-containment zones in 12 districts and seven containment zones in six districts.The Chief Minister also called for immediate action to increase testing as per the targets already decided by the state government. Underlining the need for extreme caution, even though the state’s figures were still better than the national average, he also asked district administration to strictly enforce all the latest guidelines, especially with respect to restriction of five persons in gatherings.The DGP earlier said action was being taken against all violators and a close watch was being kept on incoming travellers.
17-07-2020||---||9 more deaths, 298 new cases in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 16The state reported 298 cases and nine deaths in the last 24 hours. Four deaths were reported from Ludhiana, two from Jalandhar, one each from Gurdaspur, Patiala and Kapurthala.With these deaths, the number of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 230. Besides, 58 persons are on oxygen support and seven are on ventilator support.Four Covid positive patients lost their lives in Ludhiana today. One of them was a 68-year-old resident of Bharat Nagar. He was a diabetic and was suffering from some kidney disease as well. He died at SPS Hospital.The second person who lost his life was a 60-year-old from Surjit Colony on the Rahon Road. He was admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He was having difficulty in breathing and was suffering from a kidney ailment too.Another patient belonged to Railway Colony. He was 60 years old and apart from being Covid positive, he was a heart patient. He too was under treatment at Rajindra Hospital. The fourth victim was a 42-year-old resident of Bal Singh Nagar, Basti Jodhewal. In Jalandhar, a 65-year-old man from Kapurthala, who was brought to the local Civil Hospital yesterday, died on his way to the CMC, Ludhiana. He was suffering from a kidney ailment and was on dialysis.Another Covid patient from Jalandhar died at the CMC yesterday. A 25-year-old pregnant woman from Jalandhar died in Amritsar. She was suffering from jaundice.While ITBP Sarai Khas is emerging as a Covid hotspot with 11 cases coming to the fore today, other new cases in Jalandhar district were from Sangat Singh Nagar, Bhogpur, Basant Avenue, Saraswati Vihar, PAP, Avtar Nagar, Defence Colony, Seth Hukam Chand Colony, Preet Enclave, Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Hardiyal Nagar, Mianwali village and Bara Pind.The worst affected districts were Ludhiana (49 cases), Jalandhar (39), Patiala and Amritsar (28), Fazilka (24), SAS Nagar (23), Bathinda (17), Moga (16) and Sangrur (15).COVID-19 DISTRICT COUNT          District          +Ve   Deaths
17-07-2020||Archit Watts & Anirudh Gupta||De-addiction drugs in short supply, patients suffer||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar/Ferozepur, July 16A number of government-run outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics in the district are facing a shortage of medicines used to treat drug addicts. As a result, the addicts are developing health complications and are lodging protests as well. Health complications For instance, some addicts recently lodged a symbolic protest at the Community Health Centre at Chak Sherewala village here. “We are not getting the daily dose of medicines which helps us in dealing with symptoms. We want to quit drugs but the shortage of medicines at OOAT centres is a big problem,” an addict said.Dr Kiran, Senior Medical Officer, Community Health Centre, Chak Sherewala, said, “There is a spurt in the number of patients registered with the OOAT clinic after March. We are not getting adequate supply of medicines.”Dr Rahul Jindal, psychologist, Civil Hospital, said, “There is a shortage of medicines but we are managing somehow.”“Some private de-addiction centres are now overcharging and giving medicines to the addicts at almost 10 times the actual price,” sources in the Health Department said.As the supply chain of drugs and narcotics was broken due restrictions, thousands of drug addicts are making a beeline to OOAT centres in Ferozepur too, which has resulted in the shortage of buprenorphine tablets.Sources in the Civil Hospital said most of the centres in the district were left with a stock of 1,500-2,000 tablets only whereas their actual requirement is 3.5 lakh tablets per month.Dr Rachna Mittal, district incharge of the Drug De-addiction Centre, said earlier, they used to provide a dose for around 14 days to each patient, but now due to shortage, doctors are giving medicines only for one or two days.”
17-07-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||No probe yet into plaints of false FIRs lodged since 2017||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 16While the Congress government set up a judicial commission of inquiry to probe the alleged false FIRs registered on political grounds during the SAD-BJP rule from 2007 to 2017, no action has so far been taken on 224 similar complaints filed since the formation of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government in the state.Hearing in serious casesThe process for approval of regulations is underway. But the authority will be hearing complaints only in serious cases of custodial deaths, murders and rapes, and only if officials of the rank of SSP and above are accused of misuse of office. NS Kalsi, Police complaints authorityThese complaints, regarding the registration of alleged false FIRs at the behest of politicians or influential persons, are being shuttled from one office to the other, but no one has taken up these for an inquiry.The complaints kept piling up with the Home Department over the past several months after which officials sent it to the two-member Justice Mehtab Singh Gill commission of inquiry which was formed to probe false FIRs.The commission, in its 41st interim report on 3,530 complaints heard so far, mentioned in a column about the 224 complaints returned to the Home Department due to lack of jurisdiction. Officials of the department said the complaints would have to be taken up by the complainants in a court of law or before senior police officials.Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) told The Tribune that the complaints were returned as these were regarding FIRs registered after July 31, 2017. “The commission is authorised to take up complaints from March 2007, when the SAD-BJP rule began to July 31, 2017, when the Capt Amarinder Singh government set up the commission after coming to power in March 2017.”The Punjab Police Complaints Authority is another body meant to take up the cases, but it remains a non-starter even three years after the formation of the government. Though the government set up the authority last October and appointed former Additional Chief Secretary NS Kalsi as the chairman, it is yet to pass regulations governing its working.
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress postpones public activities||The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) has decided to suspend all public activities of the party for the time being in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19 in the state. This was stated by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar. He said the government was working to save the state from the Covid-19 pandemic and in such a situation it was imperative that people should cooperate to prevent the spread of the disease.  Jakhar said till the situation improved, the party would reach out to people through virtual media, but for the time being no public programme or meeting would be held. He urged everyone to follow health guidelines issued by the state government in letter and spirit. — TNS
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's 3 medical colleges to get Remdesivir||The Punjab Government has started the process to procure anti-viral drug Remdesivir for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid-19, said, the Health Department has sought requisition from three medical colleges in the state. “In the first phase, medicine will be supplied to three government medical colleges. These colleges have expertise and committees in place to decide, which patient requires medicine.”Different studies have indicated that Remdesivir can have adverse effects on kidneys and liver. Even the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has advised only emergency use of this medicine. Remdesivir has been issued the ‘Emergency Use Authorisation’ by the United States Food and Drug Administration for treatment of hospitalised patients with severe Covid-19 illness.India does not manufacture Remdesivir. So India’s drug regulator had last week granted the US pharma giant Gilead Sciences the marketing authorisation for Remdesivir for “restricted emergency use” on hospitalised patients in the country. — TNS
17-07-2020||---||Punjab Government fixes treatment cost at private hospitals||Chandigarh, July 16To check profiteering by private hospitals during the Covid pandemic, the state government has fixed treatment rates. The decision was announced on Thursday after a Covid review video-conference meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The rates finalised for private hospitals and medical colleges by Dr KK Talwar Committee cover isolation beds, ICU treatment and hospitalisation charges per day of admission.For moderate sickness requiring isolation beds, including supportive care and oxygen, the rates per day of admission are fixed at Rs 10,000 for all private medical colleges/NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers) private hospitals with teaching programme from the National Board of Examination (NBE), Rs 9,000 for NABH accredited hospitals (including private medical colleges without PG/DNB course) and Rs 8,000 for non-NABH accredited hospitals.The rates across these categories of hospitals for severe sickness (ICU without need for ventilator) have been capped, respectively, at Rs 15,000, Rs 14,000 and Rs 13,000, while for very severe or critical patients, the rates fixed at Rs 18,000, Rs 16,500 and Rs 15,000, respectively.All these rates are inclusive of PPE cost, says an official.
17-07-2020||---||Punjab Government eyeing agricultural land: AAP||Chandigarh, July 16Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders today said they would fight against the acquisition of 407 acres of panchayat land in the name of industrial development at Sekhowal village near Ludhiana.Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema, Deputy LoP Bibi Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and state core committee chairman and MLA Principal Budhram, alleged the Congress government had committed a heist in the name of industrial development. They said the government was “indulging in the open loot of agricultural land in the state.”Cheema said,” In its election manifesto, the Congress had promised to allot 5-marla plot to every Dalit family. Instead of delivering its poll promises, Capt Amarinder Singh has displaced landless Dalits.”
17-07-2020||Gurdaspur||ASHA workers to go on strike from July 20||In the wake of Union Government and state government’s decision to discontinue Covid-related financial incentives to ASHA workers from this month onwards, as many as 18,000 ASHA workers across the state have claimed that they are being pushed into financial distress and debt.The workers have planned to go on an indefinite strike from July 20. The protest will hamper the tracing and tracking of positive patients.To check the spread of the virus, the Union Government was paying Rs 1,000 per month to every worker since January, while the Punjab Government was chipping in an additional Rs 1,500. This was in addition to the fixed monthly honorarium of Rs 2,000. — TNS
17-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab seeks revocation of bail to ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 16More than two months after Punjab’s former Director-General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini was granted anticipatory bail by a Mohali court in a 1991 abduction case, the state government today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking its cancellation on more than 26 grounds.Among other things, the state in its 199-page petition submitted that the Mohali court committed a grave error of law in exercising its discretionary jurisdiction and granting anticipatory bail without even considering the heinousness and seriousness of the crime.It was added that the impugned order interfered with and proscribed a proper and truthful investigation into “heinous and serious crimes committed by police officers holding the highest levels of office on an unarmed and hapless victim, who was in their custody all throughout”.The case registered against Saini and other policemen at Mataur police station in Mohali pertains to alleged abduction and disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani. As of now, the case has been received by the High Court’s filing branch and is likely to come up for hearing next week.The petition added that the seriousness and heinous nature of the crime was further aggravated by the fact that high-ranking police officers such as the present accused caused manipulation of the official records in an attempt to show the incident as a police encounter.“The fact that this was sought to be done by falsifying records and to somehow show that the victim was encountered while escaping custody deserves strict notice, especially when material on record clearly reveals that it was a premeditated murder of the victim while he was in custody of the accused,” the petition further added.Referring to the statement of “eyewitness” advocate Gursharan Kaur Mann, the state submitted that an eyewitness account of illegal detention and inhuman torture of Multani by the respondent was clearly set out.The eyewitness categorically described the physical condition of Multani. The court erred in ignoring the account of the eyewitness, who was a practicing lawyer and also a victim of the atrocities, it added.No bail under Section 302 of IPC
17-07-2020||GS Paul---||India-Afghan trade resumes, gets tepid response||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 16 Even as Pakistan allowed Afghanistan to use its transit route for trade with India through the Attari-Wagah border, not a single consignment arrived on the first day of trade resumption on Wednesday. Indian traders generally import dry fruit, mulethi (liquorice) and exotic herbal items from Afghanistan. Nevertheless, the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) and the Amritsar Customs Department have all arrangements in place at the Integrated Checkpost (ICP), Attari. A communication was received here from Islamabad that under the Pakistan-Afghanistan Transit Trade Agreement (APTTA) agreement, the Afghan traders would have access to eastern Wagah border to reach Attari from July 15 onwards, where Afghan goods would be offloaded. LPAI official Sukhdev Singh said on day one of resumption of India-Afghanistan trade, no Afghani trucks from Wagah side arrived. He said in the normal course earlier, 20-25 trucks used to come daily from Afghanistan. “On our part, all requisite arrangements in the wake of Covid have been put in place. The health teams would screen the drivers at the zero line before allowing the trucks. Our employees are also equipped with safety gear and only limited number of porters would be called up,” he said. Amritsar Customs’ Commissioner Dipak Kumar Gupta said search teams, including sniffer dog squads, had been deputed at Attari. The Central Government had suspended cross-border trade through the Attari ICP, which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, on March 13 as a precautionary measure amid the Covid pandemic. It is learnt that on special request of the Afghanistan Government, the Pakistan Government agreed for the Afghanistan-India transit trade. The agreement, however, does not permit Indian goods to be loaded onto trucks for transit back to Afghanistan.
17-07-2020||Barnala||2 cops booked for bribery||A former SHO and an Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) posted at the bus stand police post have been booked for allegedly taking Rs 3 lakh from two youths for not including their names in an FIR.  The accused have been identified as Sub-Inspector Baljit Singh, and ASI Pawan Kumar.  “We have registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and 221 of the IPC against Sub-Inspector and former SHO Baljit Singh and ASI Pawan Kumar for not including the names of Devinder Singh and Lavpreet Singh in an FIR pertaining to the disappearance of a Barnala girl. We have arrested Pawan and recovered Rs 1.05 lakh from him,” said DSP Lakhvir Singh Tiwana. As per the FIR registered on Thursday, a 35-year-old woman had gone missing from Barnala. She was found in Langeana on June 29. Subsequently, the police took Devinder Singh and Lavpreet Singh in custody. “Both Devinder and Lavpreet had withdrawn Rs 4 lakh from the bank account of the woman between June 7 and 29. However, neither the SHO nor the ASI included the names of the accused in the FIR. Reportedly, Devinder is facing another FIR, and we are verifying the facts,” said the DSP. SSP Sandeep Goel said he had directed the DSP to probe the matter. — TNS
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Channi marks probe into bungling of funds in Gurdaspur college||Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has marked a departmental inquiry into alleged embezzlement of funds and “unnecessary expenditure” for paying arrears to some staff members of Beant College of Engineering and Technology, Gurdaspur.The minister has given directions to release salary for the last three months of around 200 college employees, who had accused the college management of diverting the funds.Channi said, “I am aware of the issue. I have sought a report related to the matter.”These are self-finance colleges and staff get salary from tuition fee fund. The college was not covered under the planned budget for technical education in the state since 2004 and has witnessed a dip in admissions in the last few years. — TNS
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||4.5 lakh more Punjab farmers to get health cover||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today gave a go-ahead to bring an additional 4.5 lakh farmers and their families into the ambit of health insurance cover under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana from the year 2020-21.The scheme, which was launched by the state government on August 20, 2019, covered 5 lakh families in the year of its launch. It proved beneficial for the people of Punjab during the Covid crisis. The state government has also capped Covid-19 treatment charges in hospitals empanelled under the yojana.The CM said the beneficiaries could approach any of the 546 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for 1,396 diseases, including heart surgery, cancer, joint replacement and accident cases.The board will pay the entire premium for the insurance cover of the farmers, who will get cashless treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. The eligible farmers having ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weighing slips’ will be required to submit documents at the market committee office or with the commission agent concerned by July 24. — TNS
17-07-2020||Bathinda||Sacrilege probe: Sikh bodies to stage protest against CBI||Accusing the CBI of meddling into the sacrilege probe with political intentions, three Sikh bodies have decided to stage a protest against the agency’s attempt to “block the investigation in an attempt to protect main culprits”.Leaders of SAD (Amritsar), United Akali Dal and the Dal Khalsa today announced a protest at Bargari on Friday in this regard.The SIT was progressing gradually and now when the probe panel was moving closer to arrest the main culprit, Gurmeet Ram Rahim, the CBI asked the court to halt the proceedings, they claimed. — TNS
17-07-2020||---||4 millers booked for Rs 14cr paddy scam||Moga, July 16 An alleged paddy scam worth Rs 14-crore has come to the fore at Baghapurana city in the district. Owners of three rice mills — Akshit Agro Food, Surya Agro Food and Keshav Agro Food — have collectively siphoned off paddy, which was allotted to them by Pungrain. Food and Civil Supplies Controller (DFSC) Sartaj Singh said 9.56 lakh bags of paddy were allotted to these rice mills by Pungrain, but during initial physical verification, at least 1.24 lakh bags were found missing from the stock. An FIR has been registered against the rice millers and their anticipatory bail have been rejected by the District and Sessions Court.
17-07-2020||---||Giving ration to 15.8L Punjab pupils: Minister||Chandigarh, July 16School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Thursday said the Punjab Government was committed to the overall development of the state’s children and nutritious mid-day meal was being continuously provided to as many as 15.79 lakh students of government schools across the state.Though the efforts had been hampered due to the spread of Covid-19, the commitment and zeal of teachers had made it possible to tackle the situation. “Despite facing many odds due to the pandemic, the teachers have really been doing a commendable job in taking online classes, distributing books and foodgrains at the doorstep of every eligible student,” Singla said, while lauding the efforts of government teachers.The Cabinet Minister claimed that 8,262.23 metric tonnes (MT) of foodgrains, including rice and wheat, had been sent to the schools to be delivered in sealed packets to the students for the first financial quarter of academic session 2020-21. For the second quarter (July 20-September 20), allocation of 11,974 MT had been approved.Singla said: “An amount of Rs 37.26 crore as cooking cost has already been sanctioned by the state government, which is to be transferred to the accounts of beneficiary students, as per the guidelines laid by the Union Government. As some students did not have any operative bank account, around Rs 14 crore is lying with the respective schools.”Singla has now directed the Education Department officials to get a nod from the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) to release cooking amount in cash to the beneficiary students. On July 6, a letter was sent to the Centre seeking permission to pay for cooking cost in cash to the students but a reply was awaited, he added.Resume mid-day meal benefits: Bajwa
17-07-2020||---||PWD seeks to axe trees in Sangrur locality, locals fume||Sangrur, July 16 The decision of Public Works Department (Building and Roads) to prune fully grown trees along the telephone exchange road here to shift the electricity poles nearer to the road has angered the area residents. Reportedly, another objective behind the move is to widen the road.  The locals wrote to the senior authorities today, and announced that they would approach the court. In the letter, residents alleged that the department had plans to shift the poles nearer to the road from telephone exchange to Tilak Ram petrol pump. They said there was no need to widen the road, as it witnessed light traffic.  After Harwinder Singh Sekhon (88), a resident, came to know about the decision of the authorities, he started a campaign to save the green cover of the area. Later, he was joined by other residents. PWD sub-divisional officer Ajay Garg said the department had decided to prune the trees to widen the road, adding that for the rest of the queries, the residents could contact Executive Engineer Vipan Bansal. Initially, Bansal denied having any knowledge of the decision, but later said they had written to the senior authorities for permission to uproot the trees. Sangrur DC Ramvir said: “I have directed the PWD Executive Engineer to look into the matter immediately to ensure justice to the residents,” he said.
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Told  to give fee via demand draft, students fret||Though educational institutions have made the best use of Internet to conduct online classes and collect fee during Covid-19, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), Bathinda, has been asking students to deposit revaluation, re-appear and correction fee through demand draft.Students said it was a Herculean task to prepare demand drafts, especially from banks which come in containment zones.Divyam, who is pursuing BCA, said there was no link on the university’s website to deposit fee. — TNS
17-07-2020||GS PAUL||Will give contract to Milkfed if it lowers rates, says SGPC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 16The SGPC has declared that Milkfed would be considered for supply of desi ghee and dry milk to gurdwaras only if it offered products at rates lower than what the Maharashtra-based firm had agreed to.Reprimanding those who were raking up the issue of ignoring state’s only cooperative milk producers’ federation, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal’s personal secretary Mohinder Singh Ayali said the order for three-month supply of desi ghee and dry milk was placed with Pune-based Sonai Dairy as per tender norms and gauging the ‘credibility’ of the firm.“If Milkfed was ready to supply us desi ghee and dry milk at rates lesser than Sonai Dairy, we could consider hiring Milkfed after the lapse of the three-month order. Otherwise, it would not be justified. The issue is being given political colour in the garb of sentiments of the devotees,” he said.Not feasible, claims MinisterCooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said it would not be feasible for Milkfed to offer quality products on lower rates. He said: “I wonder how the Pune firm, which would have to bear the freight charges of 2,000 km to transport the products here, agreed to supply products at such illogical rates. It was the sole prerogative of the SGPC to decide, but it is a pity that devotees’ money would be absorbed by an outside firm.”Thousands of dairy farmers have been associated with Milkfed. It was being stated that losing SGPC’s order worth several crores would directly hit their income.
17-07-2020||Aditi Tandon||7-point rise in Punjab’s maternal death ratio despite big decline nationally||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 16India has seen a 7.4 per cent decline in maternal deaths in the latest estimates by the government, riding on the success of states like Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana.As per the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) estimates by The Registrar General of India (RGI), the country’s maternal mortality ratio (MMR) is now 113 deaths for every one lakh live births. This marks a reduction of 7.4 per cent from the MMR of 122 in the 2015-17 estimates and 130 in the 2014-16 estimates.However, Punjab is among the five states to have witnessed a rise in maternal mortality burden, against the previous estimates.In Punjab, the MMR has risen from 122 to 129 over two SRS estimates — an increase of seven points over 2015-17, which translates into 5.7 per cent rise. The other states where the MMR has increased are Kerala, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh. Meanwhile, Kerala has the lowest MMR of 43 in India.Five states — Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh — have achieved the UN Sustainable Development Target of 70 or lesser maternal deaths against every one lakh live births.In the latest RGI estimates, Telangana has shown the maximum percentage decline of 17.1 per cent in the MMR while Rajasthan has shown the maximum point decline of 22 points from 186 to 164 MMR.Haryana has posted positive results, registering a decline of seven points in the MMR from 98 in 2015-17 to 91 in the new estimates. The state’s percentage decline in the MMR is 7.1 per cent over the 2015-17 estimates.Overall, South Indian states as a block have the lowest MMR of 67 in India. These states comprise Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The highest MMR is in Assam, 215.
17-07-2020||---||Man uploads girl’s pics on Facebook, kin strip his wife||Jalandhar, July 15The family members of a girl, who was allegedly filmed in an objectionable condition by a resident of the same village, allegedly took revenge by stripping the accused’s wife and making her video.The incident took place at Sailkiana village of Phillaur around 9:30 pm yesterday. The girl’s family members also allegedly put the accused’s SUV, two bikes and a scooter on fire.Earlier, the girl consumed phenyl and was admitted to the local Civil Hospital. Her brother, who was allegedly hit by the accused, is learnt to have lost his vision. He was admitted to the Phillaur Civil Hospital.The girl’s family first lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that the accused had uploaded the victim’s objectionable pictures and videos on Facebook and even shared these with them. The police raided his place, but he was found missing.Later, the family members of the girl barged into the accused’s house and started ransacking it. While the man was away, they allegedly caught hold of his wife, tore her clothes and made a video.Gurdawar, the husband of village sarpanch, alleged: “The victim (girl) has lost her parents and the accused has blinded her brother. Now, he is levelling false allegations against her family by setting his vehicles on fire and ransacking the house. No one from the girl’s family tried to strip his wife. It is a concocted story. The police are not taking any action against him.”SP (Investigation) Sarabjit S Bahia said FIRs would be lodged against both sides. The Phillaur SHO said: “As of now, we have registered one FIR against the girl’s family. As many as 29 persons have been booked under Sections 458, 323 and 506 of the IPC. A police team has gone to the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar to record the statement of the girl for a counter FIR.”
17-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Playschools hit, parents wary of online classes||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 16The lockdown has forced many parents in Punjab to get the names of their wards struck off from playschools. The owner of a kindergarten says one-fourth of the students have opted out. “Not all parents are averse to online learning. Many have been taking a keen interest in virtual classes and are helping their kids learn through video and text messages,” he claims.But Shefali, whose four-year-old son was promoted to nursery this year, calls the concept a farce. “Learning via cellphone, computer or tablet isn’t healthy at such a tender age. The job becomes harder if both parents are working,” she says.Health experts do not advise online studies for pre-nursery and nursery students. They have received a number of cases of eye strain due to excessive use of electronic gadgets, they say. Prof NK Gosian, an education expert, says the concept of online classes is detrimental for the physical and mental well-being of students, especially those in kindergarten. “Excess screen time can harm the brain too. Also, the coronavirus has deprived students of outdoor activities,” he maintains.
