18-06-2020||---||7 more Covid-19 positive cases surface in Mohali district||Mohali, June 18Seven more case of Covid-19 surfaced in Bhankharpur near Dera Bassi, taking the total count in Mohali district to 200.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the persons infected with the virus include a 34-year-old woman working as a staff nurse in the civil hospital in Manimajra, Chandigarh.Others include a 25-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man, both residents of Dera Bassi who had come from Uttar Pradesh; a 66-year-old man and a 25-year-old man, both residents of Lalru. The two others are a 37-year-old woman and a 55-year-old woman. They have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur.Singh said two persons, a 30-year-old man from Khanpur and a 39-year-old man from Nayagaon have recovered from the virus.Meanwhile, the health department while starting the random sampling at Bhankharpur beer plant took samples of 41 employees. Four employees of the Molson Coors beverage company were found infected with coronavirus a few days ago.The Civil Surgeon informed that the plant has about 350 employees and the sampling would be completed in five days. He said that on the first day, Dr Preet Mohan Singh collected a total of 41 samples. He said they have sealed the administrative department of the factory as all the four employees work in the department. The rest of the workers of the department have been instructed to home quarantine.He said that the health department is closely monitoring the situation and making sure that the disease does not spread further. He said that the exact situation would be known only after the completion of sampling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-more-covid-19-positive-cases-surface-in-mohali-district-100944
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt increases ex-gratia amount for soldiers killed in action to Rs 50 lakh||The Punjab Government on Thursday decided to increase the ex-gratia amount for soldiers killed in action from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, along with a job to a next of kin.“This is the least we can do for our brave servicemen who make the supreme sacrifice for our motherland,”  Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced.Terming as horrendous and barbaric the brutality with which 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese in Galwan Valley, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday demanded accountability for the loss of precious lives in the violent clash and said the whole nation was expecting a befitting response from the government.Punjab Government has decided to increase the ex-gratia amount for our soldiers killed in action from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh, along with a job to the Next-of-Kin. This is the least we can do for our brave servicemen who make the supreme sacrifice for our motherland. pic.twitter.com/obrHqeax15“Our soldiers at the front should be clearly told that if they kill one of ours, you kill three of theirs,” said an emotional Capt Amarinder, making it clear that he was not speaking as a politician but as a man who had been part of the Army and still loved the institution.He pointed out that his stand on such issues has always been the same, and even after the Pulwama attack, he had declared that if they kill one of ours we should kill two of theirs.Questioning why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given in the face of the brutal attack on the Indian soldiers, the chief minister said “somebody failed to do his job out there, and we need to find out who it was”.If the unit was armed, as is being claimed now, the second-in-command should have ordered firing the moment the commanding officer fell to the Chinese treachery, said Capt Amarinder, adding that “the nation wants to know why our men did not retaliate in the way they are trained to do, and why they did not open fire if they were carrying arms”.“What were they doing sitting out there while their colleagues were getting killed,” he asked.“I want to know, every soldier wants to know, and every Indian wants to know what happened,” said the chief minister, making it clear that he feels very strongly about this entire incident, which also exposed a gross intelligence failure.Those boys sitting out there on the mountains deserve answers and expect a hard-hitting response, he added.What happened out there was not a joke, and the message has to go out strongly to China that India was no longer prepared to take their deceit, said Capt Amarinder, adding that every one of the 20 soldiers who had been martyred in the violence was “my man and I feel strongly about it”.Calling for an end to the ‘Hindi-Cheeni bhai bhai’ charade, the chief minister said India should not chicken out on this issue.“If China is a world power, then so are we,” he declared, adding that “60 years of diplomacy has not worked and it is time to tell them that enough is enough.”China knows we are capable of taking them on, said the chief minister, pointing out that the Indian Army is a highly professional force, fully capable of taking on any enemy.The Chinese just cannot be trusted, he remarked, pointing out that several Indian territories are in their occupation since 1962 and they were clearly now trying to take more.Capt Amarinder also took strong exception to reports of riot gear being sent out to the soldiers at the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Stressing that the Indian Army is trained to handle arms and stones or nail studded rods and lathis, he asserted that if the Government of India wants a fist or lathi fights with the Chinese, then it should send RSS cadres to the battle ground.What our men out there need is weapons and clear orders that they should be ready to use these weapons to save themselves and defend the country at any cost, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-increases-ex-gratia-amount-for-soldiers-killed-in-action-to-rs-50-lakh-100925
18-06-2020||New Delhi||Harsimrat Kaur Badal calls UP CM, raises issue of Sikh farmers' eviction||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has assured that no injustice will be done to the Sikh farmer families facing eviction from their lands in Bijnore, Rampur and Lakhimpur in the state, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said on Thursday.Harsimrat, a senior leader of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said she had called Adityanath and raised the issue of the alleged forceful eviction of Sikh farmer families from a few districts of the BJP-ruled state.“Spoke to UP CM about the forceful eviction of thousands of Sikh farmer families from their land in Bijnore, Rampur, Lakhimpur and Nanakmata. Yogi ji has assured no injustice will be done to them. A SAD delegation will also meet him to apprise of their plight,” she tweeted.Earlier, party's senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra had alleged that Sikh families were being displaced from their lands in Bijnore, Lakhimpur Kheri, Rampur and Nanakmata.Expressing solidarity with the affected families settled in Uttar Pradesh after being displaced during partition in 1947, Chandumajra had said that the SAD would do its utmost to ensure they are not uprooted from their lands again. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harsimrat-kaur-badal-calls-up-cm-raises-issue-of-sikh-farmers-eviction-100919
18-06-2020||---||Punjab to rationalise Covid treatment cost, says Health Minister||CHANDIGARH, June 18The Punjab government will soon rationalize the private treatment cost for the COVID patients to make it affordable, said the Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu here today.The minister urged the private hospital managements to rise to the occasion and come forward with rational and reasonable cost of the treatment for the COVID-19 patients.“This is an unforeseen and unprecedented situation and everyone, including the private hospital managements and promoters, owe a responsibility towards the society”, he said, while hoping that the private hospitals will see the reason and not charge the COVID-19 patients exorbitantly as has been widely reported.Sidhu referred to a recent announcement by Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital Trust, Amritsar, whereby it has fixed Rs 50,000 as the rate for seven days package for twin sharing AC rooms for COVID treatment, while for non-AC rooms it is Rs 35,000 and the ventilator charges, in case needed, are Rs 6000 per day only.The minister, without naming any private hospital, said, compared to this, some of the private hospitals were charging as much as Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 per day from the patients which was unacceptable. “If one hospital can provide treatment at Rs 50,000 for a week, how can another hospital charge Rs 30,000 for a single day?” he asked.Hoping that the private hospitals will see reason and cooperate with the government in charging reasonable money from the patients, the minister said, the final decision on fixing the price will be taken in a day or two. He reiterated that the government has no intention to make the private hospitals suffer any losses, but at the same time, it cannot allow the loot of the helpless patients by being slapped bills to the tune of lakhs of rupees for a few days of stay in the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-rationalise-covid-treatment-cost-says-health-minister-100917
18-06-2020||Patiala||Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh killed in Ladakh clash cremated with military honours in Patiala||Mortal remains of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh killed in a clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh's Galwan Valley were consigned to flames with full military honours in Punjab's Patiala on Thursday.Mandeep's mother, his wife, daughter and son saluted him as scores of people bade a tearful adieu to the soldier at his native Seel village in the district.Slogans like 'shaheed amar rahe' and 'Bharat Mata ki jai' rent the air as the body of 39-year-old Mandeep Singh, wrapped in the Tricolour, reached his native place.Villagers, especially the youth, were seen holding the Tricolour and showered petals on the military vehicle in which the mortal remains of the soldier were brought.The soldier's family members were inconsolable when the body arrived.Mandeep's minor son lit the funeral pyre.Punjab minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Akali MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra were present to pay tributes to Mandeep along with officials of the Army, police and civil administration.Mandeep was one of the 20 soldiers killed in the clash with the Chinese army on Monday.He had joined duty about two weeks ago after a month-long leave.Earlier, the mortal remains of Mandeep arrived at the Chandigarh airport and from where the body was brought to his native place in Patiala by road.Mandeep joined the Army in 1997. He is survived by his mother Shakuntala, wife Gurdeep Kaur, 15-year-old daughter Mehakpreet Kaur and 10-year-old son Jobanpreet Singh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/naib-subedar-mandeep-singh-killed-in-ladakh-clash-cremated-with-military-honours-in-patiala-100911
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab prepares micro plan to fight coronavirus||To curb the spread of coronavirus in urban slums of five districts, where maximum cases have been reported, the Punjab government has chalked out a city preparedness plan.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said, here on Thursday, 54 per cent of Covid-19 cases were reported from Amritsar, Ludhiana Jalandhar, SAS Nagar and Patiala districts.To control the spread, a sub-panel of the district disaster management committee has now included the community medicine faculty from a medical college, WHO and a prominent NGO.He said the dedicated panel would assist the city administration in preparing epidemic preparedness plans, their implementation, monitoring and reporting in consultation with the Health Department."After getting inputs from these panels, a state-level committee would take the decision regarding sample collection, testing and reporting to reduce turn around time to less than 24 hours from the collection of the sample to reporting of results," he said.The Minister said a house-to-house surveillance campaign and the testing process would be reviewed every day, especially in containment and micro containment zones.Sidhu said over 215,000 samples had been collected.Additional flu corners have been set up in all health institutions, including health wellness centres, where all details of symptomatic persons have been forwarded for further action. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-prepares-micro-plan-to-fight-coronavirus-100907
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh seeks permission to export surplus PPE kits||With 128 Punjab manufacturers approved for the production of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission to export the surplus.The Chief Minister said these manufacturers had risen to the occasion in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak to make Punjab self-reliant in the manufacture of this critical equipment needed by frontline warriors in the fight against the pandemic.Permitting them to export the PPE body coveralls "would also give an impetus to the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan recently launched by the government of India under your leadership," he said in his letter to the Prime Minister, requesting him to consider giving permission" for the same.Citing the surplus capacity of production and quality of products manufactured by these units, which started production after obtaining certification from the DRDO, Singh said it appeared that there was not enough domestic demand of PPE at present.These manufacturers are finding it difficult to obtain orders from HLL, he pointed out, adding that of the 128 approved manufacturers, only 18 units have received orders from the government of India.The Chief Minister recalled that on May 21 the Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister has written to Chief Ministers of all states to consider directing their respective Health Departments to place orders on Punjab's PPE body coverall manufacturers at HLL rates.The minister has also requested to the Union Commerce and Industries Minister, requesting for allowing the export of surplus PPE body coveralls from the country, he further noted.Notably, the 128 approved manufacturers have a cumulative current capacity to manufacture 5,21,050 PPE coveralls every day. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-seeks-permission-to-export-surplus-ppe-kits-100870
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amit Ratan expelled from SAD after allegations of ‘duping’ party workers||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday expelled Bathinda party leader Amit Ratan due to allegations of “duping workers of the party”.In a statement released from the party head office here today, SAD Senior Vice President and Spokesman Dr. Daljit Singh Cheema said that some persons had complained against Ratan saying that he had duped them on the pretext of providing business opportunities.After receiving these complaints a fact-finding committee was constituted by the president which comprised of former minister Sikander Singh Maluka, Ex-MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu and Sarup Chand Singla. The committee held a detailed enquiry and submitted a report to the president in which it was found that allegations against  Amit Ratan were correct and the committee recommended strong action against him.“Taking a serious note of this illegal and unethical behaviour of Amit Ratan, the party President decided to expel him from the primary membership of the party,” SAD said in its statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amit-ratan-expelled-from-sad-after-allegations-of-duping-party-workers-100859
18-06-2020||Chandigarh/Ludhiana||Five Covid deaths, 118 new cases reported in Punjab||Punjab reported five more deaths and 118 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the state tally to 3,615.The death toll from the virus stands at 83. A 65-year-old resident of Malerkotla succumbed to the deadly virus on Thursday. She was admitted to the Christian Medical College and Hospital and passed away during the wee hours.The woman was admitted to the hospital on June 14, following shortness of breath, fever and cough, and tested COVID-positive on June 15.She suffered from comorbidities such as Hepatitis-C, chronic liver disease and was under ventilator support, said CMCH authorities.Civil Surgeon, Dr Rajesh Bagga, confirmed the development and said the woman was suffering from acute liver disease and was COVID positive also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-covid-deaths-118-new-cases-reported-in-punjab-100839
18-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Without salary since January, teachers question donation to PM-CARES Fund||Jalandhar, June 17Teachers of as many as six DAV Colleges in the state have been awaiting their salaries and pending Provident Fund (PF) for the past four to five months. They alleged that they had been facing several financial problems and had to seek loans from their friends and family to manage their everyday expenses.However, with faculty members left in lurch, the DAV Management has, meanwhile, in April donated a hefty amount of Rs 5 crore to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund. The teachers said the amount donated to the PM Cares Fund was collected from staff members where each employee contributed their one-day salary (basic + dearness allowance) in the month of March.Convenor DAV Co-ordination Committee Surinder Kaur has written a letter to President DAV College Managing Committee (DCMC), New Delhi, complaining about the non-release of the salaries and PF of teachers of six DAV Colleges, which include MMD DAV College — Gidderbaha, KRM DAV College — Nakodar, DAV College—Malout, DAV College For Women —Ferozepur, Gopi Chand College—Abohar and LR DAV College—Jagraon, for the last four to five months.In the letter, Surinder Kaur, said, “On the call of the DAV Management, all employees of the DAV Colleges have donated one-day salary for the PM Relief fund to fight the pandemic. But now, when employees of the organisation have been facing the resource crunch, the management has failed to address their grievances.”She said in the present situation, teachers had been finding it hard to manage their expenses. Also, the schools of their children have started demanding fee for three months, while they do not have enough money to meet their needs. “The deadly virus is spreading fast and there is uncertainty and chaos everywhere. The management must look into the matter and release the salaries of the employees at the earliest,” she added.Another, a teacher from KRM DAV College, Nakodar, said he had not received his salary since April. “It’s hard for me to run my family without salary. I am the sole bread earner and I also have to pay the EMIs of my house, fees of my kids and among other expenses to be paid,” he said.Meanwhile, HR Gandhar, Vice President, DAV College, Managing Committee, denied the allegations of non-release of salaries and said the management during this Covid-19 period had released Rs 250 crores as loan to different DAV Colleges in the state. He said despite grants and scholarships of SC students not being released by the state government, the college has managed to support its faculty members and students by providing every help possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/without-salary-since-january-teachers-question-donation-to-pm-cares-fund-100727
18-06-2020||---||Prices of PCs surge as institutions go online||Amritsar, June 17As schools and colleges have opted to go online amid the restrictions enforced due to the coronavirus pandemic, the demand and prices of computers and its accessories have escalated like never before.Bunty, an owner of a computer showroom, stated that prices of desktops and laptops, irrespective of their brands, have increased between Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per item. This surge in prices was denoted to the extraordinary rise in demand not only from the students but also from the office-going class.There was a 20 per cent rise in the demand of computers and laptops in the market in comparison to previous year. The import of computers from China scaled down due to Covid restrictions, causing a gap between demand and supply. Computer retailers did not suffer sale pangs as witnessed in other sectors like hospitality and gold ornaments after the lifting of curfew. —Vikas Narang, President of Punjab Association of Computer TradersMeanwhile, the students need the webcam to avail lectures, so its demand has also sky-rocketed in the markets. “Ultimately, we were out of stock,” said Bhavneet Singh, who also owns a computer showroom. He also revealed that the rate of webcam has doubled from its original price of Rs 1200.According to Vikas Narang, President of Punjab Association of Computer Traders, there was 20 per cent rise in the demand of computers and laptops in the market in comparison to previous year. “Similarly, import of computers scaled down due to Covid-19 restrictions from China, virtually causing the gap between demand and supply,” he added.He also revealed that the computer retailers did not suffer sale pangs as has been witnessed in other sectors like hospitality and gold ornaments after the lifting of curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prices-of-pcs-surge-as-institutions-go-online-100571
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court serves notice on Vidhan Sabha Secy  over contempt plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put Vidhan Sabha Secretary Shashi Lakhanpal Mishra on notice on a contempt of court petition alleging deliberate and intentional disobedience of an order in a seniority dispute.Fixing the matter for July second week, the High Court also made it clear that reply, if any, be filed by the date fixed. The notice of motion and the direction by Justice Jaishree Thakur of the High Court came on a petition filed by Jaswinder Singh through senior counsel DS Patwalia and Adityajit Singh Chadha, Advocate.Justice Thakur’s Bench was told that the petitioner’s demotion was stayed by the High Court, but the order was disobeyed. The matter has its genesis in a pending petition filed before the High Court last year by Jaswinder Singh against Punjab Vidhan Sabha Secretariat and other respondents under the category of “seniority dispute of government employees, Punjab”.“The fact remains that the petitioner has been promoted prior to two of the respondents. Keeping in view the peculiar facts and circumstances and also in the light of the fact that the counsel for the state is praying for further time to file reply to the writ petition, demotion of the petitioner vide the impugned order dated November 13, 2019, shall remain stayed till the next date of hearing,” Justice Augustine George Masih had asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-serves-notice-on-vidhan-sabha-secy-over-contempt-plea-100656
18-06-2020||Muktsar||Akali workers booked||2 booked for harassing teacherMuktsar: The police have booked two employees of Jawahar Navodya Vidyalaya at Warringkhera village for allegedly sexually harassing a woman teacher of the school. Those booked have been identified as Gurtej Singh of Warringkhera and Krishan Kumar of Rohtak. A case has been registered. TNSCop held with heroinAbohar: The police on Tuesday arrested a Punjab Police ASI and his accomplice with 30-gm heroin. They have been booked. Beant Singh, an ASI at Muktsar, and his accomplice Rajinder Singh were arrested after a team of the special task force from Muktsar intercepted their car. While Beant was arrested and remanded in police custody for two days, Rajinder managed to flee. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-workers-booked-100664
18-06-2020||---||AAP to gherao DC offices over power bills||Chandigarh, June 17The state Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) unit has decided to gherao the offices of deputy commissioners (DCs) on June 18 and 19 in protest against the “exorbitant” power bills imposed by the government even during the lockdown period. The party leaders demanded a complete waiver of power bills for this period.Convener of party’s “Bijli Morcha” and MLA Meet Hayer, after holding a meeting with office-bearers of state trade wing in Chandigarh, said the Congress government had been openly indulging in “loot” of the people, who were without means of livelihood for more than three months now bysending them heftyelectricity bills. AAP activists would gherao the deputy commissioners offices across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-to-gherao-dc-offices-over-power-bills-100661
18-06-2020||Moga||Tehsildar, naib tehsildar shifted over land scam||The state government today transferred tehsildar and naib tehsildar of Moga following a controversy over the alleged land acquisition scam in the construction of the NH 105-B, which passes through the district.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and PPCC secretary Ravinder Singh Grewal had alleged that poor farmers were duped by politicians and bureaucrats in the process of the land acquisition.In separate letters to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, they demanded legal action against politicians, bureaucrats and other bigwigs who purchased the land, which was to be acquired by the NHAI, at cheaper rates from farmers and then got huge amounts as compensation. The rates of acquisition were decided by the respective collectors-cum-SDMs on the advice of revenue officials was much higher than those which were paid to farmers.The leaders alleged 55 sale deeds and mutations were done in favour of their near and dear ones within a day by the respective tehsildars just days before the acquisition of the land.They accused Cabinet Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar and MLA Harjot Kamal of involvement in this scam, but these allegations were denied by both leaders. The state government had marked an inquiry into the allegations to the Financial Commissioner (Revenue), which is in progress. The government today transferred Moga tehsildar Surinder Pal Singh Pannu to the Ranjit Sagar Dam as revenue officer.Tehsildar of Payal (Ludhiana) Pardeep Singh Bains has been posted in Moga while naib tehsildar Maninder Singh has been transferred to Dhol Baha Dam as revenue officer. Though the transfer orders have been issued in routine, a senior officer said these revenue officers had been transferred to conduct a transparent inquiry because their presence could have affected the process of inquiry.Land bought ahead of acquisition||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tehsildar-naib-tehsildar-shifted-over-land-scam-100649
18-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||Sans power for 2 yrs, 70-yr-old seeks help||tribune news service Sangrur, June 17 With no money to clear her power dues, a 72-year-old widow has been without an electricity connection for the last two years.  For Labh Kaur, a resident of Dirba town, inconvenience compounds during summer, with temperature shooting up to unbearable degrees.  “Two years back, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officers disconnected the power supply to my house, saying that my younger son, who I had lost to a brief illness, had not cleared the dues,” said Kaur. She says her only source of income was her pension, which too didn’t come regularly. “Earlier, a neighbour had allowed me to make use of his power connections, but later he refused citing reduced income amid the lockdown,” the woman said. “I don’t blame PSPCL officers, as they are just following the rules. However, the Punjab Government can waive my bill on compassionate grounds,” she said. Munish Kumar Jindal, Executive Engineer, PSPCL, Dirba, said the department had disconnected the power supply to her house due to non-payment of Rs 24,421. “The woman had visited my office in June last year. I asked her to pay only as much as she could. However, she never met me later on. I will look into the matter,” said Jindal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sans-power-for-2-yrs-70-yr-old-seeks-help-100650
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Meet on varsity VC post on June 25||After months of delay, the state government has moved to appoint the new Vice-Chancellor of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Technical University. Chief Secretary-cum-Chairman of the search and selection committee Karan Avtar Singh has convened a meeting to shortlist the name of the applicants. Against the originally scheduled meeting of the selection committee tomorrow, it has been rescheduled for June 25. It is yet to be seen whether the selection committee recommends names of three most suitable candidates before getting clearance from the CM or calls the shortlisted candidates for interview. The final approval has to be given by Governor VP Singh Badnore. It has been over 15 months since the applications were invited by the Department of Technical Education to appoint the Vice-Chancellor and 25 persons had applied for the post.  The applicants include sitting VC MPS Issar, who has completed five-year stint as VC of Bathinda PTU, Dr JS Dhillon, Dean SLIET, Longowal, Dr AS Chawla, former Dean, Punjabi University, Dr Susheel Mittal, former Deputy Director, Thapar Institute, Dr KK Raina, VC of Dehradun University, and Dr NP Singh, former Dean, IKGPTU, besides others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meet-on-varsity-vc-post-on-june-25-100651
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD berates Wakf Board’s ‘anti-Punjabi’ decision||The SAD today condemned the Punjab Wakf Board for taking an “anti-Punjabi decision” by doing away with the provision that made knowledge of the Punjabi language mandatory for recruitment to the board. It has requested CM Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene in the matter. Daljit Singh Cheema, ex-minister, said the board had taken the decision recently to facilitate the recruitment of outsiders.  Meanwhile, Sukhbir said the Centre should take appropriate steps to defend the integrity and sovereignty of the country and ensure that the sacrifices made by its soldiers while defending the Indian territory did not go in vain. Terming China’s attempts to claim sovereignty over the Galwan valley in Ladakh as intolerable, the SAD president said the country should be ready for a befitting action to ensure the Chinese did not dare to change the status quo on the Indo-China border again.  “The country should send a strong message to China that such transgressions will invite retaliatory action. It should be told that there is no way India will agree to parting with even one inch of its land and that it is ready to make the highest sacrifice to protect its sovereignty,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-berates-wakf-boards-anti-punjabi-decision-100652
18-06-2020||---||Cong slams Sukhbir for ‘anti-state’ stance||Chandigarh, June 17Lashing out at the Akalis for “supporting anti-Punjab, anti-farmer and anti-Sikh” decisions being taken by the BJP-led Union Government, senior Congress leaders and Cabinet Ministers alleged that the former were equally responsible in throttling the federal structure by the Bharatiya Janata Party.Cabinet Ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Sukhbinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria and Balbir Singh Sidhu said the recent three ordinances issued by the Centre were completely against the farmers, which would badly hit the agrarian state of Punjab.They said by supporting these ordinances, Sukhbir had proved that they pawned their ideology before the BJP for saving the chair of Harsimrat Kaur Badal in the Modi Cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-slams-sukhbir-for-anti-state-stance-100653
18-06-2020||Faridkot||MCC extends joining date for MD/MS pupils||Keeping in view the lockdown situations in various states, the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) of the Director General Health Services (DGHS) on Wednesday again extended the physical reporting for candidates who were allotted seats in MD/MS courses in Round 1 and Round 2 of counselling for admission. The joining time has been extended from June 22 to June 30. On June 13, the MCC had directed all candidates to report physically before June 22 or their seat allotment was to be deemed cancelled. After receiving a lot of representations from medical colleges as well as candidates regarding problems being faced in commuting to the allotted colleges, the MCC has taken a sympathetic view in this regard. The MCC has decided that the candidates who have been upgraded in Round 1, the earlier college from back end college of Round 2, need not go physically to earlier round college. The checkbox of relieving will be deactivated for colleges. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mcc-extends-joining-date-for-md-ms-pupils-100654
18-06-2020||GS Paul---||Curbs delay Jallianwala project||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 17 Hit by curbs, the deadline for opening Jallianwala Bagh to public couldn’t be met.  The memorial has been lying closed since February 15. The first phase of the facelift project was targeted to be completed by the first week of April, ahead of the commemoration of 101th year of Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to be the chief guest on the occasion. The restoration work and allied services worth Rs 19.36 crore is being carried out by the Union Ministry of Culture, supervised under the Archaeological Survey of India and executed by National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Ltd. MP Shwait Malik, who is a member of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Trust, said due to the nationwide lockdown, the facelift project had hit a roadblock. “Despite constraints, the restoration work was restarted, but it couldn’t pick up pace,” he said. An official said labourers from Gujarat, UP and Bihar engaged in the renovation project had stayed put in Amritsar during the Covid-induced lockdown. “The firm which has been entrusted with the task of carrying out the renovation work accommodated the labourers here and provided them with every facility. Observing the lockdown norms, the labourers were made to work with the available raw material stocked prior the lockdown. Over 80 per cent of the job has been done. Work in the open garden area, installation of lights and finishing touches to the museum were pending and it may take a month or so to get it done,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/curbs-delay-jallianwala-project-100655
18-06-2020||---||11 staffers of Patiala's Rajindra Hospital, 6 cops positive in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 17As many as 11 staff members, including a junior resident, of Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, tested positive for Covid-19 this evening.The staffers are five staff nurses, four ward attendants, a doctor and a security guard. Earlier, two nurses of the hospital had tested positive. All staffers who got infected were deputed at the emergency ward of the hospital. Story Highlights Sources said a patient from Sangrur with some respiratory problem was admitted to the emergency ward. He was not isolated despite showing flu-like symptoms and was later tested positive for Covid.Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said steps were being taken to contain the spread. He said: “We are tracing the contacts of the staff members. Patients at the emergency ward have already been shifted to another ward.”Meanwhile, the state reported more deaths today, taking the toll to 78. Ludhiana, Amritsar and Ferozepur districts reported one death each.In Amritsar, the deceased has been identified as Krishna, a 62-year-old resident of Sarai Sant Ram, near Lahori gate. The patient was admitted to Government Medical College here on June 14 with the problem of breathlessness. Health officials said the patient had a history of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. She suffered a cardiac arrest early this morning and was declared dead.In Sangrur, a 60-year-old Malerkotla resident, who died at Ghabdan Covid care centre, was suffering from hypertension and diabetes. He had visited a Ludhiana hospital on June 2. He was tested positive on June 10.The health authorities said three other family members of the deceased had also tested positive.In Ludhiana, a 65-year-old resident of Basti Jodhewal succumbed to Covid. The deceased was admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital yesterday and died soon after.Meanwhie, the spike in Covid-19 cases continued with total 126 fresh cases coming to the fore, which took the number of cases in the state to 3,497.As per the media bulletin, 40 cases were reported from Ludhiana, 31 from Jalandhar, 17 from Amritsar, six each from Pathankot and Ferozepur, five from SAS Nagar, four from Bathinda, three each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa and Moga, two from Sangrur, and one each from Patiala (11 reported after the release of the bulletin), Kapurthala and Tarn Taran, Fazilka, Faridkot and Hoshiarpur.Of nine new cases in Sangrur include six cops and one with no contact or travel history.Covid-19 Cases DiSTRICT-WISE COUNT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-staffers-of-patialas-rajindra-hospital-6-cops-positive-in-punjab-100663
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt announces govt jobs, financial aid for families||Extending condolences to the families of the four martyrs from Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced compensation along with a government job to the next of the kin of the deceased.Two get Rs12 lakh reliefThe families of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh would be given Rs12 lakh compensation each in line with the government policy as both of them were married, the Chief Minister said.The Chief Minister expressed grief and shock at the violent clash in Galwan Valley of Ladakh, which had wiped out the lives of these four brave men, whose sacrifice for the nation would not be forgotten. The loss suffered by the families was immeasurable and could not be compensated with material things, but the compensation and jobs would help alleviate some of their sufferings, said Capt Amarinder, while paying tributes to the martyrs.The Chief Minister said Cabinet Ministers would represent the state government at the martyrs’ funerals, which would be held with full Army honours at their native villages. He directed the respective district administrations to make all arrangements, befitting the occasion, for receiving the bodies of the fallen soldiers. While one family member each would be given a government job in all four cases, the families of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh would be given Rs 12 lakh compensation each in line with the government policy on account of their being married. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-announces-govt-jobs-financial-aid-for-families-100628
18-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur martyr was to tie knot soon||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 17The family members of Sepoy Gurbinder Singh (22), who attained martyrdom while battling Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, were preparing for his marriage as he had got engaged during his last vacation. They were left shattered as the news of his death reached Tolawal village.Gurpreet Singh, Martyr’s brotherWe had spoken to him around 20 days back. He had informed us that he would not be able to talk to us for the next few days because there was no mobile connectivity in the lower side of the valley.Talking to The Tribune, Gurpreet Singh, the elder brother of the martyr, said: “We got a call this morning that Gurbinder has attained martyrdom and his body would reach here late tonight or tomorrow. Area residents have started coming to our house after getting information. We are yet to inform our mother about the tragedy, as she loved her youngest son the most.”He said Gurbinder had joined the Army in 2018 after passing Class XII. “We had spoken to him around 20 days back. He had informed us that he would not be able to talk to us for the next few days because there was no mobile connectivity in the lower side of the valley. We had made elaborate plans for his marriage,” he said.Labh Singh, the martyr’s father, is yet to come to the terms with the loss as he couldn’t reply when some area residents asked him about the cremation. He just kept standing with folded hands and started crying.Daman Thind Bajwa, Congress Sunam halqa incharge, said: “Gurbinder has made the supreme sacrifice and the entire nation is proud of him. His family is the responsibility of the government. We will provide all possible help to them.”Manjit Kaur, Subdivisional Magistrate, Sunam, said: “We have got information from our senior authorities that the body would reach Tolawal tomorrow. We are in touch with the family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-martyr-was-to-tie-knot-soon-100630
18-06-2020||---||Proud he died fighting for nation: Mansa sepoy’s kin||Bathinda, June 17A pall of gloom descended on Birewala Dogra village in the Budhlada tehsil of Mansa district after the news of death of Sepoy Gurtej Singh (23) reached here. The sepoy was killed during a clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh on Monday night.Gurtej is survived by his father Virsa Singh, mother Parkash Kaur and two elder brothers. Friends and relatives rushed to the martyr’s house and consoled the bereaved family. Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav visited the family members. The body is expected to reach here on Thursday.Virsa Singh said Gurtej’s elder brother got married some days back and he had spoken to Gurtej 20 days ago. In his last phone call, he had told them he would come back soon to meet his sister-in-law. Virsa Singh said Gurtej always wanted to serve the nation and had joined the Army two years ago. He said they were proud that their son laid down his life fighting for the nation.Gurtej also told them that he was going on the border due to tension on the LAC and he won’t be able to contact them after that.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proud-he-died-fighting-for-nation-mansa-sepoys-kin-100632
18-06-2020||Ravneet Singh||Naib Subedar Mandeep was sole breadwinner of family||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 17Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh (39) had joined duty merely two weeks ago after a month-long leave during the lockdown. The soldier was among those killed during a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh.Resident of Seel village in the Ghanaur block of Patiala, Mandeep Singh was the only breadwinner in the family. His father had died several years ago. He is survived by his mother Shakuntala, wife Gurdeep Kaur, and two children, namely Mehakpreet Kaur (15) and Jobanpreet Singh (12). Villagers said he had been in the village for nearly a month before leaving for duty.His cousin Manjeet Singh said Mandeep was liked by all. “He joined the Army in 1997. He used to visit home regularly and was affable.” One of his cousins, Nirmal Singh, had retired from the Army already.The family was inconsolable after they received the news of his death. Administrative officials said his body was expected to reach Patiala in a day or two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/naib-subedar-mandeep-was-sole-breadwinner-of-family-100633
18-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Gurdaspur braveheart’s parents inconsolable||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, June 17 Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (41), who was among those martyred while fighting Chinese troops in Ladakh, is survived by his parents, wife, a son and a daughter. His last rites will be performed either on Thursday evening or Friday morning.  Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal and SDM Sakatar Singh Bal reached the deceased’s native village Bhojraj in Dhariwal tehsil, soon after they got information about the soldier’s martyrdom. Barring a few officials, nobody was being allowed to go to Satnam’s house. His brother, Subedar Sukhchain Singh, said he did not want people to go to their house as “it will not be good for his aged parents who are in a state of shock.” Satnam had joined the Army in 1995. His father, Jagir Singh, was inconsolable. The SSP said: “We are not sure whether his body is brought from Ladakh to Chandigarh or Pathankot. So we can’t tell the exact time of cremation.” Condolences poured in from various quarters with Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, in whose assembly seat Bhojpur falls, saying he will talk to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh about the financial aid that could be given to the family. “We will do whatever is permissible under the rules. Soldiers like Satnam Singh never die. They remain in our memory as heroes. We should accord due respect to them,” said Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-bravehearts-parents-inconsolable-100635
18-06-2020||---||Surging fuel prices deepen crisis for traders, farmers||Chandigarh, June 17The continuous hike in petrol and diesel prices for the past 11 days has affected the common man, traders, industrialists and farmers alike.The petrol and diesel prices today increased by 55 paise per litre and 60 paisa per litre, respectively. With this, the price of petrol in Punjab has gone up from Rs 72.78-Rs 72.29 a litre on June 7 to Rs 77.58-Rs 79.33 a litre today. The price of diesel has increased from Rs 64.39 a litre on June 7 to Rs 69.13-Rs 70.38 a litre. Now, Punjab is among the states with the highest rates of the two products.Talking to The Tribune, Ashish Gupta, a resident of Ludhiana, said the common man had been hit by the continuous rise in fuel prices. “On the one hand, people have less cash because of the economic crisis, and on the other, the government is increasing fuel prices. This speaks volumes about the insensitivity of the policymakers towards the economic hardships being faced by the middle class,” he rued.It is not just the Centre that is increasing the rate of fuel, but also the state government, which has increased the value added tax (VAT) on the two products since yesterday. The VAT increase yesterday led to a price rise of Re 1-Rs 1.20 per litre in petrol and Rs 0.53 per litre in diesel. In May also, the Punjab Government had increased VAT on these products. Kultar Singh, a trader in Rajpura, said the hike in fuel prices was making people limit the use of vehicles in order to save money. “My work remained suspended for two months because of the lockdown. It will take me at least two to three years to get back to my previous financial condition. I have stopped using a car and switched to a two-wheeler,” he lamented.The high fuel prices have affected the transport sector also. Charan Singh Lohara, chairman of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said earlier it was the lockdown that affected the industrial activity and rendered transporters jobless. “Now, it is the hike in fuel prices which is bothering us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surging-fuel-prices-deepen-crisis-for-traders-farmers-100637
18-06-2020||New Delhi||Madhya Pradesh surpasses Punjab in wheat procurement||The procurement of wheat by government agencies reached an “all-time high” of 382 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) this year with Madhya Pradesh emerging as the largest contributor to the Central pool with 129 LMT, surpassing Punjab with 127 LMT.The record was achieved on June 16, when wheat procurement surpassed the earlier record of 381.48 LMT during 2012-13, with Haryana contributing 74 LMT, Uttar Pradesh 32 LMT and Rajasthan 19 LMT, according to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. In the period, 119 LMT paddy was also procured, the maximum, 64 LMT, being from Telangana, followed by Andhra Pradesh (31 LMT) and Odisha (14 LMT). While there is no official explanation for the increase in wheat procurement in Madhya Pradesh, experts say there could be many reasons one of which may be lower participation of private players due to Covid-19 lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/madhya-pradesh-surpasses-punjab-in-wheat-procurement-100638
18-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Wife waiting for 8 months to donate kidney to spouse||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17Karamjit Kaur has been waiting for almost eight months to donate kidney to her husband out of “pure love and affection”.But the wait is still not over. The road to her husband’s recovery hit a stumbling block after suspicion arose in the authorisation committee’s mind as her marriage was solemnised after the would-be groom’s mother was found incompetent to donate her kidney. Besides, the marriage was performed without the approval of the bride’s parents.But her uncertainties may come to an end in less than 10 days with Justice Lisa Gill of the Punjab and Haryana High Court directing the competent authority to conclusively decide her application after taking into considerations the emergent facts. Among other things, Barnala Senior Superintendent of Police Harjeet Singh had stated in his report there was no indication of greed.Referring to the report, Deputy Advocate-General Ramdeep Pratap Singh told the Bench that the petitioner-wife and her husband Lovepreet Singh were stated to be living together at a village in Dhanaula in Barnala district. Joint statements of the respectable of the village were also recorded.The Bench was also told that kidney transplant was recommended on November 1, 2018, and the marriage was solemnised on April 29, 2019, after Lovepreet Singh’s mother was found to be an incompetent donor.Justice Gill asserted matters like the present were of emergent nature and should be dealt with pragmatically and expeditiously in accordance with the provisions of the statute to maintain the delicate balance between saving lives and preventing exploitation or commercialisation. It was vital for the competent authority or the authorisation committee to conclude its decision expeditiously once a matter was presented before it for the donation of an organ or tissue.Justice Gill added statutory provisions had been promulgated to prevent trafficking and commercial practices. Every care was required to be taken to prevent exploitation of any kind.In the present case, there was no indication of a malpractice, greed or pressure on the petitioner at the current stage.Justice Gill asserted: “Merely because the parents or sibling of the petitioner have not come forward to give consent for transplant of the organ, it is not a ground to reject the donation in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case.”Justice Gill observed medical fitness certificate of the living donor had been issued, the petitioner and the recipient being spouse were included in the definition “near relative” and the petitioner’s identity and consent had been verified. In case of emergence of any malpractice, element of greed or monetary benefit, it was imperative to deal with the same swiftly and stringently without exception.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wife-waiting-for-8-months-to-donate-kidney-to-spouse-100640
18-06-2020||---||Don’t use social media for ads: Bar assn to lawyers||Chandigarh, June 17The Punjab and Haryana Bar Council has virtually asked lawyers not to log on to social media for “advertisements”. Anysuch act would come under the purview of “misconduct”, the Bar Council has warned.Chairman Karanjit Singh said it was brought to the notice of the House by the office-bearers that complaints had been received regarding several advocates “resorting to unethical way of advertisement to solicit work by making videos and uploading them on Facebook and WhatsApp groups and getting their names published in newspapers with reference to conduct of cases”.Karanjit Singh said it was considered and unanimously resolved that resorting to advertisements through social media in violation of Rule 36 framed by the Bar Council of India would be considered as misconduct under Section 35 of the Advocates Act of 1961. “The mandate of Rule 36 prohibits an advocate from soliciting work or advertising, directly or indirectly, by any means of circular, advertise, touts, communications, etc,” he said, adding that the House had resolved to take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-use-social-media-for-ads-bar-assn-to-lawyers-100642
18-06-2020||Moga||Punjab restricts bulk sale of hand sanitiser||The state government has restricted the sale of bulk packs of products containing alcohol such as hand sanitisers, disinfectants and hand rubs in the open market. However, it has permitted the sale of packs up to one litre. Dr Kahan Singh Pannu, Commissioner, and Pradeep Mattu, Joint Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, Punjab, said the FDA had allowed the sale and distribution of bulk packs for supplies made to government or associated institutions, boards, councils and corporate sectors for export purposes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-restricts-bulk-sale-of-hand-sanitiser-100643
18-06-2020||---||Extortion racket being run from jail busted||Extortion racket being run from jail busted Tribune News Service  Moga, June 17  The Moga police busted an extortion racket which was being operated from the high-security Sangrur jail, SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said here today. He said a youth, Navdeep Singh, a resident of Jhanjiyaan village in Ferozepur district, who was arrested on Tuesday, had confessed that he made an extortion call to a garment trader in the Bagahapurana town of Moga district last week. The police had also recovered a country-made pistol from him. During interrogation, Navdeep confessed that he and his two associates, identified as Maghar Singh and Babbi Singh, both residents of Barnala district, opened fire in the air, called Baghapurana trader Ajay Kumar and demanded a sum of Rs 10 lakh from him. They also threatened to kill him. They were operating on the directions of a gangster Kirpal Singh, who is lodged in the Sangrur jail. The SSP said the police had brought Kirpal Singh on a production warrant from the Sangrur jail. Efforts were underway to nab Maghar Singh and Babbi Singh, Gill added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extortion-racket-being-run-from-jail-busted-100644
18-06-2020||Aman Sood---||Unscheduled  power  cuts irk residents||Tribune News Service Patiala, June 17 Domestic consumers in various cities and rural areas of the state have been complaining about unscheduled power cuts for the past few days. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), on the other hand, claims there is no power shortage and no cuts are being imposed. It says “technical faults” might be leading to interruption in supply. Several areas continue to face unscheduled power cuts, especially during night hours, even as the state claims to have surplus power generation capacity. Information gathered from Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Zirakpur, Ludhiana and Patiala confirms that regular power pangs have been common ever since the paddy season started last week. The power demand in the state today was 9,296 MW, an increase of over 1,200 MW from yesterday. Meanwhile, the PSPCL claims there has been no interruption in the eight-hour power supply to tubewells. Senior officials say there have been power cuts “largely due to routine maintenance work”. “The reason for power failure in cities and towns is primarily due to overloaded transformers, ill-equipped supply lines, theft and poor maintenance. It has resulted in regular tripping and technical faults. The situation gets worse due to inadequate staff on ground. Due to this, consumers sometimes have to wait for over four to five hours for their complaints to be resolved,” said a PSPCL insider. Residents in different areas of Patiala, Ferozepur and Ludhiana districts have been complaining about erratic power cuts and system breakdown. “Last evening, there was a power cut for almost one and a half hours. The helpline number was constantly busy. Later, there was another cut that lasted till 1 am,” said Sarbjeet, a Patiala resident. Meanwhile, farmers in many districts have expressed satisfaction over power supply for their tubewells. “Barring some snags, the power supply has been satisfactory,” says Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda). A Venu Prasad, chairman-cum-managing director, PSPCL, told The Tribune that uninterrupted power supply was being provided to 14 lakh tubewells. “The demand for power is high due to heat wave and the ongoing paddy season. Some power cuts are a result of high load and we are working on the problem,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unscheduled-power-cuts-irk-residents-100645
18-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Behbal kalan firing: Arrest of Sohail Brar exposes self-defence theory of cops||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 17The arrest of Sohail Singh Brar, who is accused of fabricating bullet marks on a police escort vehicle in the Behbal Kalan police firing case, has exposed the police’s self-defence theory.Sohail was produced before the Judicial Magistrate, First Class, (JMIC) Faridkot, on Wednesday. The court sent him to five-day police custody after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) averred that his questioning was necessary to dig out the names of all conspirators in the case.Probe tardy: AAPChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has questioned the “slow pace” of probe into the sacrilege cases and the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents. They alleged that the Congress had been influencing the investigating agencies to protect the high profile accused, including the Badals. TNSSon of a late Akali leader, Sohail had allegedly helped the police in creating fake bullets marks on pilot Gypsy vehicle of former SSP Moga and prime accused Charanjit Singh Sharma, so that the police could create an alibi for self-defence.In the firing incident, in which two persons were killed, the police are mainly relying on the plea that they had opened fire in their right to defence.Using a private .12 bore gun, these bullets marks were made by an SP-rank officer at the house of Brar in Faridkot on October 14, 2015.Even Sohail had given a statement to this effect before the judicial court in Faridkot on February 26, 2019. The SIT had not arrested Brar over the past year, as it was alleged that the SIT was under political pressure to give a clean chit to him for turning into a prosecution witness.In Behbal Kalan firing case, two cross-FIRs were registered. While in the first FIR, registered on October 14, 2015, the day of incident, the police had claimed that they were attacked by some protesters with firearms and the police had acted in self-defence, which led to the death of two protesters.In another FIR, registered on October 21, 2015, the police was accused of unprovoked firing on the protesters.It is alleged that the accused cops had fabricated bullet marks on their vehicle to put forth the theory of self-defence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-firing-arrest-of-sohail-brar-exposes-self-defence-theory-of-cops-100646
18-06-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Behbal Kalan firing: DGP Prabodh Kumar to stay as panel head||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 17DGP (Provisioning) Prabodh Kumar, who was recently shifted from the post of chief of the Bureau of Investigation of the Punjab Police, will continue to head the five-member special investigation team (SIT) formed to inquire into the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases.Senior police officials and members of the SIT said the transfer of the IPS officer, who enjoys the rank of DGP, will have no impact on the SIT. “He is heading the SIT as earlier,” said a member of the team. Senior officials said there was no order to replace him from the SIT.Prabodh Kumar had been heading the Bureau of Investigation for the past three years. He also headed the Crime Branch for three years. Kumar was in news for not being on the same page on several occasions with the key investigation member of the team, Kunwar Viay Pratap Singh. Kumar had even denied approving challans submitted by Singh. They were at loggerheads on other aspects of the investigation also, including summoning and mode of questioning of some senior politicians.Much speculation was going on since Kumar’s transfer from the bureau. It had been further fuelled by the sudden action of SIT members months after the Behbal Kalan firing case. On Tuesday, the team arrested a Faridkot resident for allegedly fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan police firing incident in which two persons were killed. An IPS officer of the 1988 batch, Kumar is scheduled to retire in January 2025.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-firing-dgp-prabodh-kumar-to-stay-as-panel-head-100647
18-06-2020||---||Abduction case: CBI seeks time to file reply on Punjab Police plea||Chandigarh, June 17The CBI has sought time to file reply on an application filed by the Punjab Police in a kidnapping case.On June 6, the Punjab Police had filed an application in the Special CBI Court seeking record of the preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBI in a 29-year-old kidnapping case, as they have restarted investigation and they wanted certain information from the record.What it saysThe CBI submitted that the agency keeps record of old cases for five years and as per the policy, they had weeded out the record as the preliminary inquiry had been conducted 12 years ago and the FIR had been quashed in 2011.In its reply, the CBI had stated that the agency had registered the FIR in 2008 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and conducted preliminary enquiry. However, the FIR was quashed by the Supreme Court on technical grounds in 2011.The CBI submitted that the agency keeps record of old cases for five years and as per the policy, they had weeded out the record as the preliminary inquiry had been conducted 12 years ago and the FIR had been quashed in 2011.In another application filed in the court, the Punjab Police had mentioned that the High Court had returned the status report in the case to the CBI in 2016. Allowing the application, the court directed the CBI to file reply. During the resumed hearing in the case today, the CBI has sought time to file reply. Now, the case will come up for hearing on Monday.The Punjab Police had recently booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the kidnapping case that took place in 1991. The case was registered on the complaint of Palwinder Singh Multani, son of late IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani. The complainant stated that his brother Balwant Singh Multani was unlawfully abducted, inhumanly tortured and killed in the custody by Saini and the police personnel under his command in 1991.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abduction-case-cbi-seeks-time-to-file-reply-on-punjab-police-plea-100648
18-06-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab private bus operators lay off 15,000 drivers, conductors||With the once-flourishing private bus transport in Punjab failing to get back on track even after the easing of Covid curbs, around 15,000 drivers and conductors eking out a living through the business have been rendered jobless. The private players, who own more than 7,000 buses, claim the government rider allowing the vehicles to run at half their capacity had made their business unviable.Running into lossesOperators say the social-distancing condition to keep 50% seats vacant is unviableThey say they aren’t allowed to pick or drop passengers at stations in between the starting-ending pointsAvtar Henry, former Congress minister and president of Punjab Private Bus Operators who owns 60 buses, says, “The social-distancing condition allows us to fill only 50 per cent of the seats. Moreover, we can’t pick or drop passengers en route the starting and ending points.Deepa, a driver, said his employer had started operating one-third of his buses and was calling the staff on rotation. “I get to work after every three days and earn Rs 400 day. From salaried class, we have been reduced to daily wagers.”The government-run PRTC and Punbus, on the other hand, have resumed operations partially and even cleared the staff salaries for the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-private-bus-operators-lay-off-15-000-drivers-conductors-100681
18-06-2020||New Delhi||Heat wave in Punjab, Rajasthan for 2 days||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heatwave to severe heatwave conditions over west Rajasthan and heatwave conditions over east Rajasthan and Punjab over the next two to three daysMeanwhile, “isolated to fairly widespread” rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds are also expected in the western Himalayan region and plains of northwest India between June 19 and 21.Widespread rainfall is also likely along the west coast with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall in coastal Karnataka, Konkan and Goa, northeast, east and adjoining Central India during the next five days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heat-wave-in-punjab-rajasthan-for-2-days-100682
