18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Not a single suspected coronavirus case missing or absconding: Punjab govt||Not a single suspected coronavirus patient is either missing or absconding in Punjab, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu clarified on Wednesday evening, categorically rejecting media reports to the contrary as “irresponsible and incorrect”.The 167 missing persons referred to by the Ludhiana civil surgeon were not COVID-19 suspected cases but were merely people with foreign travel history who could not be traced due to incomplete contact details shared by the Government of India, said Sidhu, amid reports suggesting that they were suspected coronavirus cases who had absconded or gone missing.All these persons had already been screened at the airports in Delhi, said the Minister, adding that since the coronavirus outbreak, the Centre is sharing reports of passengers with international travel with all the states, including Punjab. While those found symptomatic are admitted in hospital and kept in isolation, as per protocol, the lists of asymptomatic passengers are shared with the concerned state, he elaborated.As a matter of precaution, the Punjab government contacts these passengers to re-verify their history and medical condition, he added.In this case, the contact details of 335 passengers shared by the Centre were incomplete, and lists of these passengers were shared with the district administration and the Central government was also duly informed, Sidhu added. Subsequently, 191 of these passengers were successfully contacted, and they all were found asymptomatic and had crossed 14 days period of observation, he added.“It is very irresponsible and incorrect to say or suggest that these are suspected cases of COVID-19 merely because they were passengers,” the Health Minister said, making it clear that till date, only one confirmed case of COVID-19 has been reported from Punjab.The case had travel history of Italy and was checked at Amritsar International Airport and admitted at GMC Amritsar and is stable now. His family members have been tested and found negative and are stable. The patient has completed 14 days of isolation in hospital and his samples have been sent to lab for re-testing today.As of today, lists of 7,523 passengers had been received by the state government, and of these 6,083 had crossed the observation period, according to Sidhu. The total number of samples tested in the state stood at 117, of which, besides the one found positive, 112 had been tested negative and the results of four were awaited. Eight were under hospital observation, while 1,298 were in home surveillance.
18-03-2020||Jalandhar||70-year-old man’s death in Nawanshahr village sparks coronavirus fears||A 70-year-old man from Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr district who recently came back from Germany died on Wednesday, sparking fears of yet another death from coronavirus.Baldev Singh had come into Banga Civil Hospital this morning complaining of chest pain, Dr Prince Janagill, the medical officer  who treated him, said. He died at the hospital later in the day. The hospital has so far put Singh’s down as heart attack. Janagill said that Singh’s family later revealed to the hospital that he had travelled to Germany and Italy recently, and had returned on March 6. “It was while sharing his details that the family intimated us that he had come back from overseas. All the requisite measures as per COVID-19 protocol were followed thereafter. While the patient did not visibly display any coronavirus symptoms, he has a history of diabetes and hypertension as well. For now, it seems to be a case of heart attack. Whether he had coronavirus would be made clear once the report arrives," he said.Singh was diabetic and had hypertension—two factors that are believed to significantly affect mortality in coronavirus patients.The doctor said neither the patient nor any of his family members showed any symptoms of the virus, but his travel history prompted the hospital to take immediate action. The hospital immediately followed coronavirus quarantine procedure and isolated six people—a doctor, a nurse and a ward attendant assisting them as well as three of Singh’s family members.  Singh’s test results are still awaited. The patient’s body was cremated late this afternoon. Those who attended the cremation were asked to strictly abide by the COVID-19 protocol.News of Singh’s death and the subsequent quarantine has caused some panic and fear in his village.The world has so far recorded over 1,83,000 coronavirus cases. The fast-spreading disease that jumped from animals to humans in China has now infected about 2,00,000 people and caused nearly 8,500 deaths in 164 nations, triggering emergency lockdowns and injections of cash unseen since World War Two.Italy alone accounts for 31,506 cases and 2,503, while China, the country worst hit by the virus, recorded 3,241 deaths.India’s coronavirus cases stand at 151, with three recorded deaths. Punjab has so far recorded one positive case but no deaths. Coronavirus cases in India have prompted authorities to close the country's borders.
18-03-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: PRTC starts disinfecting buses||Amid the deadly coronavirus outbreak, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), henceforth, has adopted the practice of cleaning all its buses exhaustively at depots — before putting them into service every day.PRTC chairman KK Sharma said PRTC had put special emphasis on cleaning and sanitising surfaces of multiple-use: like hand railings, bus doors and passenger seats — where hands come in direct contact during the travel.He added that following the directions from the state government, PRTC had already started a drive to disinfect all the buses on a regular basis.KK Sharma, said, “We have, already, started the process to disinfect our buses, on a regular basis, to curb the spread of the virus. Apart from this, we are also taking special care of the cleanliness at bus stands.”It is pertinent to mention that lakhs of people travel in over 1125 PRTC buses across Punjab and other states every day.KK Sharma claimed PRTC employees were also being sensitised about the impact of coronavirus. He said more precautionary steps would also be taken in future if the emergency arises.
18-03-2020||Mohali||NIA files charge sheet against nine Khalistani terrorists in Punjab arms drop case||The Nationalist Investigation Agency on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against nine members of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terrorist group for their alleged involvement in a case relating to dropping of arms and ammunition in Punjab by drones from Pakistan.All the accused, including two senior citizens, have been charged with relevant provisions of the IPC, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Arms Act and Explosives Substances Act, an NIA spokesperson said.Akashdeep Singh (21), Balwant Singh (48), Harbhajan Singh (65) , Balbir Singh (70), Maan Singh (43), Gurdev Singh (40), Shubhdeep Singh (21), Sajanpreet Singh (22) and Romandeep Singh (20) have been named in the charge sheet filed before the special NIA court here, the official said.The case relates to the information that Pakistan-based chief of KZF, Ranjeet Singh in connivance with Gurmeet Singh have smuggled arms, ammunition, explosives and Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) into India via drones from Pakistan, the premier investigation agency said.These consignments were received by their associates Akashdeep, Balwant, Harbhajan, Balbir and Shubhdeep in India in order to revive a huge terrorism in Punjab and carry out a terror attack in the country, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said.They were preparing to execute a huge terrorist incident so as to create an atmosphere of disharmony, communal tension and instability in Punjab and other states of India, the official said.Subsequently, Akashdeep, Balwant, Balbir and Harbhajan were arrested from Punjab's Tarn Taran district on September 22 last year along with a huge cache of arms, ammunition, explosives, communication devices and FICN, the NIA official said.Akashdeep was recruited in KZF by Maan and Gurdev and the terror conspiracy was hatched in Amritsar Central Jail during 2018-2019 when the three were in judicial custody in other crimes, the NIA said.Further investigation revealed that the consignments were sent through a total of eight sorties of drones on five days in August and September last year. The consignments were received by Akashdeep, Subhdeep, Sajanpreet and Romandeep, the premier investigation agency said.Further investigation against absconding accused Gurmeet and Ranjit and other suspects continues, the NIA added. PTI
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana robbery: 10-kg gold recovered from one of accused||The Punjab Police here on Wednesday claimed to have recovered from an accused a portion of the 30-kg gold robbed at gunpoint from a branch of a financial services company in Punjab’s Ludhiana last month.Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, IG, Organised Crime Control Unit of the Punjab Police, said 10 kg of gold was recovered from a hideout of gangster Amritpal Singh in Mohali.Amritpal was nabbed by an OCCU team on Tuesday, he said, adding that a pistol and two rifles were recovered from him.Amritpal is the brother of notorious gangster Jaipal Bhullar and was one of the six people who were involved the case.The accused had targeted a branch of India Infoline Finance Limited (IIFL) on Gill Road in Ludhiana last month, robbing the gold worth Rs 13 crore at gunpoint.Police have so far arrested four people in the case.The remaining gold and other two accused, Jaipal and Gursewak Singh, will be arrested very soon, said the IG.The police on March 12 had nabbed gangster Gagan Judge from Chandigarh for his involvement in the robbery.The police had recovered around Rs 31 lakh, a pistol, two magazines and 50 live cartridges from Judge.Following questioning, two more accused, Pardeep Singh of Gardiwala village in Hoshiarpur; and Harpreet Singh, a resident of Peer Mohammad village in Ferozepur, have also been arrested. — PTI
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister appeals to religious institutions to keep gatherings under 50||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to religious organisations and dera heads to not allow gathering of 50 or more people to check the coronavirus spread.After a series of review meetings with the Health and other departments concerned, the chief minister said while Punjab, with one confirmed case, was so far safe, it could not afford to be complacent in the face of the globally spreading coronavirus pandemic.He said strict monitoring was being conducted of all those arriving from high-risk countries and so far 116 people have been tested, he said in a statement here.He said the state government has geared up to launch a door-to-door awareness campaign from Thursday onwards.The chief minister said his government was also ready to look into providing mid-day meals to students at homes or, alternatively, putting money into their accounts, though no such request had been received so far. PTI
18-03-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Student's mother shot dead in Gurdaspur village over school rivalry||Tribune News ServiceSri Hargobindpur (Gurdaspur), March 18An enmity between two groups of students of a Qadian-based private school took its toll when Lakhwinder Singh, a Plus 1 student, along with a dozen of his classmates allegedly killed the mother of his school rival late Tuesday night.The incident sent shivers down the spines of locals who, hours after the firing, are still shell shocked at the sheer audacity with which the crime was committed.Batala SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman and officials of the Sri Hargobindpur police station reached the spot within 30 minutes.Lakhwinder and his school mate Amarjit Singh had a long-standing rivalry. A few days ago some village elders asked the warring groups to reach a compromise following which both the parties agreed to stop badmouthing each other within the school precinct and outside too.However, Lakhwinder and his colleagues later reneged from the agreement and allegedly conspired to kill Amarjit.Around 10.30 last night, he and a dozen of his school mates reached the residence of Amarjit at Harchowal village and started firing.Sources say the firing went on for nearly 10 minutes and nearly 20 rounds were fired. Word about the incident spread in the village following which an 'SOS' was sent to the SSP by the SHO.Taking advantage of the darkness, Lakhwinder and his group members managed to flee.Once the firing stopped, panicky family members came out of the house and found Amarjit’s mother, Jasbir Kaur, lying in a pool of blood.Amarjit’s father Niranjan Singh, uncle Partap Singh and aunt Narinder Kaur were seriously injured. All three were rushed to the Batala civil hospital where doctors referred them to an Amritsar private hospital after seeing their deteriorating condition.SSP Ghuman said a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC; and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) had been registered at the Sri Hargobindpur police station.“I have informed my senior officers about the crime. A team under a DSP-rank officer has been constituted to look into the sequence of events leading to the crime. A few hideouts have been identified and we will raid them tonight,” he said.He admitted that the involvement of a girl could not be ruled out.“We are still investigating the cause. Nothing, including the involvement of a girl, can be ruled out,” said the SSP.
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||DGP case adjourned||
18-03-2020||Sangrur||Man booked for rape||The police have booked a local for allegedly raping a married woman. The complainant alleged that the accused, Gurmale Singh, had raped her at her residence three months ago. It was after the accused started to pressurise her to become friends with him that she narrated the ordeal to her family. An FIR was registered against the accused on Monday evening. TNSPHAGWARAMan held with illicit liquorThe police on Tuesday arrested a man with 1,289 boxes of illicit liquor. The accused has been identified as Narinderpal Singh, a resident of Bhinder-Khurad district, Moga. The police said they stopped a truck for checking. On searching the truck, they found liquor cartons. The accused was going to sell liquor in Jalandhar and Kapurthala. The police have impounded the truck. OCSangrur3 held with 10-gm heroinThe police have arrested three persons with 10 gm of heroin. The accused have been identified as Avtar Singh, Mohit Kumar and Sunny. Their accomplice Rinku is still at large. “On a tip-off, we arrested the trio from the local grain market and seized the contraband. We are conducting raids to arrest their accomplice Rinku,” said the police. TNSAboharMilitary vehicle catches fireAn Army vehicle caught fire on the Sriganganagar-Abohar highway near here on Tuesday. None was injured. The soldiers reportedly tried to control the fire by indigenous methods till the time the fire brigade staff reached the spot. OC
18-03-2020||---||Congress hand in sacrilege acts: SAD||Chandigarh, March 17A day after the Congress government in Punjab highlighted its achievements on completion of three years in office, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal held the Congress “squarely responsible” for the sacrilege incidents in Punjab during the SAD-BJP government.He claimed that evidence had surfaced indicating that these acts were a plot to defame the then government ahead of 2017 polls. “Subsequent events have provided convincing evidence of Congress’ hand in the conspiracy. The statement of key eyewitness Surjit Singh unnerved the Congress government. They tried to destroy evidence by putting pressure on him, leading to his death due to psychological stress,” Sukhbir claimed .“Statements by Jasbir Kaur, the wife of the deceased, have exposed the Congress. Why is the CM not acting against Dhillon and Kangar?” he asked.The former Deputy CM said during the three years of Capt Amarinder Singh-led government, Punjab had been virtually headless. He dared the CM to name a development project or welfare scheme started by his government.He accused the CM of cheating farmers on ‘total’ debt waiver, the youth whom he had promised jobs, unemployment allowance and cellphones, the Dalits who were promised Rs 51,000 as shagun and post-matric scholarship, and senior citizens who were promised Rs 2,500 as pension.He alleged the government had pushed more youth into drugs with 67,000 turning addicts because of the Rs 300 crore brupenorhine scam.
18-03-2020||Amritsar||SGPC bears education expense of Sikligar kids||The SGPC has taken care of education expense for the current session of over a hundred Sikh students, who belong to Sikligar community in Chhattisgarh.  Dharam Parchar Committee secretary Manjit Singh Batth said an amount of Rs12.4 lakh had been released to pay the education fee of 106 Sikligar Sikh students studying in 12 schools. The fee included their bus transport expense too.  He said it was the initiative of SGPC to educate the needy students from Chattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. — TNS
18-03-2020||Our Correspondent ---||1 cop for each village in Ferozepur||Ferozepur, March 17 To keep law and order in check, the Ferozepur police have launched the “One Village, One Officer”  campaign.   As many as  803 police officials, deputed as village police officers, have been given the responsibility of 699 villages and 127 wards of the district.  SSP Bhupinder Singh said each police official would maintain a “beat book” containing details of crime incidents and information about vulnerable areas, colonies, markets, streets, religious places and institutions. A village police officer will also be in touch with villagers to collect important information.   The SSP said mobile numbers of the village police officers would be displayed at the panchayat ghar and other prominent places.  Meanwhile, the police have arrested 94 persons in 54 NDPS cases in the last 45 days. SSP Bhupinder Singh said the police had recovered 2.7 kg of heroin, 1.10 kg of opium, 85.5 kg of poppy husk, besides 13,145 intoxicating tablets. Today, three persons were arrested with intoxicants. The police also arrested nine persons, declared proclaimed offenders.
18-03-2020||Abohar||Abohar sanitation workers call off strike as demands met||About 155 regular ‘safai sewaks’ of the Abohar Municipal Corporation, who had staged a sit-in inside the corporation complex on March 3, called off their strike on Tuesday.  On Monday, the workers had dumped garbage at the main gate of the corporation complex to bar the entry of people. After calling off the strike, the sanitation workers cleared the garbage, and said they would report to work from Wednesday onwards.  The decision to call off the strike was reportedly taken after five representatives of the Safai Sewak Union had a meeting with DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu at his office for about four hours.  Activists of the union complained they had to stage a sit-in for at least three times every year to demand the release of their salaries. For the poor fiscal health of the corporation, they blamed lack of efforts on the part of corporation to collect the dues from defaulters.  It’s being said the corporation was in a position to release the salary to sanitation workers for three months. The union activists said they were grateful to the DC for calling them “safai soldiers” and for acknowledging their role in keeping the town clean. They said the row over attendance for the period they were on strike would be resolved later. Sukhdev Singh, secretary, Abohar MC, and other officials distributed uniforms and gloves among workers, fulfilling their one of the long-pending demands. — OC
18-03-2020||Our Correspondent---||2 held with poppy husk||Abohar, March 17 The police intercepted a truck outside Ratanpura village near Hanumangarh on Tuesday and seized 160 kg of poppy husk. Driver Bohad Singh (29) and his assistant Jagtar Singh (22), both of Ferozepur’s Kale Ke Hithad village have been arrested under the NDPS Act. During search, 160 kg of poppy husk, packed in eight bags, was found hidden under the bags of red chilli.
18-03-2020||Fazilka||CPI activists block highway, demand jobs for rural workers||Notwithstanding the threat of Covid-19, activists of the Communist Party of India and MGNREGA Rozgar Prapt Mazdoor Union, Fazilka, staged a protest and blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway on Tuesday, demanding employment for workers and payment of their dues.  Hans Raj Golden, secretary, CPI district unit, alleged that the dues of labourers were not being released on time, and no work was being offered to the workers under the MGNREGA.  The activists alleged that the labourers were being deprived of their rights due to large-scale corruption prevailing in the Rural Development Department. The blockade was lifted after the district administration intervened in the matter and gave assurance to look into the demands of workers.  Union leaders Narinder Singh Dhaban, Shubeg Singh Jhangar Bhaini, Parmjit Singh Dhaban, Harbhajan Singh Chhapriwala, Jarnail Singh and Jammu Ram also addressed the gathering. — OC
18-03-2020||Muktsar||Badal village to have AIIMS training centre||As per an MoU signed between Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, on behalf of the state government and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, on behalf of the AIIMS, Bathinda, the Civil Hospital at Badal village has been declared as the Rural Health and Training Centre of AIIMS, Bathinda. — TNS
18-03-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Not paid, varsity staff stage dharna||The non-teaching staff of Shri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, sat on a ‘dharna’ in front of the entrance gate of university to protest against the non-payment of salaries for the last three months by the university management.  Talking to The Tribune, Rajpal Singh, president of the non-teaching staff union, said: “In the last three years, we had to stage a sit-in every time to get our dues. We wrote to vice-chancellor, SGPC president and secretary of the trust, however, despite their assurances our demands have not been met with.” He said they were not given their dues because the state government had not released the SC scholarship amount. He said the SGPC chief had  assured us of releasing  salary for one month. However, the protesters had refused to take it. — OC
18-03-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||Utilisation certificates pending, projects hit||Tribune News Service Sangrur, March 17 Government departments in the district have not submitted the mandatory utilisation certificates related to Rs13.19-crore development grants released during 2013-17. Now, the District Planning Committee has set a week’s deadline for all departments to submit the certificates. As per rule, departments are meant to submit the utilisation certificates to the committee in the year funds are released. Sources say Moonak tehsil is on top with pending utilisation certificates for Rs7.83 crore. Of this, the Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) of Andana is yet to submit the certificates for Rs4.54 crore and Executive Officer, Nagar Panchayat, Khanauri, for Rs1.24 crore  Besides Moonak, utilisation certificates for Rs1.02 crore are pending with the BDPO and Executive Engineer of Panchayati Raj Department in Sunam tehsil; Rs1.58 crore with the BDPO and Nagar Council in Sangrur tehsil; Rs1.29 crore with the BDPO in Lehra tehsil; Rs38 lakh with the BDPO and PWD in Bhawanigarh tehsil, Rs96 lakh with the BDPO and Executive Officer, Nagar Council, in Dhuri tehsil; Rs10 lakh with the authorities in Malerkotla tehsil and Rs1 lakh in Dirba tehsil.  “It’s surprising that utilisation certificates for Rs13.19 crore have not been submitted by now. Senior authorities must take legal action for the long delay,” said Avtar Ealwal, state general secretary of the AAP. The grants were released for development works such as installation of submersible pump sets and solar lights, construction of sheds in dharmshalas, bus stands in villages, parks and gyms, and cleaning of village ponds.
18-03-2020||---||Accept applications of aspiring teachers: HC||Chandigarh, March 17 The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday directed the state to provisionally accept application forms of petitioner-candidates who had crossed upper age limit of 37 for 2,182 master cadre posts. The order by Justice Augustine George Masih came a day before the last date for form submission on a petition filed by Ranbir Singh and 23 other petitioners, who had already passed PSTET-2017 examination conducted in February 2018. Justice Masih’s Bench was told that the petitioners turned ineligible because of overage due to non-advertisement of posts by the state for more than two years. Counsels for the petitioners Kapil Kakkar and Hema Kakkar contented that the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) guidelines made it mandatory for the state to conduct TET at least once a year. But the state failed to perform its statutory duty and the test for 2017 was conducted in 2018. Kapil Kakkar added that the state had the power to relax any provision under rule 19 of Punjab Civil Service (General Common Conditions of Service) Rules, 1994, where it was felt expedient. But the authorities concerned had now declared the petitioners ineligible on the ground of being overage after ignoring their own fault of not conducting the TET well in time.  Justice Masih directed the state counsel to seek instructions on the government’s power to grant relaxation under the 1994 rules and further directed the acceptance of application forms of the petitioners till March 18. But their result would not be declared till the next date of hearing (April 21).
18-03-2020||Saurabh Malik---||TET result to be out by March 23, HC told||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 17 The Punjab School Education Board on Tuesday undertook before the Punjab and Haryana High Court to declare by March 23 the result of Punjab State Teachers Eligibility Test-II of 2018.  The test was conducted on January 19, but the result was not declared. In the absence of the result, the candidates seeking appointment to 450 posts of mathematics master/mistress had been virtually pushed out of race. As a bunch of petitions filed in the matter came up for hearing before Justice Augustine George Masih, the undertaking on declaration of result was given by the Board counsel on instructions from the Controller of Examination. “Keeping in view the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and the grievances which have been highlighted by the petitioners, let the application forms in the shape of hardcopy of the petitioners in these writ petition be accepted provisionally today and tomorrow by director, education recruitment directorate, Punjab.... The result of the petitioners be produced in the court on the next date of hearing,” Justice Masih added. In one of the petitions, Jaspinderjit Singh through counsel Sukhdev Kamboj contended that the result was mandatory for appointment to the posts advertised on February 28. Kamboj added that the answer key was uploaded on January 31 and the declaration of the result did not take much time as the process was computerised. As such, the Board’s action of not declaring the result was illegal and arbitrary. He further added the action of respondent Director, Education Recruitment Directorate, in not waiting for the result before advertising the posts and fixing the last date for form submission as March 18, too, was illegal and discriminatory.  He also told the Bench that the Board suddenly postponed the date for conducting Punjab State Teachers Eligibility Test-II of 2018 from December 15, 2019, to January 19. But it did not declare the result even after lapse of about two months.  On the other hand, the Director advertised 450 posts of mathematics master/mistress, wherein, the last date to submit online applications was March 18.
18-03-2020||---||Medical university to offer 250 more MBBS seats||Patiala, March 17The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFHUS) will offer 250 additional MBBS seats from this academic session as Gian Sagar Medical College and Government Medical College in Mohali district will start classes afresh.Raj Bahadur, BFHUS Vice-Chancellor (VC), made this announcement at Government Rajindra Hospital here, where he inaugurated a physiotherapy centre on Tuesday.He said Gian Sagar would offer 150 seats, while the Mohali college would offer 100 seats. The increase in seats will provide the much-needed relief to MBBS aspirants because the state has been witnessing a decline in the number of MBBS seats over the past few years.Gian Sagar Medical College and Chintpurni Medical College were shut down in 2017, while Government Medical College in Mohali remained a non-starter for the past couple of years.Gian Sagar college has already got approval from the Medical Council of India (MCI), while the Mohali college will get the nod in May.With 250 seats added to the existing pool, the total number of MBBS seats in the state will be around 1,385. At present, 510 seats are in three government-run colleges while 625 in private institutions. DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary (Medical Education), said the number of MBBS seats would be disclosed only after the final MCI list would be out in May.Charitable trust offers aidDubai-based businessman SPS Oberoi, founder of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said he would be providing hospitals with infrared thermometers to screen suspected Covid patients across the state. He said, “We have already ordered 200 units of infrared thermometers. We will also be providing sanitisers.”‘Students can’t leave battleground’
18-03-2020||---||Capt: Bargari charge absurd||Chandigarh, March 17Ridiculing the Akali chief for his “atrocious lies” that reflected his frustration, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Sukhbir had clearly lost all sense of proportion in his desperation to get back into the political limelight.“The people of the state have categorically rejected him and his party,” said the Chief Minister, adding that Sukhbir’s latest tirade against the Congress government showed the “deep sense of despair”. “Sukhbir is clearly grappling with the harsh reality that his crimes are now catching up with him. His unfounded accusations against the Congress in the Bargari case, in particular, show that he knows he and his party colleagues are well cornered and will not be able to escape the arm of justice for long,” he added.“Has Sukhbir forgotten that it was he and his family who were at the helm when religious texts were being burnt and torn in Punjab? Has he forgotten that he was the Home Minister of the state when innocent people were fired upon in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura?” asked the Chief Minister.Taking on the SAD chief over his criticism of the development and welfare programmes undertaken in the past three years, the Chief Minister said, “Your government did not deliver on even 10 per cent of its promises in 10 years, while we have completely or partially fulfilled more than 75 per cent of our promises in just three years.” Meanwhile, at an event to mark three years of Congress government, the CM said in the absence of a strong Opposition, the party stood a good chance to return to power.He claimed that with the SAD had lost ground, while the AAP was in total disarray in the state. “The Akalis do not even have leadership at the moment and as for AAP, there was a lot of hype even in 2017, but it failed,” he said.
18-03-2020||Chandigarh||Warring launches channel||Days after former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu started YouTube channel “Jittega Punjab” to air and share his views with people of Punjab, political adviser to the Chief Minister and Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today launched his channel “Soach Punjab Di”. On Tuesday, Warring shared his YouTube channel link on his official Facebook page. The MLA told The Tribune that the forum already existed and he had only re-launched it. “I am on Twitter and Facebook. It is just another digital platform to reach out to the people,” he said, adding that suggestions had been sought on the channel, on freeing sand in the state.— TNS
18-03-2020||---||Wants Centre to help debt-ridden farmers||Chandigarh, March 17 Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday declared that his government would not allow “kurki” of the land of beleaguered farmers, who had been trapped in the vicious debt cycle. At a conclave to mark the third anniversary of his government, the Chief Minister dismissed the Centre’s promise of doubling farmers’ income as mere hogwash in the absence of any concrete steps. “Does the Union Finance Minister even know what agriculture is all about?,” he questioned, demanding that she should explain what the Centre planned to do to boost farm income, after first ensuring that every grain was lifted in Punjab and not allowed to rot in godowns. Capt Amarinder described banks as the root of the evil, having lent more money than was permissible by mortgaging land and properties of farmers, who also started using this money for non-productive reasons.
18-03-2020||Aman Sood||96% Dalit women labourers under debt: Survey||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 17A study on rural Dalit women working as labourers in Punjab shows that 96.33 per cent of them are under debt, while more than one-third (36.46 per cent) of the respondents have stated that their husbands are addicted to drugs.The study was conducted by Punjabi University professors and published as part of a book titled “Khseeay khali, dhiddon bhukhay atay tann uttay leera”.Average debt per sampled household is Rs52,378; their repaying capacity is nil and they face humiliation from private money lenders Based on multi-stage systematic random sampling technique, the study is related to 2016-17 and was conducted in four districts from three geographical regions of Punjab, including Majha, Doaba, and Malwa.From these villages, 927 Dalit women labourers' households were randomly selected.The study shows that the per day per person income of these households is Rs 45, while per person per day consumption expenditure is Rs 51, average debt per sampled household stands at Rs 52,378, while as many as 96.33 per cent rural Dalit women are under debt.The average debt per sampled household stands at Rs 52,378, while as many as 96.33 per cent of rural Dalit women households are under debt.“Their repaying capacity is nil and they face humiliation and torture from private money lenders. Total assets of such households are Rs 1,28,751, while the debt asset ratio is 0:41," said Dr Gian Singh, former professor, department of economics, Punjabi University.The study further highlights that the proportion of illiterate women is 73 per cent. As many as 92 per cent are living in semi-pucca houses, while 69 per cent houses have no separate kitchen and 11 per cent have zero drinking water source.While 52 per cent of Dalit women started working as labourers at the age of 20 or less, 62 per cent of them are suffering from serious diseases.Out of the total Dalit women labourers -- 97.53 per cent in Doaba, 92.14 per cent in Malwa and 91.72 per cent in Majha -- were not provided any facility at their workplace.Further, 30.04 per cent respondents in Doaba, 38.11 per cent in Malwa and 42.04 per cent in Majha were paid less wages as compared to their male counterparts for the similar work.A majority of the women did not know about the standard working hours fixed by the government. Not even a single respondent in all three regions was aware of the Minimum Wages Act.The study published in form a book is authored by Dr Gian Singh and co-authors Dr Gurinder, professor of geography, Dr Dharampal, Jyoti and Veerpal Kaur, all assistant professors in economics. The first of its kind study is sponsored by Bebe Gurnam Kaur Memorial Educational Centre (Isru).
18-03-2020||Ropar||AAP seeks closure of toll plaza||AAP workers today protested at a toll plaza on the Ropar-Chandigarh highway, demanding its closure. AAP’s Dinesh Chadha said toll management was supposed to repair the Kurali-Kiratpur Sahib road in 2016. Four years on, it had failed to repair the road despite several letters by the NHAI. Toll plaza administrative manager Uma Shanker Aiyar said 70 per cent of the work had been completed and the remaining was hanging fire due to shortage of funds.  NHAI project director KL Sachdeva said due to the breach of agreement by the toll management, he had recommended termination of agreement. — TNS
18-03-2020||---||Lower courts to hear bail, urgent matters||Chandigarh, March 17 The High Court on Tuesday imposed restrictions on the functioning of subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of the Covid threat, making it clear that the court would take up only bail pleas and other matters requiring urgent stay or injunction. All other matters will be adjourned. The High Court also made it clear that undertrial prisoners would not be produced before subordinate courts till further orders. Pleas for extension of remand and other matters will be heard via video-conferencing. In case video-conferencing is unfeasible, District and Sessions Judges will depute sufficient number of duty magistrates for the remand work. The courts, at the same time, can hear matters if counsels for both sides justify the urgency to hear the cases. Matters fixed for final argument, including time-bound cases, will be adjourned to a date beyond March 31.  The court will consider exemption applications sympathetically and avoid personal appearance to minimise footfall in the court complex. Judicial officers have been asked to make efforts to avoid crowding in courtrooms, while avoiding passing of adverse and default orders. The District and Sessions Judges have been asked to coordinate with the health authorities, the Bar Association and the district administration to ensure cleanliness of the premises. Bar Association representatives have been requested to avoid crowding in Bar rooms, and consider shutting bathrooms and canteens during the period. The advocates have been asked to advise clients not to visit the court complex unless their presence is directed by the court.
18-03-2020||Jalandhar||Woman with virus symptoms flees||A Sultanpur Lodhi-based woman, who recently returned from Europe and showed symptoms of Covid, fled a private hospital here today.  The 22-year-old woman had come along with her husband to get treatment for fever and cough at a hospital on the Nakodar road.  As Dr SS Dhingra, who was attending to her, came to know about her travel history, he told her it could be Covid. Dr Harprit Singh, owner of the hospital, said, “We asked the patient to wait. In the meantime, we contacted the Civil Hospital. Before doctors could reach here, the patient and her husband fled. Since we had their contact details, we began calling them, but they did not take the call.” He added, “We again called them, saying the police were looking for them. But by then, the two had reached Sultanpur Lodhi. With the help of the police, we convinced them to go to the Civil Hospital in Sultanpur Lodhi, to which they agreed. Now, doctors there have started examining her.” — TNS
18-03-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab students left in the lurch as Canada seals borders||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 17Travel restrictions, imposed by the Canadian Government on non-citizens in the wake of Covid outbreak, have dashed the foreign dream of many students.Having deposited several lakhs of rupees as fee in Canadian colleges and universities, parents are now unsure of their wards’ future.Most of them said they had no idea as to when the Canadian Government would allow entry to their wards or whether the universities would extend the session or accommodate students in the next batch.Ludhiana-based Neeraj Gautam said: “My son had taken admission in BBA in a Canadian university, where his session is due to start on April 6. We have already spent Rs25 lakh on his first-year fee and GIC funds. After flight cancellation, yesterday, we got a mail from the university, asking us whether he would be able to attend a counselling session on April 1. We sought extension of the session, but the university is yet to respond. We don’t know if he will be able to go there anytime soon. Also, a direct flight to Canada will cost us almost double the price.”Jalandhar-based Umesh Dada, whose one son is in Vancouver on a student visa and another is set to leave, said the situation was dicey at the moment.“My elder son has been asked to work from home. When we asked him if he planned to return, he said going back to Canada would be a problem in that case.”About the younger one, he said, “We really do not know if we will be able to send him to SFU in Vancouver, where we have applied for September session.”Alok Makkar, whose daughter is doing BBA in a college at Toronto since 2017, too is worried.“My daughter is in a piquant situation. Though she is to appear for her final examination online in August, her student visa is set to expire on March 31. She has already applied for renewal, which she has not got so far. So, we are in a dilemma and unsure of her future.”
18-03-2020||---||Golden Temple sanitised; doctors to screen devotees||Amritsar, March 17To prevent the spread of Covid, the SGPC and the district administration has taken steps to regulate the flow of devotees visiting sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple.For example, sewadars ensure there is enough distance among devotees standing in queues waiting for their turn to enter the sanctum sanctorum. Special barricades have been placed to guide devotees.Besides, the “parikrama” is being sanitised thoroughly. All railings, doors, the base of Nishan Sahib have been sanitied, said SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh.“Special care is being taken to maintain hygiene in langar hall. Earlier, about 50 devotees used to sit in one lane to partake of langar. Now, not more than 25 devotees sit in one lane. Special care is being taken at places where langar is prepared,” he said.The SGPC has already placed hand sanitisers service for devotees and replaced towels with disposable tissue papers in bathrooms.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon, Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and District Health Officer Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal held a meeting with SGPC officials to launch a joint operation to deal with the situation.The Health Department here, in collaboration with the SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee Medical College and Hospital, formed teams of doctors. They will set up medical examination corners at two main entrances to the shrine — one at Ghanta Ghar and another at langar hall.Dhillon said, “Doctors will examine devotees randomly through a thermo-scanning mechanism before they enter the shrine. Medical teams will be deputed on a rotational basis round the clock.”14 under watch in hospitalsTarn Taran: The government has put 1,187 persons on surveillance. Of them, 14 are admitted to hospitals and the remaining are being monitored in their homes, stated a medical bulletin released by the government. The state has reported one positive case. The patient is a native of Hoshiarpur who returned from Italy. Test reports of five others are awaited. TNSFootfall at shrine down by 20-25%
18-03-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Coronavirus: Punjab Govt begins exercise to decongest state jails||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 17In view of the threat of coronavirus outbreak in Punjab jails, the Prisons Department has started an exercise to decongest the prisons.The department has lifted the ban on regular parole to drugs smugglers and peddlers convicted under the NDPS Act. They are not hardcore smugglers, but those caught with small quantity (a few grams) of drugs. Nearly 3,000 such convicts have been identified, said Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, while confirming the development.The department is also planning to allow bail to petty criminals, including snatchers. “We are taking legal advice to process nearly 2,800 cases of petty criminals for releasing them on bail or parole to further decongest the jails and contain the threat of coronavirus spread,” said Randhawa.“To check the activities of released prisoners, we will make them mark attendance in police stations in their respective areas twice a day,” he said.There are 19 jails, including nine Central, in the state. At present, these house nearly 25,000 inmates against the capacity of 23,500. A convict can get a parole up to 16 weeks in a year depending on his conduct. The state government had extended the parole duration from 12 to 16 weeks to encourage good conduct for inmates other than convicts under the NDPS Act and heinous crimes, including rape and murder.As per directions to all jail heads, they can process the cases of parole to identified convicts subjected to fulfillment of the requisite conditions under the Jail Manual. The inmate should also have clearance from the respective police and district administration. He should not be a threat to law and order.Jails are considered hotspots for the spread of coronavirus. World over jails are being sanitised and inmates are being screened. Punjab only has one positive case of the virus so far and that too outside the jails. Officials said inmates with minor symptoms of flu are being isolated, but to contain the threat of Covid spread, depopulating the prisons would act as a preventive measure.Inmate quarantinedLudhiana: A suspected case of Covid was reported from Ludhiana jail. The patient, in his mid-thirties, has been kept at an isolated ward in Civil Hospital here. Having returned from the US, he was wanted by the Nawanshahr police in a criminal case. He was arrested from Delhi airport in February. TNS
18-03-2020||---||Malls, shopping centres shut||Chandigarh, March 17Taking more stringent steps in the wake of the coronavirus scare, the state government on Tuesday ordered the closure of all malls, shopping complexes and kisan mandis till March 31.It has also decided to restrict the gathering at marriage palaces to 50. A seven-member group of ministers (GoM), formed by the government to review the situation on a daily basis, announced these steps in view of an advisory received from the Central Government. Gathering at weddings restricted to 50 Last week, the state had ordered the closure of cinema halls and banned public gatherings, including cultural events, till further orders.The GoM, which met under the chairmanship of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, issued directions to close all shopping complexes, malls and museums, a government statement said. However, chemist and grocery shops in malls have been exempted.All weekly kisan mandis have also been closed in a bid to restrict public gathering at one place.Besides, an advisory has been issued to all religious institutions, dera (sect) heads to postpone their religious congregations till March 31.The DCs will ensure that all restaurants, hotels, dhabas and food courts in their respective areas are maintaining the hand-washing protocol and proper cleanliness.The GoM also told the School Education Department and administrative bodies of private educational institutes to postpone examinations.
18-03-2020||---||Capt warns of ‘severe’ slowdown||Chandigarh, March 17Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said coronavirus was a major disaster that would lead to a serious slowdown in economy.“The situation is already bad, and if it spreads further, then things will worsen,” he said, warning of a severe slowdown in the post Covid environment.Underlining the need to be fully prepared and to take all possible precautions, the Chief Minister said, “While old habits such as shaking hands die hard, we need to change.”The state government is taking all steps to prevent the outbreak, but people have to realise the dangers and take precautions, he stressed, appealing for strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Central Government and the World Health Organisation (WHO).Use disaster relief fund, says Jakhar
