18-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab records 20 more deaths, 444 fresh cases||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Punjab climbed to 5,170 on Friday as 20 more people succumbed to the disease, while the caseload surged to 1,62,270 with 444 fresh infections, according to a medical bulletin.Five deaths were reported from Jalandhar, four each from Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur, three from Mohali, two from Rupnagar and one each from Bathinda and Patiala, the bulletin said.There are 5,981 active COVID-19 cases in the state, it said.Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported 94, Jalandhar 81 and Ludhiana 75, among other districts.A total of 483 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,51,119, the bulletin said.Eleven critical patients are on ventilator support, while 100 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 36,34,626 samples have been collected for testing, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-records-20-more-deaths-444-fresh-cases-186161
18-12-2020||Mohali||Amarinder launches second phase of 'Punjab Smart Connect Scheme', 80,000 students get smartphones||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday virtually launched the second phase of the "Punjab Smart Connect Scheme", marked by the distribution of smartphones to another 80,000 Class-12 students of government schools.The event witnessed simultaneous distribution of phones in 845 schools by various ministers, MLAs and other dignitaries across the state, an official statement said here.This will facilitate seamless e-learning in government schools amid the COVID-19 pandemic, it said.Launching the second phase at the Government Senior Secondary School in Bhelolpur here, the chief minister announced that the remaining 45,443 smartphones of the targeted 1,75,443 would be provided to students by the end of this month to fulfil the Congress government's commitment to further strengthen digital infrastructure in schools.He said while his government had tried to distribute these phones urgently to meet the online education challenges amid the pandemic, the closure of the industry had somewhat delayed the process.In the first phase, 50,000 students had received smartphones. Under the scheme, the state government is spending Rs 87.84 crore for the digital empowerment of 88,059 boys and 87,284 girls, the statement said.The chief minister said 877 tablet computers were also provided in 22 senior secondary schools on Friday at a cost of Rs one crore. Earlier, 2,625 tablet computers were provided to 372 primary schools at a cost of Rs 2.99 crore.Addressing the students, Singh said when the Congress had promised that smartphones would be given to students in its manifesto for the last Assembly polls, nobody knew that these phones would become so vital for them due to the pandemic.He said he wants Punjab's youngsters to be abreast with the latest technological advancements for an effective promotion of digital education, which leverages technology in a big way in the present scenario.The chief minister said smartphones and tablet computers would equip the students to meet the challenges of education during the trying times of the pandemic.Singh reiterated his government's firm commitment to providing the best infrastructure in schools to enable the students to compete with their peers in private and convent schools.In this context, he said 7,842 schools were converted into smart schools with the latest infrastructure, coupled with computers, tablet computers etc. and 1,400 more government schools would also be converted into smart schools by the end of the next year.Further, he said the School Education department has converted 16,589 classrooms into smart classrooms across the state and the remaining would also be covered under the scheme in the next six months.The chief minister congratulated the teachers for preparing the e-content, which is now being used while teaching students online, and stressed the need for keeping up with the fast-paced changes in education globally.The state government has ensured that every student studying in government schools gets the best education with the help of latest gadgets, he said."Punjab is the first state in the country to universalise pre-primary school education in 2017 itself and the same is now fully operational in all primary schools.To facilitate seamless e-learning in our Govt Schools we had decided to give Smartphones to Class XII students. We will be giving mobile phones to all 1,75,443 Class XII students of which 1,30,000 have been covered till today. Will soon distribute the rest to students as well. pic.twitter.com/zQmIarBQv7"As many as 8,393 posts of pre-primary school teachers have been created and the same would be filled shortly," Singh said, adding that the introduction of the online transfer policy for teachers, based on merit and performance, was another major step taken by his government to raise the bar in education by bringing transparency into the system.He said the reforms implemented in the government schools to raise the standard of education have led to an "unprecedented increase in the number of enrolments by 14.9 per cent as an increasing number of students are shifting from private to government schools".He also underlined the need to promote sports education, for which his government is planning to set up gymnasiums in all schools.Conceding to the demand of minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who is also the MLA from Mohali, the chief minister announced that the Government Senior Secondary School at Bhelolpur would be upgraded to the senior secondary level and named after 1971 war hero Captain Ami Singh, who was awarded the Vir Chakra. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-launches-second-phase-of-punjab-smart-connect-scheme-80-000-students-get-smartphones-186146
18-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar not pregnant? Spotted with Rohanpreet Singh at Mumbai airport without baby bump||Couple Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh took social media by the storm after they posted a picture where the 32-year-old singer was seen flaunting her baby bump.A couple of hours in their post, the couple was spotted at Mumbai airport, and guess what, there was no baby bump.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)The couple happily posed for shutterbugs. This has left the internet divided.A post shared by Varinder Chawla (@varindertchawla)While several believed that Neha is pregnant, others say it's a promotional stunt for a new song called 'Khyaal Rakhya Kar'.She was wearing a pink tracksuit with a black T-shirt. However, it appeared that she was trying to hide her belly with her bag.Neha sharing the picture, and wrote: "#KhyaalRakhyaKar," followed by a heart emoji.A post shared by Neha Kakkar (Mrs. Singh) (@nehakakkar)Neha's husband, Rohanpreet Singh, also took to his Instagram account to post the photo with the same caption. On Neha's post, he commented, "Ab toh kuch zyada hi khyaal rakhna parhega Nehuuuuu (Now, we'll have to take extra care) (sic)."Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh got married on October 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neha-kakkar-not-pregnant-spotted-with-rohanpreet-singh-at-mumbai-airport-without-baby-bump-186144
18-12-2020||Mohali||Farm laws: Amarinder dubs Kejriwal a 'big fraud'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ridiculed his counterpart Arvind Kejriwal on Friday over his alleged double standards over the farm laws, a day after the Delhi Assembly passed a resolution against the legislations and the AAP leader tore up its copies.Singh's described Kejriwal's act as "theatrics" as the Delhi govt had given approval to the "black farm laws" by notifying one of them last month, adding that the Aam Aadmi Party leader was indulging in "petty politics" now."This shows Kejriwal and the AAP have a different face for the people, with totally contrarian intentions hidden inside," the Congress leader said, calling the Delhi chief minister a "big fraud".Singh termed both the AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal a "bunch of hypocrites whose double standards on the farm laws had exposed their lack of commitment to the farmers"."The AAP and Akali Dal MLAs never say what they mean, and vice versa," Singh said in an informal interaction with the media in Mohali after the launch of second phase of 'Punjab Smart Connect Scheme', where smartphones were distributed to another 80,000 Class 12 students of government schools.According to Singh, the AAP and the Akali Dal legislators extended support when the state government passed bills in the Assembly to negate the Centre's farm laws, but both the parties changed their tune to "suit" their political interests."And now, in a bid to exploit the farmers' agitation, they have again done a U-turn on the issue and are projecting themselves as the messiahs of the farmers, whose interests both parties had been instrumental in pawning off to the BJP," he said."While SAD was party to the introduction of the farm ordinances in the first place, the AAP government in Delhi had been quick to implement one of the draconian laws," Singh added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-laws-amarinder-dubs-kejriwal-a-big-fraud-186139
18-12-2020||New Delhi/Ottawa||Khalistan is Pakistan project, threat to national security: Canadian report||Terry Milewski, one of Canada's veteran journalists, has warned that the Khalistan project is sponsored by Pakistan, and it is detrimental to the national security of not only India but Canada as well.The Milewski report published by Macdonald Laurier Institute, a reputed think tank based in Ottawa, reveals how Pakistan launched the Khalistan insurgency using Indian Sikhs in Indian Punjab to avenge its own defeat in the Indo-Pak 1971 war.India had intervened in East Pakistan (Bangladesh) to stop the genocide perpetrated by Pakistani Army and consequently helped it to liberate from West Pakistan.Interestingly, the report points out how Pakistan viewed the Khalistan project as a strategic buffer and how an independent Khalistan would end India's land access to Kashmir to the north, another key interest of the Pakistan Army since 1947.Highlighting the logical fallacy of the Khalistan project, Milewski reveals how separatist Sikhs complain loudly and properly about the massacre of several thousand Sikhs by Hindus in 1984, but do not hold rallies to demand justice for at least a quarter-million Sikhs massacred by Muslims in 1947 in the name of Islam during the Partition of India.The Milewski report claims that the western democracies with large Sikh communities like Canada, the UK and the US are aware of this absurdity and therefore, sceptical of the Khalistan referendum, planned for November 2020.Canada's government has already said it won't recognise it.Questioning the Khalistan referendum, the veteran journalist in his report has asked why the separatist Sikhs seek India's "occupation" of Indian Punjab, but never ask Pakistan to end its occupation of Pakistani Punjab.Majority of Sikhs, the report points out, are happy with India and those who live in Indian Punjab even cheer for their regional government headed by Captain Amarinder Singh. Milewski, an award-winning journalist, reported from 52 countries during four decades as a correspondent for Canada's most watched CBC TV News.He was CBC's first Middle East bureau chief and also covered at least three former US administrations of Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton.In 1985, he covered the Air India bombing in which 329 people were killed aboard from Montreal to Heathrow. He has chased that story for the last 35 years, covering the entire investigation and inquiry into the case.Milewski retired as CBC's senior correspondent in 2016, returning occasionally as a guest host on the network's Power and Politics. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalistan-is-pakistan-project-threat-to-national-security-canadian-report-186119
18-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||‘Diljit Dosanjh and I are fighting today, can unite tomorrow’: Kangana Ranaut lashes out at food delivery service for playing referee||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has slammed a food delivery service for attacking her during her Twitter feud with Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh. Kangana noticed that the company's Twitter account "played referee between" the Punjabi singer and the actor's online war. Kangana took to the microblogging website, and accused the company of "bullying and supporting offensive" Twitter trends against her.  She added in Hindi, “Hum ek industry mein kaam karte hain, aaj ladenge kal ek ho jayenge. Tum apna dekho, humare chakkar mein sadak pe mat aa jaana bhai (Diljit and I belong to the same industry. We’re fighting today, but tomorrow we might make up. We’ll be fine, but if you’re not careful you might be ruined because of this).”I saw their @zomatoin twitter handle play referee between @diljitdosanjh and me, they openly bullied me also supported Kangana raped by Diljit trend, हम एक इंडस्ट्री में काम करते हैं आज लड़ेंगे कल एक हो जाएँगे, तुम अपना देखो हमारे चक्कर में सड़क पे मत आ जाना भाई @zomato 😂😂 https://t.co/c2AUvgBjGR  Meanwhile, the FairWork Foundation studied and rated 11 platforms, and came to the conclusion that Zomato had the worst working conditions in the group. The food delivery service scored one point out of a possible 10.Also read: 'You're obsessed with me', Diljit Dosanjh slams Kangana Ranaut's 'provoking farmers' commentIn a tweet on Thursday, Zomato founder Deepinder Goyal took ‘full responsibility’ for the ‘abysmal scores’.Diljit and Kangana’s Twitter spat began earlier this month. The feud was reignited this week when Kangana accused Diljit of running away after provoking the protests. He dismissed the allegations, and said that Kangana was obsessed with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-and-i-are-fighting-today-can-unite-tomorrow-kangana-ranaut-lashes-out-at-food-delivery-service-for-playing-referee-186094
18-12-2020||Karnal||Thousands attend Sikh spiritual leader Baba Ram Singh's cremation in Karnal||The mortal remains of Sikh spiritual leader Baba Ram Singh were consigned to flames on Friday in Karnal. BKU leaders, spiritual preachers, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda were among the thousands of devotees who gathered to pay their last respects to Sikh spiritual leader Baba Ram Singh.The 65-year-old 'sant' had committed suicide by shooting himself dead at Singhu border on Wednesday evening.A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the "pain of farmers". A large number of BKU leaders, including state president Gurnam Singh Charuni, were present at Nanaksar gurdwara in Singhra village.Singh's dairy, written by him after his first visit at Singhu border on December 9, was read by a granthi. The spiritual leader was pained to see the problems of the farmers at the protest site amid the cold wave.In his diary, Singh accused the government of not giving heed to the protesting farmers.Long queues of devotees were present at the Gurdwara to pay their last respects to Baba Ram Singh.The management of gurdwara has made special arrangements for devotees who cannot visit the shrine personally. They can follow the last rites proceedings through live streaming on Nanaksar Singhra Facebook page. Members of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said it is a supreme sacrifice by Baba Ram Singh to wake up the Union government and they appealed the farming community and devotees not to take such extreme step as they cannot afford more sacrifices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thousands-attend-sikh-spiritual-leader-baba-ram-singhs-cremation-in-karnal-186080
18-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||P Sainath calls agri laws unconstitutional, says farmers right in demanding their repeal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Eminent journalist P Sainath on Friday said he belived the farmers were right in demanding repeal of the three farm laws and that he would not want to be a "party to death" by any panel formed to resolve the crisis.Sainath was reacting to his name being suggested by the Supreme Court on a panel that it mooted should be formed to look into the demands of the farmers and persuade them to call off their agitation.He said he was flattered by the court bringing up his name, "but this, of course, becomes an issue when and if the government actually approaches him on the subject"."If that happens, I would want to know how the government understands the rationale for such a panel: what is its mandate, what will it actually look at, what is to be its composition--will it be truly representative, what is its status (is the government bound by its findings)? I wil not want to be party to death by committee," he said.The operative part of the APMC or the farming contract laws, he said, was barely of four pages. "When the government says it is willing to make amendments to 12 of the 14 or 15 points of criticism the farmers have levelled against them, it is accepting how seriously flawed these laws are. It seems pointless to amend 80-90 per cent of such fatally flawed documents (which many, including serious legal minds, are calling unconstitutional). These are sweeping bits of legislation by the Centre on what is, under the Constitution, a state subject. Can you amend unconstitutional laws--no, you withdraw them," he said.The greatest panel ever set up on farming, the one that produced the closest thing to a blueprint for Indian agriculture for coming decades, was the Swaminathan Commission (or more accurately, the National Commission on Farmers) report. The kind of expertise, talent and understanding that panel had remains unrivalled and it worked for years not only in its research, but also on the basis of wide and massive consultation. "And yet its reports are lying untouched and undiscussed in Parliament for 16 years. It would be an excellent step if the court advises the government to have that report discussed in Parliament and set up a panel to oversee its speedy implementation," he said.Sainath also asked to call for special session of Parliament on agrarian crisis. "From 2018, some of us have been saying the crisis has gone beyond the agrarian and run berserk. We need a special session of Parliament to discuss the agrarian crisis and related issues. I believe that the need for this is now greater than ever before. And note that the farmers of this country have also been calling for a special session."If that happens, I believe India should inaugurate a practice in our Parliament that is quite common in the legislatures of some democracies--a system of public hearings. Let those who have suffered the crisis most also speak for themselves on the floor of Parliament in such public hearings," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/p-sainath-calls-agri-laws-unconstitutional-says-farmers-right-in-demanding-their-repeal-186078
18-12-2020||---||Allow access to war histories and records, says former J&K Governor Vohra||New Delhi, Dec 18Former Governor of Jammu and Kashmir NN Vohra on Friday made a strong pitch to make public the histories of war fought by the Indian armed forces, saying reading these would help the younger generation of soldiers.Vohra, a former Punjab cadre IAS officer who was Defence Secretary (March 1990 to April 1993) of the country, was speaking at the inaugural session of the fourth Military Literature Festival. The annual event was conducted virtually from Chandigarh this year.Vohra said we had unfortunately not allowed access to documents, and had been secretive and confidential. He gave the example of his three-year tenure as Defence Secretary, saying, “We finalised the military histories of wars in 1948, 1962, and 1971; when we tried to get them published, there was enormous opposition and could not be published.”Experience of war and combat if not recorded well in time, and was not made available to cadets in military academies, or in institutes such as the National Defence College, the younger generation would not be able to learn from it.The nation, he said, had been guilty of not allowing certain reports such as the one by Henderson Brookes on the 1962 India-China war to be made available. These could at least be used for military for learning. He suggested that after 30 years a document could be made available in an archival repository and scholars be allowed to go and examine those with prior permission. This could be done in case putting the document in public domain was not okay.Vohra went on to commend the plethora of writings in newspapers and journals, saying it showed commendable insight of officers of the services. There was an intertwining in matters civil and military; it would lead towards national strength and strong foundations.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who was also present at the virtual session, commended the forces for the 1971 war victory, saying we were celebrating the golden jubilee of the victory.He lavished praise on the experience of the veterans, asking young people to learn from retired soldiers, instead of playing ‘war linked’ games on mobiles. The veterans were like living institutions.(Also read: Salute to reservoir of military might)He asked the organisers to devote the next year’s theme to cyber war and tackling misinformation campaigns. The enemy, he said, could reach our people through mobile phones.The Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Chandigarh, VP Singh Badnore, said the festival was unique in its fabric. Chandigarh, he said, was the most appropriate venue to conduct the festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-access-to-war-histories-and-records-says-former-jk-governor-vohra-186072
18-12-2020||---||Watch: Military Literature Festival 2020 inaugural session||Chandigarh, December 18The fourth edition of Military Literature Festival (MLF) began with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh delivering the inaugural address virtually today. Other prominent speakers during the inaugural address included Governor of Punjab VP Singh Badnore, former Governor of Jammu and Kashmir NN Vohra, and Western Command General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Lt Gen RP Singh.Also read/watch: Allow access to war histories and records, says former J&K Governor Vohra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watch-military-literature-festival-2020-inaugural-session-186056
18-12-2020||Sheetal||Flashback 2020: 2020 belonged to Punjabi singers||Often criticised for lack of seriousness and quality in their lyrics, this year Punjabi music and singers rose to the occasion to sing the right tune—be for home workouts or corona weddings or the ongoing farmers’ protest.Bollywood being silent, it’s Punjabi singers who made the noise in 2020. And those few Bollywood numbers that came out in the pre and post-lockdown times too had Punjabi beats. Songs like Illegal Weapon 2.0, Lagdi Lahore Di, Sip Sip 2.0 were all remakes of Punjabi songs. While it’s impossible to keep up with the abundant content that the Punjabi music industry showered upon their audience during the lockdown times, we try to highlight some trends and patterns that were hard to miss.Album sagaAn album each from Diljit Dosanjh, Gippy Grewal and Satinder Sartaj were all that we needed to keep ourselves entertained during the lockdown. Diljit’s album G.O.A.T accorded him the status of being the top guy in his singing game. Same goes for Gippy and Sartaaj’s The Main Man and Seven Rivers.The ladies’ leagueWith the song Stranger, released in January, Simran Kaur stole the limelight. Diljit sang a stanza in the song. Things are changing for good. Lyrics have been written for women and we hope Jass Manak would not be talking only about the Lehanga a girl wants. Nimrat Khaira has become the mascot of girly songs in past few months and has given back-to-back hits— Ajj Kal Ajj Kal, Blink, Gulabi Rang, Sohne Sohne Suit and Time Chakda. And who can forget Titliaan, which was expected to be Harrdy Sandhu’s song as the trailer had shown, but turned out to be actually Afsana Khan’s song which was written by Jaani. Born To Shine may have got Diljit on the Billboard, but back home Nimrat and Sargun stole the show with their video on the song where they changed the peppy number into a song for ladies sangeet. Even Diljit couldn’t refrain from sharing it online. On the other hand, Illegal Weapon-fame Jasmine Sandlas came up with an album, What’s In A Name? Shipra Goyal too had many songs under her name.Dogs hogged the limelightTeri Meri Ladayi, Matwaliye, Nit Nit and many such songs included dogs in the videos. Maninder Buttar went on to name his new album after his pet dog Jugni and also featured his dog in the music video of Teri Meri Ladayi.Dodged the bulletShoot Da Order by Jass Manak and Jagpal Sandhu, which was the remake of the latter’s old song, was full of violence. But most Punjabi singers stayed away from such songs, except for one or two like Sanju, which was an explanation of Sidhu Moosewala’s run-in with the police. Karan Aujla’s song Adiya was ode to heartbreak and drinking.Divine interventionFollowing December 2019’s collaboration by Deep Jandu with rapper Divine on the song Bombay To Punjab, many Punjabi singers jumped on to the bandwagon this year. This year if Diljit made it to the Billboards of Times Square, then Divine was the first rapper to be featured on Times Square for his album Punya Paap. Jass Manak’s No Competition isn’t the first song with Divine. Last year too Jass released a song Age 19 with the artiste. Level Up by Ikka ft Divine and Kaater also struck a chord with the audiences.Protest modeAs Punjabis became the face of nationwide protest against the new agricultural reforms act, many singers became the voice of protest. Kanwar Grewal, Harf Cheema, Himmat Sandhu and also many popular singers came in support of the farmers and wrote impromptu songs. Apart from Asi Vaddange by Himmat Sandhu, Pecha by Kanwar and Harf Cheema, a song called Kisan Anthem marked the collaboration of singers from Punjab. It stars Mankirt Aulakh, Nishawn Bhullar, Jass Bajwa, Jordan Sandhu, Fazilpuria, Dilpreet Dhillon, Dj Flow, Shree Brar, Afsana Khan and Bobby Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flashback-2020-2020-belonged-to-punjabi-singers-186043
18-12-2020||Actress Kangana Ranaut has attacked singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh again||Diljit Dosanjh hits back at Kangana Ranaut’s latest  jibe||Kangana wrote in Hindi: “I want Diljit Dosanjh and Priyanka Chopra, who are acting as local revolutionaries for the farmers, to make at least one video explaining to the farmers what they have to protest about. Both of them have disappeared after inciting farmers. Look at the state of the farmers and the country!” Diljit was in no mood to ignore the jibe. Responding to Kangana’s tweet, Diljit tweeted in Punjabi: “Disappeared Wala Tan Bulekha Hee Kadh Deo...Naley Kon Desh Premi Te Kon Desh Virodhi Eh Decide Karn Da Hakk Ehnu Kiney De Ta ? Eh Kithey Di Authority aa? Farmers Nu Desh Virodhi Kehn ton Paihlan Sharm Kar Lao Koi Maadi Mot’ (Don’t think that I have disappeared. Who gave you the authority to decide who is a patriot and who is an anti-national? Have some shame before you label farmers as anti-nationals.” —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-hits-back-at-kangana-ranauts-latest-jibe-186042
18-12-2020||The ongoing protests against the recently introduced farm laws by the government have received support from a number of celebrities. However||Sunny Deol gets Y-category security||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunny-deol-gets-y-category-security-186040
18-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Followers pay respects to Sikh preacher Baba Ram Singh in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceSinghra (Karnal), December 17The mortal remains of Baba Ram Singh, who reportedly committed suicide on Wednesday, were kept at Nanaksar gurdwara in Singhra village. The last rites will be performed on the gurdwara premises on Friday.No weapon recovered from vehicleBaba Satnam Singh, a close aide of the preacher, said no weapon was recovered from the vehicle in which Baba Ram Singh reportedly committed suicide. Asked about the postmortem report, Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said it would be handed over to the investigation officerThousands from Haryana, Punjab and other states, including political leaders, paid their last respects to Baba Ram Singh and recalled his contribution to society.They said people from all religions used to come to seek his blessings. “I and my family have been coming here for the past 20 years. We have seen people from all religions coming here to seek his blessings,” said Gurlal Singh.“He always showed the right path to people and his sacrifice would not go in vain,” said Navdeep Kaur. Naresh Kumar, another follower, said Baba Ram Singh was a great preacher and used to travel within and outside the country to preach.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Majitha MLA Bikram Singh Majithia, Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi and several preachers paid homage to the departed soul.“It is shameful that farmers are dying while the BJP government, instead of finding a solution, is constantly resorting to petty tricks to suppress the voice of farmers. He has attained martyrdom in support of farmers and his martyrdom will never be forgotten,” Selja said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/followers-pay-respects-to-sikh-preacher-baba-ram-singh-in-karnal-185705
18-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Cold-induced heart attack major cause of deaths||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17Myocardial infarction (MI), commonly known as heart attack, induced by extreme cold weather conditions, has come out as a major reason for the death of farmers at the Tikri and Singhu borders, where they have been camping for the past 21 days.Another protester dies at Tikri Border, toll mounts to 7Worrisome scenarioThree were found dead in sleep while one was referred to Rohtak PGIMS in a critical condition, where he succumbed. An enlarged heart was detected in all these cases, pointing to heart attack as the cause of death. - Dr JS Punia, Civil Surgeon, SonepatThough 24 persons have lost their life so far, at least nine of them — five at Tikri and four at Singhu — died either in sleep or due to sudden discomfort like chest pain.“We have conducted postmortem of those who died at the Tikri border. The actual cause of death will be known once we get viscera reports from the Forensic Science Laboratory. Prima facie, it appears that the deaths occurred due to extreme winter-induced MI,” said Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Dr JS Punia, Civil Surgeon, Sonepat, whose team had been attending to those with health problems at the Singhu border, said an enlarged heart was found during postmortem examination in almost all cases, which was indicative of MI.“Three were found dead during sleep while one was referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak in a critical condition, where he died during treatment. An enlarged heart was detected in all these cases, pointing to heart attack as cause of death,” Dr Punia added.Dr Viney Singla, a physician, explained that cold weather conditions made one’s heart work harder to keep the body warm.“The person’s blood vessels constrict so that heart can concentrate on pumping blood to the brain and other major organs. The cold can also increase the risk of developing blood clots, which can lead to heart attack or stroke,” he said.Dr Singla explained that since a large number of farmers had been camping away from home for three weeks, those suffering MI could already have uncontrolled blood pressure or diabetes or could have been missing their daily medicines.A doctor visiting the protesters said on the condition of anonymity that one could not rule out the possibility of some of them having died due to Covid since farmers had been camping without observing pandemic protocols and the infection too caused MI.Dr Dahiya said the possibility of MI due to Covid was low as one of them had fever before his death. “We have 10 medical teams at the Tikri border, which have examined over 35,000 patients. Initially, a large number of farmers came with fever, cold and sore throat. Over one-third of those coming now have gastroenteritis, which can be because of contaminated water or food,” he said.He said all teams had Covid testing facilities, but the farmers were not giving their consent and they could not test a person against his will.Asked why Covid test was not being carried out on the deceased, Dr Dahiya said according to ICMR guidelines, the test could be done in case of suspected cases and none of them had fever or any other symptom of the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-induced-heart-attack-major-cause-of-deaths-185710
18-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryanvi-Punjabi bonhomie amid dissent steals show||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 17Tarpaulin covered tractor-trailers parked in serpentine queues, small stalls offering free items ranging from medicines to books, langar serving round-the-clock tea and food, flag-bearing bikes, tractors and SUVs playing Punjabi songs, camera-wielding volunteers keeping an eagle-like vigil, turbaned elders discussing the ill-effects of the farm laws and leaders scrambling for mike at the stage put up in middle of the road on the Haryana-Delhi border.No bad blood now Politicians have set the narrative about the SYL and other issues, which have created a mental block among the people of both states. Thanks to the ongoing stir, the fault lines have crumbled all of a sudden. - Khushwinder Singh, Sangrur FarmerThe nearly 15-km stretch from Tikri border to Jakhoda village is witnessing a celebration of the new-found bonhomie between Haryanavis and Punjabis for the last 20 days amid growing dissent against the farm laws. The entire discourse among the gathering of nearly 35,000 people has a common refrain – to save their land from the corporates that are eyeing their fields.An interaction with the protesters indicated that they are in no mood to hurry and are digging their heels for a prolonged struggle on their demands. An elderly farmer, Kaka Singh, from Barnala district said they had no ill feelings towards the government. “We have deeply studied the new laws before embarking on the agitational path. Now, there is no going back. We urge the Prime Minister to repeal the laws as they serve no good to the farming community,” he said, adding that there might be some protesters taking a dig at the ruling party leaders but it’s not their intention to personally attack anybody.Singh said his wife had been taking care of the fields back in his village as they arrived here after sowing wheat. “The farmers are free till February-March. We have the capacity to withstand the vagaries of weather, be it extreme cold or rains, as well as the might of the powers that be,” he added.Mandeep Malik, a young farmer leader from Umra village in Hisar district, said farmers had been in a constant struggle not only for their survival but also to ensure the livelihood of auxiliary communities like labourers, BPL people and even the small and medium-level trading community. “But the new Acts are paving the way for the takeover of the fields and businesses by the big corporates. It will spell doom not only for the peasants but for the beneficiaries of the food security schemes,” he added.Punjab farmers are also happy over the cooperation they are getting from Haryana people and said the joint efforts had strengthened their stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryanvi-punjabi-bonhomie-amid-dissent-steals-show-185712
18-12-2020||---||Farmers flay SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur for ‘SAD support’ remark||Sonepat, December 17The farmers’ joint forum on Thursday paid tributes to Baba Ram Singh, who reportedly committed suicide near the dharna site on Wednesday evening.The farmer leaders left the central stage for two hours and shabad kirtan was organised to pay homage to Baba Ram Singh.No slogan was raised from the stage. All speakers paid tributes to Baba Ram Singh and no celebrity was allowed on the stage.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal criticised Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC chief, for saying the SAD was supporting the farmers’ movement and had sent its groups to join the ongoing agitation.Rajewal further said there was no link between the SAD and the farmers’ agitation. He warned that they would not tolerate political figures who were trying to malign the image of the farmers’ protest.On the Supreme Court’s decision, the forum said it had not got any document so far and it would decide after consulting advocates.Farmer leader Bijju said the committee would decide after consulting four senior counsel — Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves.Meanwhile, condemning the police action at the Chilla border and the arrest of farmer leader Rishipal Ambawata, they said the government should desist from such acts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-flay-sgpc-president-bibi-jagir-kaur-for-sad-support-remark-185713
18-12-2020||Neha Saini||Amritsar schools for special kids stare at closure||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17City schools imparting education to special kids are on the verge of closure due to drying up of funds amid Covid-induced uncertainties, putting the future of around 250 kids and 25 teachers in jeopardy. The online medium of schooling amid the pandemic is also proving to be an impediment.There are three main schools devoted to the cause of children with special needs in Amritsar. Government-affiliated Pehal Resource Centre has 128 students. Dharminder Gill, centre coordinator, says, “We haven’t received any funds from the government or private donors after the Covid lockdown was imposed. The collaborations with NGOs and other agencies are on hold. We are barely surviving.” The other institutes, Ibadat and Agosh, running completely on donations, have also been facing a major financial crunch. “With sharp decline in donations, we are struggling to make ends meet. Arranging salaries has become a herculean task,” says Shilpi Ganguly, principal at Ibadat.A majority of the children in these schools are those with intellectual disabilities, including cerebral palsy and autism, who need physical activity-based learning. Then there are visually impaired kids who cannot take online classes without Braille documents while those with hearing disabilities require sign language instructors.“The learning of students from poor families, without any means and devices, has been put on hold in the absence of an inclusive mechanism of digital learning and support system. A learning hiatus in such children can further impede their growth and even trigger behavioral changes,” says Shilpi. The literacy rate among special kids in our country is already dismal, she adds.The parents, meanwhile, are finding it tough to make their children learn through virtual medium. “Special kids cannot operate smartphones or laptops without assistance. Individual learning plans have to be made keeping in mind specific needs,” says Prerna Khanna, whose son has cerebral palsy. “As a parent, one has to constantly sit through online class, document everything and try not to miss on any detail,” she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-schools-for-special-kids-stare-at-closure-185773
18-12-2020||Amritsar||BSF guns down  2 Pakistan intruders||Two armed intruders from Pakistan were shot dead by BSF troops close to Rajatal border outpost near Amritsar in the wee hours today.Also, two attempts of heroin smuggling from across the border were foiled during the same period.BSF DIG Bhupinder Singh said the intruders were seen crawling near the border fence during the wee hours when visibility was very poor due to fog. “Despite being warned, they didn’t stop. The troops of 71 Battalion fired in self-defence, killing the two,” the DIG said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-guns-down-2-pakistan-intruders-185774
18-12-2020||---||Use of water cannons on farmers unfortunate, says BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia||Jalandhar, December 17BJP senior leader and former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia today said the use of water cannons on farmers by the ML Khattar government was an unfortunate step and should have been avoided.Kalia appreciated the farmers for keeping their protest ‘apolitical’ and also for keeping religion at bay. While backing the new farm laws, Kalia exhorted farmers to accept the government’s offer.“I appreciate the farm organisations for keeping the protest apolitical and their willingness to engage in a dialogue. The Central Government has held six meetings with the farm groups during which seven amendments to laws have been offered in writing. It is also willing to give the assurance on MSP in writing,” Kalia said.On the use of water cannons on farmers and creation of obstacles on the way to Delhi, Kalia said: “I don’t approve of water cannons’ use on farmers during winters. Elderly farmers have gotten sick, some have lost lives. It is unfortunate….”On attempts to defame farmers’ stir, the BJP leader said, “I laud farmers for keeping the protest apolitical and focused on core issues. Punjab has borne the time of terrorism. Punjabis have rejected Khalistan and there in no issue now. But some people with bad intentions abroad keep trying to foment trouble. I believe the farmer organisations and the government are both very cautious about this.” He expressed grief over the suicide of Sant Baba Ram Singh at the Singhu border.Read also: Farmers have the right to protest peacefully: Supreme Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/use-of-water-cannons-on-farmers-unfortunate-says-bjp-leader-manoranjan-kalia-185776
18-12-2020||Ferozepur||12 BJP workers resign over  farm  laws||BJP leaders in the region continue to desert the ship in support of the farmers’ agitation against the Central farm laws. Today, 12 more BJP workers, including a member of the state executive committee and two “mandal” presidents, resigned from the party membership.Surjit Singh Sadardin, former state secretary of the BJP Kisan Morcha and member of the state executive committee, said for the past two months, he had been raising his voice in support of farmers in front of the party cadre but all his pleas remained unheard.“Being a farmer myself, I can feel their pain. I was also deeply hurt at the deaths of innocent farmers, fighting for their rights in this extremely cold weather. Therefore, I decided to leave the party,” he added.The other party workers who resigned today included Gurdev Dhawan, mandal president Mamdot; Gurpreet Singh, madal president Ferozeshah; Harpreet Singh; Boota Singh; Resham Singh; Baljit Singh; Lovepreet Singh; Jugraj Singh; Hardev Singh and Gura Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-bjp-workers-resign-over-farm-laws-185777
18-12-2020||---||Cong MLAs set to join dharna seeking Parliament session||Chandigarh, December 17Even as the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre has refused to call the winter session of Parliament, the Punjab Congress has decided to intensify its ongoing protest at Jantar Mantar for repeal of the newly enacted agriculture laws.The Congress has directed its Members of Leglislative Assembly (MLAs) to join the ongoing sit-in of the party MPs at Jantar Mantar.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar said the party MLAs had been asked to go in batches to join the protesting MPs, who have been holding the dharna for the past 11 days, withstanding the harsh weather.Recently, the party had organised a rally at the Shambu barrier and has been mobilising public opinion in favour of the agitating farmers.The PPCC president has issued a letter to the party MLAs to plan out their days of participation in the sit-in at Jantar Mantar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-mlas-set-to-join-dharna-seeking-parliament-session-185778
18-12-2020||---||Kejri indulging in theatrics, says Akali  Dal||Chandigarh, December 17Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today condemned AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for insulting the farmers’ struggle with cheap theatrics by tearing copies of the agri laws.In a statement here, the former Union Minister said the Delhi Chief Minister had indulged in unparalleled hypocrisy by tearing the same agriculture laws in the Vidhan Sabha which he had notified on November 23.Harsimrat said it was strange that the Delhi Chief Minister had only suddenly discovered that farmers were sitting out in the open in cold conditions and that more than 20 farmers had died.“He is only shedding crocodile tears in a desperate bid to wipe the blot he has put on his name by rushing to notify the farm laws on the directions of the Central Government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejri-indulging-in-theatrics-says-akali-dal-185779
18-12-2020||Our Correspondent
||BKU’s call: 1 member per family, 1 trailer a village to reach Delhi||Ludhiana, December 17 Considering the bone-chilling cold and to keep the farmers’ struggle going, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) today gave a call that one member per family and one trailer from each village in Punjab should reach Delhi. Talking to The Tribune from the Singhu border on telephone, BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal made it clear it was going to be a long-drawn agitation as the government’s intentions were malafide and it had adopted delaying tactics in the hope that the farmers’ strugglewould cool off, if it stretched too long. “Farmers are fighting a battle for their survival, and in the freezing cold, trailers have become a necessity for the farmers to take shelter inside to be able to continue the agitation,” he said, adding the arrival of more and more people from Punjab and trailers would give a new lease of life to the movement. Lakhowal also appealed to truck operators and fleet owners to send trucks to Delhi borders if these had become free from transportation of foodgrain. All those bringing trailers and trucks to Delhi border must come with full preparedness to beat the winter and bring sufficient quantity of mattresses, blankets, quilts, dry fuel wood and woollens, the BKU leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bkus-call-1-member-per-family-1-trailer-a-village-to-reach-delhi-185780
18-12-2020||Our Correspondent||2 farmers killed, 7 injured in accident||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 17Two farmers were killed and seven injured in a road accident when they were returning from the Singhu border after attending the farmers’ protest against the three agricultural laws.The farmers were killed when a tempo hit the tractor-trailer they were travelling in.The deceased have been identified as Sukhdev Singh of Dadiana village in Fatehgarh Sahib and Deep Singh of Popla village in SAS Nagar.Surinder Singh Lohari, general secretary, BKU Ekta (Sidhupur), said more than 20 farmers have lost their lives since the protest started. He said all those who laid their lives will be given the statue of ‘Shaheed farmers’, who sacrificed their lives to save the future generations of the farmers.The mortal remains of Sukhdev Singh were cremated at Dadiana village. On behalf of the district administration, tehsildar Avtar Singh attended the funeral. He expressed deep concern over the tragic death.Leaders of various farm unions demanded a government job for the family and compensation from the CM’s relief fund. They urged the tehsildar to forward their demand to the state government.Protester falls into ditch, diesSangrur: A Jhaneri farmer died at the Kundli border on Wednesday night after he fell into a ditch. After the post-mortem, farmers took his body to his native village. “Bhim Singh (36) died on Wednesday night after falling into a ditch near the Kundli border,” said Gurmeet Singh, a Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) leader from Jhaneri. In the past few days, many protesting farmers have lost their lives in accidents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-farmers-killed-7-injured-in-accident-185781
18-12-2020||Karam Prakash||Future dark if farm laws not repealed, fear youth||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 17The deadlock between farmers and the Centre notwithstanding, the youngsters camping at the borders of the national capital are not dispirited and are hopeful of winning the battle.Most youngsters at Singhu border are first timers, who saw their future in the dark after the passing of the three agriculture laws.Amritpal Singh (25) of Kariwala village in Sirsa district, pursuing Masters in English, said he was scared after he understood the cascading impact of the three laws. “I am protesting for the first time in my life. I never thought I would ever protest, that too against the Central Government. Being the son of a farmer, I am scared and see my future in the dark in the wake of these three laws.”While talking to The Tribune, many youngsters stressed the fact that they were not “brought there” by anyone. Another youngster, Manpreet Singh, who hails from Latur village in Fatehgarh Sahib district, believed that the three laws would ruin his future. “Currently, we get MSP on two crops — paddy and wheat. After these laws, we won’t even get it on these two. Without the MSP and mandi system, farmers will face worse times.”For 21-year-old Harjot Singh of Heon village in SBS Nagar, the protest has changed his outlook towards life. Farmer leaders believe youngsters have made a huge impact and led to success of the protest. They said the journey to Delhi was made easy by youngsters who broke all barricades on their way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/future-dark-if-farm-laws-not-repealed-fear-youth-185782
18-12-2020||Bathinda||Mansa protesters force outlet to down shutters||Members of the Punjab Kisan Union and Inqalabi Naujawan Sabha today protested in front of a business group’s outlet and allegedly forced it to down shutters in Mansa. They said they would continue to protest in front of the firms of corporate giants until the new farm laws were repealed.“The union members have unanimously decided to lock the units of corporate giants in the district,” Rajwinder Rana, a union leader, said.“Instead of repealing the new farm laws, the Centre is busy dragging the matter. It should have constituted committees before framing the agriculture Bills, now the decision would barely serve any purpose at this juncture. We urge the Supreme Court to intervene in the matter on priority,” said Rana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-protesters-force-outlet-to-down-shutters-185783
18-12-2020||Vishav Bharti||As casualties mount, farmer unions want compensation policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17With the number of casualties during the Delhi protest increasing, the farmer organisations are shaping a new struggle to get adequate compensation for the kin of the dead farmers. In the past three weeks, 25 farmers have died due to either freak accidents or cold weather.The farmer organisations have been demanding a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a government job for the family members of farmers who died in the Delhi protest.The most recent is example of 67-year-old Gurmail Kaur, an active member of the BKU (Ugrahan) at Gharcho village in Sangrur district for past several years, who passed away during the Delhi Morcha on December 8.The farmer unions refused to cremate her body and demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. The body was cremated on Thursday after the government gave a compensation of Rs 5 lakh and surety of providing rest during bhog. BKU (Ugrahan) leader Sukhdev Kokri said they wouldn’t accept anything less than Rs 10 lakh as compensation and a government job to the family member.Even most organisations of the Sanjha Kisan Morcha also agree on the issue. “It has been our long time demand that there should be a proper policy for compensation. Besides Rs 10 lakh compensation and a government job, we demand complete debt waiver of the dead farmer,” said Jagmohan Singh of BKU (Dakaunda).Earlier on December 3, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the family of protesters losing lives in the Delhi stir.Congress MLA Amarinder Raja Warring had also urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh, to provide government jobs and Rs 10 lakh compensation to the family of deceased farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-casualties-mount-farmer-unions-want-compensation-policy-185784
18-12-2020||
||Paid Rs 2 per kg, Muktsar farmers donate cauliflower in protest||Muktsar, December 17 Farmers in Muktsar are these days donating cauliflower as fodder to cows as they are getting just Rs 2 per kg in the market for their produce. Some farmers have donated cauliflower to a cow shelter on the Tibbi Sahib road here. Farmers Chhinda Singh and Jalandhar Singh said they were not getting adequate price for their produce. “We are bringing the produce here for the past three days. It is better to feed cows than sell the produce at a throwaway price. Traders are not giving more than Rs 2 per kg for cauliflower. We are unable to even meet our input costs,” they said. “On the one hand, we are protesting the anti-farmer laws in this bone-chilling cold in Delhi and on the other, we are facing financial losses here. The state government should intervene to save the small  vegetable growers.” Notably, vegetable vendors are selling cauliflower at Rs 8-10 per kg by bringing it in carts in streets. In April, farmers had thrown capsicum produce on roadsides for the same reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paid-rs-2-per-kg-muktsar-farmers-donate-cauliflower-in-protest-185785
18-12-2020||
||BSF guns down 2 Pak intruders||Amritsar, December 17 Two armed intruders from Pakistan were shot dead by the troops of 71 Battalion of BSF close to Rajatal border outpost (BoP) near Amritsar during the wee hours today. Also, two attempts of heroin smuggling from across the border were foiled during the same period.  BSF DIG Bhupinder Singh said the intruders were seen crawling near the border fence during the wee hours when the visibility was negligible due to foggy conditions. They were alerted but did not stop. So the troops fired in self-defence, killing the two.  According to officials, the armed infiltrators were shot dead around 2:30 am and as soon as the foggy conditions improved, the troops recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition from the possession of the killed intruders. The officials said one AK 56 rifle, its two magazines with 61 live rounds, one magnum rifle, its one magazine with 29 rounds, one pistol, its two magazines, two PVC pipes, and Rs 30 in Pakistan currency were recovered from their possession. While thwarting the drug smuggling attempt a km away from Rajatal BoP, troops on duty noticed some suspected movement and sound of something being thrown on this side of the barbed fence. As the jawans challenged, the accused ran back but abandoned the consignment, later discovered to be heroin weighing around 3 kg. Singh said yet another drug smuggling bid was foiled at BoP Ramkot area falling under 88 Battalion. Since January, eight Pakistan intruders have been killed and 491.7 kg heroin has been seized by the BSF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-guns-down-2-pak-intruders-185786
18-12-2020||Aman Sood||Yet to pay full fine, mill gets expansion nod||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 17Despite objections by the Wildlife Department and pending fine yet to be collected, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) today issued a notice, seeking objections to the “expansion of the molasses storage capacity by Chadha Sugar Mill”.A large number of fish were found dead in the Beas on May 17, 2018, following which the mill at Kiri Afghana in Gurdaspur was sealed and fined Rs 5 crore of which only Rs 2.75 crore had been received. Instead of collecting the entire fine amount, the PPCB allowed installments, which are yet to be collected in cash.“They (Chadha Sugar Mill) have already paid Rs 2.75 crore and the rest would also be paid… They applied for expansion and we have issued a public notice today. We are releasing funds for rejuvenation of the Beas as and when required,” said PPCB Member Secretary Karunesh Garg.A source in the Wildlife Department said: “The fish seeds released into the river need three to four years to get accustomed to the environment. If such an expansion is granted and an accident happens again, it would be an environmental disaster.”The public notice issued today by the PPCB reads: "It is for information of all concerned that Chadha and Industries Pvt Ltd has proposed to make an expansion of its existing integrated complex... at Dhanlaxmi Estate, Kiri Afgana, Batala tehsil, Gurdaspur district."Notice is, hereby, given to all concerned to file suggestions, views, comments and objections, if any, on the proposed project, to the Member Secretary, PPCB, Vatavaran Bhawan, Patiala, within 30 days of publication of this notice."Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, also a PPCB member, said: “Till the rejuvenation work is completed and the entire penalty amount collected, such an expansion raises doubts at the intent of the PPCB.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yet-to-pay-full-fine-mill-gets-expansion-nod-185788
18-12-2020||Faridkot||Fund misuse: MGNREGA team in Faridkot||A five-member  MGNREGA team from New Delhi visited four villages of Faridkot to probe allegations of irregularities and misuse of funds. The team visited villages to probe a complaint filed by then Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Badal in August who had written to the Union Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Dr Syed Tariq Ahmad, a member of the team, refused to divulge details. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fund-misuse-mgnrega-team-in-faridkot-185789
18-12-2020||---||Cabinet relaxes age limit for contractual staff in recruitment||Chandigarh, December 17The Punjab Council of Ministers today allowed relaxation in the upper age limit for contractual employees to apply for posts to be filled through direct recruitment. The relaxation under the Punjab Civil Services (General and Common Conditions of Service) Rules, 1994, will enable the contractual employees to overcome the excess age limit. The decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.In case of general category employees, the years of service will be added to the age limit of 37 years and a similar yardstick will be adopted in case of reserved category employees. The demand for age relaxation could not be accepted earlier due to financial implications.In another move aimed at promoting efficiency and transparency in the functioning of the state medical, dental and nursing colleges in Amritsar and Patiala, the Cabinet approved amendment to the existing service rules of the faculty in these institutions.Further, on the lines of neighbouring states, nod was given for charging process fee of Rs 5,000 for registration of a new model of a motor vehicle or its variants, or CNG or LPG kit approval or electric vehicles in the state. The fee will be charged from manufacturers of motor vehicles or their authorised dealers.In another decision, in-principle approval was given for setting up a compressed biogas (CBG) plant by the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) at the now closed Cooperative Sugar Mills at Rakhra in Patiala. The plant will have a capacity of 30 tonne CBG production, with daily feedstock capacity of approximately 300 tonne of paddy straw, per day. It will also generate organic manure to the tune of nearly 75,000 tonnes per annum.In a bid to further improve ease of doing business in the state and fulfil one of the conditions imposed by the Central Government for obtaining additional borrowing of 2 per cent of GSDP, the Cabinet approved amendment to Rule 29 and insertion of new Rule 78A to the Punjab Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Rules, 1973.The Cabinet gave ex post facto approval to the appointment of noted industrialist Amrit Sagar Mittal as the vice-chairman of the Punjab State Planning Board in the rank and status of a Cabinet Minister, besides also approving the terms and conditions in this regard. His appointment has been fixed from his joining date i.e. July 30, 2019, to April 11, 2022The Cabinet decided to revert to the PPSC, Patiala, for recruitment of 81 posts of junior engineer in the Engineering Wing of the Rural Development and Panchayats Department. The state government had earlier taken these posts out of the PPSC purview and engaged the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology for the purpose of recruitment. The institute could not, however, hold the written test due to Covid. Subsequently, the Finance Department notified new pay scales on July 17, 2020, and the process of recruitment through it was put in abeyance.Pay scales of tax collectors revisedThe Cabinet apprved revision in pay scales of tax collectors working in Panchayat Samitis under the Rural Development and Panchayats Department from the existing pay scale of Rs 5,910-20,200+2,400 (grade pay) to Rs10,300-34,800+3,600 (grade pay). The revised pay scales will result in additional expenditure of Rs9 lakh per annum to the state exchequerBiogas plant to come up in PatialaApproval was given for setting up a compressed biogas plant by the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd at the now closed Cooperative Sugar Mills at Rakhra in Patiala. The plant, to be developed in collaboration with Sugarfed, will help reduce stubble burning through use of paddy straw for biogas generation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-relaxes-age-limit-for-contractual-staff-in-recruitment-185790
18-12-2020|| 
||38 child labourers rescued in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 17  As many as 38 boys were rescued from a local potato farm in Jalandhar after a police team raided the area on receiving a tip-off from NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan. Trafficked from Bihar, they were employed as bonded labourers in potato fields and were sent to Children’s Home in Rajpura on Wednesday evening. Parves Sada, 30, a resident of Chautham in Khagaria district of Bihar, has been booked for trafficking the children to Jalandhar. An FIR under Section 370 (human trafficking) of the IPC and Sections 3 and 14 of the Child Labour (Prohibitions and Regulation Act, 1986) has been lodged against him. Though the complaint listed in the FIR names an influential potato farm owner of Jalandhar, the police haven’t so far booked any owner of the farm. The Sadar police station SHO said: “Bihar-based Praves Sada had been paying Rs 2,000 to the parents of the children and selling them off for Rs 3,000 here. Children aging between 12 and 15 years were found at a motor in the midst of fields at Pholariwal. We are still verifying who owns the farm. A request has been sent to the Revenue Department for the same. When we get to know the owner’s identity, he will be booked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/38-child-labourers-rescued-in-jalandhar-185791
18-12-2020||Barnala||Barnala girl, father booked for Rs 15L immigration fraud||The Barnala police registered a fraud case against a girl studying in Canada and her father for duping Rs 15.20 lakh from a local resident on the pretext of taking him to Canada.“My son Babbandeep was working in Dubai, but we called him back as Manpreet Kaur had assured us of taking him to Canada. Their marriage was solemnised in July 2019. We paid her a fee of Rs 16 lakh for Canada study while we also spent around Rs 5 lakh on their marriage,” alleged Narpal Singh.As per allegations, after reaching at Canada, Manpreet allegedly neither completed the required formalities to call Babbandeep there nor returned the money when the family asked for it.“She had cleared IELTS and we thought our son will get settled there. Of the total Rs 16 lakh, we gave Rs 15.20 lakh through bank while the remaining Rs 80,000 was given in cash,” he alleged.The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC against Manpreet and her father Kewal Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barnala-girl-father-booked-for-rs-15l-immigration-fraud-185792
18-12-2020||Abohar||Shop sealed for non-payment of property tax in Abohar||After serving notices to property tax defaulters, Municipal Corporation staff and the police today sealed a commercial property. However, other defaulters escaped action by clearing outstanding tax dues on the spot.  Notably, the MC is facing a financial crisis. The Congress and AAP leaders have blamed the BJP-SAD alliance that ruled the civic body for 10 years for it. Ministerial staff and sanitation workers have several times gone on strike for non-payment of salary. Last year, the state government had dissolved the council and upgraded it to a corporation.    A team of employees led by Sandeep Kumar along with the police force reached the Lajpat Rai market and directed the defaulters to pay the property tax. After arguments, the owners of four prime properties paid Rs 30 lakh on the spot while the staff sealed a fast food centre in the market. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shop-sealed-for-non-payment-of-property-tax-in-abohar-185793
18-12-2020||Muktsar||Rana Sidhu murder case solved, gangster arrested||The police today claimed to have solved the murder case of Ranjit Singh, alias Rana Sidhu, who was shot dead by four armed attackers at Aulakh village on the Muktsar-Malout highway on October 22. Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi said an accused, Pawan Nehra, had been arrested and two pistols recovered from him. “Mastermind Goldy Brar, who is presently in Canada, and two other accused, are yet to be arrested. Goldy wanted to avenge the death of his cousin Gurlal Brar, who was shot in Chandigarh. He planned the killing along with gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. He took help of three other persons — Pawan Nehra, Monu, alias Sukha and Jaspal Singh, alias Sarpanch — all from Haryana. Nehra has been arrested and the remaining accused will be arrested soon,” he said. Sources said Nehra once carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. He is facing a number of criminal cases, including murders in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Notably, Rana had taken his pregnant wife to see a doctor at Aulakh village, where three persons chased him in a car and killed him. The attackers had fired nearly 15 rounds on Rana, who died while sitting on the driving seat of his car. Rana was also facing nearly 12 criminal cases, including two of liquor smuggling. Notably, some hours after Rana’s murder, a post was made from the Facebook account of one Gurlal Brar, taking responsibility of this killing, tagging gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. Gurlal, a student leader, was killed in Chandigarh on October 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rana-sidhu-murder-case-solved-gangster-arrested-185794
18-12-2020||---||Release dues of cane farmers: Partap Bajwa to Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, December 17Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa, in a representation to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, has taken up the issue of pending cane sugar payments pertaining to cooperative mills and private sugar mills.Referring to a previous letter of June 2020 and subsequent orders by the Chief Minister to the Finance Department to release Rs 150 crore to Sugarfed, Punjab, for cane payments to farmers and release of 149 crore from its own sources immediately, Bajwa said the remaining payments had not been made to date.“It has been nearly six months since your directions and Rs 118.63 crore is still pending and payable to farmers pertaining to cooperative sugar mills. The new crushing season 2020-21 has started and the pending cane payments have not yet been made. I have come to know that the Cooperative Department has received Rs 750 crore from NABARD as assistance. I request you to issue directions to the department to release the pending cane payments immediately from this fund,” he said. Similarly, pending cane payments of about Rs 129.61 crore pertaining to private sugar mills should also be paid immediately, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-dues-of-cane-farmers-partap-bajwa-to-capt-amarinder-185795
18-12-2020||Ropar||Reopen Kartarpur corridor, demands SGPC president||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur has demanded reopening of the Kartarpur corridor at the earliest. The Kartarpur corridor is a visa-free passage to Pakistan for visiting the Darbar Sahib gurdwara. The corridor has been shut since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The SGPC president was here to visit Shaheedi Jor Mela at Gurdwara Bhatta Sahib. Interacting with mediapersons, she said now there was no logic in keeping the corridor shut just because of the pandemic as all other gurdwaras had already been opened.Terming the suicide by Sant Baba Ram Singh at the Singhu border as a ‘black day’ in the history of the country, the SGPC chief said it was a blot on the image of the Union Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reopen-kartarpur-corridor-demands-sgpc-president-185796
18-12-2020||Our Correspondent
||Fazilka remembers its saviours||Fazilka, December 17 Rich tributes were paid to the 218 bravehearts of the Indian Army, who sacrificed their lives defending Fazilka town in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, in a solemn programme held at the Asafwala War Memorial here today.  The martyrs are considered ‘Saviours of Fazilka’ by the area people.  Lieutenant General Alok Kler, GOC-in-C, South Western Command, and Lieutenant General Manoj Kumar Mago, GOC, Chetak Corps, laid wreaths at the sanctum sanctorum, where the ashes of the martyrs have been kept.  The memorial has been raised at the site where the 218 soldiers were cremated collectively.  The programme was organised by the Shaheedon Ki Samadhi Committee, which has been managing the private memorial since 1972. Lt Gen Kler lauded the efforts of the area people to raise a memorial. He said that such close coordination between local people, civil administration and the Army was a rare example for the entire nation to emulate.  He said the Army shall not allow any country to capture even a single inch of its land and shall defend the land at any cost. Kler also interacted with ‘veer naris’ and veterans at the memorial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-remembers-its-saviours-185797
18-12-2020||Patiala||Illegal sanitiser unit busted||The Excise and Taxation Department today sealed an illegal unit in Rajpura where fake alcohol-based sanitiser was being manufactured. Officials recovered around 4,000 bottles of sanitiser and 35 litres of spirit-like chemical.  The unit was located at Focal Point in Rajpura. The unit was working without a licence from the department for manufacturing sanitiser. “We will conduct tests to ascertain the actual chemicals recovered and used in the unit,” said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-sanitiser-unit-busted-185798
