19-08-2020||---||DSP, two jail warders attacked by inmates in Patiala prison||Patiala, August 19A Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) and two jail warders were injured when jail inmates allegedly attacked them at Patiala Central Jail, on Wednesday afternoon.The inmates, reportedly, attacked the jail officials after two mobile phones were recovered from inmates of barrack number 6.It has been learnt that jail officials—including DSP (security) -- were attacked with bricks when they were conducting a raid. The DSP who got head injury has been admitted to the hospital.The Patiala Jail Superintendent said the jail officials were attacked by inmates after mobile phones were recovered during a raid. Superintendent added that DSP had got a head injury.Following the incident, a case has already been registered under Section 307 and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Section 52 of the Prisons Act against nine jail inmates at Tripuri—the police station nearest to the jail.Station House Officer (SHO), Tripuri, Harjinder Singh Dhillon said they had registered the case on the complaint of jail officials and had started the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsp-two-jail-warders-attacked-by-inmates-in-patiala-prison-128462
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Kapurthala breeder who ran car over dog arrested||A 26-year-old man, who allegedly ran his car over a dog, was arrested from Punjab’s Kapurthala district, police said on Wednesday.His arrest came a day after BJP MP Maneka Gandhi shared a video on social media in which he could purportedly be seen running his vehicle over a dog.Gurjinder Singh has been arrested, Kapurthala Deputy Superintendent of Police Sarwan Singh told PTI over phone.Police said 12 dogs have also been recovered from his house.Singh has been booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of a representative of the People for Animals, police had said.On Monday, Gandhi had posted a video on Twitter, saying: “He is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to dogs when they are no longer useful. This dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain.”  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthala-breeder-who-ran-car-over-dog-arrested-128450
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||24 deaths, 1,693 new Covid cases reported in Punjab||Punjab reported 24 deaths due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 920, while 1,693 new cases pushed the coronavirus tally to 36,083, officials said on Wednesday.Eight deaths were reported from Ludhiana, six from Patiala, three from Jalandhar and one each from Amritsar, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa and Pathankot, the medical bulletin said. One death reported from Ludhiana on Tuesday was excluded as the sample tested negative while another death from Sangrur was excluded too as it was counted twice, it said.The districts which reported new cases included Ludhiana (462), Jalandhar (208), Patiala (117), Mohali (114), Ferozepur (111), Amritsar (86), Sangrur (68), Moga (64), Bathinda (62) and Fatehgarh Sahib (59) among others.A total of 941 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection on Monday. So far 22,703 people have been cured of the infection.There are 12,460 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.Thirty-six patients are critical and on ventilator support while 362 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 8,19,657 samples have been taken for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/24-deaths-1-693-new-covid-cases-reported-in-punjab-128445
19-08-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dera Bassi MLA tests positive for COVID-19||Dera Bassi’s Member of Legislative Assembly NK Sharma said on Wednesday that he had tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday.Sharma, a leader of the Shiromani Akali Dal, said he took a COVID test because he had been “feeling uncomfortable” for a few days, and asked people who had come in touch with him to get themselves tested. He said his symptoms had been mild, and that he is in isolation.“I was feeling uncomfortable for the last 2-3 days," he said in his Facebook post written in Punjabi. "All my colleagues and people that I have met in the last week are requested to get your corona test done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-bassi-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-128444
19-08-2020||New Delhi||Sri Guru Granth Sahib illuminates entire world with its pure teachings: PM||On the occasion of ‘Parkash Purb’ of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the holy book illuminates the entire world with its pure teachings.Inspired by it, Sikhs globally have done pioneering service in several spheres, and their courage and kindness are remarkable, he tweeted.“The Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji illuminates the entire world with its pure teachings.The Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji illuminates the entire world with its pure teachings.Inspired by it, Sikhs globally have done pioneering service in several spheres. Their courage and kindness are remarkable. May the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji keep guiding humanity forever. pic.twitter.com/UFcgXPjXRz  “Inspired by it, Sikhs globally have done pioneering service in several spheres. Their courage and kindness are remarkable. May the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji keep guiding humanity forever,” the prime minister tweeted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sri-guru-granth-sahib-illuminates-entire-world-with-its-pure-teachings-pm-128428
19-08-2020||---||2 arrested for abducting Ludhiana businessman in Jammu||Jammu, August 19Jammu Police have arrested two persons who allegedly kidnapped a Ludhiana-based real estate businessman at gunpoint from a hotel in the city.According to the police, a complaint was lodged with Nowabad police station on August 14 by Sunny Gill of Ludhiana, who was staying in a hotel and was in Jammu in connection with real estate business. Gill alleged he was forcibly kidnapped by two persons, Balbir Singh, owner of Bawa Tour & travels and his associates, at gunpoint on August 13 night.“The complainant was kept confined in the house of Balbir Singh at Amar Colony, Camp Gol Gujral Road, who threatened him for a payment of Rs 10 lakh or face dire consequences. The accused persons extorted a sum of Rs 50,000 from the complainant. On the following day the complainant fearing threat to his life escaped the place of confinement by jumping from the first floor of the building and brought the matter to the notice of police,” a police spokesperson said.A was registered at police station, Nowabad. A team headed by Nowabad SHO Inspector Deepak Jasrotia and assisted by SI Kali Charan arrested the kidnappers who were identified as Balbir Singh and Gurdeep Singh of Aman Vihar, Munshi Chak camp, Gole Gujral Road.On the disclosure of accused Balbir Singh, the police recovered a silver grey coloured Innova car, a revolver along with five live cartridges, Rs 50,000 extorted money and DVR of CCTV installed at the house of accused Balbir Singh.“Investigation into the case is in progress. Some more arrests are awaited as search of other accused persons is in progress,” the police spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-arrested-for-abducting-ludhiana-businessman-in-jammu-128427
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||GPS-enabled tracking device must in vehicles carrying spirit in Punjab||The Punjab excise department on Wednesday said it has made GPS-enabled tracking devices mandatory in vehicles carrying ethanol, spirits and other items to check their pilferage for making spurious liquor.               The move comes in wake of the recent hooch tragedy that claimed more than 120 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur's Batala.  “Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered stringent measures, including mandatory GPS linkage, to check in-transport pilferage of ethanol, spirits and other products by unscrupulous elements for use in the manufacture of illicit liquor,” according to a government statement here.  “From September 5, no vehicle will be allowed to transport such products without tamper-proof sealing and GPS enabling,” said Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal.  The GPS coordinates of the vehicle will need to be preserved by the unit for a period of not less than 15 days from the date of completion of delivery of a consignment, as per directions of excise commissioner.  These are aimed at providing checks on the transportation of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), ethanol, specially denatured spirit (SDS), denatured spirit (DNS) and rectified spirit (RS) by the distilleries, said the statement.             The tamper-proof sealing of the tankers will be done by the distillery units before dispatch and the seal will be broken only by the recipient, under the new rules, said Agarwal.             Both dispatch and receiving units will have to maintain records and certifications to this effect for each tanker/truck, said Agarwal.             In no case shall the transport vehicle be allowed to stop enroute to its destination within Punjab, except in case of a breakdown, when the manufacturing unit shall be duty bound to inform the excise officer incharge of the unit within a period of not more than 15 minutes of such a breakdown.The seals on the outlet of the transport vehicle must be kept intact and not broken in any way in such instances, said the excise commissioner.             If the breakdown necessitates transfer of the material/products to another vehicle, the same shall be done in the presence of, or in accordance with the instructions of an excise officer of the jurisdiction in which the breakdown has occurred.             In case the vehicle stops enroute within the jurisdiction of the state of Punjab for reasons other than breakdown, it would be assumed that the vehicle has been stopped for pilferage and should such a scenario arise, the distillery and the transporter shall be jointly and severally liable for civil and/or criminal action as per the law.           Further, it will be the responsibility of the receiving unit to ensure that the entire contents of the material purchased and carried in the transport vehicle have been unloaded and there is no residue material in the transport vehicle, said Agarwal.  During the police investigation into the hooch tragedy, it was discovered that the trucks carrying spirit and other items were pilfered at roadside 'dhabas' for making spurious liquor.             It was also found in a probe that methanol (methyl alcohol) was used in making spurious liquor. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gps-enabled-tracking-device-must-in-vehicles-carrying-spirit-in-punjab-128402
19-08-2020||Gopeshwar||Uttarakhand: Hemkund Sahib to open on September 4||The annual pilgrimage to Hemkund Sahib will begin on September 4, late by three months due to the coronavirus pandemic.However, it will be mandatory for devotees to carry a COVID-19 negative certificate with them issued not more than 72 hours earlier for being allowed to visit the famous Sikh temple in Garhwal Himalayas.The decision to start the yatra on September 4 was taken by the district administration in consultation with the Gurdwara Prabandhan Samiti, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadouriya said.“A negative RT-PCR test taken 72 hours before applying for the yatra and an e-pass issued by the Uttarakhand Government will be compulsory,” she said.The portals of Hemkund Sahib, where the 10th Sikh Guru Gobind Singh is said to have meditated, open every year in the last week of May.But the pandemic delayed the opening of the Sikh shrine this year.Vice president of Hemkund Management Trust N S Bindra said the doors of the temple will be thrown open for devotees at 10 am on September 4 but they will have to comply with COVID-19 guidelines like physical distancing. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uttarakhand-hemkund-sahib-to-open-on-september-4-128401
19-08-2020||---||Amritsar’s female dholi drums up support for students, her art||Amritsar, August 18As all cultural and performing art activities came to a standstill due the pandemic, Baljeet Kaur, a folk artiste and the woman popular as the only female dholi of the region, had another task cut out for her. As a music teacher and mentor to an all-girls folk troupe, Baljeet has been supporting her students, who mostly come from needy families, with all her might.As the lockdown badly hit the livelihoods of performing artistes, especially in the traditional and folk genre, Baljeet’s professional schedule was also affected. “I am working as a music teacher at Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary School, Sultanwind. But since the schools are closed, we are not able to teach or take online classes of students as not many of them have access to the Internet or are interested. So my primary source of income has been affected. Despite that, I have been helping my students by reaching out to them as I know most of them come from families with a limited income,” she says.The suspension of cultural activities and music festivals due to the pandemic has also cut off the financial support for her and her students. “Usually, the prize money earned from our music competitions and earnings from our live performances used to get us through comfortably money wise. But even that income has stopped. So we all are passing through difficult times,” says Baljeet. She specialises in playing traditional folk instruments like tumbi, dholi, saaz and algoze. She teaches girls from needy families to play these instruments free of cost and also takes them to perform at social as well as cultural events. “It was a mission that I started to create awareness regarding traditional Punjabi folk music instruments. We used to get a lot of recognition and work at private ceremonies. Earning from one particular performance of an hour would get my students anything between Rs 1,500 and 2,000. It was sufficient for them to support their families. Everyone is surviving on their savings until now but I do not think it would last long, maybe one or two months more. After that, it will be a matter of survival as we need to earn a living,” she stresses.Meanwhile, she is conducting online classes for interested audience once in a while to carry on with her art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsars-female-dholi-drums-up-support-for-students-her-art-128216
19-08-2020||---||Sikh activists seek FIR against Cong leader Karamjit Gill over raising Tytler’s hoardings||Amritsar, August 18Tension prevailed on the Majitha road here on Tuesday when activists of various Sikh organisations gathered at the spot where hoardings greeting tainted Congress leader Jagdish Tytler on his birthday were put up by Congress leader Karamjit Singh Gill. The Sikh activists held peaceful protest outside the Sadar police station and demanded registration of FIR against Karamjit Gill.Gill had allegedly challenged on social media that the hoardings were removed in his absence and asked the organisation to reach the spot on Tuesday.Accepting the challenge, Sikh activists reached the spot on the Majitha road and started raising slogans. Heavy police force also reached the spot and tried to pacify the agitators. The Sikh activists waited for Gill till 2 pm, but he did not turn up following which they moved to the Sadar police station and demanded registration of FIR against Gill for putting up hoardings and thereby hurting sentiments of the Sikh community.Paramjit Singh Akali, a Sikh activist, said that the man who had put up the hoardings had challenged on social media and asked to reach at the spot. He said activists of various Sikh organisations had gathered the point. He said they would not allow the hoardings of alleged accused of anti-Sikh riots in 1984.Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said that preventive action under Sections 107 and 151 of the CrPC was initiated against Karamjit Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-activists-seek-fir-against-cong-leader-karamjit-gill-over-raising-tytlers-hoardings-128224
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab should honour Supreme Court verdict on SYL, says Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday strongly advocated that the Supreme Court verdict on the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal should be implemented and that construction of the canal should be completed soon. He made these comments during a meeting with his Punjab counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Read also: Punjab will burn if SYL built: Capt Amarinder SinghOn the Punjab’s claim about the less availability of water, Khattar said the construction of the SYL canal and the water availability were unconnected. “Water shall be allocated on the pro-rata basis depending on the availability of water as provided in the 1981 agreement. In fact, in its judgment of January, 15, 2002, the Supreme Court had clearly mentioned that the decision of the apex court is to complete the construction of the canal,” Khattar said.He also argued there was clear evidence that surplus, unchannelised waters of the Ravi, Sutlej and Beas rivers had been flowing to Pakistan for the past 10 years, resulting in a waste of the national resource. “The Central Water Commission (CWC) has quantified this flow from the Ravi at 0.58 MAF (million acre feet), advocating the construction of a second Ravi-Beas link at Dharamkot. Surplus water can be harnessed for starved areas of south Haryana and for recharge groundwater.”Khattar further said Haryana was open to dialogue on the matter, but with a clear condition that the construction of the SYL canal must be completed as per the SC verdict. Not doing so, he said, would be a gross injustice to the people of water-deprived areas of HaryanaUnion Jal Shakti Minister Shekhawat said infrastructure and carrier capacity in the shape of the SYL canal had to be created to harness allocated share of Haryana as per the availability of water and harness water flowing to Pakistan, especially during the monsoon. On the demand for the Yamuna waters made by the Punjab CM, Shekhawat said that matter was not relevant, as an agreement on the sharing of Yamuna waters had already been finalised in the 1994 agreement signed among Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-should-honour-supreme-court-verdict-on-syl-says-haryana-cm-khattar-128046
19-08-2020||---||2 more Punjab MLAs test +ve as cases soar||Chandigarh, August 18Akali MLA from Muktsar Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi was tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Barkandi said he was having mild symptoms, thus got himself tested and found positive. “I have isolated myself at my Chandigarh residence. Other members in my family have tested negative,” he said.Barkandi had been regularly holding meetings and lodging protests for the past few weeks.In another development, five persons, including AAP rebel MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia, SP (H) Satnam Singh and a journalist, tested positive in Mansa today.In a single day highest-ever spike, the state today reported 1,704 Covid cases and 35 deaths.Ludhiana topped the chart with 483 cases, followed by Patiala (338), Jalandhar (132), SAS Nagar (103), Bathinda (94), Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib (52 each).In Ludhiana those who tested positive today include AIG, Crime, Ludhiana range, and nine other policemen, 88 were reported from flu corner, 70 were contacts of positive persons, 37 from OPD, eight healthcare workers, two pre-operative and tracing of 40 is still under progress.At present 336 patients are on oxygen support and 37 are critical and are on ventilator support.In terms of deaths, Ludhiana topped the chart with eight deaths, followed by Amritsar, Patiala and Sangrur (4 each), SAS Nagar and SBS Nagar (3 each), Ropar and Tarn Taran (2 each), Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Muktsar and Kapurthala (1 each).A 27-year-old man from Thareke village lost his life, while a 45-year-old woman Kot Mangal Singh also succumbed to the virus. Others who lost their lives to the virus were in the age group of 50-60 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-more-punjab-mlas-test-ve-as-cases-soar-128041
19-08-2020||---||All set for Parkash Utsav of Guru Granth Sahib||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-set-for-parkash-utsav-of-guru-granth-sahib-128043
19-08-2020||---||Set up tribunal to assess water availability: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, August 18Sounding a note of caution to the Union Government on the SYL issue that “has the potential to disturb the nation’s security”, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday reiterated the need for a tribunal to make a fresh time-bound assessment of water availability. He sought a complete share of water for Punjab from the total available resources, including the Yamuna.In a video-conference with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Capt Amarinder Singh said: “You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective. If you decide to go ahead with the SYL canal, Punjab will burn and it will become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering the impact.”He said Punjab had a right to Yamuna water, in which it did not get a share at the time of 60:40 division of assets with Haryana in 1966, even as he expressed his willingness to sit across the table with his Haryana counterpart to discuss the “emotive” issue.He also suggested that Rajasthan should be involved in the discussions on the water issue as it was also a stakeholder. He described the meeting as “positive and cordial” and said the Union Minister seemed to understand Punjab’s viewpoint.Punjab remains at risk from all sides, said Capt Amarinder, pointing to Pakistan’s continued attempts to foment trouble and to try and revive the separatist movement through the banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) organisation. The water issue could further destabilise the state, he warned.It was decided during the meeting that the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana would meet in Chandigarh on a date to be fixed later for further talks on the issue and would then go to the Union Minister again. Putting forth Punjab’s stand, Captain Amarinder said it was necessary to set up a tribunal for fair adjudication of the water availability.Noting that there had, in fact, been no adjudication or scientific assessment of available Punjab river waters till date, the Chief Minister said the BBMB had reported that the availability of the Ravi-Beas water had come down from the estimated 17.17 million acre feet (MAF) in 1981 to 13.38 MAF in 2013.Despite being a non-basin state and having a smaller population as well as lesser cultivated land area, Haryana’s total availability of river water stood at 12.48 MAF as against Punjab’s 12.42 MAF, he noted.“As of today, Punjab is a deficit state and could not be asked to transfer water to Haryana,” he said.The Chief Minister recalled that he had suggested the construction of water storage dams in Himachal Pradesh for collecting water so that the flow of water into Pakistan could be checked. He urged the Union Minister to consider the suggestion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/set-up-tribunal-to-assess-water-availability-capt-amarinder-singh-128017
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab Govt has lost mandate, one-day session a joke’||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal on Tuesday described the Punjab Government's decision to confine the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha session to just a single day as "a clear evidence of its acknowledgement that it has lost the mandate to govern".He said the decision to reduce the session to just one day was the outcome of the democratic pressure exerted by the SAD on people's issues.In a statement here, SAD legislative party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the decision to hold a one-day session, a first in the history of the state, was a cruel joke on the people who wanted the government to give answers over the loss of more than 130 lives in the recent spurious liquor tragedy and other important issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-has-lost-mandate-one-day-session-a-joke-128018
19-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||Security of witness against Tytler reinstated||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 18In a relief for prime witness Abhishek Verma in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case against former Congress MP Jagdish Tytler, a Delhi court today ordered security cover for the witness for a month starting today.The court of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate HS Bhalla also allowed the witness through his counsel HS Phoolka to move the Delhi High Court for full relief in the matter. Passing the order, the court said the cops had not considered a letter the court had received in late 2019 issuing death threats to the witness and his counsel.The magistrate said he had received the letter and forwarded it to Delhi High Court, which later marked it to Delhi Police Commissioner for appropriate action. Observing that he hoped the Delhi police would take cognisance of the death threat to Verma and review the threat perception to him, the magistrate directed the cops to provide the witness with security for four weeks during which he had been allowed to petition the HC, which ordered protection for him in the first place in 2017 and also petition the witness protection committee.The Delhi police, while withdrawing the security, had said that the HC had directed security to Verma until his lie detector test was concluded and that the same had been done. Tytler is the second top Congress leader suspected for his role in 1984 riots after Sajjan Kumar, who stands convicted for life and is serving jail time for his involvement in the riots.In the Tytler case, the CBI had filed three closure reports in 2007, 2009 and 2014. But Delhi’s Karkardooma courts rejected the CBI closure report on December 4, 2015, on the protest petition by Lakhwinder Kaur, who lost her husband in the Gurdrawa Pul Bangash attack. The court asked the CBI to continue its probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-of-witness-against-tytler-reinstated-128019
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Farm bodies to intensify protest against ordinances||Farmers in Punjab are planning to intensify their agitation across the state, beginning with rallies on September 15. A decision to this effect was taken in a joint meeting of various farmer organisations held here today. The meeting was chaired by state president of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Committee Harjinder Singh Tanda.  All 10 farmer organisations affiliated to the committee as well as three other organisations have decided to hold rallies against three farm ordinances announced by the Centre, the “anti-farmer” recommendations of Montek Singh Ahluwalia report on reviving Punjab’s economy and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-bodies-to-intensify-protest-against-ordinances-128020
19-08-2020||Bathinda||Covid positive undertrial flees isolation centre||An undertrial, Rajvir Singh of Gidderbaha, who was tested Covid-positive and was lodged at the isolation centre at Red Cross building, near the Civil Hospital here, today fled after breaking the window of a toilet. The police have registered a case against the accused. DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said the accused had been arrested by the GRP in a theft case. “Special teams are conducting raids at his possible hideouts to nab him,” he said. Earlier on August 10, eight patients had run away from an isolation centre here. The police have failed to trace them till date. They instead claim that those persons were no longer infected as their second tests were taken on August 11 and their reports had turned negative. “We are trying to locate them for violating the Disaster Management Act and stepping out of the isolation ward without authorisation,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-positive-undertrial-flees-isolation-centre-128021
19-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Rickety infra ails Sangrur health centre||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 18Built to provide health services to 85 villages, the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Kauhrian, has been devoid of basic amenities for a long time. The emergency services are also closed. The outbreak of Covid-19 has failed to bring any improvement at the centre.Presently, it functions from 8 am to 4 pm, but the dilapidated buildings of the hospital and residential quarters pose a danger to the lives of employees and patients.“Before elections, the leaders had promised to reconstruct the building and post adequate number of employees here. However, nothing has been done yet. Residents are blaming us for the unfulfilled promises,” said Gurpreet Singh, Kauhrian sarpanch and a Congress leader.Gurmeet Singh, another resident, alleged the PHC failed to provide medical aid even to locals with minor health problems.“There is no proper repair or cleaning. Snakes have also been spotted here, but despite complaints, there has been no action,” said an employee.As per information, of the six posts of medical officer, only one has been filled. Similarly, many posts of other staff like nurse and Class IV employees, have also been lying vacant.“I had raised the issue in the Assembly and the government had assured us of posting more doctors at the PHC. We will launch a protest soon,” said AAP Dirba MLA and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema.Senior Medical Officer, PHC, Dr Tejinder Singh said he had been writing to the authorities repeatedly and hopefully, things would improve.“On the directions of the senior authorities, a team visited the PHC recently. The shortage of staff and other facilities are in the knowledge of the higher authorities and they have promised to look into the matter,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rickety-infra-ails-sangrur-health-centre-128022
19-08-2020||---||Panic as oxygen supply snapped at Covid ward in Patiala's Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, August 18The oxygen supply at the Covid ward of Government Rajindra Hospital was reportedly interrupted on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The matter came to the fore when the patients complained of breathlessness.The hospital authorities denied any interruption in the oxygen supply. However, they admitted that there was an issue with the oxygen regulator, which was fixed in the morning.Surbhi Malik, special incharge, Covid ward, said there was some issue with the regulator, which was resolved timely. “I am informed there was an issue with the regulator of oxygen, but it was resolved by experts timely. There was no interruption in the oxygen supply.”It has been learnt that a doctor on duty in the Covid ward had raised An alarm around 2 am, stating that patients were complaining of breathlessness due to reduced oxygen pressure.Taking note of the sensitivity of the issue, Medical Education Minister OP Soni sought a report from the authorities on the issue on Tuesday.Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said they had enough oxygen cylinders for the Covid ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panic-as-oxygen-supply-snapped-at-covid-ward-in-patialas-rajindra-hospital-128024
19-08-2020||Mohali||Trouble for ex-DGP Sumedh Saini as 2 former cops turn approvers||In a major setback to former Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, a local court today approved the application of two former Chandigarh police officials and co-accused to become approvers in the disappearance case of Balwant Singh Multani.Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Deepika Singh accepted the application of former Inspector Jagir Singh and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh to become approvers.Multani abduction caseThe two cops, in their statement to the court, claimed that they had witnessed Balwant Singh Multani being tortured under the custody of the then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini (in pic) and his shifting in a vehicle in an unconscious state. They also claimed that later, they were told that Multani had gone missing. The cops were also allegedly asked to declare Multani as missing and absconding, following the orders of Saini, which they did.The two cops, in their statement to the court, claimed to have been eyewitnesses to the torture meted out to Multani under the custody of the former DGP and his shifting in a vehicle in an unconscious state. They also alleged that later, they were told that Multani went missing. The two cops were also allegedly asked to declare Multani as missing and absconding, following the orders of Saini, which they did.Now, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) is all set to add Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against the former DGP at Mataur police station in the alleged disappearance of Multani, a former CITCO employee. According to the court orders, the SIT will have to give three-day prior notice to Saini after adding Section 302 to the FIR. The former DGP is out on bail in the case.The three co-accused former UT cops, then Inspector Jagir Singh, Sub-Inspector Harsahai Sharma and ASI Kuldeep Singh, had filed an application in the court seeking permission to turn approvers and be pardoned. However, the court of the CJM, on August 7, turned down their plea for want of approach from the proper channel, i.e. the SIT, which could make a request to the court for pardon to the accused.The SIT, with the support of special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula and district attorney Sanjiv Batra, had moved an application on behalf of the three accused on August 14, after which the court declared two out of the three as approvers.Narula said the application was filed to assert that it was necessary to unearth the crime that took place within the four walls of a police station.He said the approvers were co-accused who had been declared witnesses and were granted pardon under Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Now, the proceedings to grant them pardon will be heard on August 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trouble-for-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-as-2-former-cops-turn-approvers-128025
19-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court stares at crisis, only one of 5 names cleared for elevation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court is staring at a crisis. Of the five names that reached the Supreme Court collegium, only one has been cleared for elevation as a Judge of the High Court. The fate of the other advocates recommended for elevation is not yet known.Available information suggests the Supreme Court collegium has “approved the proposal for the elevation of Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj, advocate, as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court” in its meeting held on August 17. The High Court is currently facing a shortage of no less than 30 judges and a pendency of nearly 6 lakh cases. It is functioning with 55 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. The problem is expected to worsen as two senior judges heading Division Benches are scheduled to retire in the next few months, followed by many more next year.Besides, the High Court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigations once it reopens for normal operations. Functioning in restricted mode since March-end following the Covid-19 outbreak, the High Court has been hearing a limited number of cases through video-conferencing. The cases being taken up are primarily the ones involving an element of public interest or urgency.The High Court collegium has reportedly recommended the names of five more advocates — Jasjit Singh Bedi, Pankaj Jain, Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil and Vinod Bhardwaj — for elevation. This is in addition to the previous list of five. However, the process may take some time because of the lengthy procedure. It can take several months, if not taken up on a priority basis. Bhardwaj’s name was among the five sent sometime in August last year, when the High Court was facing pendency of more than 4.7 lakh cases with a shortage of 37 Judges. The list had hit the headlines after an old video clip went viral. It purportedly showed one of the candidates (not Bhardwaj) swinging to the tune of 1980s Bollywood number ‘I am a disco dancer’.Meanwhile, the collegium also recommended the names of six advocates — Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna — for appointment as Judges of the Delhi High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stares-at-crisis-only-one-of-5-names-cleared-for-elevation-128026
19-08-2020||---||2 cops suspended for consuming alcohol at police post in Dharamkot||Moga, August 18A Sub-Inspector and an Assistant Sub-Inspector of the Punjab Police were placed under suspension for drinking alcohol inside the police post falling under Dharamkot subdivision today.Sub-Inspector Gurdeep Singh and ASI Darshan Singh, both posted at the Balkhandi police post, were found drinking liquor. Gurdeep Singh was the incharge of the police post.Last night, DSP Subeg Singh checked the police post and found both police personnel drinking on duty. On seeing the DSP, both policemen locked themselves in a room, but the DSP found them in a drunken state. After getting their medical examination done, the DSP suspended them from the service and sent a detailed report to SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill for further action. The SSP has marked a departmental inquiry against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-cops-suspended-for-consuming-alcohol-at-police-post-in-dharamkot-128027
19-08-2020||
||ASI ends life in Muktsar||Muktsar, August 18 An ASI allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Kotli Ablu village here today.  Identified as Swaran Singh, he was posted at the district police lines. It has been alleged that he was under depression.  His family has not lodged a complaint against anyone. The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-ends-life-in-muktsar-128028
19-08-2020||---||Breeder crushes dog under car, Maneka livid||Jalandhar, August 18A “barbaric” act of a Kapurthala-based dog breeder of crushing his dog under the car has caught the attention of animal rights activist and BJP MP Maneka Gandhi.The MP, who probably got the video from local activists, tweeted it today after which the Punjab Police assured her of action. A few hours later, the Kapurthala police informed her about having filed an FIR against the accused, who is still at large.MP posts video on twitterHe (accused) is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to them when they are no longer useful. The dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain. Maneka Gandhi, MPPosting the video, Gandhi wrote, “This is Gurinder Singh, S/O Harbans Singh, Dandupur village, Kapurthala, Punjab. He is a breeder and seller of dogs for dog fights. This is what he does to dogs when they are no longer useful. The dog died after 30 minutes of being in excruciating pain.”A few hours later, she posted another video of dogs kept in cages by the man and tweeted, “Here’s a video of this man’s dogs, which he had been using for dog fights. At night, he took all these dogs and threw them in the lake behind his house. One dog drowned but the others have been rescued by the People for Animals (PFA). This man should go to jail.”At this, the Punjab Police replied to the ex-minister, saying, “Madam, the issue has been taken up and referred to the Kapurthala police for immediate and necessary action.”Kapurthala SSP Jaspreet Singh Sidhu said, “The video that Gandhi has posted is an old one. It came to our knowledge last evening as Shalini, a PFA activist, approached us with a complaint and a copy of the video. We got the FIR lodged last night. The man is still absconding and our teams are looking for him.” The SSP denied any information about the second incident of dogs being drowned by the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/breeder-crushes-dog-under-car-maneka-livid-128029
19-08-2020||Bathinda||Ministerial staff firm on demands, stir continues||State ministerial staff members’ pen-down strike today entered the 12th day. The employees staged a protest against the state government outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Bathinda. Kewal Bansal, president, Punjab State Ministerial Service Union, Bathinda, said the employees would go on mass casual leave. The demands of the protesters include immediate transfer of arrears of various allowances into their accounts, extension of full pension benefits to staff members who were recruited after 2004, and complete implementation of the rules and proposals of the 6th Pay Commission. Besides, they have sought revival of allowances to the ministerial staff, release of instalments of dearness allowance  and rollback of the state government’s decision pertaining to giving only basic pay and no allowance to fresh recruits for the first two years of their service. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ministerial-staff-firm-on-demands-stir-continues-128030
19-08-2020||Fazilka||JE’s body recovered from bushes||Body of a junior engineer, who was posted in the PSPCL department, was recovered from the bushes on the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway today morning. The deceased has been identified as 29-year-old Sukhwinder Singh.  Unidentified persons have been booked under Section 304-A of the IPC. The exact cause of death has not been ascertained so far.  A source said Sukhwinder had sustained injuries on his mouth. The body had been sent to the district hospital for autopsy. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jes-body-recovered-from-bushes-128031
19-08-2020||Balwant Garg||Delay in exams puts final-year nursing students in a fix||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, August 18With Covid-19 cases rising across the state, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is facing a difficulty in conducting theory and practical exams of over 25,000 under graduate and postgraduate nursing students in about 110 colleges of the state. This has affected over 6,000 final-year students.SUGGESTIONS SOUGHTDue to the Covid outbreak, all theory and practical exams of nursing courses, to be held in May/June, were delayed. Now, the BFUHS has sought that heads of all nursing colleges in the state give their suggestions as to how and when to proceed towards the completion of theory as well as practical examinationIf the examinations are not completed within a month, experts said it would create a lag, posing a challenge for about 6,000 final-year students of M Sc, B Sc and Post Basic B Sc courses and would impact the new batches as well. Punjab has an intake capacity of around 7,000 nursing students every year.Due to the Covid outbreak, all theory and practical exams of nursing courses, to be held in May/June, were delayed. Now, the BFUHS has demanded that heads of all nursing colleges in the state give their suggestions as to how and when to proceed towards the completion of theory as well as practical examination.As conducting exams for over 25,000 students is a difficult task given the situation, principal of a nursing college in Faridkot said the university should conduct the exams of only final-year students. Doubling the exam centres from 30 to 60 to maintain proper social distancing, the exams must be conducted for final-year students so that their professional and academic career is not harmed. This way, it would also not affect the entry of new students in October, he said.Head of another nursing college said: “Given the uncertainty over pandemic, all other students should be promoted to their next academic year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delay-in-exams-puts-final-year-nursing-students-in-a-fix-128032
19-08-2020||---||Bathinda college students hold protest, seek fee waiver||Bathinda, August 18Triggered by the inconclusive talks with the management of Baba Farid Group of Institutes, students today blocked the Muktsar-Bathinda road outside the main gate of Baba Farid College.Some members of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Student Union said the management of college did not agree to charge the tuition fee only. They said their protest would continue till their demands were not met with.Rajinder Singh Dhanoa, deputy director, academics, said: “Talks were held today with the students in the presence of naib tehsildar. We submitted him the guidelines of the university, and he further told the students that there is no decision on fee waiver either from the state government or from the court.”He said: “We told the students that any of them who is from a poor background, and if his or her family income has been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, then he can submit an application to us, along with proof. We will waive some part of the fee. However, the students are adamant that fee should be waived for all students, and only tuition fee should be charged. Being an unaided college, we can’t waive fee for all students.”Dhanoa said a court order restrained anyone to stage protest within 100 mt radius of the college, and the students were told about it during the meeting. Despite this, the protest was held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-college-students-hold-protest-seek-fee-waiver-128033
19-08-2020||---||Punjab Government scraps intermediate semester exams||Chandigarh, August 18In the light of a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state, a committee of the Punjab’s Technical Education Department today decided not to conduct theory examinations of intermediate semesters.In the decision conveyed to the Vice-Chancellors of the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University and Secretary, Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training, the committee has decided that as recommended by the UGC, the grading for the theory exams would comprise of 50 per cent marks of the pattern of internal evaluation adopted by the universities and the remaining 50 per cent marks can be awarded on the basis of performance in previous semester, if available. The universities have been asked to work out the modalities of awarding the marks.The committee has further said the students should also be given the option to take exams to improve their marks. For such students, a special exam should be conducted at a time deemed conducive. The marks obtained by students in this examination should be treated as final.Nearly 1.50 lakh students are enrolled with the two state technical universities. Acting on the directions of the AICTE, the technical education board has already issued instructions to polytechnic colleges to promote students of second and fourth semesters while conducting exams only for students of the final semester. Around 50,000 students of polytechnics are enrolled with the board. Of these, 17,000 are in the final year.TECH COURSES: GRADING FOR THEORY EXAMS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-scraps-intermediate-semester-exams-128034
19-08-2020||Bathinda||Won’t allow thermal plant demolition: AAP||AAP MLAs Budhram, Prof Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur Ruby have accused Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal of misleading people over the Bathinda thermal plant land, which is dedicated to Guru Nanak Dev.In a joint statement, the AAP MLAs informed that Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had promised before the 2017 elections that the plant would not be allowed to shut down at any cost. However, the Finance Minister was now in a hurry to demolish the thermal plant and sell it out to land mafia, shelving the useful proposal to run the thermal plant on straw.MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby said the party was not opposed to industrial development in the state, but it was stoutly against the demolition of thermal plant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-allow-thermal-plant-demolition-aap-128035
19-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Daily-earner dies after drinking ‘cheap’ liquor||A daily-wager died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor at Pandori Golan village in the district today.  He was identified as Dilbagh Singh (32).  Kuldeep Kaur, deceased’s mother, said Dilbagh consumed liquor yesterday after which he started vomiting and complained of uneasiness. However, he was not taken to a hospital as it was late in the day.  Today, he again complained of uneasiness. He was taken to the Tarn Taran Civil Hospital from where he was referred to Amritsar, where he died later.  He is survived by his wife, mother and three daughters. The youngest daughter is just 13 days old.  Investigating officer SI Puran Singh said the reason behind Dilbagh’s death would be clear after autopsy, though the family members claimed that he had consumed liquor yesterday.  As many as 11 persons from Pandori Golan village had lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in the recent tragedy. The police had also nabbed four persons of a family for their alleged involvement in bootlegging here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/daily-earner-dies-after-drinking-cheap-liquor-128036
19-08-2020||---||Non-teaching staff taking classes, allege Punjabi University professor||Patiala, August 18Professors at the Punjabi University have alleged that non-teaching employees were being handed over their work. An assistant professor at the university has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, alleging that her classes had been re-allocated to non-teaching staff “to reduce her workload”, thus violating the university calendar and UGC norms.Simmi, an Associate Professor at the Department of Dance, in her writ petition, stated that her classes of PG Diploma in folk dances of Punjab were handed over to two technical assistants, who are ineligible for the work, without informing her. This had been done to make her ineligible for promotion as a professor, she claimed. The case, filed against university Vice-Chancellor, Dean (Academics), head of the Department of Dance and two technical assistants of the department, was taken for hearing on July 27. Its next hearing is scheduled for September 16.Simmi said: “The exam papers of the subjects that I teach were also given to the non-teaching technical employees.”Through the writ petition, she has demanded that the university should not be permitted to “violate the UGC regulations, 2010, by allowing ineligible persons to perform the duties of teaching staff.”Indira Bali, Head, Department of Dance, said she was not in a position to comment on the matter as it was sub-judice.Meanwhile, officials of other departments alleged that they were facing a similar situation. Another associate professor said: “A one-year PG diploma course with 50 students is being run by one of the departments with the help of non-teaching officials in evening hours. The department does not have teachers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-teaching-staff-taking-classes-allege-punjabi-university-professor-128037
19-08-2020||---||Fake stamp paper ‘scam’ comes to fore in Moga dist||Moga, August 18An alleged fake stamp paper scam has come to light in the district. A police official revealed here today that counterfeit stamp papers of Rs 5,000 each were sold between 2014 and 2016 in Moga.The accused has been identified as Dinesh Kumar, an authorised stamp paper vendor. He has been arrested by the police.Fraud of Rs 10 lakh Kumar’s associate Raj Kumar has also been nabbed. During interrogation, both Kumar and Raju revealed that Golu, a resident of Krishna Nagar, Moga, was providing them with fake stamp papers. The police have formed teams and launched a manhunt to nab Golu.The fraud came to light when a resident applied for the refund of Rs 10,000 for unused stamp papers of Rs 5,000 each. When the DTO, Kashmir Kaur Gill, summoned Kumar to produce the original sales register maintained by him, he could not produce it for verification. He even admitted that the stamp papers were counterfeit, and therefore, he had no record with him.It has been alleged that Kumar had sold fake stamp papers worth Rs 10 lakh between 2014 and 2017 at Dharamkot subdivision in Moga district.Preliminary reports suggest that the counterfeit stamp papers were also sold in Moga, Ferozepur, Faridkot and nearby districts during the previous SAD-BJP government. To verify the same, probes will be conducted by the local police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-stamp-paper-scam-comes-to-fore-in-moga-dist-128038
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab will burn if SYL built: Capt Amarinder Singh||The meeting between the Punjab and Haryana CMs convened by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to work out a solution to the SYL issue on the directions of the Supreme Court ended inconclusive today.While Shekhawat said the logjam on the issue was broken with the meeting, where the parties decided to meet again, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh warned the Centre that “Punjab will burn” if the state was forced to share water with Haryana.“You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective. If you decide to go ahead with the SYL, Punjab will burn and it will become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering the impact,” he said.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, however, said whatever be the outcome of deliberations, the state would put it up before the apex court.“There is no doubt the SYL must be constructed, as this is also the verdict of the SC. Whatever comes out of these meetings will be brought to the notice of the SC,” he said. The next meeting is likely in the next few days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-will-burn-if-syl-built-capt-amarinder-singh-128053
