19-03-2020||Chandigarh||India must take tough stance against Pak sponsored terrorism: Amarinder||Asking the Centre to take a tough stance against Pakistan sponsored terrorism, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday reiterated that his government will punish those responsible for the 2015 sacrilege incidents.Speaking at a conclave here on the completion of his government’s three years in office, Singh said his focus was on tackling the menace of drugs, crime and political killings — all of which were rampant under the SAD-BJP rule.“If the Akalis think we are sitting quietly and won’t take action against those behind the sacrilege incidents and other serious issues, they are sadly mistaken,” Singh said, adding that he will not engage in a war of words with the opposition as he was focused on issues related to the state’s welfare.Asserting that his government will not allow Pakistan-backed terrorists to foment trouble in Punjab, the chief minister said he has been urging the Central government to be tough on Pakistan.Punjab is not Kashmir and is well equipped to fight back. The Army can continue fighting terror in Kashmir but in Punjab, in addition to the BSF as the first line of defence at the borders, the 85,000 personnel strong police force will deal with any threat, he said.Singh said terror attacks like the one in Pulwama or the chopping of heads of Indian soldiers at the border was not acceptable.“This cannot go on... We have to be tough with Pakistan, they do not understand any other language,” he said, adding that he did not really understand the policy of the neighbouring country, which was fighting everyone on all fronts.On a lighter note, the chief minister recalled how former Pakistan Prime Minister Pervez Musharraf had released 500 Indian prisoners after he shared their list with the then Pakistan president who was visiting India.Pointing out that drugs were being pushed into Punjab from nearby states as well as countries including Nepal and Burma via Delhi, Singh said the state has become a hub for narco terrorists and the fight to eliminate drugs completely was continuing on war footing.He said large quantities of China-made drones along with weapons and drugs from across the border were seized through the collective efforts of Punjab Police and the Special Task Force (STF).Blaming movies and television for popularising ‘gang culture’ in the state, Singh said he had instructed the police force to show no mercy to criminals and gangsters.Gangsters had a free reign during the Akali rule and were going around shooting anyone including the police. But the police have now got the better of them with nearly 2,500 being arrested and 11 neutralised, he said.Singh vowed that he will not let Punjab return to the dark days of terrorism and violence. — PTI
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Board exams postponed, school staff relieved till March 31 in Punjab||The Punjab Government on Thursday ordered postponement of all school examinations and announced that staff of all schools will be relieved till March 31 amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) postponed all board examinations scheduled between March 20 and 31st—amid the coronavirus pandemic.The board in its official communication stated that practical board exams—for Class 8 and written examination for Class 5, 1O and plus 2—have been postponed until March 31. New dates for the examinations would be notified later on the website, said the board.School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said to avert the threat of virus contamination, Punjab Government has decided to restrict the activities of all government, semi-government and private schools in the state.“Apart from postponing the examinations, the school staff has also been relieved with immediate effect,” he added.The Cabinet minister said to curb the contamination of Covid-19, the state government has been working tirelessly as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has also been personally reviewing the situation.He added that the education department has also decided to voluntarily offer the school buildings for isolation wards as per the requirement in case of any critical situation.He said once the health department requisites the building, it would be immediately evacuated.Singla said apart from restricting the movement in the schools, an intensive awareness drive has also been launched in the state today onwards.He added that the teams led by health department staff and other officials were visiting each and every household in villages and cities to make the residents aware of the coronavirus.
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder opposes CAA: ‘I don’t have birth certificate, half of Punjab doesn’t’||Strongly opposing the CAA/NCR/NPR as absurd and unconstitutional, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said half of Punjab, including himself, could not produce birth certificates to prove their nationality.Pointing out that most people in Punjab came from Pakistan, the Chief Minister asked if the Center expected them to go to Pakistan to look for proof of birth. “Even I don’t have a birth certificate. These things did not exist when I was born,” said the Chief Minister, quipped that this would make him too a “doubtful character” under the Government of India’s new census system.Making it clear that his government was totally opposed to these exercises, Amarinder said while a routine census would be conducted in Punjab, it would not be based on religion, caste and creed.Questioning what the BJP-led central government was trying to prove with these laws and documents, Amarinder took strong exception to even former Army officials being declared non-Indians after fighting for the nation.For 72 years, India has been a diverse country, with different religions, castes and creeds living together, as one, in the true spirit of the Constitution and its Preamble, the Chief Minister pointed out.“Suddenly they want to break and fragment this nation, which is totally unacceptable,” he said at a conclave here.The reaction of the people, especially the youth, clearly shows that this will not work in this country, said Amarinder, adding that the Government of India could not possibly put everyone in a box and take them back more than seven decades.With @PrannoyRoyNDTV to discuss the Law and Order and Drug situation on completion of our #3YearsinService @ndtv. https://t.co/9ShW1DGdFh
19-03-2020||Ropar||Newly-wed couple, suspected of coronavirus, quarantined at Ropar hospital||A patient with symptoms of coronavirus has been quarantined at the Ropar Civil Hospital.The newly-married patient had visited Dubai on his honeymoon and returned on February 28.Also read: Banga man, who died of heart attack, tests positive for coronavirusThough he was suffering from symptoms of coronavirus, he was self-medicating using over the counter medicines and reported at the hospital only Wednesday evening, said civil surgeon HN Sharma.Also read: Punjab suspends bus, auto-rickshaw services from Saturday amid coronavirus threatThe patient and his wife have been quarantined at the hospital and his samples sent to PGI, Chandigarh.
19-03-2020||Nawanshahr||Banga man, who died of heart attack, tests positive for coronavirus||A man, who died at a civil hospital in Banga on Wednesday, is confirmed to have suffered from coronavirus according to tests conducted by the state government.Another man, in Bara Pind in Jalandhar, who was suspected to have the disease, has tested negative.The samples are being forwarded to a facility in Pune for confirmation.Baldev Singh (70), the deceased, a resident of Pathlawa village, had recently travelled to Germany and Italy.Also read: Punjab suspends bus, auto-rickshaw services from Saturday amid coronavirus threatThe area around his village, upto a 3-km radius, has been sealed. A government doctor, who treated him, has been quarantined. His relatives and friends, whom he had come in contact with, are being quarantined. Singh’s house has been sealed since Wednesday.Also read: Newly-wed couple, suspected of coronavirus, quarantined at Ropar hospitalDoctors on Wednesday told The Tribune that the family had intimated the health officials of Baldev’s travel history only after he died of a heart attack. Villagers said while he had gone to Germany, he also stopped over at Italy for a few days, before coming back to India.
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh, Punjab residents buying essentials in bulk amid coronavirus scare||Even as government officials have appealed for no panic buying in the wake of coronavirus scare, residents of union territory of Chandigarh and neighbouring Punjab are busy buying grocery in bulk due to fear of shortage of food and other essential commodities, traders said on Thursday.The fear of a lockdown is driving people to throng supermarkets and stores to buy essential items in bulk.Government officials insist there is no need to panic and people shouldn't worry as no move is afoot to shut grocery and chemist shops even in an extremely grim situation.Huge rush was seen in Chandigarh's Sector 26 grain market and other shopping areas."It seems people are hoarding goods in panic. In fact, they are terrified and they're uncertain about the future as coronavirus cases across the country are increasing," a shopkeeper in Sector 26 market, which has many wholesale provision stores, told IANS.He admitted shortages in commodities was only due to unexpected surge in demand."We are advising people not to panic, but they don't agree. If someone needs five litres of cooking oil in a month, he or she is buying 20 to 25 litres in advance," he said.Another shopkeeper warned that "if such a scenario continues, there can be artificial shortage of eatables in the near future".The traders blamed social media for rumours on the issue. A rumour doing the rounds on Wednesday was that the Chandigarh administration is "spraying a medicine in the air to kill coronavirus".Late in the evening, the administration clarified that the message is fake and people were advised not to circulate such messages.Likewise, a message was in circulation on Wednesday that Chandigarh's main vegetable market in Sector 26 is going to close for 10 days from March 21. — IANS
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab suspends bus, auto-rickshaw services from Saturday amid coronavirus threat||The Punjab government on Thursday decided to discontinue public transport in the state as a preventive step against novel coronavirus.Buses, auto-rickshaws and tempos will not be allowed to ply in the state from the midnight intervening Friday and Saturday.Also read: Banga man, who had died of heart attack, tests positive for coronavirusThe decision was made after a group of ministers met on Thursday to review the state’s preparedness amid the pandemic. It decided to limit public gathering to 20 people.Also read: Newly-wed couple, suspected of coronavirus, quarantined at Ropar hospitalPunjab has reported two coronavirus cases. One person, who had a travel history to Germany and Italy, died due to the disease on Wednesday. The state’s capital, Chandigarh, also reported its first positive case on Wednesday evening.Also read:Coronavirus: Board exams postponed, school staff relieved till March 31 in PunjabOf 1,187 quarantined in Punjab, only 115 persons tested
19-03-2020||Muktsar||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s mother passes away||Harmandir Kaur, mother of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, passed away in the wee hours of Thursday.Her husband Gurdas Singh Badal, who is younger brother of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, is a former MP.People close to Manpreet said the cremation would be held at Badal village at 3 pm on Thursday.She is survived by husband, a son and a daughter.Harmandir was not active in politics.Sources said she was admitted to a hospital in Chandigarh and brought to her native village Badal on Wednesday night, where she passed away.I am deeply touched by the messages of sympathy and support received by my family and me. Your kindness makes it easier to bear the brunt of this trying time.  I would however, encourage all to refrain from arriving in person for my mother’s funeral, given the severity & contagiousness of the corona virus. Instead of risking your health & your loved ones by congregating in a large gathering, pls convey any condolences electronically.
19-03-2020||---||Rs 1 cr each to three medical colleges||Mohali, March 18The state government has released Rs 1 crore to each medical college in Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala to tackle Covid. Medical Education and Research Minister, Punjab, OP Soni at a meeting with various medical councils of the state as well as representatives of the Patiala Medical College Teachers Association, said the councils should ask its members to educate the public about the guidelines and preventive measures.He directed officials of the pharmacy council to issue instructions to stop hoarding masks and sanitisers. Officials of the dental council were told to direct dental surgeons to perform procedures only in case of an emergency.The minister also directed the council officials to coordinate with civil surgeons and be ready to offer their services in times of need.He also met the association of medical college, Patiala, and after listening to their demands assured them of speedy redressal.Soni appealed to members of the association to exhort doctors to prescribe generic medicines.Among others present included the Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, DK Tiwari and Director Medical Education and Research Dr Avneesh Kumar.
19-03-2020||Ropar||Online courses for IIT students||With the initiative, recorded lectures will be made available to the students registered in designated courses.Director Sarit K Das said in the phase I, recorded lectures would be made available to the students. The students would be able to download lectures, he said, adding that the institute would also start work on the second phase which would let students interact with faculty members in solving problems.
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Warehousing corpn chief takes charge||
19-03-2020||Hoshiarpur||MLA gives Rs 5 lakh for repair of road||
19-03-2020||---||Suspected patient dies in Banga||Jalandhar, March 18Baldev Singh (70), a resident of Pathlawa village, who had recently travelled to Germany and Italy, died at civil hospital in Banga this morning.While health officials maintain it was a case of heart attack, at least 15 persons, including his family and the doctor who attended him, have been placed under quarantine. His sample has been sent for testing whether he had Covid.Doctors said the family intimated the health officials of Baldev’s travel history only after he died. Villagers said while the elderly had gone to Germany, he also stopped over at Italy for a few days, before coming back to India.Dr Prince Janagill, medical officer, said, “The patient reported at the hospital with chest pain early this morning. He died after sometime. All measures as per Covid protocol were followed thereafter. While the patient did not visibly display any Coronavirus symptoms, he had a history of diabetes and hypertension.No suspected case in Ludhiana, claims DC
19-03-2020||Tribune reporters||Sanitation still a far cry as virus threat looms||Chandigarh, March 18Even as the Group of Ministers, headed by the Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, is meeting at regular intervals to take measures against the spread of Covid, a 15-day deadline issued to the officials concerned to make cities and towns garbage-free has not been met.Reports from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and other urban local bodies suggest that no special drive to make cities garbage free was undertaken. The minister had issued instructions on February 17 to ensure 100 per cent lifting of garbage heaps from every nook and corner of the cities.Flagging the issue of sanitation with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in wake of Covid threat, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has pointed towards piles of garbage dumps in some towns and metropolitan cities due to strike by sanitation staff or other reasons.Seeking the Chief Minister’s intervention, he sought directions to the deputy commissioners and administrators of local bodies to use money from disaster management fund and Swachh Bharat Mission to ensure cleanliness in their respective segments, saying it would be difficult to prevent spread of pandemic if such steps were not taken.In Jalandhar, every nook and corner stinks in the absence of a system to dispose of garbage. Councillors have been saying time and again that cleanliness drives should be carried out properly. While hygiene has gone for a toss, MC officials have been saying they are making efforts to ensure that garbage is lifted on a regular basis.Residents are fearing for their health as garbage is piling up along roads. Two days ago, the MC Joint Commissioner held a meeting with sanitary inspectors, asking them to ensure that no sanitary worker took leave and cleanliness drives were carried out in a proper manner. Recently, 10-day strike by safai karamcharis had brought the city to a standstill.Littered streets, choked drains in PatialaPatiala: While posh areas in Patiala are spic-and-span, residents of the old city are fed up with littered streets and choked drains. In the absence of any check, dairy farm waste is disposed of into drains.Not only this, the dumping ground at the Sanauri adda, which has over 2 lakh tonnes of garbage piled up, is yet to catch the attention of the authorities. Tns
19-03-2020||New Delhi||23-year-old, a Covid suspect, commits suicide||A suspected Covid-19 patient, originally from Punjab’s Balachaur, today committed suicide by jumping off the seventh floor of Safdarjang Hospital here. Tanveer Singh, 23, had returned from Sydney this evening in an Air India flight and reported headache during the screening process at the Indira Gandhi International Airport.  The Health Ministry said after the passenger reported a headache, one of the symptoms for Covid-19, he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital for further checks as per protocol being followed to manage people returning from Covid-19 affected nations. “The patient reached Safdarjang Hospital around 9 pm. He was taken to the seventh floor for admission and evaluation. When doctors reached the room, he wasn’t found there. A doctor coming out of building observed a body lying on the floor at 9.15 pm. She immediately reported. The person was, however, found dead,” the ministry said. — TNS
19-03-2020||---||No suspected coronavirus patient missing, says Punjab minister||Chandigarh, March 18Not a single suspected coronavirus patient is either missing or absconding in Punjab, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu clarified on Wednesday. He categorically rejected media reports to the contrary as “irresponsible and incorrect”.The 167 missing persons referred to by Ludhiana civil surgeon were not Covid suspected cases but were merely people with foreign travel history who could not be traced due to incomplete contact details shared by the Central Government, said Sidhu, amid reports suggesting that they were suspected cases who had absconded or gone missing.All these persons had already been screened at the airports in Delhi, said the minister, adding that since the outbreak, the Centre had been sharing reports of passengers with international travel with all states, including Punjab. “While those found symptomatic are admitted in hospital and kept in isolation, as per protocol, the lists of asymptomatic passengers are shared with the state concerned,” he said, adding that as a matter of precaution, the Punjab Government contacted these passengers to re-verify their history and medical condition.In this case, the contact details of 335 passengers shared by the Centre were incomplete and lists of these passengers were shared with the district administration and the Centre was also duly informed, Sidhu disclosed.
19-03-2020||---||Punjab Deras told to limit religious gatherings||Chandigarh, March 18While the state government is gearing up to launch a door-to-door awareness campaign from Thursday, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to religious organisations and dera heads to keep gatherings under 50 in support of the government’s efforts to check the spread of Covid-19.The Chief Minister, after a series of review meetings with health and other officials, said while Punjab, with one confirmed case, was so far safe, it could not afford to be complacent in the face of the spread of coronavirus globally.The government was mulling to give bail to those convicted of minor offences and parole to those who had spent considerable time in jail, said Capt Amarinder, pointing out that the Supreme Court had talked about decongesting the prisons. The final decision would, however, depend on the courts. Advocate-General Atul Nanda was taking up the matter with the Chief Justice of the Punjab & Haryana High Court, he added.Strict monitoring was being conducted of all those arriving from high-risk countries and so far, 116 suspected cases had been tested, he added.The Chief Minister said his government was also ready to look into providing mid-day meals to students at homes or, alternatively, putting money into their accounts, although no such request had been received so far. He urged the elderly to take extra precautions and also appreciated the hard work of the doctors and other medical staff.
19-03-2020||---||Ordinary, regular cases adjourned||Chandigarh, March 18 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stated that all ordinary and regular cases in the list would be adjourned for four weeks in view of the Covid threat. The next date would be shown on the High Court’s official website, except for cases in which an “earlier date” would be given on special mentioning by the Bench before which the matter was listed.   The High Court also reiterated that the entry of litigants was prohibited in the High Court, except in cases of personal appearance specifically ordered by the court. Advocates were also requested to ensure attendance by only one lawyer per case. A senior advocate could, however, be assisted by an “assisting counsel”. The lawyers appearing for mentioning of cases before a particular Bench were also requested to appear in batches of five. The entry of law interns was also restricted for the time-being.
19-03-2020||---||Jalandhar malls defy guidelines, remain open||Jalandhar, March 18 A day after the state government ordered closure of shopping malls in view of the Covid threat, all major malls and shopping marts here are still open. The malls saw a huge rush on Wednesday.  One reason for the heavy rush is that people have started resorted to panic buying, apprehending that grocery stores would be shut next. Saroj, a local resident buying groceries at a mall, said, “I am buying groceries in case the government closes shops selling essential items. I think Covid threat has not attained serious proportion in Punjab as compared with other states.” When asked the reason for not wearing a mask, she said: “As per health experts, masks are not going to be of any help. I am using a sanitiser regularly. The situation is bad in Italy, but not in India.” The Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), meanwhile, began infra-red screening of patients and attendants on Wednesday.  A special team has been deputed at the entrance to screen all visitors.  The city has already reported more than 15 patients suspected to be infected with Covid. The PIMS authorities said the medical and travel history of patients were being checked. They have readied a 10-bed isolation ward in case of an emergency. Amit Singh, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), PIMS, said, “We are prepared. There are enough masks and sanitisers.” Notwithstanding the guidelines to close medical institutions across the state, the PIMS continues to hold classes. To this, the CEO said, “None of the medical institutes affiliated to the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences have been closed. Thedirections are only for private medical colleges.”
19-03-2020||Karam Prakash||Of 1,187 quarantined in Punjab, only 115 persons tested||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 18In spite of an advisory by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to ramp up the testing of suspected Covid patients to mitigate its spread, the state government has tested only 115 out of 1,187 persons quarantined so far.Of the quarantined persons, 14 are in hospitals while the rest are under self-isolation in their homes.Health experts say community spread cannot be checked without aggressive testing. The best strategy to contain the spread of the virus is rapid testing and immediate isolation of infected patients.The Health Department, however, say the state has not reached a stage where rapid testing was required. So far, only one positive case has been reported in the state and there is “no sign” of community transmission, it says.Nodal officer Gagan Grover, who is heading the state’s coronavirus programme, said: “The time has not come to increase the sampling. We have only one positive case so far. We don’t have community transmission yet. However, we are closely monitoring the situation.”Another official said it was an early stage for aggressive testing given the cost of the Covid test, which costs around Rs50,000.Health experts praised the state government for taking pro-active in taking precautionary measures in response to the Covid threat. Apart from closing educational institutions, malls, swimming pools and cinema halls, experts hailed the government for sanitising ASHA workers, the foot soldiers.A nodal officer said, “Social distancing is the main precaution. Like other countries, if we too exercise caution, we can quell the spread of Covid. The people need to cooperate. In case of fever, cough or cold, one should immediately rush to nearby hospital. This way, we can battle the deadly disease.”SGPC steps up precautionary measures at Golden Temple
19-03-2020||Amritsar||Sidhu: My fight is about ideology||Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has posted another video on his YouTube channel, saying that his fight was about the ideology, and not with any individual. In a 4.45-minute  clip on his YouTube channel ‘Jittega Punjab’, Sidhu said he wanted to serve the nation and fight for the right of its citizens. Calling upon people to unite for their rights, Sidhu said whenever he had been part of the government, he had always stood against the corrupt system. Citing the dark days of terrorism, he said it was people’s unity that overcame it. Now, the time was to bring back the lost glory of Punjab. Sidhu had launched the channel on March 14, but soon its clones emerged. Taking cognisance of it, YouTube has sent notices to illegal channel. — TNS
19-03-2020||---||Dissent in Punjab Cong as MLAs ‘not’ consulted for postings||Chandigarh, March 18 Congress leaders and MLAs are up in arms against its own government over the appointment of chairmen, vice-chairmen and members of market committees, announced yesterday. Several MLAs are upset over not being consulted while making the political appointments in their respective constituencies, coinciding with the three years of Congress government in the state. Of the total 154 market committees, members of over 50 committees have been announced in the last two days. Members of 47 other committees were announced earlier. Sources said in view of strong resentment from certain quarters, the appointments for the remaining committees could be delayed. Some of the MLAs today held meetings to discuss the way forward for being “ignored”. Resentment is prevailing among the MLAs in Ludhaina, Zira, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Patiala, besides other places. Senior ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria are learnt to have taken up the issue with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, while the MLAs are learnt to have approached PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar. In Ludhiana, Darshan Ladoo has been made chairman of the Market Committee. Ashwani Sharma, a former Ludhiana district president, said “Darshan is not even a member of the party. The recommendations of the party MLAs have not been taken in to consideration.” In Zira, two family members of Congress leaders and a vice chairman in Punjab Mandi Board have been adjusted. Similarly, there is resentment over the appointments in Bhadur (Barnala).
19-03-2020||Chandigarh March 18---||Punjab CM shielding leaders in witness death case: Badal||Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to explain “why his government is not acting against Congress leaders Kushaldeep Singh Kiki Dhillon and Gurpreet Singh Kangar despite evidence against them for putting pressure on the key witness of Behbal Kalan incident that led to his death”. Badal demanded that the accused should be arrested on charges of interfering with the due process of law and questioned on the motives behind “their attempts to coerce the eyewitness to change his stance”.  “The hapless widow of the principal eye witness has been running from pillar to post seeking action against the Congress leaders, alleging that they put her husband under unbearable strain to coerce him to change his statement and tell lies on the most crucial link in the chain of sacrilege events. Why is she being denied justice?” the Akali patron asked. — TNS
19-03-2020||Our Correspondent---||Former block samiti leader  booked for extortion||Fazilka, March 18 A former vice-chairperson of the Jalalabad block samiti, Raj Rani, and three others have been booked for allegedly extorting money from a man by threatening to implicate him in a rape case. Raj Rani, a SAD leader, is a resident of Ladhuwala Hithar village in the Jalalabad subdivision  Daljit Singh, a resident of Singhewala village, alleged that he was being blackmailed by the four accused, including three women. The accused demanded Rs 5 lakh from Daljit Singh who reportedly paid the amount to them to prevent himself from social stigma.  Later, both the parties reached a compromise.  Daljit Singh lodged a complaint with the SSP. After conducting an inquiry, a case was registered today against Salma, Raj Rani, Binder Kaur and Jagroop Singh under Sections 384, 389, 193, 506 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. No one has been arrested so far.
19-03-2020||---||SIT seeks High Court approval to investigate 1994 encounter||Chandigarh, March 18More than 25 years after “militant” Gurnam Singh Bandala, alias Neela Tara, was shown to have been killed in an encounter but was found to be alive later on, a special investigating team (SIT) has sought Punjab and Haryana High Court’s permission to probe the matter.The SIT, headed by DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, was constituted by the High Court after the Bench was told that 26-year-old Sukhpal Singh actually died in the encounter, but Bandala was shown to have been killed.The plea came in connection a petition filed in 2013 by the victim’s wife Dalbir Kaur and his father Jagir Singh of Kala Afghana village. They had alleged that Bandala, reportedly killed in the police encounter in 1994, was later caught alive.In its status report submitted before Justice Lisa Gill of the High Court, SIT recorded the statement of Bandala, Dalbir Kaur and others was recorded. It added that the encounter dated July 29, 1994, pertaining to FIR number 63 for attempt to murder and another offence under Section 307 and 34 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act and TADA at Morinda police station in Ropar district appeared to be “intricately linked” to the probe being carried out by it regarding disappearance of Sukhdev Singh. As such, further investigation of both cases was required to be conducted.IGP Paramjaj Singh Umranangal’s functioning in the matter has already been brought to the High Court’s notice. Dalbir Kaur had earlier filed an additional affidavit reiterating her demand for a CBI probe into the alleged fake encounter after alleging attempts by the government to shield Umranangal.Referring to the case in hand, she had earlier alleged that the callousness of the state government could also be seen from the fact that there were direct allegations against him, but the investigation was being conducted by an officer who was subordinate to him.In the affidavit filed through counsel R Kartikeya, Dalbir Kaur submitted that he was habitual of misusing his power and position. But unfortunately after every such event, the state granted him ample time to destroy evidence and cover up his lapses, thereby precluding the victims from an opportunity of seeking justice.Plea filed in 2013
19-03-2020|| ---||Vigilance nabs 2 ASIs for bribery||Chandigarh, March 18 The Vigilance Bureau today nabbed two Assistant Sub Inspectors (ASIs) posted in the narcotic cell, Amritsar, while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. An official spokesperson said ASIs Tilak Singh and Pragat Singh were nabbed on the complaint of Rajesh Babbar of Amrtisar district. The complainant had approached the VB and alleged that the accused were demanding Rs 20,000 for not registering another narcotics case against the brother of complainant regarding recovery of tablets and the deal was struck at Rs 15,000. After verifying the information, the vigilance team laid a trap and the two Assistant Sub Inspectors were arrested on the spot while taking Rs 15,000 from the complainant. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered and further investigations were under progress.
19-03-2020||---||10 kg gold looted from Ludhiana firm seized||Ludhiana March 18The Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police has recovered 10 kg gold from one of the accused who looted 30 kg gold from a branch of India Infoline Finance Limited here on February 17. The recovery was made from a hideout of Amritpal Singh who is currently in the custody of the OCCU.Besides, the OCCU has also recovered one pistol and two rifles from the accused.Inspector General of Police (IGP), OCCU, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, said the gold was recovered from Amritpal’s hideout in Mohali. Amritpal was arrested on Tuesday.He is one of the five gang members who committed the crime. “Three accused have been nabbed so far in the case after a breakthrough came with arrest of gangster Gagandeep Judge. The remaining accused Jaipal and Gursewak Singh will also be arrested soon,” said the IGP.An OCCU team had on last Thursday arrested Gagan in Chandigarh. Gagan and his gang members are involved in more than two dozen criminal cases, including a contract killing.Following his questioning, Pardeep Singh of Gardiwala village (Hoshiarpur) and Harpreet Singh of Peer Mohammad village (Ferozepur) were arrested on Sunday. Pardeep was involved in the robbery while Harpreet had harboured the accused.Praising the efforts of the OCCU in the case, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police were committed to maintaining law and order in the state. “The OCCU has done exemplary work in the case and broken the backbone of the gang. The remaining accused will be arrested soon,” he said.Some jewellers under lens, says IGPIGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, said some of the stolen gold was sold to a few jewellers below the market rate in Punjab. He said the suspected jewellers were already under the scanner..
19-03-2020||Mohali||NIA files chargesheet against 9 KZF activists in drone case||The NIA on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against nine members of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terrorist group for their alleged involvement in a case relating to dropping of arms and ammunition in Punjab by drones from Pakistan. All accused, including two senior citizens, have been charged with relevant provisions of the IPC, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Arms Act and Explosives Substances Act, an NIA spokesperson said. Akashdeep Singh (21), Balwant Singh (48), Harbhajan Singh (65), Balbir Singh (70), Maan Singh (43), Gurdev Singh (40), Shubhdeep Singh (21), Sajanpreet Singh (22) and Romandeep Singh (20) have been named in the chargesheet. The case relates to the information that Pakistan-based chief of KZF, Ranjeet Singh in connivance with Gurmeet Singh have smuggled arms, ammunition, explosives and fake Indian currency notes into India via drones from Pakistan, the investigation agency said. These consignments were received by their associates Akashdeep, Balwant, Harbhajan, Balbir and Shubhdeep in India in order to revive terrorism in Punjab and carry out a terror attack in the country, the spokesperson said. Subsequently, Akashdeep, Balwant, Balbir and Harbhajan were arrested from Tarn Taran on September 22 last year along with a huge cache of arms, ammunition, explosives and communication devices, the official said. Akashdeep was recruited by Maan and Gurdev and the terror conspiracy was hatched in Amritsar Central Jail during 2018-19 when the three were in judicial custody in other crimes. Further investigation revealed that the consignments were sent through a total of eight sorties of drones in August and September last year. The consignments were received by Akashdeep, Subhdeep, Sajanpreet and Romandeep. Further investigation against absconding accused Gurmeet and Ranjit and other suspects continues, the NIA added. — PTI
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Speaker||The High Court today issued a notice to the Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha on a plea seeking direction to take a decision on disqualification of Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira from the state Assembly.A notice has also been issued to Khaira on a petition filed by Harsimran Singh. Describing himself as a registered voter, the petitioner submitted that Khaira was elected MLA from Bholath on AAP ticket in the Assembly polls in March 2017.But in a press briefing on January 6, 2019, he announced his resignation from the primary membership of AAP, the party on whose ticket he had contested the Assembly elections and emerged victorious. Just about two days later, Khaira along with six other MLAs from Punjab held a congregation and floated a new regional political party “Punjab Ekta Party”.“In the present case, Khaira has voluntarily given up the membership of AAP. He also submitted his resignation on April 25, 2019, to the Speaker. The resignation was withdrawn by him after almost six months,” the petitioner added.The Bench was also told the faith of voters belonging to the Bholath segment had been compromised by Khaira’s actions. The Speaker should take a decision on his disqualification from the membership of the Assembly in accordance with 10th schedule of the Constitution. — TNS
19-03-2020||Chandigarh||Expedite food park project: Harsimrat||Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat  Badal has asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to pay “serious attention” to Ladhowal mega food park project and ensure its early completion, saying lethargy on the part of the Punjab government had delayed the project by two years and deprived farmers and youth of its benefits. In a letter to the CM, the minister said the food park was approved by her ministry in 2015 with a grant-in-aid of Rs50 crore, out of which Rs35 crore had been released to Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC), the implementing agency.  She said the project had a completion deadline of 2018, but poor planning and slow decision making of the Congress government had resulted in frequent changes in the project components due to which the PAIC had repeatedly missed target timelines for completion of the project. Harsimrat, who was replying to the letter from the Chief Minister requesting the release of fourth and final installment for the project, told the CM that he was not updated about the correct position of the project. She said only four units were operational at the park. — TNS
19-03-2020||---||Rs110 crore power bills pending: AAP||Ropar, March 18 AAP leaders have alleged that the Punjab State Power Corportion Ltd (PSPCL) was favouring departments and individuals by not recovering electricity bills worth over Rs110 crore from them. In a press conference, AAP district observer Satvit Walia, district media in-charge Ranjit Singh Patialan, spokesman Balwinder Singh Gill and senior leader Surinder Singh claimed they had a list of more than 500  government and private defaulters under the RTI Act who had not paid power bills. They alleged the Ropar Municipal Council  was on the top of the list of defaulters. “It has not paid power bill of more than Rs2.7 crore,” he said. They alleged that others who had not paid bills included Punjab Alkalies and Chemicals Limited, Nangal, (Rs28.2 lakh); Improvement Trust, Ropar (Rs24.43 lakh);  Punjab Roadways (Rs5 lakh); Mini Secretariat (Rs12.8 lakh); SDO, Sirhind Canal, Mankapur (Rs18 lakh); toll plaza (Rs12.11 lakh), ITI, Ropar (Rs5.72 lakh); and CIA staff office (Rs1.89 lakh). The power bills of the DC office and SSP residence were also pending, they claimed. PSPCL Superintendent Engineer Satwinder Singh said he had joined recently. He said he would take strict action against the defaulters, if any.
19-03-2020||---||VB probe sought into poor road work in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, March 18After samples of road material and interlocking tiles, taken from four areas of the city, failed the quality test, the Council of RTI Activists has sought a vigilance inquiry into the matter.Members alleged public money was being wasted on poor quality work in the city.The MC’s quality control team had collected ready mix concrete (RMC) and RCC roads samples from different areas in the past one month.The average thickness of collected samples at the RK road was found to be 6 mm against the required 12 mm, while the average thickness of samples at the Circular road near the Daresi ground was 4 mm against the required 6 mm .Besides, the thickness was found to be less than the required level at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar. Nine samples of interlocking tiles collected from the streets of the Sewakpura area failed the strength test too.Rohit Sabharwal of the Council of Engineers has filed a complaint with the Chief Secretary, Punjab, ADGP-cum-Chief Director (Vigilance) and Secretary (Vigilance), requesting them to mark an inquiry.He alleged that this was causing loss to the state exchequer as sub-standard material was being used on roads.“I have demanded a Vigilance inquiry into the matter. Public money should not be wasted this way,” he said.A number of city roads have either given way or suffered damage days after repairs in the past.
19-03-2020||Ruchika M Khanna---||Brick-kilns flout pollution norms, use rubber as fuel||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 18 Causing a serious threat to the environment, brick-kilns across the state have started using ground rubber of used tyres as fuel. This is leading to excess release of sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere. Brick-kilns are legally allowed to use only coal or saw dust as fuel. But to save costs as well as bake bricks of a much lighter colour, many brick kilns are reportedly getting used truck and bus tyres, getting them ground and using the mixture as fuel. This is not just leading to release of harmful sulfur dioxide in the atmosphere, but also emitting an unbearable stench. Sources told The Tribune that more than 50 per cent of the kilns had switched to using ground rubber as an alternative to coal. “While coal is available for Rs10 per kg, ground rubber costs Rs7-8 per kg. Several tonnes of fuel is required in a kiln each day, especially now when the bricks are made in huge quantities and stocked for the lean period of monsoons. Since the fumes released are colourless, the chances of being detected by the pollution control board officials are also less,” said a kiln owner in Ludhiana, requesting anonymity. He said though saw dust was also allowed for use as fuel, it was not preferred because of its low calorific value. While the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has launched a massive campaign to check the violation of pollution norms by kilns, sources said the use of ground rubber was going largely undetected. “There are 2,700 brick-kilns in the state and more than 60 per cent have started using ground rubber,” said another kiln owner in Hoshiarpur.  The PPCB has set a limit of 60 micrograms as permissible limit for the sulfur dioxide. Official sources said before this practice started, the concentration of sulfur dioxide was 20 micrograms, which could have gone up now. They said they had launched a massive state-wide campaign to check the shifting of kilns to zigzag technology when they discovered the use of this sulfur-generating fuel. “We have found several kilns using ground rubber in Dehlon block of Ludhiana and in Bathinda. Our efforts will be intensified in coming days and all those using this banned fuel will be issued notices for closure,” said Krunesh Garg, member secretary, PPCB. He added that the board was aggressively trying to implement the switching over of kilns to the zigzag technology, and in the past few days, environmental compensation of Rs1.25 crore had been imposed on defaulting kilns.
19-03-2020||Patiala||No safety net, daily wage earners hit hard by lockdown||Mukesh Kumar (40), a local labourer, has been without work for the past five days. He’s finding it difficult to fend for his family of four after reduction in construction activity in the state amid efforts to contain the spread of Covid. There are hundreds of daily earners like Mukesh who have been left jobless, and even penniless, due to the lockdown.Many of the contractors The Tribune team met said construction work had been largely put off by a couple of weeks as a precautionary measure. “I was working on a house in Model Town. On Saturday, I was told not to come till April,” said Rishi, who has over 20 men working for him. “My men are asking for some advance but I can do little to help them,” he stated.A local juice seller said his daily earnings had dropped below Rs 100 from Rs 500. “How will I feed my wife and two daughters? My wife works as a cook and helper during marriages, but is without work now,” said 40-year-old Bachan Kumar, who has his kiosk on the Bhupindra Road. While a few states have set up high-level committees to protect and safeguard the interests of daily earners, Punjab is yet to take such steps.Many companies have already asked their staff to work from home or proceed on leave in the wake of the virus threat even as the state government has shut colleges, temples and other tourist places. The closure of public places and tourist attractions has added to the woes of many daily earners like vendors who had their stalls near these sites.Meanwhile, Chief Whip of the Congress in the Vidhan Sabha Hardyal Kamboj said he would take up the matter with the Chief Minister. “Daily earners are the worst sufferers. We will try to provide them free food and some monetary compensation,” Kamboj said.
19-03-2020||Sri Hargobindpur||School rivalry turns ugly, student’s mother killed in Gurdaspur||Rivalry between two groups of students of a Qadian-based private school culminated in murder, leaving local residents shell-shocked. One of the groups, led by Class XI student Lakhwinder Singh, opened indiscriminate fire, resulting in the death of the mother of his rival late Tuesday night. Batala SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman and officials of the Sri Hargobindpur police station rushed to the crime scene.Lakhwinder and his schoolmate Amarjit Singh had an old rivalry. Alarmed, village elders intervened, asking the warring groups to cease hostilities. Both parties agreed to stop bad-mouthing each other in school and outside. But Lakhwinder and his friends later reneged from the pact and conspired to eliminate Amarjit. They reached Amarjit’s residence at Harchowal village and opened indiscriminate firing. The firing continued for 10 minutes and 20 rounds were fired. Word on the incident spread in the village and an SOS was sent to the SSP by the SHO. In the meantime, Lakhwinder and his group members fled.After the firing stopped, panicky family members came out of their house. They found Amarjit’s mother, Jasbir Kaur, lying in a pool of blood. Amarjit’s father Niranjan Singh, uncle Partap Singh and aunt Narinder Kaur received bullet injuries and were rushed to the Batala Civil Hospital where doctors referred them to an Amritsar hospital.A case under Sections 302, 307 and 120-B has been registered. “A team under a DSP-rank officer has been constituted to trace the sequence of events leading to the crime. A few hideouts have been identified,” SSP Ghuman said.“Investigations are on. Nothing, including the involvement of a girl, can be ruled out,” he added.
